Afternoon
03 04 1910


Conference was resumed at 2 p.m., in the Tabernacle. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the congregation to order. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Onward, Christian soldiers! 

Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus 

Going on before. 

Prayer was offered by Elder William McLachlan. 

The choir sang the anthem, "God is our refuge and strength." 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN 

Facilities for prosperity, and plenty of room in Utah. — Urgent need for experienced missionaries.: — All Saints entitled to testimony that this work is of God. — Works manifest the measure of faith. Splendid effects produced by good examples. — Education in self-control. 

I appreciate, as a very great privilege, this opportunity of meeting with such a large congregation of Latter-day Saints and, possibly, with some of our friends and neighbors who are not Latter-day Saints. 

We had a very profitable meeting this morning, and the key-note was given to us in regard to the building up of our state and of the sections of country already occu by the Latter-day Saints. I have felt, for a long time, the necessity of advising our brethren and sisters to stay at home, to stay in our state of Utah and in other nearby sections that have been selected for the gathering of the Latterday Saints, where stakes have been organized, and where wards, in great numbers, have been established. It is not a good thing for us to have the spirit of wandering from one state to another, or from one stake to another, or from one ward to another. It occurs, occasionally, that moves are necessary, but as a rule it is better to stay settled and established, developing our farms and our business affairs, establishing homes, and becoming solid, stable citizens of our common country. I believe it is a bad habit that the brethren sometimes get into, of moving about, roaming about and losing their standing and fellowship in the Church, and making new acquaintances instead of remaining settled and fixed in the country — especially, as suggested by the President, this morning, in our own country. Utah is not yet thickly populated. There isn't a city, nor a county, in the state, that I think of at the present time, that is thickly populated. There is plenty of room in our state — in Salt Lake valley, Weber valley, Utah valley, Juab, Sanpete, Millard, Beaver, Iron, and all the southern part of the state, as well as in the northern part. 

Everywhere, there is plenty of room in Utah, but it is rapidly filling up with our friends and neighbors from abroad, and it will be well for us, my brethren and sisters, to heed the counsel given this morning to stay at home and locate, that we may occupy this land and develop the resources of our country. We do not need to go abroad for mining facilities; we do not need to go abroad for coal mining, gold mining, silver mining, lead mining, or copper mining. We have as fine prospects and as profitable opportunities in this state as can be found in any of our neighboring states. Every little while there are openings and opportunities in agricultural lines; new sections are being opened, and the water is being better controlled. I think I shall be perfectly safe in saying that for the future our gteat work will be to take care of the water that we have and utilize it properly, so the lands of our state will be suitably irrigated. There is plenty of moisture; the country is desirable, and it is fruitful, and if it is not occupied by the Latter-day Saints, it will be occupied by our friends who are not Latter-day Saints, because it is inviting. All the measures and points of superiority in our state are being appreciated and our friends are coming in with their capital. We do not object to their coming; we have no objection to that, but we want to stay ourselves and share with them the good things of which these mountain valleys are so fruitful. 

We want to stay at home. Our mission carries us abroad a great deal to preach the Gospel, but we will find an ample field for preaching the Gospel right here at home, for those who are not able to go abroad. We have in the field, now, an army of a couple of thousand men, or more, and we expect to keep that army up to that standard —the standing army of the Church of Jesus Christ. We want to keep  up to two thousand men, or near that;> and possibly increase it as we can. As we listen to the reports of the presidents of missions, when they come to see us twice a year, at least the presidents of missions in the United States, we discover that they all want more missionaries. There is no section of the country that is satisfied They are all calling for more brethren: We want more German speakers; we want more Scandinavian Elders, or those ' who speak the language of that country; and Elders who speak Dutch, French, and Spanish can be used to good advantage. We are in need of a great deal of help,' and I thought of this matter when I looked over the congregation, this morning, and saw such a large percentage of brethren. I do not think I have ever seen the congregation so well supplied with men as this morning. Whether the storm kept some of the sisters away, or not, I cannot say, but at any rate the brethren braved the storm and seemed to be here in very great numbers. I want to ask my brethren, with whom I am particularly interested, the Seventies to prepare for this work. We want you ready for missionary work. We want the Bishops to supply us with plenty of Seventies, for the Seventies are at their service, ready to be called upon. We want our brethren, particularly the Seventies, to be out of debt and in condition to preach the Gospel. We are in great need of experienced and trained men. The brethren complain that they are getting too large percentage of the young men, who have never been in the missionary field before, young men as young as twenty, and under twenty, years of age, and from that  twenty-five, who have had no training at all, except what they have had at home. We would ask the Bishops and presiding brethren that when requisition is made for ten, twenty, thirty, or forty men, you send us at least one-third of trained, experienced and tried men. Unless you do this, our presidents of missions will not be satisfied. We want to see the time when the field will be pretty well occupied with men who are seventies, who are consecrated and dedicated to this calling and ministry, having had training, so they may go out into the world representing the Lord, being His witnesses — men who know the Lord lives, for every Seventy who has done his duty fairly well is entitled to that testimony; so is every Elder and every High Priest entitled to that same testimony, to know that God lives, to know that Jesus is the Christ, that He lives, and that He is the Redeemer of the world. All Latterday Saints are entitled to this testimony and witness. 

If there be doubts or misgivings in the hearts of any of the Latterday Saints, in regard to the truth of the Gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, I would like to say that it is our own fault. That would be evidence that we had not quite done the will of the Lord, for all who do the will of the Lord, we understand, will "know of the doctrine. They will not only know of the doctrine, but they will know of the divinity of the Church; they will know of its authority. They will know of the Father; they will have a witness, for the Son will bear witness to them of the Father, and the Father will bear witness to them of the Son; and the Holy Ghost will bear .witness, to all Saints, of  Father and the Son. So, no Latter-day Saint ever need to be without a testimony. It has occurred at times that Elders, over conscientious, have been afraid to bear testimony that they knew the Gospel was true, that they knew the Prophet Joseph was sent of God. They have been fearful lest they might bear testimony to something that they did not know to be true. Now, all Latter-day Saints are entitled to a witness and to know, and I thought, just in connection with this, I would read one or two verses from the ninety-third section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh their sins and cometh' unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am, 

"And that I am the true light that hghteth every man that cometh into the world; 

th/v\^ 1 am in the Father > an d I are one" the Father and 

_ Every Latter-day Saint is entitled to this witness and testimony. If we have not received this witness and testimony, mv brethren and my sisters, I want vou all to remember that the fault'is ours and not the Lord's; for every one is entitled to that witness, through faith and repentance, forsaking all sin baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the reception of the Holy Ghost through the laying on of hands. Now, if any of our brethren and sisters have lived for years without really knowing being thoroughly satisfied and thoroughly convinced, just as positive as of anything in life, that this work is of God, if they have lacked that witness and testimony it is their fault, for it is not possible for a man to do the will of the Father and not know the doctrine. If we do His, will, we shall know. We cannot avoid knowing, any more than we can avoid anything else. We know by what we see and hear and feel and taste, if our senses are involved and are convinced; and so it is with every one who has done the will of the Father. Let us, my brethren and sisters, see to it that we be not satisfied until we are so established in the Gospel, with a knowledge of the truth, that we shall be unshaken and stable — not like the wind and the waves that come and go, but serene and settled and established in our faith, so that nothing may occur to arouse questions in our hearts and minds in regard to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, or in regard to our heavenly Father, but that we shall know that He lives, that we shall know that Jesus is the Christ, our Redeemer and Savior, and that we may realize what He has done for us. He has not made requirements of us, nor given us commandments that we are not able to keep, for it is quite possible for us to meet every requirement He has made of us; and thus we may approach the injunction that He made, that His disciples should be perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect. 

No doubt, our heavenly Father, as well as the Son and the righteous who have gone before us have done their duty, and done their best. That is what is required of us. Our responsibilities are great; the requirements made of us in the world today are very exacting; though we be modest, and hesitate in standing before congregations of people, as is the case with many of our  and many sisters, also, to advocate the Gospel at home and abroad, yet there is one most eloquent sermon that we are all competent to preach wherever we are, in our own homes and families, in our own neighborhoods, and abroad, and that is the sermon of correct and proper example. We can be moral, upright, true, and faithful. We can love one another; we can deal justly by one another; and we cannot please GoJ without all these virtues are developed in us. We cannot please the Lord with any one virtue, although the Apostle Paul made this declaration that without faith it is impossible to please God. It is not possible to please the Lord with faith alone. A genuine, living faith, never goes alone; it always produces works; it moves upon intelligences, and requires them and propels them to works of righteousness. So that if Paul declares that without faith it is impossible to please God, I think I can just as safely say that without works it is impossible to please God. I may also say that without faith we will not work, and we have not worked without faith; we have labored just in proportion to the faith that' we enjoy. Our works in the future will determine the measure of our faith, for if men have faith they work. If men have faith in the principle of prayer, they will pray; if in the principle of tithing, they will meet their tithing obligation; they will pay their tithing just according to the measure of their faith. That is what you and I have been doing in the past, and it is what we will do in the future, according to the measure of our faith. So. will we meet that requirement, according to the measure of our faith. So will we repent of our sins, and work righteousness, serve the Lord and honor Him, and make good use of the opportunities that He places in our way. 

Not only is the field to be filled with missionaries abroad, for that seems to be the field assigned particularly to the Seventies and to the Elders— the Seventies particularly are expected to go out into the field and be traveling Elders all their li ves __but the greater field, that is, the field that can, be occupied by greater numbers-, and always will be, is the home field. It is becoming more important , by reason of the process of gathering, not only the gathering that we are doing as Latter-day Saints, but the gathering of other .people into our borders, into our neighborhood, and into our nation,— for they are coming from all nations and from all peoples. They are to receive the Gospel and be taught it in the United States as well as in the outside world. They are to receive it in the states and territories, wherever the Latter-day Saints are located, and it will be carried to other parts. It is our duty to preach the Gospel. That is our chief calling— to preach the Gospel by word, to preach it by our conduct throughout our lives. Nothing is stronger, nothing is more real, or more reliable and substantial than the good example that men set in their lives. 

I want to say just a word of commendation for our brethren who are at the head of our missionary work abroad, for our brethren who are at the head of our stakes of Zion and of our wards and quorums, and all the brethren and sisters who are at the head of the various associations. I believe that the 

Church has never been in better condition than it is today, that we are making good progress, good headway, and that the secret of our success and improvement lies very materially in the fact that the presiding brethren and sisters lead in their good examples — not alone in their preaching and in their teaching and the like, but they are living better lives. I believe we are living better and doing better than we have ever done Before. I believe more of us are sober, steady, and temperate; more of us are faithful and are struggling to set good examples before the departments that are entrusted to our care. That is my observation in my traveling, and I believe it is the observation of my brethren who travel in all the stakes of Zion. I believe the same is true of our brethren abroad, in all the missionary fields. The reins are being held fairly close and safe, and our brethren are being better trained and are more faithful. The training and schooling they have at home has its influence upon them and is preparing them for the ministry. We are in the ministry at home all the time; there is a field of labor on every hand. We need to have no trouble because we cannot go abroad. Some may be anxious to go abroad, and there is plenty of labor abroad. We will welcome all the brethren that can be furnished; we can employ all that the Bishops can send us. We can employ them all and give them plenty of opportunity abroad; and when that is done, and every man is satisfied with going into the field, we will have the greater army, the very great majority of all the priesthood and of all the people here at home, in the home missionary field. I want to exhort my brethren and sisters — not only the Bishops and the presiding brethren and leading sisters, not only the prominent men in official positions, and those in the quorums of the priesthood, — not only them but every Latter-day Saint, is required to set a good example and preach the Gospel by example and precept. We are expected to use our tongues to talk, and we are to labor faithfully here at home, just as faithfully as though we were abroad, and our lives should be just as blameless here at home as would be possible if we were in the mission field. 

Every man who has received the priesthood has a mission and a ministry to perform — from the last deacon ordained to the first man who bears the priesthood and holds the most lofty position in the Church. It is just as necessary for the deacon to be pure and upright, to perform his duty and be active in his field of labor, under the direction of the Bishop who presides over him, as it is for the brethren who stand in responsible positions in wards, and stakes, and in the presiding quorums of the Church to perform the duties devolving upon them. It will take just as good living to save one of us as it will to save the Prophet. We must serve the Lord and honor Him; we must be pure in our thoughts, in our words, in our conduct, and seek to be in communion with Him and honor Him continually. If men do that, they will have joy in this life. We will have a taste of heaven before we get there; in fact, we will have a little heaven here, — arid it is a good thing to have it commence here. If we get a little taste of it here, we will have a good deal of faith in the  of the future. I am pleased to say that we are surrounded with splendid material, splendid men, a splendid body of young men who are being developed and trained — those who go abroad and those who stay at home. Our organizations, our auxiliary associations, our educational institutions of - higher learning, and our splendid district schools. 

Great efforts are being made for the education of the people, and our opportunities are just as fine as can be found in any state surrounding us.; in fact, I think we average well with the United States in that regard, and we have as fine specimens of boys and girls as can be found; they are healthful, strong, and with good constitutions. If they are but taken care of and properly trained, so that they will love literature, love to learn, love to labor — for it takes hard work and lots of it — they will become useful, upright men and women. It takes hard study and application to prepare ourselves for the work we are expected to engage in. We must learn the Lord, and be acquainted with Him; to learn His Spirit, and know the operations thereof, that we may not be deceived by men, that we may not be deceived by spirits that are abroad in the earth. The Lord is at hand, and ready to sustain us and to inspire us and qualify us for the responsibilities that rest upon us. 

I thank the Lord for the conditions that prevail today — the conditions that are right and pleasing and proper in His sight. There are conditions that we regret, of course, and I suppose there will be for a long time. I presume there are conditions that the Lord has always  in fallen men; and He is anxious for their salvation, as we are anxious for the salvation of our own children. But' we have our agency, and, Latter-day Saints, if we examine ourselves, we will find that we have obtained the measure of faith according to the way we have devoted ourselves and exercised our agency in the service of the Lord. Our faith will grow with cultivation; our love of literature, our love of learning, our love of intelligence, wisdom, judgment, morality, and purity, will all increase with cultivation. If we live as we ought to live, for a few years, it becomes easy for us to live a proper life and to crucify the appetites that have afflicted us and caused us trouble and sorrow; and we are soon able to control our tempers, our passions, and every evil influence with which we are afflicted, and we can exercise such control that we can require ourselves to do just exactly what is right, whether other people do as they ought or not. It is the duty of Latter-day Saints to do what is right; and the right will prevail. It will prevail with individuals; it will prevail with the community; and it is found, I believe, quite generally with the majority of men and women. They love the right, they love the truth — I believe. They are not always enlightened; they do not always comprehend the truth and understand it; they are not always able to discern it and know it, but what they think is right and just and proper, I believe, prevails in the minds of the children of men. In fact, I believe that all men, as a rule, are more good than they are bad. I believe there is more good in man than there is wickedness,  righteousness, more of 'the love of truth and charity, justice and mercy. I believe these virtues prevail, in men quite generally; yet there are very serious vices, no doubt, among people; but, as a rule, I have faith in men, faith in humanity, and it gives me faith when I discover that the Lord has had faith in His children, and that it has been pretty well determined that not many of them shall be finally lost. We cross the track in our wandering, on our crooked way as we are traveling, but finally we will be brought back, and the Lord has declared unto us that very nearly all of His children will be saved. There are but few that will be absolutely lost, and that will go with the sons of perdition. Nearly all will be saved in some degree of glory and salvation, just according to what they have earned. That ' is what we shall receive finally. 

The Lord has laid down His life and shed His blood and prepared the way for His people. He has done this for everybody — not for Latter-day Saints alone, but for every one of the children of God. There is not one born in the earth but what is entitled to receive and enjoy salvation, and the Lord will bless and redeem and save all that can be saved. As long as men will repent and reform and do better, the Lord will remember them; He will not forget them, and they will never be lost sight of; but, blessed, are they who seek the Lord early and walk uprightly before Him. As quoted by the President, this morning : "He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken." That is the word of the Lord. What a fine thing it is when the boys and girls seek the Lord early, and where they commence in early life to serve Him regularly. It comes so natural for them when they are taught by their parents and led by the example of their parents and the spirit of the Lord. For His Spirit is conferred upon them early in life; it is about the first thing they are entitled to receive — the Spirit of the Lord, at the hands of His servants, when they start life. Jesus Himself set this example, for in His day the little children were brought to Him, and He took them in His arms and blest them, that they should have favor and fellowship with the Lord, and receive His assistance in their infancy. He arranged to have them taken care of, that Satan should never be able to carry off little children, but that they should be preserved and redeemed by His blood and offering. We must become like them; we must be led by the Spirit ' of the Lord; we must be entitled to forgiveness and have freedom from sin and transgression. We have a big struggle in this life, but our obligation and undertaking with the Lord has been to serve Him until the end of our mortal days. Let us try to do that, or, rather, let us do it! Let us have faith that we can do it, and then there will be no serious difficulty, for it is easier and better to be saved than it is to be damned. Of course, it is a downhill road, I suppose, to be damned; and an up-hill road to be saved; but it is easier and better to travel uphill than down-hill in sin and transgression. Let us serve the Lord and honor Him; let us set a good example to the world, that they may find among us the most temperate and practical people that there are to be found — in business matters, in spir matters, in Church matters. Let us preach the Gospel to the world; let us serve the Lord and live according to our professions. Let us keep the Sabbath day holy, and do all the things that He has commanded, that we may be entitled to enjoy from the Lord the gifts of the Holy Ghost. That is the exhortation that I feel to present to this great gathering of Latter-day Saints on this occasion. I believe it is good doctrine for our friends as well. The way has been prepared, and the Lord has so arranged that all who serve Him and keep His commandments shall know the doctrine. They shall see His face and know that He is. We shall all know the Father and the Son, thro'ugh our devotion and faithfulness to the end of this mortal life of ours. Let me so exhort you, my brethren and sisters, and pray that God may bless and lead us gently in the ways of righteousness and truth. Let us sin no more, for it is not necessary, and it is quite possible for us to do just what is right. I trust we may do so and enjoy the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord abundantly, in all our labors and ministry at home and throughout the world, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Horace S. Ensign, and the choir, sang, "Hosannah." 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

"Back to the farm," a cry of present importance. — Abundance of excellent farm lands in Utah and adjoining states. — Patriotism a result of life on the farm. — The farm home should be made attractive and comfortable. — The evil of drifting from place to place. 

There, is a Latin proverb which says, that "the gods sell everything for work." In the instructions that were given us this morning, by our brethren of the First Presidency, the impression made upon my mind was that it is their desire that the Latter-day Saints should continue to be a people esteemed and honored for their industry in the development and uplifting of the region which they occupy. Realizing the necessity that exists everywhere in the world for the maintenance of employment, the opening up of industries, the establishment and building of homes, I felt, in listening to the remarks that were made to us, that we should wisely and prudently look around upon the right hand and upon the left, in every section of the land we occupy, and ask ourselves the question: Are we maintaining the standard that was set in the early commencement of our homes in this western land? We are not only anxious in regard to this problem of the maintenance within our borders of the evidences of industry, but also the changing of' the current from gathering, too largely, of the inhabitants of the land into the larger cities. It is a question that is deeply interesting thinking men everywhere within the confines of our great Republic. "Back to the farm!" is the cry that is emanating from the press, the pulpit, and from the lips of thoughtful and prudent statesmen wherever they congregate together. 

The recent gathering, . in the city of Chicago, of what is known as the National Farm Land Congress, presented this slogan, "Back to the Farm," with an appeal to residents in those great centers of popula to make an effort to change the feeling and sentiment that has been established in the minds of thousands, that the only place to secure a home is within the confines of some great city. Every state that was represented in that congress — and there were many of them — came and presented . their claims, each showing that the particular section named was a fit and proper place to open up new homes, and secure opportunities for the establishment of men and women upon the soil. While listening to the reasonings and arguments that were madS by representative men of every section of the land, I was very much pleased to hear them declare that within the confines of their states were most wonderful opportunities. Some of them stated they had come from localities where there is an abundance of rainfall to produce crops, and some from sections that possess large opportunities to secure ample water for irrigation. Some of the places were, indeed, described as veritable gardens of Eden, possessing everything that the heart could desire, as explained by the representatives of those sections of the country. The feeling and sentiment expressed was that more thought should be given to this problem of the opening up of farms, and the leading of the people to believe that the opportunities for comfort and wealth are more largely in that direction than any other within the confines of the great Republic. 

We have ample opportunities within our own state of Utah, as well as the adjacent states, if we will but apply the spirit of industry and determination in working out these problems connected with the building of new homes. People who crowd into cities and live in rented homes, who are subject to every little, change in the character of their employment, and who find themselves, in a great measure, the slaves of their fellow-men, can not be fully patriotic and devoted to their country. The man who lays his foundation upon the basis of the soil, builds *his home, increases its comforts, enlarges his acres, and increases the cattle, horses, and sheep necessary to stock his ' homestead properly, soon finds himself among the independent ones in the world. When the people of any nation' shall stay by its farms, maintain and develop them along proper lines, you will find in that nation the most patriotic, devoted, and earnest men that can be found anywhere in the world. There is a saying, that any man will defend his homestead with his gun, that would not stand by a boarding house to protect it with « his life. 

Looking into these matters, we should weigh them thoughtfully and prudently. Nearly every man under the sound of my voice is naturally a statesman. You have had experience in the practical things of life. You have noted changes that have arisen in some of the neighborhoods with which you are acquainted. Boys have gradually drifted away; and' as you lookaround among the homes of the people, you discover there has been little improvement in that home where, in former times, the father had established himself and made a nice little start in the world, to provide for the wants and needs of those that were dependent upon him. The boys have drifted away into other sections. The father has  upon the little farm, but age has come upon him, and the ability to care for it, to cultivate it and make it support himself and any that might be dependent upon him, has in great measure passed away. The fences ai-p down; there has been no paint upon the buildings; the furnishings of the home are, in many instances, virtually broken in pieces. The spot that was sacred to the children, in their boyhood and girlhood days, no longer possesses the attraction that was there when the little home was neatly painted, and when the furnishings therein, though they may have been of a cheap character, afforded comfort, and there was a degree of independence, and the spirit of lo've abode within that sacred citadel. 

My brethren and sisters, in the problems that confront us as a people, we should look to the maintenance and beautifying of these growing villages as the best part of our land. I recognize the fact that young men are gradually drifting away from the land, and that the homes of the older ones are lacking that attention, care and thought that should be bestowed upon them. I believe that, in most instances, these homes, under the guardianship of an active, earnest, industrious son, could be maintained, and bring to him better results than would come to him in his efforts in other places The spirit of restlessness, concerning which the President spoke to us this morning, is very much to be regretted. I have found men in Mexico; I have seen them subsequently in Arizona; then I have met them in Colorado  I have been in their companionship in Wyoming; and I have found them with their teams beyond the borders  Canada. I have known them to leave Canada, afterward, and I have seen them in Oregon. A little later I have found them in northern California; and later you would find them again on the borders of Mexico, in Arizona, wending their way back into that southern land. As suggested in the remarks of our President, this restless spirit, this feeling and sentiment should be discouraged, and we should restrain ourselves from this species of action. His remarks should make the deepest impression upon our minds. 

To the east of us, on the borders of Green River, is a section of country as good as can be found anywhere in the world. It has ample water, and after a few years of toil, sacrifice and struggle, the men who shall establish themselves there will find that they are in the line of independence. To the south, to the north, to the west, and to the east of us are sections of country which, if properly developed and cultivated, would soon make the men and women thus engaged independent in every sense of the word. 

My brothers and my sisters, I plead with you to keep in view this thought of the beautifying and maintenance of these homes, the building of other homes, holding our children, as far as it is possible for us to do so, within the confines of our own section of country. Let us impress upon their minds devotion, regard and love for that liberty, for the maintenance of that patriotism, that comes from a love of the soil, a love of the liberty that is enjoyed upon the soil, and the love that one can have in the companionship of the free men and the free women who live and labor thereon. God bless you. Amen. 

The hymn, "Oh, give me back my Prophet deaf," was rendered as a quartet by James Moncarr, H. J. Christensen, David M. Burt, and A. E. Braby. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Manufactures in Utah should be loyally sustained, — Evidences of superiority of Utah-made woolen cloths. — Illustrations of financial advantages in purchasing home-made goods. — Three hundred and fifty factories in Utah prepared to supply demand. 

I have been very deeply interested in the remarks that I have heard during this conference. I earnestly desire that the time I may occupy shall be for our mutual benefit. 

From my childhood, I have been interested in home manufactures, and I was very pleased with the remarks of our President on this subject. So far as I may have the ability, I am anxious to make an impression upon the minds of my hearers today, that when they shall return home, from this conference, they will do so with a determination that in the future they will be more loyal in sustaining and building up our manufacturing institutions than they have been in the past. From the time that I was a boy of sixteen, until the factory closed, with only two or three exceptions, I never wore a suit of clothes that was not made of cloth manufactured at Provo. I purchased a suit, once, while in California for six months, as my clothes became the least little bit shabby. I paid more than twice as much for it as I would have paid for a Provo Woolen Mills suit, and I was ashamed of it at the end of four months, and gave it away. I have worn many a suit 

38 GENERAL C 

of Provo goods continuously for three years, barring the time that it was at the tailors, being cleaned and pressed, and then I did not wear it out, and it didn't get shiny either; but I can't get a suit of clothes today, for ten dollars a suit more than I used to pay for a Provo suit that does not shine and shine like everything in three months, instead of three years. I remember, when the Wyoming legislature was here, that I was wearing a light-colored suit. I happened to be a member of the Utah legislature, and they gave a ball in the theater; so I had to buy a black suit, so as not to be the only "white sheep" in the crowd, at that ball. But I gave the suit away the next day, for fear I might want to preach home manufacture when I had it on, and that the chips would fly back in my own face. Subsequently, when in New York for over six months at one time, I bought a suit there; but as that was in the panic of 1893, which wiped me off the earth, financially, I could not afford to give that suit away, so I wore it out. With these exceptions, I wore nothing but Provo goods until the factory closed down. 

The way I figure, the wool that would have made a suit of clothes, if shipped out of our country, will bring back about one dollar to help enrich the community; but if that wool were put into cloth, and the cloth into a suit of clothes, at least twenty-five dollars of the value of that suit would remain here and would be received by somebody for labor or in the increased value. We are told that a dollar is to the world of finance what a drop of blood is to the body, — that it is the circulating medium. I understand from doctors, that the heart handles about  ounces of blood every time it beats; that it beats seventy-eight times a minute, with the average individual — call it eighty, in order to make it easy, and we have twenty pounds of blood handled every minute, or practically every drop of blood in the body. Multiplying that by sixty, and then multiply it again by twenty-four. Of course, they say it does not beat quite so lively while you are asleep; but it amounts to more than ten tons, every twentyfour hours; and, yet, there is only twenty pounds of it. It is going and going, circulating and circulating. It is the same with money. Where the money goes out of a community, to import goods into that community, the circulating medium is weakened; the life blood is taken away, and the community becomes about as sickly as the individual would be if you should bleed him, and take half of his blood out of him. He would have a' pretty light color. 

Now, I remembe,r a story, and I have repeated it a number of times, because it hit me very hard. It was told by P)ishop George L. Farrell, then presiding at Smithfield. It was many years ago, and they were having quite a time boosting for home manufactures. A . meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, during conference, and Brother Farrell was called on for a speech. H^ fave the people to understand that he was very much like the rest of us — that of all his father's sons, he loved himself the best; and he said one reason why he bought homemade goods was that he would like to keep the money here at home, so that he might get a chance to pick it up as it went moving around. He said that he had been coming  here to conference, twice a year, for twenty years; and as eastern capital owned the railroad, he wanted to know how much of the money he paid out for railroad tickets ever came back to him. So he marked the money every time he went to the depot to buy his ticket, but never did a single railroad five dollars come back. But he also marked the money he paid for home-made goods; and every little while he would pick up some of the money and put it in his pocket. Then he said, "Just to give you an illustration — This very conference, when I was at the depot, I saw a man who had made some shoes for my children, and I paid him $5.00. The man who got the five dollars for these home-made shoes, handed it to. another man; he handed it to another; he to another; and when the fourth man got it, he handed it back to me, and figuratively speaking, I put my home-made shoes back in my pocket. Now," he said, "that five dollar bill paid $25.00 worth of debts quicker than it takes me to tell you of it; but if I had bought imported goods, there would have been five of us looking for five dollars." 

I remember, on one occasion, going to one of our merchants here in the city, trying to sell him a box of soap, and he said : "Oh, I make as much profit on the imported article, and it is established; I don't have to talk to try to get rid of it; and I don't care to buy your soap." "Well," I said, "you, undoubtedly, make the people pay you at least 25 per cent profit, so I will just give you 25 per cent if you will buy my soap; that is, I will take orders on" your store." Well, you know, he liked himself the best, and of course he wanted that 25 per cent,  so he was willing to help boost for home-manufacture. He would do it if he was paid for it; otherwise he would not. Now, I took the trouble to keep track of those orders that came to me — who got them, what they did with them, and then find out what that party did with them. By keeping track of these orders, we found they went through seven hands during the week, before they got into the merchant's till, — so they did one hundred per cent a day of work, and did enough in six days to be able to rest on Sunday. If the imported article had been purchased instead of the home-made article, seven hundred per cent of debts, in one week — equal to seven times the sum of the home-made goods bought — would not have been cancelled. 

The first money that I ever made I put into a vinegar factory, and lost it. Why? Because the people and the merchants would not patronize it. I remember I said to one' merchant, "I have had your vinegar analyzed by a chemist, and there is about one-quarter of it that is mineral — it is acetic acid — and you are burning people's insides up." He said, "It sells as well." (Laughter). I said to him, "I will tell you what I will do, — I will sell you a barrel two-thirds full of vinegar, at a much less price than you are paying. Then you can go to the drug-store and for seventy-five cents you can buy that mineral poison and put it into the barrel; then fill it up with water." Oh, no, —  he would not do that; he thought that would be wrong; but he went on selling the stuff manufactured that way. I could not get the patronage. The only people who patronized the soap I made were the Chinamen; (laughter) they bought it almost exclusively; they discovered it was the best they could get in the city. There were, also, a few of the good sisters who patronized it. I know of one lady — I won't mention her name; but she is the wife of one of the general authorities- — who is quite cranky on the question of having first class washing in her house. She looks after it herself, and sees that the linen is in mighty good shape. She always believed in Bee Hive soap. 

The reason we closed up was because the people would not patronize us, and I had about twenty thousand dollars to add to experience on account of soap making. I have a bigger experience account than all the money I am worth; and I have got a lot of this sad experience in trying to build up and establish home institutions and home manufacture. If I ever get any money I will put some of it into home manufacturing institutions again; and, perhaps, I will lose it. They say I am a crank on home manufacture. Perhaps I am, and I am proud of the appelation, if it means that I am an enthusiast in that direction. I do not believe we accomplish very much in life unless we are enthusiastic, unless we are in earnest, and unless we practice what we preach. James has written some things that have pleased me mighty well,, and one of them is that "faith without works is dead;" and to preach home-manufacture without buying the articles is just about as dead as faith without works. When a fellow is dead, why, he is in condition to be buried; (laughter) that is the condition he is in; and when we preach to get  to sustain home institutions and fail to do it ourselves, as far as our usefulness in sustaining manufacture in the community is concerned, amounts to nothing. There are 350 factories in Utah, and they are manufacturing over 500 articles. I believe the great majority of the people do not know this, and they never ask the question, "Is this article made at home? If not, have you one like it that is made at home?" If we would make up our minds to do this, it would make a wonderful change. I rememberyears ago, that I used to write a very good hand, I used to teach penmanship at the University of Deseret; and I found that the very best ink for fine writing, the best I could find in the city, was made by George Goddard. I went to nearly every merchant in Salt Lake and couldn't buy a bottle of Goddard's ink. They didn't have it; they said it would not sell; that it was not as good ink as some other. I said, "I know better; I am a judge." Well, I could not get it. and I had to go to Brother Goddard down in the 13th ward, to buy a bottle of his ink; and he had a cellar full of it. Nobody would have it. "Well," I said, "we will create a demand for it;" and I said to every one of my students, "This is the best ink, you can write the best with it, and if you want to learn to write well, you must have good ink. Now, you go to all the merchants and ask for Goddard's ink;" and Goddard got a;> order from every merchant in town. (Laughter.) The merchants are in the business to sell their goods, and the reason they all wanted Goddard's ink was that there were a hundred and odd boys and girls learning penmanship who asked for it. If people ask for a certain brand of goods, the merchant is going to keep it, so it all comes back to the people. If the people ask for home-made goods, they will get them, because what the people want is what the merchant has to sell. 

I went to the theater last night to see the last part of the performance, and the house was literally packed. I remember that when the grand opera was here, the house was not packed; but the show last night simply pleased the crowd. There was precious little to it — thin as air, lots of mighty poor things in it, some very suggestive things; there was certainly a lack of clothing, and a great many objectionable things; but that is what the people want today, and that is what the theatrical people are giving them. Therefore, the great artists are giving us the go-by. The Tabernacle Choir with Brother Ensign, Brother Crawford, Sister Lizzie Thomas-Edward, with some of the greatest artists in America, or with one of the greatest singers in all the world to come here and sing with them, can sing to empty benches; but if somebody will get up some kind of a skit, without much clothing for the women to wear, and put it on the stage, it will draw a crowd. 

Now, I pray the Lord to bless us and give us the inspiration and the wisdom to ask for home-made goods and for first-class music, Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

The message which I bring, my brethren and sisters, to this confer, from the elders and Saints of the great Northwest, is that the Lord has been good unto us during the past year, and that success' has attended our labors, in all departments. Never before have we been able to reach so many people, nor have we had such opportunities to converse with them upon the principles of the Gospel. Never before have we held so many meetings in any one year, nor have we baptized so many members into the Church; nor have we distributed so many tracts or sold so many books during any preceding year. In fact, the work in general has been eminently satisfactory to us, and I feel that we have enjoyed the approval of the Lord upon our labors. We have learned, as our fathers before us have, that there is something in this work that is real, that is tangible — something that can be actually demonstrated in the lives of those who keep the commandments of God. We know and understand something of the powers that moved the early Elders of this Church to lay the foundations of this work, and in carrying it on successfully in the world in bringing the Saints to these valleys of the mountains and establishing them so well as they are situated here. 

We have learned that the greatest gift God has given to us, and, indeed, the greatest gift any of His children ever have or will enjoy, upon this earth, is the companionship of the Holy Ghost. We have learned from contact with Him, from association with Him, that real inspiration and real power are had in the * companionship of the Holy Ghost. We are sent forth to perform the ordinances of the Gospel, initiating men and women into this Church, giving to them the promise — as the Lord gave it to His disciples before He left them, and as Peter repeated this promise on the day of Pentecost that unto all those who should receive the Gospel these blessings would be given. He was not fearful in making this promise; neither have the brethren who have sent us forth to preach the Gospel been at all fearful as to whether or not the Lord would fulfil our promises and acknowledge the ordinances we have performed in His name. It is our testimony that God has remitted the sins of those who have gone into the waters of baptism, honestly confessing their sins and forsaking them. We have seen old men and women who have lived all their lives outside of a knowledge of the truth, being convinced of the error of their way and the necessity of seeking the Lord for a forgiveness of their sins. We have seen them come out of the waters of baptism with their countenances shining, and with a conscience clear before God; and we have known that they had unloaded the weight of their sins, and that God had acknowledged the ordinances we performed in their behalf, that thereby their sins were remitted. We have also laid our hands upon their heads, and they have received the gift and power of the Holy Ghost. They testify of it, and we have seen evidences of it in their lives, and we know it. It has been with us, in our labors, calling us sometimes into fields that we did not intend to enter; it has led us to the honest in heart where we never expected to find them. It has prepared the people for our coming, as it has done from the beginning of the history of this Church. It is still  as powerfully in behalf of the cause of Zion, in assisting the Elders in their ministry, as ever it has done during the days and years that have passed and gone. It is with the Saints today in our missionary field, and I am satisfied it is with the great majority of the Saints at home. I repeat, again, that we have deemed it the greatest gift and blessing that God can bestow upon us — -for what other thing can compare with it? In speaking of the forgiveness of sins, the Lord said that He would forgive all manner of sin,except the sin against the Holy Ghost; and, by reason of that, He has made the possession of that gift the choicest and the greatest of all the gifts that He bestows upon His children. Who of His children would not give all they possess for the companionship of a spirit to which they can turn and inquire as to what manner of life each ought to live; how we should decide the questions of life that confront us in religious matters? In material matters? Yes; for God gives that gift to men to be a comforter and a guide to them in the material things of life; and if men enjoy it they will accept advice on material and spiritual things such as we have heard at this conference, and that Spirit will bear testimony to our souls that that which has been spoken is true, and there will be a desire in our hearts to follow it to the letter. So I have experienced, in my own life, as many of you have, that the inspiration of God can direct a man in his farm labors, in his mercantile labors, and in everything that pertains to him. No man or woman should engage in any business of such a character that they cannot feel that they are  to the companionship of the Holy Ghost to direct them in their labors. 

I realize, my brethren and sisters, that many whom we baptize in the world, like some of you here, do not at once experience the gifts of the Spirit. It will come slowly; it will manifest itself, at first, in a peaceful, inward burning, but in time, if heeded, will become a well of revelation and light in our souls, leading us to understand the truth and know the will and purpose of God. I remember, on entering a carpet factory, I first saw the back of the carpet. I went around to the other side; the carpet was the same but the appearance was different. On this side was the design, the color, and flower, all being worked out, and produced by the same method of operation. We have often looked upon things from the reverse side. We have not understood God's dealings with us as individuals, nor with His Church, nor with the affairs of the world; but when we possess the key — the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, that searches all things, that takes of the things of the Father and reveals them to us, and enables us to unlock the apparent mysteries that surround us — we shall look upon the design of our lives, the design God has concerning us, concerning His Church, and concerning the nations of the earth. We shall, thereby, be led to put ourselves in harmony with His great designs. 

I want to say that Zion, looking upon her from the design side, where God is shaping her destiny, is beautiful to me. No soul needs to fear; no heart to quail as to what the outcome shall be. God has de and designed her purpose, her mission, and no hand can sway nor turn her from the purpose and course that God has fixed for her. Let no heart fear, but let there be full and absolute confidence in the fact that God has taken care of the work up to this present time; and He will continue to take care of it. The thing for us to worry about is whether or not we are growing in the gifts of the Gospel. That concerns us most, what are we doing individually? Is there a growth within my soul ? Am I overcoming, through the use of these gifts, the weaknesses of the flesh? Am I adding to my faith, virtue, and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance and patience, godliness and brotherly kindness? These are the fruits of this gift. We must not stop after we have been baptized and had hands laid upon us, we must grow. There should always be some growth, and that can come only through the exercise of our spirituality, listening to the Voice, following its inspiration, and it will become stronger and more powerful day by day. If I turn a deaf ear to it, I shall find that it will soon leave me; it will not abide with me, nor be the comforter, or adviser, or companion that if otherwise would be, and that I should have. When it does go, how lonely, how sad is the heart! Have you for the moment lost it? Did you not feel a loneliness, an absence, so that you could not feel satisfied to live upon the earth unless you could get it back? And in sackcloth and ashes, as it were, you have sought for that companionship, and when it returns — what a comforter to the soul that possesses it! It is not always given that we shall hear the voice speaking loudly within, or receive the revelations of God through this gift and power, in an audible way, but it is possible for every Latter-day Saint to be guided and influenced in his or her life by the Holy Ghost. 

There is one key that I am going to refer to, that gives this assurance — that every Saint, no matter how weak, can understand and know the operations of this Spirit. I read that when Oliver Cowdery was trying to translate the Book of Mormon, that he began very well, and finally everything was darkened. He wanted the Prophet. Joseph to inquire why it was that he failed, and the answer was: 

"Behold, it is because that you did not continue as you commenced, when you began to translate, that I have taken away this privilege from you. 

"Do not murmur, my son, for it is wisdom in me that I have dealt with you after this manner. 

"Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save that it was to ask me;" [How many of us ask the Lord for a blessing, and think that ends our part, and that our responsibility ceases there, and that He is to blame if we do not get the thing for which we ask. Here the Lord says, in substance, You have thought that all that was necessary was to ask me.] 

"But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right; 

"But if it be not right, you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought, that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong: therefore you cannot write that which is sacred, save it be given you from me." 

Is there any Saint but that can  with this key and requirement? Is there a question that the boy or the girl, or the man or woman wants to decide? Then there is an opportunity for them to enjoy the companionship of this Spirit. It was given to us for a blessing, an earthly, temporal blessing, as well as to promote spiritual growth, to preserve us from errors, from disappointments, from the traps and snares of the adversary. It is your privilege to enjoy the companionship of this gift in all things about which you have any doubt and uncertainty. Is it the girl who has to answer the question that is propounded by the young man who desires that she shall become his wife ? She should not answer it until she has received a testimony, a knowledge concerning it, through the gift and power of the Holy Ghost unto her soul, that ministers to her this satisfaction as she presents herself before the Lord, having studied it out with all of her powers and ability; then it will give to her the inspiration necessary to enable her to properly decide and answer the question. So with every man in his business. Every man, in all his walks in life, ought to be perfectly willing to seek with implicit confidence to obtain the inspiration of that Spirit. If the thing which you have studied out, and used all your powers and energies to decide and determine, is not right, then the Lord, by this Spirit, shall cause it to pass away from you, and you shall not feel satisfied with the conclusion you may have reached in the matter; but if it is right, then your soul shall burn within you. I know that men and women can be guided by this key; and, if they do so, it shall grow and increase with them until it shall be  voice speaking within them so distinctly that there shall be no question or doubt. This has been proven by thousands of Latter-day Saints. It gives men the knowledge that God lives. 

Our scriptures say that no man can know that Jesus is the Christ save by the Holy Ghost. I haven't seen Him, but I know, within my heart and in my soul, as I live and stand before you today, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Savior of the world. When I shall stand before Him, in His presence, and see Him face to face as He is, I shall not know any better the truth that He is the Christ, and that He lives, than I do today by the witness and testimony of the Spirit of God in my heart and soul. By that same power I know that this is God's work, that Joseph Smith was His prophet, and that the leaders of this Church today enjoy the revelation and the inspiration of God, that they are His prophets, that they stand in the right way, and that no power can destroy this work. God speed its progress in the nations of the earth, in the missions; and at home may there be a greater and mightier . spiritual growth and development that shall preserve us from all errors. May it continue to guide us in all our ministrations, in directing our faith and works, in the exercise of the priesthood, that we may not be humiliated, but that we may always be guided by the inspiration of this comforter. I thank God for it. May it always be with me, and with you, and with all the Saints of God, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Suggestion to those who desire answers to queries or problems. 

Circumstances are favorable to the remark I desire to make, that the Presidency and a number of the Apostles are beset, continually, with letters of inquiry, asking questions about almost numberless and nameless subjects. On one occasion, haying been importuned by a young man who was almost a professional questioner, and having submitted to his queries, continuously, for a number of months, I came to the conclusion that I would make this proposition to him, and I think it a good ' one to make here, because it is not always the Bishops, or the Bishops' Counselors, or the Presidents of stakes who are asking questions of us, and who are submitting wonderful problems for us to solve; but many of the Latter-day Saints are doing the same thing, also a number who are not Latter-day Saints. My proposition was this, and I repeat it to the Bishops and Presidents and to the Latter-day Saints everywhere : If you have a question to ask, or some problem that you are not sure you are able to solve, I would suggest to you that y6u figure it out yourselves and reach 'the very best conclusion that you can of the matter; and then, if you are still not quite satisfied with it, and you cannot get sufficient of the Spirit of the Lord to reveal to you the absolute truth, as to whether you are right or wrong, just submit to us your conclusion, and we think we can answer that a good deal easier and quicker than we can solve your questions in the way they are generally put to us. The choir sang the anthem, "O Beauty of Holiness." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Richard W. Young. 

Conference adjourned until 10 a.m. Monday, April 4th. 


