Second Overflow
03 04 1910


Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p.m., at which Elder Orson F. Whitney presided, and the L. D. S; U. choir furnished the singing, under direction of Prof. O. A. Kirkham. 

The choir sang the hymn, "What though the Gentiles wildly rage." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Hugh J. Cannon. 

The choir sang a selection entitled, "The Lord is my Shepherd." 

ELDER DAVID H. CANNON. 

(President of St. George Temple.) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that in the effort I may put forth in attempting to address you this afternoon.we may be mutually blessed with a rich outpouring of the Spirit of God, for by and with his aid I may be able to say something that will be mutually beneficial to the speaker and the hearers. 

The Gospel with which we have become identified is the power of God unto salvation to every human being who will adopt its principles, and conform their lives to its requirements. For this purpose -the Elders of the Church have left their homes, and traversed sea and land  order to reach the people with their message of salvation that the Lord has committed to us. Wherever mankind has been greeted with the sound of the everlasting Gospel, they have been called upon to repent of their sins and turn from the error of their ways. Where they have done so in faith, nothing doubting, the Spirit of God has carried conviction to their hearts. On rendering obedience to the requirements of the Gospel, we do not expect a complete understanding of it will come to us at once, but we will receive a little here and a little there until our minds are fully satisfied in relation to the matter. But a testimony of the truth of it is carried to our hearts when we hear it. 

I remember hearing a man give his experience in regard to the testimony of the truth which he had received. He was traveling, and had stopped at a hotel where an Elder of the Church had engaged to speak, in that hotel, that night. This man was sitting in the room; and as soon as the Elder began to spread out his books, prepared to address the people, the Spirit of the Lord bore testimony to him, before the Elder had opened his mouth, that that man was a servant of God, and that the message that he bore was the truth, was the everlasting Gospel. The brother that bore this testimony lived to an exceedingly ripe age, and never lost that testimony. When we arise in the morning, if we are up early enough, we see the morning star, and after a little while see a little streak of light, showing that day is dawning; and as we remain and watch it we see it increase until light fills the earth, and the sun in its magnificence comes forth, cast its rays upon the face of the earth. It is just so in relation to this Gospel that we have received. We receive a little light here, and we render obedience to its requirements, repenting of our sins, manifesting our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, going down and being baptized for the remission of our sins; then receive the imposition of the hands of the servants of God for the reception of the Holy Ghost, which begins to open our understandings. As we conform to the laws that the Lord has revealed for the guidance of His people, the light increases in our minds until we have received a fullness, and the hope of eternal life has become so strong in our hearts that we can withstand anything, and our testimony remains undimmed. 

I bear testimony to the people here assembled that I know the Gospel to be true. Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and so have been the various servants of the Lord who have presided over the Church from the days of the Prophet Joseph until the present time. They have been legally called to those positions, and have been the right men in the right place to direct the affairs of this Church. This work has only just fairly begun, although this is the eightieth . year since the organization of the Church. Its destiny has only fairly begun in the midst of the nations; eventually every knee must bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ to the honor and glory of God. 

I do not desire to occupy more of your time, but merely add that I rejoice in this conference. The more I become familiar with them, the more beauty I can see in the  of the Gospel. As we become conversant with them, we will find that they are applicable to every condition of life. No condition can be found in which .a person will not find these principles applicable. , May the Lord bless His people, and prosper His work. May He comfort the minds of His Saints under the bereavement that has just come upon them in the death of our beloved President John R. Winder. May we live and see Zion progress and prosper in the earth, the power of evil be done away, and righteousness fill the earth as the waters fill the mighty deep; through Jesus Christ. Amen.' 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR. 

(President .of Granite Stake.) 

' I pray, my brethren and sisters, that I may enjoy the good spirit that actuated Brother David H. Cannon in his remarks to you this afternoon. 

I was very much interested this morning in the theme and remarks of President Smith, in our morning session of conference at the Tabernacle, and I feel the importance of them. Not only in the line that we will be blessed in dollars and cents, with better habitations, more comforts in our homes, by the observance, of his admonitions, but that we will get a little closer to our boys and our girls, and instil into them the principles of faith. I have always been impressed with some of the methods of the Patriarchs of old in keeping their household and families around them. It seems to me as Latter-day Saints that we ought to be anxious, particularly as to the employment of onr own families. So in the theme of more intense cultivation of our farms, better regulations in regard to our horticultural interests, etc., these things are of vital importance. I believe that there are few farms in this intermountain country which would not produce a much larger percentage in cereals, and other crops to which they are adapted, if we would only apply energy, intelligence and care in the manipulation of the same, to the end that instead of our boys going to' other countries and places to secure employment, or to get new farms, they could remain and be employed in our midst. I have always felt that there are few large farms in this country but what, if they were cut up, and our boys were to go to some of our agricultural colleges and familiarize themselves with better cultivation of the soil, that we would find plenty of room on our farms to accommodate the boys without their having to go to some other place. It is the duty of a father in Israel to look out for the employment of his boys, and also of his girls, that they may not need to go away from their own firesides and home associations for employment. It is a splendid proposition for the fathers to divide up their farms with their boys, help them to get a home on their own places, and apply themselves to the more intense cultivation of the land; thus occupy their boys and keep them near, instead of having them scatter over the country. It would also be profitable for them to do it. 

I have been thinking of these matters recently in relation to our community, as to how we can better employ our )'Oung people, and  them at home, and on inquiry I find that we have men who are getting along splendidly in a financial way on small tracts of land, who are intensely and intelligently cultivating the soil as truck gardens, and they are becoming; well off, they are giving employment not only to their own families but to others in their neighborhood who are in need of it. I also find that we have people who are intelligently cultivating the soil on the best lines of our horticultural interests, developing their places to the end that their own children do not have to go elsewhere to find employment. They are building other homes around the old homestead, and they thus keep their boys and girls near them. It is right that we should have them with us, and that we should give employment,not only to our own, but, if we have the means and ability, we should furnish employment to as many of our neighbors as possible, so that they also need not have to go to other localities to find work. It has always been a source of regret to me to think that in this agricultural country, where we have the best fruit-raising districts in the United States, that many of our' boys have to go to smelter and mining towns and other places to find employment, when there are so many opportunities at our own door. 

I was recently talking with a man who had rented some land, in fact some from myself. He had not had any experience in agriculture before coming to this country, but he saw there was an opportunity for him to get along well in that line, and he now cultivates the soil intelligently and intensely, with the result that he is one of the largest tithe payers in the ward where he 

, and he has been in this country only a little while. He not only gives every one of his own family employment, but a number of other people besides. He said to me the other day, L could use hundreds of the young people if they would only follow in this line. They could have profitable employment where they could be near home, and they would not have to be seeking places elsewhere, providing they would take my advice, cultivate the soil where they are living. I think we ought to take advantage of this idea. Where any part of our land is adapted to a certain crop, we ought to cultivate that portion to that crop, we should thus cultivate each part of our farms and apply them to that for which they are best adapted. If it is better adapted for fruit, plant fruit trees; if it is better for truck gardening, use our land for that purpose; if for wheat, grow wheat; whatever it is we ought to cultivate it in the best manner possible, so as to make it produce abundantly and give employment to our own people near our own homes. 

It is wrong in the sight of God to have our boys or girls going here and there and everywhere for employment. We ought to keep them under our own roof, or near our own fireside, where we can teach them the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only would this matter, as President Smith suggested this morning, be a great blessing to us in a temporal way, but it would be a wonderful blessing to us in a spiritual way. One of the things wherein we are lacking as Latter-day Saints is, that we do not get close enough to our boys. There are not enough fathers that work along side by side  their boys. They do not know enough as to their faith, their habits and their conduct. They trust too much to them, and let them go here and there and everywhere instead of having them around them. 

One of the important duties of Latter-day Saints is that they should teach their own children the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I regret to say that too many of us leave it to the quorums of the Priesthood, and to the auxiliary organizations, to teach our boys the principles of the everlasting Gospel, when as fathers and mothers we ought to have them around us, teaching them ourselves. I believe that the responsibility, the great responsibility, of a father and a mother is that they shall rear their boys and girls in the love of the Lord our God, and with an understanding of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we ought to spend more time with them. I believe that as fathers, we should be companions to our 'boys, and get closer to them. There ought to be the closest and the kindest friendship and love and companionship existing between father and son and mother and daughter, and between father and daughter, and mother and son. One of the ways that we could accomplish this, and get close to them, is to gather our boys and girls around us by the hearthstone, and teach them the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them from the standard Church works and other good books, and be teachers to our boys and girls in pure love according to the relation that we bear to them, and thus they may be to us a great treasure and blessing, and we may feel that we are doing our duty to them, and carrying out what the Gospel teaches us. I tell 'you. it is a mighty pleasant thing to know that our boys have faith in this Gospel, to feel confident that our girls also have faith in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that they are clean, sweet, and pure. The main responsibility that they become so rests upon the fathers and mothers. When we neglect this we do not do our part. We have no right to presume upon the Bishop to take care of our boys or girls, or upon the Priesthood, or on the auxiliary organizations. They are doing their part, and doing it splendidly, nobly and well; but the great responsibility of all rests upon us, that we should take hold of them and rear them in the fear of the Lord, that they may keep His commandments and do that which is right, so that when we get older we can look around and point to every one of them and say that they are good, clean and sweet, and that they love the Lord and keep His commandments. Without this condition there cannot be much happiness in any home. I do not care what your surroundings may be; I do not care how palatial your residence may be, or how ample your bank account, or what your social standing may be; I tell you you cannot have much happiness in this world if you have one of your boys or girls going astray. I would rather have a log cabin with all my little ones around me, loving the Lord and keeping His commandments, than to be in a palace with one of them not there. I repeat, I think the remarks of President Smith this morning relative to not going here and there and everywhere are very pertinent to us as Latter-day Saints; and if we want to keep our boys and g; rls with us, we should divide up  farm if necessary; divide up our business, if necessary. Let us have our boys and our girls under our own wing. 

I feel that it would not be right ior me to continue my remarks. I am delighted with the Gospel of the I ord Jesus Christ. It brings peace to me. I know it is true. I know ihat Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and I want to live a life that I can always have this testimony with me. I hope that every one that belongs to me will continue to love the Lord and keep His commandments. May the Lord abide with you in your homes, and bless all that appertains unto you; I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Winifred Smith sang a soprano solo, "Hark ye, O Israel." 

ELDER RODNEY C. BADGER. 

(Of Salt Lake Stake High Priests.) 

I have been very much interested and instructed by the remarks of the brethren who have addressed us. I rejoice exceedingly in their testimonies in regard to the truth of the work that we are engaged in, because it corresponds with my testimony. The ideas that they have expressed correspond with my ideas, and it is a satisfaction to every one to feel that they are in harmony with those who know that this work is true, and that we are engaged in the work of the Lord. 

I know of no other people who take as large a view of the Gospel, and that which the world calls religion, as do the Latter-day Saints. We believe that we ought to be in harmony with the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ all the time. We believe that if we are not in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord all the time, there is something lacking, or something we have left undone. I do not know how it is with others, but with myself I find there are times when I feel that I am no* altogether in the way that I should be; but I. am striving constantly to place myself in the position of a saint, that I may enjoy the spirit of the Gospel, because I have tasted its influence and found that it brings happiness and peace. 

* In our conferences, especially in our general conferences, when we meet three or four days successively, we have a wide variety of instruction, pertaining to our welfare, and not only to our individual welfare but also to that of our fathers and mothers, and of our children and our children's children. The Gospel is so broad and so strong that it will reach every individual that has ever lived upon the face of the earth. All men, whether they live in this age of the world or not, will have the privilege of receiving or rejecting the principles of truth and salvation. The great responsibility that has been placed upon us is that we live in accord with this broad scheme of salvation that has been delivered to the children of men. The Lord announced in the beginning of this work that He was about to establish a marvelous work and a wonder. The further we go, and the more insight we have into the work, the more we wonder at the broadness and depth of the Gospel, the importance of the labor that has been assigned unto us, and realize the character of men and women that we ought to be, in order that we may meet the requirements of the Lord in this regard. 

I wonder at the actions of men.  sometimes I wonder at my own actions, weaknesses, failings, and inability to stand as firm and as square as I ought to stand. I was born and reared, and educated in the Church, and ani still learning; as Brother Cannon has said, here a little and there a little. I find that the more truth I learn the more firmly my conviction becomes fixed that the Lord is directing the work, and is at the head of this organization; and that it is necessary for each individual to have a testimony of the Gospel. 

We are getting to be a numerous people. We are spreading out and scattering abroad, and building up the waste places of the earth. Our fame has gone out all over the world as colonizers, as a people that are undaunted in their colonization of countries, and especially of desert countries. They say, "The Mormons are not afraid of any proposition; they take hold of the most discouraging conditions, and make a success of them." 

Many people who are prejudiced against us say that we are serfs and follow our leaders, who are shrewd, keen men. Would to God that we did -follow them closer than we do. As I said, we are scattering abroad. We do not get together as closely as we used to. I remember the time when this assembly hall -would hold all that were in Salt Lake City,and it doesn't seem so very long to me either. We could all hear the voice of the prophets every few days, or every week or two, and we were constantly under their instruction. But it is not so today; we are scattered abroad. If some of the people hear the voice of an apostle once or twice a year, they consider themselves very fortunate indeed. Therefore, the more necessity there is for us to live near unto God, that we may understand the Spirit of the Lord, which is the Spirit of the Gospel, that we may receive that light, knowledge, and understanding that is necessary for us in order that we may stand alone in the world, if needs be, and declare the truth of the Gospel without fear of contradiction. We should know assuredly and positively that this is the work of the Lord, that He has established it upon the earth, and that it shall remain forever. It shall remain upon the earth until the purposes of God are accomplished, until our Savior shall come and reign upon the earth. We ought to know these things, and the time is coming when we must depend, not altogether upon the voice of an apostle, or the presidency, because we do not hear them often enough; but we must depend upon the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord unto us, and that Spirit will not lead us astray. That Spirit will lead us into all truth. 

A marvel has come to pass in the earth. Men and women are brought from all nations, not being able to understand each other's language, yet they all comprehend alike; they have accepted the same Gospel and the same Spirit is their instructor. There never was' and perhaps never will be a parallel to the wonderful work that the Lord has done. I rejoice in this work. I rejoice in the small service that I am able to render. I rejoice in the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. I rejoice in the association of my brethren and sisters, and in listening to their testimony. I rejoice in all these things, and no doubt we all do. May the blessings of the Lord be with us, and His Spirit be upon us, that we may  serve God and keep His commandments, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. (Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

To begin with, I came to this meeting prepared to speak, expecting to speak; and came provided with some information. Having done my part, the rest depends upon the Lord, and His Spirit, and the attention that I receive from the people. 

They say, we ought to have three kinds of speakers : One on premisement, one on argument and one on arousement. Now, I have been on "arousement," for a great many years, and- 1 am going to abandon that field, I am going to premise from now on. I am going to stake myself out, and I don't need anybody else to try to stake me out as to public speaking. It is my intention to keep within the bounds of reason and consistence. In coming to you, good people, today, I do so as one having authority. I hold the holy Priesthood; I am a Seventy; not an apostle, but a Seventy, At no time have I ever presumed to take the place of an apostle, and I do not think for one moment that I have the authority 'to instruct the people as an apostle would, but as one of the representatives of the. First Council of Seventv. By the way, God gave the First Council a place in His Church, and I know what that place is, I have studied it out. It is in your power to vote every one of the First Council out, when their names are presented by those having authority; this is the right time and place to vote any men out, if you cannot sustain them. 

It is my desire to read to you; and it is going to take me a little time, because, as I said in the beginning, I have staked myself out. It will take me about eight minutes, and that is time enough to put about one half of you people asleep. I have discovered that some people are not good listeners, especially if they are not interested. I don't know whether I can interest you or not, but I am going to try, with the help of the Lord. I have a theme. This is something I hardly ever have. I never took a text in my life and stuck to it. This maybe an occasion of that kind; but I am willing to say anything the Lord wants me to say, and I don't care what it costs. I have never been afraid of the children of men when I had the Spirit of God. I never was afraid of a mob in the Southern States when I had the Spirit of God, but I was scared pretty nearly to death after the Spirit left. It takes lots of courage to say always what you think. The trouble is, we think things sometimes we ought not to say. 

I will read a portion of the 43rd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, being a revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Ohio, February, 1831. 

"O hearken.ye Elders of my Church, and give an ear to the words which I shall speak unto you; for behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye have received a commandment for a law unto my Church, through him whom I have appointed unto you to receive commandments, and revelations from my hand. And this ye shall know assuredly that there is none other appointed unto you, to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me. But verily, verily, I say unto you, that none else shall be appointed unto this gift except it be through him, for if it be  from him he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead. 

"And this shall be a law unto you, that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments; and this I give unto you that you may not be deceived, that you may know they are not of me." 

The rest of my theme is contained in the documents in my pocket; it is revelation. I desire to talk to the people on revelation. The Seventies have been studying revelation, and I have condensed the lessons. It is not original; I never read anything that is. 

"What is the definition of revelation?" "Revelation is the name of that act by which God makes communication to men." How was revelation received in this dispensation? My intention is to compare notes and see how we conform to the old methods of the prophets in receiving revelation. That is, in what manner was revelation received ? The Prophet Joseph Smith received revelations in every way that the Lord communicates His mind and will to man. Like Moses, he knew the Lord face to face, stood in His very presence and heard His voice, as in the first communication the Lord made to him, usually called the Prophet's First Vision, as also in the vision given in the Kirtland Temple, where he and Oliver Cowdery saw the Lord standing on the breastwork of the pulpit, and heard Him speak to them. He received communications from angels, as in the case of Moroni, who revealed to him the Book of Mormon; John the Baptist, who restored the Aaronic Priesthood; and Peter, James and John who restored the Melchizedek Priesthood. Also the communications from angels, mentioned in what is usually called the Kirtland Temple Vision. See Doc. and Cov. Sec. 110. He received communications through the Urim and Thummim, for by that means he translated the Book of Mormon, and received a number of the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants; among others, sections 3, 6, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17. He received divine intelligence by open visions, such as is contained in sections 76, and 107. *Lle also received revelations through the inspiration of Gojd operating upon his mind; and, indeed, the larger number of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants were received in this manner. Now then, how did they receive them in the days of the Bible ? The world is so bitterly opposed to revelation, let us compare notes and we will see that the divers manners in which revelations were given in ancient times, and the various ways in which the prophets in olden times received revelations, agree with the various ways in which God communicated His mind and will to Joseph Smith. I quote the following from the "Annotated Bible," published in 1859: 

"The divine communications were spoken to the prophets in divers manners: God seems sometimes to have spoken to them in audible voice; occasionally appearing in the human form. At other times He made use of the ministry of angels, or made known His purposes by dreams. But He most frequently revealed His truth to the prophets by producing that supernatural state of sentient, intellectual, and moral faculties which the scriptures call "Vision." Hence, prophetic annunciations are often called visions, that is, things seen; and the prophets themselves are called seers. Although the visions which the prophets beheld and the predictions of the future which he announced were  announced by the divine spirit, yet the form of the communications, the imagery in which it is clothed, the illustrations by which it is cleared up and impressed, the symbols employed to bring it more graphically before the mind — in short, all that may be considered as its garb and dress, depends upon the education, habits, association, feelings and the whole mental, intellectual and spiritual character of the prophet. Hence the style of some is purer, more sententious, more ornate, or more sublime than others." 

Also the Rev. Joseph Armitage Robinson, D. D., Dean of Westminister and Chaplain of King Edward VII of England, respecting the manner in which the message of the Old Testament was received and communicated to man, said, as late as 1905 : 

"The message of the Old Testament was not written by the divine hand, nor dictated by an outward compulsion. It was planted in the hearts of men, and made to grow in a fruitful soil. And then they were required to express it in their own language after their natural methods and in accordance with the stage of knowledge which their time had reached. Their human faculties were purified and quickened by the divine Spirit; but they spoke to their time in the language of their time; they spoke a spiritual message, accommodated to the experience of their age, a message of faith in God and of righteousness as demanded by a righteous God." — Seventy's Third Year Book, by B. H. Roberts. 

What is inspiration? Let us get an understanding of the distinction between revelation and inspiration then we can talk about it a few minutes. "Inspiration is the name of that divine influence, which operates upon the minds of men under which man may receive divine guidance." We have Oliver Cowdery's case, which is excellent, viz : wherein the Lord said: "Behold, I will  you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart. Now, behold this is the Spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by which Moses brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground." Oliver Cowdery had the spirit, or the gift of interpretation, but he did not understand. Doubtless, he thought he knew the whole thing. The Lord gave a revelation and told him not to "murmur and complain." The thought comes to me that Oliver Cowdery imagined he knew a great deal more than th~ prophet. There are others of that kind living in our own day. There were men in the days of the prophet who wanted his place, I have heard it said that there were only two or three of all the apostles in that day who did not want the prophet's position. They imagined they were smarter than he was. The suggestion Is that Oliver Cowdery was one of them; this may be a mistake. The Lord said: 

"Do not murmur, my son, for it is wisdom in me that I have dealt with you after this manner. Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed I would give it unto you, when you took no thought, save it was to ask me; but behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you, therefore you shall feel that it is right." 

The Lord says further : or at least His servant Job puts it in this way : "There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Lord giveth them understanding." Or, as John words it : "That was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh in the world." Paul, in Corinthians says: "But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal." I take it, that applies to the children of men. The Lord has not left them without the Spirit. Every man has "a manifestation of the Spirit." If it was not so, God's children could not be saved. The Lord says through His prophet: "Surely the Lord God will do nothing but that He revealeth His secret to His servants the prophets." 

We need revelation for the calling of officers in the Church. Men should not be called merely through impression. I have felt censured for some work that I have done in the Church. I set apart Seventies as presidents of quorums, and after having set apart some of these presidents, I have been doubtful whether God had much to do with it, other than they had been- chosen and set apart by one who had authority. It has not been demonstrated by the actions of some men that they were chosen of God; they were chosen by mere impression, and time was not taken to consider what God wanted. My conviction is that men ought not to be appointed by mere impression. The word of God teaches me that no man has a claim upon appointment in this Church, unless he is called of God as was Aaron. It doesn't matter whose son he is; although I fancy sometimes that I got my position as one of the First Council, out of respect to my father, so that his name might be represented among the authorities of the Church. 

To continue with the subject of inspiration : Jesus, before His ascension promised the Holy Ghost to His disciples, which He called the "Comforter." "I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter that will abide with you forever, even the spirit of truth. But the world cannot receive it, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him; but ye know him,- for he dwelleth in you, and shall be in you." 

Revelation is essentially necessary to unfold to the Church the future. The servants of God must unfold to the Church the future, and point out to them coming danger. All prophets do not enjoy an equal degree or measure of foreknowledge, for the Lord said to Israel : "Hear now my words. If there be a prophet among you, I, the Lord, will make myself known unto him in vision, and will speak unto him in dream. My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all my house. With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the Lord shall-he behold." 

"God hath set some in the Church, first Apostles, secondarily Prophets, thirdly Teachers." What was the object? The object of these officers and gifts is : first, "For the perfecting of the Saints;" secondly, "for the work of the ministry.;" and, thirdly, "for the edifying of the body of Christ." How long were they to remain? They are to remain "till we all come to a unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the fulness of the stature of Christ." 

I have something I want to call your attention to. If this was the last sermon I would ever preach in the flesh, and the last testimony I would ever bear to this people, it is my desire to tell you what is ingrained in my whole being. I be-, lieve Joseph Smith was and is a  of God, and I believe it as fervently and honestly as any man in all Israel. I may not have the knowledge or information that some possess; I may not have received the revelation and inspiration others have, but I have the testimony of its truth in every fiber of my being. I may not have been born a Latter-day Saint, but my labors in the ministry and the testimonies I have received in preaching the Gospel, and the inspiration that God has given me, tell me that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God. God made him a Prophet but the people, when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was- organized, made him the President of the Church. 

Joseph Smith had revelations, and they are written and received by the Church. My testimony is that they are true. I have witnessed the fulfillment of many of them. I do not know how I could get a better testimony. But President Joseph Smith is dead, and Brother Brigham Young was his successor, and I have the same testimony as to him, I knew him from the time I was a small child, and I testify of his greatness, and of his bigness. He was a different: man from the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was the great architect of this work under the Almighty. Brother Brigham Young was a great builder, and he builded well and firmly, and as a Prophet of the Lord he continued where the Prophet Joseph ended. One reason why Brother Young was so great was that he had great men beside him, he had men who were tried as gold seven times, who never faltered or fell by the wayside; they held up his hands, no matter how much their hearts were tried. That is my testimony, and I  nearly every one of them. President Brigham Young is also dead. Then comes President Taylor, a 'most magnificent specimen of manhood, a man of God that I always honored. Never was I in his presence that his bigness and majesty did not impress me. His personality was wonderful. The first time I went into his presence was in answer to a call to the Southern States as an ambassador of the Gos pel. I ..never could forget him or the impression that he made upon my soul. But he is dead. Then came President Wilford Woodruff. I have personally stood by the side of that good man, he has taken time enough — thank God his time was not so precious that he could not sit by me for a few moments, — and when rising to go the testimony of the Spirit was the same; he surely is a prophet of God. He is dead also. 

Then came .President Lorenzo Snow — I had the same Spirit and the same testimony concerning him. No man was ever kinder to Golden Kimball than Lorenzo Snow. He put his arm around me before he died, and said, "I need you : I need, your help; God bless you." That is the only time I have ever felt like a full grown man. I felt like I was eight feet tall, that God needed me. I have felt big only once, and that was the time when I thought God needed me in this great work. 

We now have a living prophet, and his name is Joseph F. Smith. This may be my last discourse on this subject. I am not a man that caters to men I have no ax to grind. I don't want any place only what God wishes to give me; all I expect is salvation, and possibly it will be a scratch if I get it. When I do  it I have paid the price, and am under obligation to no man on God's green earth, if I pay the Lord the price. My father paid full value, and his election was made sure. If I get the same salvation, I expect to pay the same price. I haven't paid it yet. I am entitled to only a little, and God will give me all that belongs to me. 

President Joseph F. Smith is the Prophet of this Church, and he is the man who is appointed. When the Lord wants to give this Church a revelation, or give it instruction, He will give it through Joseph F. Smith, the Prophet. He will not give it through me, and He will not give it through an Apostle. The Apostles are prophets, seers, and revelators, and as such we sustain them. God does not give His revelations through the Twelve for His Church; He gives them through His living Prophet that is appointed, as the Prophet Joseph Smith was. I am satisfied I have got this thing figured out about right. 

Now, whether the Lord is going to give a revelation or not I don't know. I have read revelations that are not in the Doctrine and Covenants, and they were given to men for their comfort, for their consolation, to tell them that certain things were true. But the Prophet never received them; they were not given for the Church, for if they had been given for the Church they would have been received by the man appointed, and they would have been binding on the Church. I might reveal something to you that you do not know. My father received revelation, that is why I honor him so. I know his weaknesses; my father was not, a perfect man, but he was just as good a man as ever lived; yet he had his weaknesses. But God communicated with him, God never communicated with Heber C. Kimball, the first counselor to Brigham Young, to direct the Church of Jesus Christ. I have revelations written over the signature of Heber C. Kimball, and I have witnessed their fulfillment, and I know that God revealed His mind and will to him. But there is not a word in one of those revelations to direct the Church of Jesus Christ. Father was a Prophet. Brigham Young says : "Here is my prophet, and I love to hear him prophesy." But Heber C. Kimball never sought to run the Church. If he had tried it he would have lost his place. But he did not lose his place. 

In conclusion, there are a lot of things that we are troubled over. I have spent a few sleepless nights myself, regarding the doings and actions of men who were in authority, but have concluded I am not responsible for anything I may regard as irregularities. I must not lift up my "heel against the anointed and say they have sinned when they have not sinned before the Lord." If the Lord cannot care for His Church, what can I do? I am going to trust in the Lord, and I am going to trust in His Prophet, Joseph F. Smith. You look over Israel. I have looked over it, and I know it from Canada to Mexico. We are God's people. Brother Joseph F. Smith is the biggest man in the Church today, and there is not a man in all Israel that has the record he. has; a cleaner, a sweeter, a better record, no. man that lives has, to my knowledge. He is the President of the Church of Jesus 

Christ of Latter-day Saints, and God knows he has earned the place, and the Lord has preserved his life for the appointment. Now you had better let him hold it; he will hold it any how. You may as well sustain him with both hands, and sustain his counselor, and sustain the Council of the Twelve, for they are chosen, sustained and accepted by the Latter-day Saints. Some of them are young, and some of them are inexperienced, in a degree. I have learned that appointment does not give a man knowledge. My calling gave me no knowledge at the time I was chosen and ordained one of the First Council of Seventy, but it gave me an appointment, opportunities and many privileges. I have gained knowledge and information just the same as you have got yours. I have an appointment that you have not got, and anyone of you had better not try to get in to my shoes, if you do I will kick you out. Neither am I going to try to get in an Apostle's shoes. I am going to let the Apostles alone, further than to try to sustain them. As I said once, I say again to all Israel: If the Lord, through His servants the prophets, places a child in the Apostleship, with the help of God I will try to sustain him, if I can. Therefore, O Israel, we must sustain the living prophets. The dead we honor, but the living are chosen, ordained, appointed and sustained, and it is to the living we look for counsel, reproof and instruction. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "O Divine Redeemer," was rendered by Sister Clarabelle Gardner. 

ELDER ORSON E. WHITNEY. 

The Gospel's plainness and adaptability. — Difference in testimonies. — The Holy Spirit the source of all revelation. 

There is an old saying to the effect that it takes all kinds of people to make a world, and we have been reminded today that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is applicable to the conditions of all people. I hope your souls have been fed by the great variety of instructions to which we have listened. Mine has been; I have extracted from the remarks of each speaker teachings adapted to my condition, and have profited by all that has been spoken. 

I appreciate the plainness and simplicity of the Gospel. "My soul delighteth in plainness," said Nephi of old. I heartily echo that sentiment. I like to speak so that people can understand me. I do not care a fig for eloquence if it be obscure. A speaker's first duty is to make himself understood, to speak with plainness, and he must also be in earnest, must mean what he says, and say what he means, or he can never impress the hearts of his hearers. If he be sincere, earnest, and plain in his instructions, eloquence will take care of itself. A man is never eloquent when he tries to be. Eloquence comes from being earnest, from having in our hearts a desire to bless the people and feed them with the bread of life. It is my desire, during the few moments I shall stand before you, to speak plainly, to make myself understood, and reach your hearts by the power of the Spirit of God. 

It is one of the signs of the divinity of the Gospel, that it is plain  adaptable to all conditions. It it could be understood only by a few, if it adapted itself only to the condition of a class, its divinity might well be questioned. That is one of the signs of a false doctrine, of a man-made creed. But the Gospel searches all hearts, and inter- ' prets itself to all classes and conditions. Not always in the same way, nor in the same degree, but in one way or another it makes itself understood by all. 

The Gospel of Christ, the power of God unto salvation, was intended to save all men. When the Savior commissioned His Apostles to go forth and preach the Gospel, He did not say, Go to this class, or to that nation, or to this man, or that people? He said, "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature; he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; he that believeth not shall be damned." And that Gospel, in like plainness, is now being preached in all the world, with a view to saving every son and daughter of God. He is not trying to damn anybody, but trying to save all, and His word is therefore understandable by all. Not until every man has had a chance to be saved, and every means of salvation has been exhausted, will the Gospel have completed its work, and Mormonism have fulfiled its mission. 

I have a testimony that this is God's truth, and I presume I received it in a different way to what many of you received your testimonies. What of it? Does it matter upon what day Christ was born ? The main fact connected with Him, is that He was born and that He died that we might live; that through faith in and obedience, to Him all men might be saved. That is the essential part. And the essential part of our testimony is that we received it and still have it. It does not matter particularly how it came. I never saw an angel. No audible voice ever said to me, "Thus saith the Lord." But God gave me a conviction that this is His truth. It came to me in this way : I was in Kirtland, Ohio, laboring as a missionary, and was walking up a hill toward the Temple one evening', when suddenly my mind was illumined and expanded until it seemed as. if I could comprehend the whole scope of human history from the beginning, from the days of Adam- down to the end of time. I saw why Adam had been, and Enoch, and Noah, and Abraham, and Christ, and the Apostles, and Joseph Smith, and Brigham Young, and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I saw the future also, the events for which this great work is preparing; and the whole plan of redemption opened before the vision of my mind. I saw nothing with my natural eyes, but from that moment I recognized my place in history; I saw what God required of me. I knew where I came from, why I am here, and where I am going. And that conviction has never left me; it is the greatest thing the Lord . ever gave to me. I have had dreams. I have healed the sick by the power of God. I have been healed myself, I have been blessed in many ways, have had my prayers answered again and again; but nothing ever came to me so great as that mental or soul illumination that revealed to me my duty, and my place, in God's great scheme. That is what I call my testimony. 

It is not given to every man to look upon the face of God as did 

Moses, as did Joseph Smith. One must be specially prepared before he can see what Joseph saw. What do we read concerning him in the Book of Mormon ? He is there referred to prophetically, not by name, but is designated as "a choice seer.'" What is a seer? One who can see. Joseph Smith had to be a choice seer, to see the Father and the Son. I used to think that if any good boy went into the woods and prayed the Lord would speak to him and manifest Himself in person, just as He did to Joseph. And there was a time, perhaps, when I would have thought that had He not done it He would have, been partial. But I have got over. that. It was a childish view. I do not expect the Lord to manifest Himself to me in the same way that He did to Joseph the Prophet. I expect Him to communicate with me through the gifts He has endowed .me with, not through those with which He has endowed my brother or sister, unless they have the right to receive for me a message from Him. When .the Lord speaks to me or to you, it will be in a method and manner justified by our preparation, our gifts, our powers; for we have all been endowed in some degree. Trie Prophet Joseph was prepared from the foundation of the world to do the work he accomplished. It was the work of a seer, a prophet, a revelator; and the truth was revealed to him in ways, perhaps, that it could not be revealed to us, because of a difference in gifts. 

The Spirit of the Lord is the source of all spiritual gifts, but He "divideth to every man severally as He will." God can reveal the truth in a dream, and has done so on many occasions. When my grandfather, Heber C. Kimball,  Orson Hyde, Willard Richards and others, went to England in 1837, to introduce the Gospel there, they found many people prepared to receive them.' Whole villages were converted. The Lord had prepared the way before them. And how had He done it ? He had given to some of the people dreams, in which they had seen these very men landing on the shores of England, and when they came to them with the Gospel message these humble factory or farm hands knew they were servants of God, because they had seen them in dreams. It was their privilege to receive the message that way. 

I believe my testimony came by the spirit of revelation, that illumines the mind, and makes manifest the things of God. Another may be converted by seeing the sick healed, or by beholding a vision. It is all right if the Lord chooses to manifest Himself that way. It is all revelation. It all comes down from the Father of light. 

It is the mission of the Holy Ghost to make manifest the things of God. "I will not leave you comfortless," said the Savior, "I will send you another comforter, even  spirit of truth, that proceedeth from the Father, and He shall testify of me." That is the secret of it all. Not one of us could understand or appreciate this work, if the Lord had not first prepared the way by placing within us a portion of the Spirit that comprehends the things of God. "He will bring things past to your remembrance; He will show you things to come; He will take of the things of God and reveal them unto you." There are hundreds here today, thousands, perhaps, who, if called upon, could testify that the Holy Spirit, in some of the many ways in which it operates, has revealed to them the truth of this work. They have had it manifested 'to them not by man, but by the Holy Ghost. We know this is the work of God. He has given us a testimony l to that effect, and this testimony will remain with us, my brethren and sisters, so long as we live for it, and prove ourselves worthy. God grant that we may do so, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem. 


