12
Morning
05 04 1913
Elder Moses W. Taylor
77
36-37

None

None

(President of Summit Stake.) 

How do you do? I am glad to meet you. You all look good to me.  
  
I am going to tell you the part of President Smith's talk yesterday that made a great impression on me. It was that we should talk about the good things, and not all the time be talking about evil things. You know some people think it is a virtue to be sick. I met President Duckworth yesterday with a big rag around his neck and told him to take it off, it was a sign he was weak, and we want people to look beautiful and strong. I believe in people looking beautiful, and fixing themselves up. I often think of my father. You know he filled many missions in the world, and met many great men and many rich men, among others he met Baron Rothschild. One time Rothschild was traveling around the world and he came to Salt Lake City. Father was just about as poor at that time as he ever was in his life, but he had an old carriage and he got the boys out and we had to polish it and fix it up just as good as we could. He bought thirty cents worth of oil to black the harness, and we blacked the harness and worked at the old carriage and harness for about a day. Finally Baron Rothschild called on him. Father had a big black cloak and a silk hat that he had got in France. He had them cleaned and fixed up, and when he and the Baron walked out of the house to the carriage father looked better to me than Baron Rothschild. (Laughter.)  
  
Now, I believe in appreciating what you have got. I believe in seeing the good in all men. Out in the stake where I live they say that everybody looks good to me, and they do. We have got the finest lot of Saints out there you ever saw. I like such songs as "Count Your Many Blessings," and I want to relate this on myself. I went home from here one day, got up early in the morning, and thought, Now I am going to count my blessings, and began to count them, and began to think: I have about fifty chickens at home and every one of them is trying to lay an egg today; I have got some pigs, and it seems like I can't get rid of them, they increase so fast; I have some cows and they are increasing in number, and horses, and everything that I possess the Lord is blessing, including a large family of children. Then I began to think of how I have been blessed in the Church, that I had been called upon to preside over one of the best stakes in all the Church, and live among the best people, and I began thinking of one blessing after another, and the first thing I knew I was home walking in the house, and when I entered, one of the children, (one of the blessings), had done something that displeased Sister Taylor, and she told me about it, and I started to laugh and said, "From the sublime to the ridiculous, I have been counting my blessings." Then she laughed, we both laughed, and we began to count our blessings together.  
  
Now, I believe absolutely in sustaining the authorities of the Church. I believe in doing what the Priesthood tells me, whether I like it or not. I never set my judgment up against the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is good enough for me and by following their counsel I have never failed. I believe in saving men. Don't believe in going around from house to house speaking of the ills of my neighbor. I had an experience recently. I had to go out and visit a large ranch with a man. When he went into the band of horses that we were looking at, "Why," he said, "just look at that beautiful stallion. I never saw a finer stallion in my life." Then he went over and looked at a beautiful mare ,and then another one, all the time seeing the beautiful. The ranch owner who was selling the horses and his men were perfectly happy, and the man himself who was seeing the beautiful things was happy. I went out a few days later with another man into the same band of horses. He did not see that stallion, he did not see those beautiful animals, but went around and found one horse with a crooked foot, and another one with a spavin. There were one hundred fifty head of the most beautiful horses I have seen in my life, but those two were all that he had seen and all he talked about, and everybody on the ranch was unhappy till he got off it. Everybody loved the first man, but the other man went away without anybody loving him.  
  
The missionaries were talking about the man that speaks the good all the time. He is the successful missionary. The missionary that goes out into the world and begins to tear down the beliefs of others, trying to destroy everything, does not convert anybody. You have got to make friends before you can convert people, and it is a very great blessing, my brethren and sisters, to see the good and to count the things that you have got as blessings from the Lord. Now may the peace and blessing of heaven be with us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 