15
Morning
05 04 1913
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley
12
40-42

None

None

(President of Deseret Stake.) 

I sincerely hope, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to partially calm my fluttering heart, and be led for a few moments by the inspiration of the Lord. I have enjoyed every moment of the conference from the very beginning, and I have been able to heartily say "Amen" at the conclusion of each address in this conference. While my brethren were talking of their respective stakes, a passage of scripture came to my mind: "He that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted." The Deseret Stake of Zion is down along the lowlands of the Sevier River, the youngest child in the family of stakes, I believe, but she is growing, and we expect, after having taken that humble position, to have them say: Come hither and occupy this honorable place.  
  
I too am glad to be able to bear testimony of my father and of my mother, of my ancestry, of their faithfulness in the kindgom of God, and I cherish the hope that I can follow faithfully the example of my parents. I give them first credit for having taught me the gospel of Jesus Christ, and taught it to me so faithfully and earnestly that I have never been beset with doubts. I thank them for the teaching they gave me in reverence, and in reverencing the authorities of the Church. It was the spirit of my father, somewhat like John the Baptist when he beheld the Savior aproaching, when he said. "Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world." In my father's home, when the authorities of the Church visited us, we reverently looked upon them as men of God. I thank the Lord that that spirit has remained with me unto this day; that I reverence my brethren as men of God, for I never have yet received in all my life any teaching from any of the authorities of this Church that has not been for my good.  
  
I thank the Lord for a gospel which puts restraint upon me, which demands of me that I keep myself free from the sins of the world; which demands of me that I take care of my tabernacle, that it shall not be defiled with liquor nor with tobacco, nor with tea nor with coffee; which demands of me that I shall not blaspheme, that I cannot excuse myself if I become angry and take the name of God in vain, that I shall reverence the name of the Lord, and never speak it only in devotion and in the deepest reverence. I thank the Lord that the gospel demands of me that I shall not wrap myself up in selfishness, but that I shall give, that I shall give in tithes and in donations, that I shall impart unto my fellow men, and for the work of the Lord. I thank the Lord that the gospel demands of me that I shall not be so selfish that when I have a truth I shall keep that truth to myself, but that it is my privilege and my duty to bear testimony of this to those who know not of this restored gospel. I thank the Lord that I am associated as I am with the people who serve the Lord. I hope believe that our people do so live that the stranger who comes among us — and strangers are multiplying in our midst — that they discover, as they associate with us, that it is no idle statement when we say that we believe in being honest, chaste, virtuous, benevolent, and in doing good unto all men.  
  
I thank the Lord that this spirit that has come down to me from mv father has also made itself manifest in our children, and I hope that I will not be charged with speaking in any personal way but only as all fathers feel, I believe. When we came out of a priesthood meeting the other day, where a call had been made for missionaries, my son a young man but eighteen years of age, when I came home said, "Papa do you think I am old enough to go abroad and proclaim the gospel? I would like to accept that mission." My heart was melted with joy when that boy made that voluntary offer. "I will go abroad and proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ." I said to his mother, "Is he old enough, Mama? Can we spare him, or will he not be more efficient in a year or two?" I don't know, right now, what I ought to do, but yet I thank the Lord for the spirit that prompted the boy to proffer to go abroad and proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ, to feel in his youth that it is the truth. I believe that the gospel demands of you and me not that we wait till our age is advanced and then give our service, but that we give the strength of our youth, the strength of our manhood, the best that we possess, all that we have and all that we are for the Church and kingdom of God. If this gospel is anything it is everything to us, for the Spirit of God hath borne witness to our spirit until we know; we know we speak the truth when we say that God has spoken again in this day and age of the world, and revealed His everlasting gospel for the redemption of the world.  
  
I thank the Lord that we do not have to wait entirely for our reward in the life to come, but that every honest Latter-day Saint who serves God and keeps his commandments receives his reward day by day in the inspiration of the Almighty which comes unto him, and in the satisfaction that he receives in his soul. No man serves God that does not feel the influence of the Spirit of God, the Spirit testifying unto his soul that his course in life is approved of the Lord. I bear testimony that I know that the gospel is true. The Lord has revealed it to me, and I hope and pray that I shall live so humbly that this testimony shall never leave me.  
  
I believe that I have discovered, and that I know that no man ever loses the faith so long as his life is in harmony with the requirements of the gospel. In our stake of Zion, whenever you hear a man complain, or a man who has doubts, you only have to look around and make a little inquiry and you will discover that that man has grown lax in his duty, or has done that which has bereft him of the Spirit of the Lord, and then he is affected with doubt and fault-finding. I said to one of my missionary companions, one of my associates, after a lapse of a few years, "I want to speak. to you, my brother. Where is the faith, where is the testimony that you bore when you first came home?" "Oh, Brother Hinckley," he said, "it is different with me now. I do not have that testimony, I do not feel as I did." I said, "Why not?" and he answered, "I am broader." I said, "Are you broader? Did you not feel good when you bore that testimony?" "Yes." "Was it not an honest testimony?" "Yes." "Then tell me, brother, answer mc a few questions honestly. Are you living as you should? Do you remember your prayers? Are you observing the Word of Wisdom? Do you pay your tithing? Do you go to the house of the Lord on the Sabbath day and keep it holy, and do you worship Him?" "No," he replied, "I do not. I do not pray. Once in a while I take a cigar. Once in a while I drink a little beer," and he added "You have got too narrow." My brethren and sisters, I am pleased to bear this testimony to you that, after saying this, perhaps three years, that same man narrowed in from this, as he called it, broad view, he repented, he ceased to smoke, ceased to partake of the glass of beer, he again sought the Lord in prayer, and today he bears the testimony which he bore when he first came home from his mission.  
  
Our safety is in a life of service, and the danger that comes to us is in the first neglect of a small duty, which leads to greater neglect and finally to the loss of the Spirit of God. The Lord bless us, and help us to be true and faithful from now and henceforth, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
