18
Afternoon
05 04 1913
Elder Frank Y. Taylor. 
51
48-51

None

None

(President of Granite Stake.) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the same good spirit that has accompanied the former speakers may abide with me this afternoon in the few remarks that I shall make unto you. I rejoiced in the testimonies that have been borne. Particularly was I well pleased yesterday morning, in the splendid testimony and word of counsel pertaining to the callings of the priesthood and the organizations in the Church, that was presented to us by our President. I have also enjoyed the thoughts that many of the presidents of stakes have given unto us, relative to their thankfulness in belonging to this Church, and for the parenthood that has given them birth. I also am grateful for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe in it, and if I have any virtue in me I think I owe it to my faith in this great and glorious work. It is part of my being; and I have faith and hope that, if I can only be true to the end, I will be acceptable in my Heavenly Father's sight.  
  
I am very grateful for my splendid parents. When I look back upon the truth, the dignity, the grace, and the grandeur of my father, I feel that I would at least be very recreant if I did not amount to something, and attempt in my feeble way to carry on the splendid work that he devoted his life to. I feel that I owe it to him that I shall try to magnify righteousness in the earth and do that which is good. When I think of my splendid mother her devotion to the work, to the cause, and her solicitude in my behalf, I feel that I could not hold up my head and look womankind in the face unless I led a pure and righteous life. I am grateful that I have had this care over me in my youth and that I have had a good example and good teachings to guide and direct me in the ways of righteousness and truth. I feel that I owe them a great debt of gratitude.  
  
Like one of the other speakers who addressed us this morning, I admire and have respect for and love the authorities in this Church. I have known them all, from President Brigham Young down; and I have never listened to teachings from their lips but what were elevating and would bless me, and tend to make me a better man, if I would only follow their admonitions. Their lives, so far as I have known them, have been an inspiration to me, and have been a guide post to me during my life to lead me in the way of that which is good and virtuous. I hope that I will be able to conduct my life in that kind of a way that I also shall be an example to future generations; that I also shall have that power and influence by which I can control my children, and that they shall be a credit and an honor to this Church, and bring no reproach upon it or upon the work of the Lord.  
  
I want to say, in connection with this thought, that I believe that we parents owe something to this Church, that we may carry on the splendid work that our fathers and our mothers have set out so well, and laid such a splendid foundation for us to build upon. I think we owe it to this Church, we owe it to our boys and girls, to give evidence by our lives that the man who holds any position in the priesthood of Almighty God is a worthy example to future generations, that he conducts his life in a manner that is sweet, clean and wholesome, and that every boy and every girl who sees anyone who holds the priesthood walking along the streets of our cities or through our valleys, may look upon that man and behold a righteous person in whose footsteps they will delight to follow. I think we should order our homes in that manner by which our example will teach our boys and girls the right way of living.  
  
I wish that we as Latter-day Saints, especially we fathers, would devote more attention to our own, to our children. Never mind quite so much about having barns that are filled, and flocks upon a thousand hills, and a credit that cannot be impeached. These things are all good in their place; but I want to tell you, that which will bring credit, pleasure and happiness to you, all the days of your life, is a righteous son and a virtuous and beautiful daughter; it is through them that we are going to be exalted and blest, and have pleasure in our Heavenly Father's kingdom. It seems to me that they should have our best thought, our best attention, and our best time — the loved ones that the Lord our God has given us. Whenever I saw my father walk anywhere, I recognized his righteousness, his example, his truth and devotion to this work, I rejoiced all over, and I had pleasure in witnessing that which he did. All the days of my life I have tried, with all the strength and power that I have had, to tread in his footsteps, and I want my children to try to emulate that kind of an example. I believe that we should start at home in the teaching of our boys and girls. We have splendid auxiliary organizations. Who can estimate the good that our Sabbath Schools are doing, which take hold of our children when they are little ones, and nurture them, and guide them along until they become strong and vigorous in the work of the Lord? Who can estimate the value of the Primaries, and the Religion Class organization, and our Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement organizations that are working for the building up of our people? But, I sometimes think that many of our parents leave entirely too much to these organizations to educate their boys and girls in the fear of the Lord, and it does not seem that it is right. I don't feel that the responsibility of my boys' and girls' education depends upon these organizations, as much good as they are doing. I recognize that when I go back to my Heavenly Father's presence He will inquire of me — not the Sunday School superintendent — what I have been doing for my boys and girls. I believe we should gather our children around us. more often, around the fireside; that we should be a better companion with our boy, get up close to him, know him, become acquainted with him, and have him know us; and get so close to our girls that there is never a secret between them and us so that they cannot come to us. I believe that we would have greater rejoicing, and that there would be less sorrow among people, less of our children go wrong, if we would only spend just a little more time with them ourselves; get up close to them, look them in the eye, be a companion with the loved ones that the Lord our God has given us. I believe, generally speaking, that if the people in the Church would follow that example a splendid result would accrue therefrom.  
  
I remember, a few days ago, in listening to the testimony of some brethren in a high-priests' meeting, and they were generally speaking of the blessings of the Lord to them in a temporal way. Many of the brethren stated they had received some wonderful blessings from our Heavenly Father along temporal lines. Some of them told of this prominent position that their boy occupied, and how their girls shone socially in some place, and so forth, and how the Lord had blest them with the good things of the earth, so that they were rich and had no need to want. Then another man, a splendid character, that I know well, got up and bore his testimony, he said: "I haven't a big bank account; I am a poor man. I haven't a son that occupies a prominent position in the world, as far as the world goes, and I haven't a girl that shines much socially in the world; but I have a little cottage, and I have a large family that I am proud of. Every night I know where every one of my boys and girls are, and there is perfect harmony. We love one another; we are united; there are no secrets apart from one another; and we are bound together by the fellowship of love. Every one of my boys has a good education, so have my girls; every one of them has a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ; and every one of them are clean, sweet and honorable, and they are a credit to the Church of Christ." I thought in my soul how rich is that man who can put his hand upon his boys and girls at all times of the day and night, and know that they are safe and that they love the work of the Lord. I feel, my brethren and sisters, that we owe to this Church, as far as it is possible, that we see to it that our boys and girls do that which is just right, and wherever they go, let us not loose our hold on them, but, if need be, let us go after them, if they be in the desert or in the mountains, or wherever they may be; the Lord our God expects us, as fathers and mothers, that we take care and nurture and love our own, and bring them into the fold of the Lord Jesus Christ.  
  
May the Lord bless us. May His spirit abide with us; and may the youth of Zion, that are growing up today, be just as faithful and true to the work of the Lord as their fathers and mothers have been. I believe they will be; I don't think that we need to fear the second, third, fourth, or fifth generation, because the spirit of truth is in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. I believe our boys and girls are going to keep themselves clean, pure and unspotted from the sins and wickedness of the world, to the end that the light and Spirit of the Lord our God will rest down upon them, and the revelations of the Lord will be with them to lead them in the way of truth; that Zion shall glory in their righteousness and truth, which I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
