19
Afternoon
05 04 1913
Elder Louis W. Shurtliff. 
86
51-52

None

None

(President of Weber Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters: The President said that he wanted me to bear my testimony for a few moments.  
  
I rejoice exceedingly in the truths of the gospel. I have enjoyed myself in all of the sessions of this conference. I am pleased to have the privilege of meeting with the Saints of God. and I am thankful that my life has been associated with this Church. I am of the third generation of my family in the Church; my grandfather and my father before me, Newman A. Shurtliff, having joined the Church and gathered in Kirtland and followed the destinies of the Church from then until he came here to Utah, settling in Weber County, remaining there until his death. I am thankful for the associations of my brethren who preside over us. I have endeavored to be benefited by their instructions and counsels, and to carry them out in my life. I have been honored to know, to be acquainted with, and to labor with and under the direction of all of the presidents from President Brigham Young. I remember full well the first foreign mission on which I was sent, when a number of us were selected, over in the old assembly hall or tabernacle, that stood in the corner in sixty-seven, to go to Europe. Previous to that it was my good fortune to be called to the Salmon River mission, during my early manhood, or boyhood almost. I can say that the inspiration of heaven has followed the counsel of the servants of God, in all the history of this Church as far as I am aware. I know that these men are men of God. I know that the principles of the everlasting gospel, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, are true and will save men and women. I feel grateful that my eyes beheld the Prophet Joseph Smith. Although I was but a child I had opportunities of seeing him, and playing around his house with some of the sons of the prophet and patriarch, and other prominent brethren, early members of the Church.  
  
I have the honor to preside over the Weber Stake of Zion. It is only a short time ago that the Weber Stake included all of Weber County, but it has been divided into three stakes, and we have all that we can do now. The stake that I preside over has eight thousand people in it, or thereabouts, and the other stakes nearly as many. The union, love and fellowship that exist among the Saints is a joy to not only myself but to those associated with me in the ministry.  
  
I pray God to bless these our leaders, and fill them with the Holy Ghost and with power to proclaim His word; and give us who are laboring in the cause, an earnest desire to carry out every counsel and advice given, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
