21
Afternoon
05 04 1913
Elder Heber C. Austin.
87
52-53

None

None

I feel that it will not be possible for me to profitably occupy this position, even for a few moments, unless I am aided and assisted by the faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints. It goes without saying that I am very much surprised to be called upon to speak to you. I delight in the testimonies of the speakers, and in the spirit of this conference, like the other brethren who have spoken to us this afternoon, and in the different sessions of this conference. I have been edified and instructed in the counsels and in the testimonies of my brethren who have spoken to us, and I have learned more concerning my duties by listening to the instructions that have been given to us. I was especially impressed with the words of President Smith, in the opening session of this conference. I was delighted to hear him instruct the brethren as to their duties, and their authority in the callings of the priesthood. There has been, and is now perhaps, a lack of perfect understanding concerning those things; but I think those of us who listened to his remarks will find ourselves set right on these things.  
  
I hail from a stake in the north, and I have wondered why we had such splendid good people up in that part, until I heard President Murdock, this morning, tell us that the goodness of his people was measured by the altitude that they live in. We, too, have a splendid people, no better I suppose anywhere in the Church; but we have not yet reached perfection. We have those among us who are somewhat indifferent. We have those among us who, perhaps, do not fully appreciate the responsibilities that are resting upon them as Latter-day Saints, and as men holding the priesthood who have been called to labor in the Lord's vineyard, and who have been given authority to officiate in His name, but I feel justified in saying that we have a good lot of people in the north, and I believe the same thing is true of all the stakes of Zion in that section.  
  
You know we have the brethren of the general authorities visit us from time to time. Every three months we are blessed by having some of the quorum of the twelve, and the council of seventies, and other brethren come to instruct us in our duties; and we profit by their visits and by their instruction. We are laboring unitedly together. There is no contention in the part where I live. We are an industrious people. We are tilling the soil, producing the things that are necessary to sustain life, and the Lord is blessing us in our efforts, and we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all of these things. We are united in our support of the authorities of the Church. I have never heard a man or woman in the Bingham stake of Zion who have found it in their hearts to criticize or find fault with our brethren who preside over us; and for this I am grateful. For this I thank the Lord because I know that these men have been called by the inspiration of the Lord, that they are clothed with authority to officiate in His name, and that they are mouth-pieces of the Lord to us. We are ready and pleased to accept their counsel as they come and bring it to us. We rejoice in mingling together in these conferences. I am of the opinion that it would be impossible for men, no matter if they were wicked, to mingle with a body of men and women like we find in these gatherings of the general conferences, without being strengthened. Our leaders are determined to serve the Lord, let come what will.  
  
Well, my brethren and sisters, you have now learned that I am not a public speaker; I am an ordinary farmer, I am laboring in the tilling of the soil; but I rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ, I know that it is true. I know that these brethren whom we are associated with have been called of the Lord, and I sustain them with all my heart, with all my power, and influence; and so do the people whom I have the honor to preside over.  
  
I pray that the Lord will bless us and be with us to the end of our days, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 