22
Afternoon
05 04 1913
Elder Oleen N. Stohl. 
88
53-55

None

None

(President of Box Elder Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters: I am very thankful that I am among the number who have been born of goodly parents, who have taught us the gospel of Jesus Christ in our youth, and that I can say I belong to the third generation. I haven't any fear of the outcome of the third generation, or the other generations, if the parents in the Church will be true and faithful to the gospel and teach it to their children. Neither my parents nor grandparents were acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith; they did not embrace the gospel until some years after his death, but I am glad that they had a burning testimony in their souls that he indeed was a prophet of the living God, and they have taught that to their children.  
  
I am thankful it is not necessary that one should have seen the Prophet Joseph Smith in order to enjoy this testimony. While I realize it was a pleasure and satisfaction, to those who were acquainted with him, to have seen and mingled with him, and thus learn of his greatness, his goodness and his prophetic powers, I am thankful that the Spirit of God gives to us the testimony that he was indeed a prophet of the Lord. I was impressed this afternoon while the brethren were speaking of the experience of Thomas, who would not believe that the Savior had risen from the grave until he could see Him. When Thomas beheld Him and exclaimed that it was his Lord, Jesus said, "Thomas, thou hast seen and thou believest. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe."  
  
The spirit, the power of God, is in this work; it has been in it from the very beginning. It is in it today; and the same spirit, the same power is directing it and influencing those who preside over the Church today as it has done since its first organization. I was impressed with this thought at the close of President Smith's remarks yesterday morning. I remember the final passages in that great revelation on priesthood in the Book of Covenants. After the duties of the priesthood are severally made known, clearly and explicitly, the Lord says through the prophet: "Now let every man learn his duty and act in the office to which he is appointed, in all diligence;" and I thought that this very beautifully summed up, in connection with that revelation, the remarks of President Smith to us. If we could only carry out that admonition and every man and woman learn his or her duty, and act in the office to which they are appointed, in all diligence, then God would bless them and they would be successful in their labors. What a wonderful improvement we could make in our work and in the Church if we would do this.  
  
Oh how thankful we should be for the gospel. When I read the revelations that were given to the Prophet Joseph, I marvel how well they apply to the Church even in this day, seventy and eighty years and more after they were given. If we could only carry out the suggestions made in the revelations in relation to the training of our children, as were made known to him away back in eighteen thirty-three, we would have the condition existing among us that President Frank Y. Taylor referred to here this afternoon. Our gospel is complete. The instructions, revelations and counsel that have been given to us are perfect. There is sufficient for us to do if we will only strive with all our power and might to carry it out.  
  
I am glad for the testimony that I have of the divinity of this work. I know that the signs follow the believer in the Church, that they are following the believers today; and that our Father is pouring out His blessings upon His children, in keeping with their faithfulness and obedience to the gospel, as much today as He ever did before. This is my testimony. I know that those who preside over the Church today are our Father's servants, acknowledged of Him to be our leaders, and that they are His mouth-pieces unto us children in this work. Now I pray the blessings of the Lord upon us.  
  
We have all rejoiced in the spirit of this conference thus far. We shall continue to rejoice in it, and I know that the power and the blessings of the Lord will continue with us and bless us, and that we shall go on and accomplish the work that is required of us as His children. May our Father bless us to this end, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 