23
Afternoon
05 04 1913
Auditor's Report.
57
55

None

None



At the general meeting of the Priesthood, on Saturday evening, April 5th, 1913, in the Tabernacle, the following report was read: 
Salt Lake City, Utah, April, 1913. Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:  
Dear Brethren: We, the undersigned, Committee of Auditors, as sustained at the last General Conference, beg leave to report: That we have completed the annual Audit of the books of the Trustee-in-Trust, and also those of the Presiding Bishop’s office, which are auxiliary thereto, and beg leave to say: that we found the books and accounts in both of these departments in excellent condition. The accounts are accurately, concisely and intelligently kept, and from a bookkeeper’s standpoint, they leave but little, if anything, to be desired. When your committee was first appointed, some years ago, we then found the books of these departments in good shape, but from year to year we note improvements which add to their conciseness and make them more easy of audit. We think it proper to also state that the statistical department of the Presiding Bishop’s Office is also kept in a very intelligent manner. These statistics are voluminous and yet the future will demonstrate they are of great value, for they demonstrate by comparison of one year with another, the growth and prosperity of the Church.  
  
After careful and thorough examination of all the books of the Trustee-in-Trust and Presiding Bishop's Offices, showing all receipts and disbursements of the funds of the Church, your committee unhesitatingly report that all expenditures of the Church funds have been made for legitimate Church purposes.  
  
We beg to acknowledge the very efficient services rendered us by Brother Arthur Winter, of the Trustee-in-Trust's Office, and of the brethren in the Presiding Bishop's Office, in throwing open to us every avenue for our inspection, which enabled us to get a clear and comprehensive view of all the matters that came within our purview. We are, very respectfully. Your brethren, W. W. Riter. John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft, H. H. Rolapp. On motion, the foregoing report was received and approved, by unanimous vote of the Priesthood assembled.  
