25
Morning
06 04 1913
President Joseph F. Smith. 
36
65-66

None

None

There is no necessity for me to bear my testimony to every word and sentiment that has been expressed this morning by President Charles W. Penrose, for the simple reason that every Latter-day Saint in this audience knows, by the testimony of the Spirit of God, that he has taught us the Truth as the Lord has revealed it, and the standard doctrine of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, from which there can be no variation in righteousness. And I simply wanted to give expression to this fact, for it is true. I thank the Lord for such men as President Penrose and others we have, who have made a life study of the principles and ordinances of the gospel, the order of the priesthood, the rights of the members of the Church, and the order of government therein, and who are enabled by the blessings of the Lord, to express themselves freely and to convey these principles in such unmistakable clearness to the understanding of the people. I feel very grateful this morning for all that we have heard, and again, although there is no necessity for it, I bear my testimony without reserve to the truths that have been uttered here today. Not only so, but I also endorse and bear testimony to the sincerity and earnestness of those who have spoken, and to the most excellent spirit that has been manifested during our entire conference; by the presidents of the missions, and by a few of the presidents of the stakes of Zion who have spoken to us. I would be glad if we had time to listen to those of the sixty-four presidents of the stakes of Zion, who are present in this conference. I would be delighted to have all the people hear the testimony of these men, to whom is entrusted by the Church and by the inspiration of the Almighty, the responsibility of presiding in the household of faith. They are men of truth, of honor, of virtue, and of uprightness; men who enjoy inspiration from God, men who exercise the privileges that belong to their office and calling, and can speak, as the Lord inspires them to speak, the truth to the people, and we pray that the people will give heed to their teachings and uphold and sustain them in their callings. The Lord bless the presiding officers of the Church throughout all the organized stakes of Zion, and throughout all the missions of the world, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 