3
Afternoon
04 04 1913
Elder Charles A. Callis. 
3
13-16

None

None

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, my soul was rejoiced and instructed this morning by the remarks of President Joseph F. Smith and President Anthon H. Lund. They indicated to us our bearings, as it were, and called us back to first principles. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that it is well to return to first principles, and to learn our duty so that we may be more effective as preachers of the Word.  
  
The Lord said unto His servants, in the Doctrine and Covenants, "And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples whom I have chosen in these last days, and they shall go forth," the Lord said, "and none shall stay them." There has been no power that has been able to resist or even impede the onward march of truth. The Prophet Isaiah says, in the 55th chapter and 11th verse of his book, "So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth; it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it." It is a remarkable fact that however humble the elder is, when he speaks by the power of the Holy Ghost, his words go to the hearts of the children of men, and it is a mighty encouragement to the young elder to know that God is behind him, and that there is a power behind his words which the power of man cannot resist.  
  
The Savior declared that before His coming there should be fearful sights in the earth, that there should be wars and rumors of wars, that there should be earthquakes and commotion, and that men's hearts should fail them for fear, and in this clay the Lord has said, "For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes. * * * And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and all things shall be in commotion," and surely men's hearts shall fail them. We are living, my brethren and sisters, in this day when these prophecies are being fulfilled. The voice of the tempest, the voice of the earthquake, the voice of the thunderings and the lightnings is following the testimony of the elders of Israel. We do not sit in judgment upon our fellow citizens. We do not boast of great judgments, for the Lord has commanded us not to do that, but we do know that the Lord declared that these things should precede His glorious second coming. We do know that He has said that it is our duty to warn the people, to preach the Gospel, to cry repentance unto this generation, and to say with the prophets of old, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."  
  
It is well to remember, mv brethren and sisters, that it is by the preaching of the Gospel that men are saved, and that men are warned. We believe that the souls of men are precious in the sight of God. I believe that the words of the President of the Church this morning, when he exhorted the Priesthood of God to assume the full responsibility of their office, are timely, they are inspired, they apply to us. Think of the sad case of Absalom. He sat at the gate of the city, and when people went up to judgment to the king this false counselor said, "If I were the king I would do this, or I would do the other." He knew in his heart that he could not have done those things in righteousness, and I wonder sometimes of we, instead of bearing responsibility as we should do, do not encourage people to ask foolish questions by referring them to somebody Just to relieve ourselves of the burden of bearing that responsibility which God expects us to bear humbly and honestly in His sight. When the tragic end came, when Absalom's disobedience ended in rebellion and he was slain, King David sat at the gate, waiting for the news from the battle field, and from afar, as the runner came. King David said, "Is the young man Absalom safe?" His thoughts were not with the result of the battle upon which the future of his kingdom rested, but his thoughts were with the young man, and when the melancholy news was broken to him that Absalom had perished, David's great heart almost broke, and he said, "O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom, would God I had died for thee." What did David's kingdom weigh in the balance of the loss of his son? His son was dearer to him than all the kingdoms of the world, and so are our children dearer to us than all the wealth of the world. Their souls are precious, and let us, my brethren and sisters, stand up like men and women in Israel and assume the responsibilities of our callings, let us  
  
"Dare to be a Daniel,  
  
And dare to stand alone. Let us dare to have a purpose firm.  
  
And let us dare to make it known,"  
  
and when people want counsel, if we are able to give it, let us give it in the spirit of humility and of righteousness.  
  
The scenes now in Ohio and in the south are harrowing in the extreme. In Tennessee a terrible tornado or cyclone went over part of that state and eighty lives were lost as a result of the destructiveness of the storm. In Ohio, in Louisville, in Memphis, the floods are spreading and many lives are being lost and millions of property are being destroyed. I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, in the face of these warnings, in the face of these terrible things, how can we sit in idleness? A man that fears God is afraid to be idle. The man that loves God will seek to save his fellow creatures. Now, when the world oppose us, in what manner shall we retaliate? Not in the kind of opposition they level against us, but when they oppose us we will preach the gospel of love, for our souls go out to the children of men. We will preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus unto them. We will preach faith, repentance and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.  
  
Ah, it is well to remember that when Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus Christ and asked Him what he should do to be saved, it was not man that said, "Except a man be born of the water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God." It was the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer, the Savior of the world, the Author of eternal salvation unto all those that obey Him. This was the being who gave that command; this is the Being that gives His commandments to His disciples in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, and when men elect to disobey that command they incur a responsibility for which they will have to answer unto the Lord our God. We are promised the gift of the Holy Ghost. Do you know what that means? I think you do. God be praised, this Spirit has given me a testimony of the Gospel. It has revealed to me and to you that, as the Prophet Joseph said, in order to gain an eternal exaltation in the kingdom of God we must obey the fulness of the Gospel; not one principle, not two principles, but the fulness of the everlasting Gospel; for Jesus said: "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God." The gift of the Holy Ghost teaches me that not only is baptism and repentance and faith essential to salvation — and true — but it teaches me that the pre-existence of spirits, the resurrection from the dead, the doctrines of eternal judgment and the other glorious principles, including the doctrine of eternal progression, are true. They are of God and essential to the upbuilding and exaltation of the saints of God. Now this is our duty. I know the Latter-day Saints will prove true. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that our mission and our destiny is as high or higher perhaps than that of any other people that has ever existed on the face of the earth.  
 
In the south of Georgia a short time ago at a Presbyterian convention one minister declared that the church that controls America will be the dominating factor in the evangelization of the world. Well, if he means by that that America will be controlled by the church having the fulness of the Gospel, I then will agree with him that that church will be the dominating factor in the evangelization of the earth. It is good to behold that men in other churches are beginning to realize that America has a destiny and that from this land was to go the fulness of the Gospel, and that from this land was to be fought the battle which would end in a complete victory for Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today, as it ever has done, is teaching the fulness of the Gospel. In Chattanooga a few weeks ago the great Baptist church of the south met in convention, and before they adjourned they passed a resolution that the doctrine of tithing was of God, that it was a proper means of raising revenue, instead of the manner of collecting that now obtains, and each and every delegate pledged himself when he returned home to pay an honest tithing. That great church in the south, instead of depending upon its paid ministers to preach the gospel, is enlisting the aid of its laymen — the masons, the brick-layers, the carpenters, the miners, the clerks, the lawyers, the doctors — all these laymen are being pressed into the ministry, and yet a few years ago they laughed at the ministry of the "Mormon" Church, and declared that its ministry was an uneducated one and therefore would not be of much force in the promulgation of the Gospel. Thus is the world beginning to see that the doctrines of the "Mormon" Church are true. It bears testimony to this mighty fact, that Joseph Smith preached the Gospel, gave utterance to the thoughts that the souls of men were longing to speak. So if this then is to be the rule as to which church controls America, not by force, but along principles of righteousness, it follows then that this Church, preaching the fulness of the Gospel, is to be the dominating factor in the evangelization of the world, and I am proud to be a member of that Church to which that high and holy calling has been committed. Brethren and sisters, let us stand erect in our faith, let us be firm and constant and steadfast, let us determine to do our duty, and then with that spirit, with the help of the Lord, we will struggle on through danger, through storm and through sunshine, until danger's troubled night is o'er. We will preach the Gospel until the nations have been warned. We will preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ until He comes in glory and in power to reign on the earth as King of kings and Lord of lords. Even so, blessed Lord Jesus, come quickly. Amen. 
