32
Second Overflow
06 04 1913
Elder Rulon S. Wells.
44
90-93

None

None 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

During the meetings of this conference we have heard a great deal about the organization of the Church and the authority of the Holy Priesthood, and those of us who had the privilege of listening to President Smith, yesterday morning, were deeply impressed with the magnitude of this work and with the perfection of its organization.  
  
Provision has been made in the organization of this Church to carry the gospel to the nations of the earth, and also to carry it to the homes of the people, who have been gathered from the farthest parts of the earth. If we will read the New Testament we will find that when the Lord organized His Church in that day, that He "Set in His church; first apostles, secondarily prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers, for the work of the ministry." Every one was given a duty to perform. And so it is in the day and age in which we live, God has again set up His Church, and has placed in the church, first the apostles, secondarily prophets, pastors and teachers, high priests, seventies, and evangelists, for the work of the ministry, and this ministry is broad enough to accomplish all the purposes of the Lord, for He operates through this organization, and through this priesthood to whom He has delegated divine power and authority. In the operations of this ministry, every need is provided for. It is for the "edifying of the body of Christ," as well as bringing strangers to the knowledge of the truth.  
  
In the exercise of that divine authority the gospel is proclaimed to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. The message of salvation is being taken to all of our Father's children in every part of the world. Through this splendid organization, those who have been converted and brought up hither into these valleys of the mountains to cast their lots and identify their interests amongst the people of God, every one of them may be reached, for it is not only for the purpose of proclaiming the gospel to the world, but it is for the "edifying of the body of Christ," or the Church and Kingdom of God. It is for the "perfecting of the Saints." There are none of us so perfect that do not need the ministry to labor with us — that do not feel the need of this organization. We need the teachers to come and visit us, and to labor with us and with those that are wayward, seeing that there is no iniquity in the church, putting their arms around the wayward boys and bringing them to the fold of Christ, to the sacrament meeting, and seeing that they worthily partake of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. We need the priests to visit the homes of the people, to impart spiritual food unto them in their homes. We need the bishop, who is the presiding priest in every ward, the president of the Aaronic priesthood. The bishop is a priest after the order of Aaron by reason of his bishopric. Sometimes I think that our bishops forget that, and imagine that they belong to the High Priests' quorum. Not so, they belong to the Priests' quorum, the bishops do, but by reason of being ordained high priests they also belong to the High Priests' quorum.  
  
In the wards in which we live we need the ministry of our bishops for the perfecting of our own character, and the ministry which they perform in other directions in the wards where they live. We need the elders, the standing ministers in the stakes of Zion where they are called to labor in the exercise of the functions of their priesthood, to minister in the work of God, to labor for the salvation of souls, to perfect the Saints, to "edify the body of Christ." We need the seventies to proclaim the gospel to the nations of the earth. We need them to carry the gospel message to our Father's children even to the furthermost parts of this earth. We need the Apostles, who are able to bear testimony of the divinity of the mission of Jesus Christ, and to set in order all the affairs of the Church, both at home and abroad. As a people, we need the Prophet and mouthpiece of God, and we ought to honor, reverence and yield obedience to his counsels, for he speaks as the representative of God upon the earth, to tell unto the people the mind and will of the Father. We need this "for the work of the ministry," the "edifying of the body of Christ," for the "perfecting of the Saints." Not only do the wayward need them, not only do those who sit in darkness and have not heard the sound of the gospel need this ministry, not only them, but also those of us who have accepted the truth, for we need to be perfected, to be developed and to grow in the knowledge of God and in good works.  
  
These are some of the purposes for which this great organization was established, and some have said in regard to it that it was the most wonderful in all the world, excepting perhaps the German army. I recollect hearing one of the brethren make the remark, that they might just as well have said, when they were looking up in the canopy of heaven, that the sun is the most splendid orb in the universe, excepting perhaps the moon. Indeed this organization is of divine origin, and it has no parallel in all the world, even the Germany army does not compare with it.  
  
Now then, brethren and sisters, this work is for the "perfecting of the Saints." It is for the "edifying of the body of Christ." Wherein do you need this ministry? It becomes an individual affair with each and every one of us. Wherein do we need the ministry of the servants of God? Wherein can we benefit by submitting and receiving their administrations to us? It is not enough that we should be what is ordinarily termed a good citizen. It is not enough that we should be honest in our desires. It is not enough that we should refrain from taking the lives of our fellow men, or from the stealing of their property. All these things are necessary, that we should refrain from doing those things that are wrong and that we should take on us the Christian virtues and make them a part of our own characters. Remember the case of the young man who came to the Savior and said to him, "Lord, what good thing shall I do that I may obtain eternal life?" and the Savior's reply, "Keep the commandments." A very necessary thing to do, a very essential thing, "keep the cammandments." "Which commandments?" said the young man. "Well, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill," and he went on enumerating a number of the ten commandments. "Why," said the young man, "these have I done from my youth up. What lack I yet?" The Savior said, "If thou wouldst indeed be perfect, sell that which thou hast, give to the poor and come and follow me." It was not enough that he should merely be complying with the moral code.  
  
There is something else for the development, for the perfecting of the Saints. It is necessary that our hearts should be loyal to God, that we should render obedience to Him, that we should put ourselves in complete harmony with the Divine mind and will. There is no one thing that you can say or do that will comply with this requirement. It is not enough that we should observe this commandment or that one, but we must devote all to the service of God, and be willing to obey His Divine mind and will and yield obedience thereto. That is the thing that is required of us, and there is not any one thing. If it be required, sell that which thou hast, and give to the poor; and that is not enough either, "but come and follow me." That means that we shall "not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God," if we want to go on to perfection; and this ministry which God has instituted in His Church is for the purpose of "perfecting the Saints," until they shall place themselves in complete harmony with the divine mind and will. Let us, therefore, struggle on in that direction, until we can overcome our faults, weaknesses and imperfections. If the call should come to any young man, to leave his home and go out in the mission field, to proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, what should he do? Can he think he has done enough, because he has kept these commandments or those? Why no. What should he do? There is but one thing, go, go in obedience to the will of God and proclaim the gospel in that country where your services are needed. If it should be necessary that we give up all that we have, give it up, and remember that God requires it. That is the doctrine, and until men and women are willing to lay their all upon the altar they will not have attained perfection.  
  
While none of us are perfect in our lives by any means, there are a great many weaknesses which we can and should overcome. Draw nigh unto God and He will draw nigh unto us. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Seek to obtain the companionship of God's Holy Spirit, even the Comforter that will lead us unto all truth, and then we are on our road to salvation. But none are saved, only those who shall endure unto the end. And may God help us all to do it, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 
