34
Second Overflow
06 04 1913
Elder John L. Herrick. 
53
97-98

None

None

(President of Western States Mission.) 

This very interesting meeting, thus far, is being conducted by a member of the Council of Twelve. I have tried to induce him to use the time that he desires I should use, because, I think, he has not spoken at any other meeting of this conference; but he has seen fit to decide otherwise. I beg the liberty to ask you who are here, unless you have some very urgent matters, that you remain until the close of this meeting, if not to hear me, at least to listen to the voice of Brother Joseph F. Smith, Jr. Arrangements have been made, I believe, with all railroads that visitors can remain until the close of meeting, without fear of missing trains; and we may fairly assume, I think, that the Tabernacle services will not conclude for, perhaps, a half hour yet.  
  
In that splendid work entitled, "Joseph Smith the Prophet-Teacher," by Brother B. H. Roberts, reference is made to the last public speech of that great statesman, Daniel Webster, delivered, I believe, in the year 1852. I should like to read a few of the words he uttered at that time, which seem applicable to a matter that I should like to discuss:  
  
"Let me say, that if any of our posterity shall be true to the Christian religion, if we and they shall live always in the fear of God and shall respect His commandments, if we and they shall maintain just moral sentiments and such conscientious convictions of duty as shall control the heart and life, we may have the highest hopes of the future of our country. But if we and our posterity reject religious instructions and authority, violate the rules of eternal justice, trifle with the injunctions of morality or recklessly destroy politicial instruction which holds us together, then no man knows when a sudden catastrophe may overwhelm us."  
  
I believe there are many men and women in America today who discredit the Bible, who are seeking for the opportunity to prove, if they can, that the Bible is not authoritative. They are seeking, in various ways, to win the hearts and minds of people from a belief in its fundamental teachings. There are many, who do not believe the New Testament, and say that it is only a myth, or a story concocted by men. I saw yesterday, or day before, a dispatch purported to be from the greatest city of the old world, that Londoners have given up reading the Bible, and are fast becoming Pagan. In the light of these conditions it is well for us to stand close and fast by the teachings that have come down to us in that sacred book. The Bible is a revelation of God to man and it reveals men unto themselves. It plays no favorites. If there were those who were wicked, the Bible tells us so unqualifiedly. When the great King David fell, the Bible writer did not shield his faults, nor magnify his virtues. No. He was given a just rebuke, and his history was written just as that of the humblest man of his time might have been.  
  
After all, my brothers and sisters, if we believe in that book, we shall consider ourselves to be free and independent creatures. We are accountable to our Father and God, and should recognize the authority that He has established in this world. If we believe the teachings of those who wrote in the time of Christ — not necessarily all there is in the New Testament — we may also look to other writings contemporaneous with that time, and we will find ample proof and assurance that those conditions that the Testament relates were true and authoritative  
  
Where shall we find a parallel for that work, that great battle to win human hearts, participated in by humble men in the days of Christ? There is no parallel in this world excepting in this Latter-day Church that was founded by Joseph Smith under God's direction, and who followed by humble, though strong and brave men, some of whom still remain to fight similar battles, battles for the human heart. A belief and faith in God and his Son, Jesus Christ, a belief in divine revelation a belief which if lived up to will save and exalt the human race characterizes everyone that is honest in religious convictions.  
  
It has been said during this conference that the test of this Chruch will come in the third and fourth generations. I am one of the third generation of our family that have joined the Church, and even though imperfectly I have endeavored to live my religion. If I can maintain the standard set by my father and mother I shall be deeply grateful. If my children of the fourth generation, emulate the attitude of my father, their grandfather, in supporting and advancing this glorious work. I shall praise God. His name receives praise in my heart today, that I have been privileged to devote a part of my life in the service of the Master. God grant that our lives, our thoughts and actions may be given to it in so much that all that we have and are, if need be, may be devoted to advancement of this great Latter-day work I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 