35
Second Overflow
06 04 1913
Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 
37
99

None

Descendants of righteous men admonished to be faithful. — Saints should diligently obey God's laws. 

I appreciate the kindness of my brother, Elder Herrick, in proffering me the time that was alloted to him. I have enjoyed all the meetings of the conference, listening to the remarks of the brethren. I feel that it would not be wise for me to occupy much time and keep you here longer this afternoon; but I desire to say that I am grateful for the testimonies and instructions that have been borne during this conference, and am proud to be a descendant of Latter-day Saint parentage, of the fifth generation. I am also proud to be a grandson of one of the original members of the Church, a man who was faithful to the end, and laid down his life for the truth; and I am glad to know that so many of his descendants are actively engaged in the cause, and are also faithful in the truth.  
  
I trust that the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints will walk in the footsteps of their fathers in righteousness, and be true to the Church. I hope they will remember their covenants, honor the Priesthood, and the parents who gave them birth and made it possible for them to receive the many blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Through faithfulness we shall overcome all things and receive an exaltation in our Father's Kingdom. I trust that the people will go from this conference with the determination in their hearts to serve the Lord, be true to his laws and the covenants they have made with Him, and keep the commandments better than they have done in the past, from this time henceforth.  
  
We should labor diligently for the salvation of the souls of men, the living and the dead, that Zion may prosper, the truth spread in the earth and righteousness cover the face thereof. The time is coming when wickedness shall cease. This is inevitable; and it is plain to see that a people who will observe the laws of the Lord and keep themselves pure and free from the sins that curse the world, will be the people of wisdom possessed of the knowledge of the things of God, and eventually will have power and dominion in the earth. It does not require the spirit of revelation to understand these things, God's purposes shall not fail. It behooves us, therefore, to be obedient to the will of our Heavenly Father, and receive all principles of truth as they have been revealed from on high, and not partake of the sins of the world that lead to destruction.  
  
I pray that we may all be faithful and true in the discharge of every duty as Latter-day Saints, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
