45
Afternoon
06 04 1913
Authorities Sustained. 
10
124-25

None

None

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows:  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Claw son, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage.  
  
Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church.  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young.  
  
Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder.  
  
Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians.  
  
As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman.  
  
Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education.  
  
Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools.  
  
Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young.  
  
Auditing committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Jos. S. Wells.  
  
Tabernacle choir: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, librarian; and all the members.  
  
Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference.  
  
Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 
