6
Afternoon
04 04 1913
Elder Ben E. Rich. 
54
24-27

None

None

(President of Eastern States Mission.). 

Several years ago one of the greatest thinkers of the world, the great Russian scholar, Tolstoi, saw a speck in the far distance which he recognized as "Mormonism," and he wrote to one of the leading educators of America and asked the question whether "Mormonism" was to become a world power. The leader of a great institution in America, to whom the question was propounded, answered, "We will have to wait until we see the third and fourth generation of what is now known as 'Mormonism.' before we can answer." This flashed through my mind a short time ago when one of the apostles was visiting the Eastern States Mission, at a time when we had the conference presidents of all the conferences of that mission in council together; I thought to myself, I will take a vote and see how many among the leaders of this mission — the thirteen different young men who had been chosen for their worthiness to preside over conferences — belonged to the second, third or fourth generation of "Mormonism;" and in taking the vote I discovered that every one of them belonged to the third and fourth generations. I could have wished that that leader of the university had been present and could have remembered the question propounded to him by that great scholar of Europe, and could also have remembered that only eighty-one or two years ago the Church had been organized with six members, and that at the present time there was probably not a civilized nation upon the earth where Joseph Smith's name was not remembered as being one of the greatest prophets that had ever lived upon the face of this earth — in fact, the greatest save it be Jesus Christ. If the work continues to grow in the next eighty years as it has in the past eighty, it will certainly be the power of the earth.  
  
I rejoice this afternoon that I have a standing within the Church; that I was born of goodly parents; that I can point, with a great deal of pride, to the fact that my father was a trusted associate of the Prophet Joseph, and all the other leaders of the Church up to the time of his death, also that Lorenzo Snow, at my mother's funeral, pointed to the corpse and said, "There lies the body of a woman who has never been antagonistic to any law that God has revealed for the redemption of mankind." I sincerely trust that when my time comes to lay this body down that it can be said of me that I have been true to the men whom God has placed from time to time at the head of the Church. I remember each one of the presidents from President Young to President Joseph F. Smith. I have looked upon all of them as men of God, as the mouthpieces of God, and I am satisfied beyond the question of a doubt that they are and have been such, giving to the people wise and safe counsel, and I have never seen a person prosper or be happy in refusing to take the counsel that has come from the lips of the authorities of the Church.  
  
Jesus considered it a wise judgment to judge a tree from its fruits. The world claim that they believe in Jesus Christ's judgment and in His counsel, and all we ask is for the world to judge "Mormonism" from what "Mormons" have accomplished. We are looked upon as being the black spot upon the ecclesiastical part of the world, and yet I doubt very much if any other church that has ever existed upon the face of the earth could have done so much to bless the earth, so far as they have had an opportunity, as this Church has done. In looking over the faces before me I doubt very much if there is a member of the Church in the enjoyment of a happy home who does not owe it directly or indirectly to the work and the influence of this Church, if not individually to themselves, to their parents before them in bringing them together and giving them an existence upon the earth, in leading their parents here to the Rocky Mountains, planting their feet here in the safest part of the world, and giving them opportunities that they never would have had had it not been for the work of some "Mormon" missionary. To my mind in this connection alone is revealed some of the greatest miracles; greater, far greater than is recorded in the Bible. If we had read them in the Bible we would have classed them among the greatest of miracles to be found within the lids of that sacred book. I want to relate one especially that seems to have drifted away from our minds. There are those here before me who remember when President Joseph F. Smith, President Francis M. Lyman, President Heber J. Grant, and President Lund were all who are now living, of the general authorities of the Church, at the time when our brethren were off on what we were pleased to term the "underground," when pretty near all the presidents of the stakes were away from their flocks, when almost every ward had lost its father, the bishop, and when some of the darkest clouds that ever hovered around our people completely covered them up, when we did not have the privilege at our general conference to see the general authorities of the Church upon the stand; when only occasionally we received a written message from the presidency of the Church, when trouble surrounded us upon all sides, when the government seemed bitterly against us, and when even the authorities of the Church could see no light ahead, it was then they issued an address to the Saints pointing out all of these conditions, and making a request upon them to observe a special fast day named by the authorities for the people to come together, fasting, with prayerful hearts, to lift up their prayers to God the eternal Father, and ask Him to lift the clouds. At that time there was not a soul able to find a solution to the problem, or would even attempt to suggest one. The Latter-day Saints obeyed the counsel of the authorities of the Church. They came to the various meeting places with prayerful hearts; they came fasting; they lifted up their voices to God the eternal Father, and offered up their prayers to Him, begging Him to permit their prayers to ascend unto His throne, even as did the prayers of Cornelius of old. Do you remember in what a short period of time some four hundred of our brethren who were cast into prison cells came home; how the presidents of stakes came back to their posts of duty; how the members of the wards greeted the fathers of the wards, and how God listened to their prayers? If a simple relation of a matter of that kind, which the older brethren, the middle-aged brethren remember distinctly, if we could read of such a thing in the Bible we would look upon it as one of the greatest miracles recorded in that book. But we lived in that day and it came about gradually. We could see the hand of God in it. We could see that God works upon natural principles, that He uses men to bring about His purposes; that He so arranged it that the cause of His people was soon shifted from the hands of bigots and from the hands of men whose minds were filled with hatred, that they were placed in the hands of diplomats and statesmen, and in His own natural way He freed His people. I say, to my mind, it is one of the great miracles in this Church, and demonstrated to me beyond a question of a doubt that God will hear our prayers when we place ourselves in a condition to be heard. When a man places himself in a position to receive a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, he is in a position to demand recognition from our Father in heaven, and our Father in heaven will listen to him.  
  
The testimony that God has given to me of the work of the great latter-day prophet is the key that opened to me the door, giving to me light upon the testimony of Jesus Christ, and sometimes I wonder, I shudder at what my Condition in the religious world would have been had it not been for the testimony I received concerning the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that he was a prophet of God, and a study of his life gave me an undying testimony that Jesus was the Christ, and yet those who judge us wrongfully say that a Bible is not to be found in a "Mormon" pulpit, that the little children of "Mormon" people hear nothing about Jesus, and it is a common thing in the east for our enemies to use it as an argument whereby churches raise money for the purpose of buying little Christmas presents for "Mormon" children (which they never get), to teach them something about Jesus.  
  
We know that the testimony God has given to us concerning the mission of Joseph Smith gives us an undying testimony that Jesus is the Christ, a stronger testimony than is possessed by any other religious body in the world, a testimony that He died for the sins of the world; that He was resurrected — not a mythical resurrection, but a tangible, literal resurrection from the grave, and that we are almost the only people who do believe in the actual resurrection, the literal resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The rest of them have made Him a being that is not a being, something without form, saying that God is a spirit and that a spirit has not flesh and bones, that you see Him in the leaves of the trees, and in the flowers that grow, you feel Him in the atmosphere; or, in other words that He is merely nature, and then they will send to hell, and brand as an infidel, the person who says the only God is Nature, while they only call it by another name. Our Savior appeared to His apostles, and to the doubting Thomas He said, "Here, Thomas, see the marks of the nails in my hands; here is the mark of the spear in my side; reach hither thy hand and thrust it in and see that it is I; a spirit hath not flesh and bone as ye see me have." They do not love to dwell upon that doctrine, but they cover it up with the words of John, supposed words of John, that God is a Spirit. I do not believe that John ever said or ever wrote those words. Those who know anything about the scripture know that when it was translated by that great and grand congregation that was brought together under the influence of King James of England, that they did their work honestly. The manuscripts they had access to were blurred, unreadable in places, and where they found that condition they decided for themselves what words to put in to make it readable, and when they came to this manuscript that they have translated "God is a spirit," the word "God" was there, the word "Spirit" was there, but the word "IS" was not there, and they ordained that every word of their own creation placed within the lids of that Bible should be so marked — because they were honest men — should be so marked that future generations should have the privilege of knowing what they did themselves. The words they supplied, and those words have come down to us marked now in italics, to know that they were the words of men, that it was a guess, and in most instances a good guess. Then, when we read John, and there we see the little word "is" in italics, making it read "God is a spirit, we know it to be man-made. The reason John did not, in my estimation, put it that way is because he was there when Christ appeared before him, when he heard the Savior say, "See, it is I; see the marks in my hands, and see the mark of the Roman spear in my side; it is I, with flesh and bones; a spirit has not flesh and bones as you see me have." God bless you. Amen. 
