8
Morning
05 04 1913
Elder George Albert Smith. 
31
28-30

None

Satisfying comparison of "Mormonism" with all other religious bodies. — Saints should manifest appreciation of the Gospel by living according to its principles. — The righteous will veritably inherit the earth. — Profitable lessons may be derived from calamities.  
  
I esteem it a privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be here on this occasion when much of the strength of Israel is assembled in general conference. For several days I have been looking forward to this gathering. I have thought of the class of people who would be present upon this occasion, and have compared the lives of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with those of our friends who are not of our faith, many of whom I have had the pleasure of meeting in the last few months, and the comparison is favorable to us from almost every viewpoint. The conclusion is irresistible that "Mormonism" has done much for us in four generations. The gospel, with the blessings of the Priesthood, is priceless, and for it we ought to be a grateful people. The teachings that come with authority, which plant in our hearts faith in God that cause us to feel that we know of a surety that He lives, are beyond price.  
  
We meet very many good men and women in the world, who have high ideals and are striving from their viewpoint to do good, and occasionally we find them with an understanding of religion similar to what we have; but there are few who have a satisfactory assurance that this life is a part of our Heavenly Father's plan for the development of His children, and that the truths we acquire here will remain with us in eternity. Surely we ought to appreciate the knowledge that the gospel brings, and we should evidence our gratitude by living up to the light of truth and teaching it to others. "Mormonism," so-called, is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, consequently it is the power of God unto salvation to all those who believe and obey its teachings. It is not those who say "Lord, Lord," who enjoy the companionship of His spirit but those who do His will. If we are not more perfect in our lives, if we are not more righteous than those who are not of our faith we will be behind them in receiving the blessings of our Heavenly Father; but if we obey His commandments, if we keep ourselves clean, pure and unspotted from the sins of the world, His power will rest upon us, and the vitrues of the third and fourth generations of the Church will be builded upon by following generations, and the purity of their lives will establish a race that will people the earth.  
  
It is this that impresses me. We should not feel anxious about our political power; nor should we feel concerned about our worldly possessions, but remember this admonition, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all other things will be added." It is to this point that I direct your attention today. If the Latter-day Saints will keep the commandments of God, they will be happy, if they will keep themselves pure and unspotted from the sins of the world, "Mormonism," so-called, will redeem the earth by right of its superiority, and by reason of the perfection of its manhood and womanhood. While those who are selfishly devoting themselves to the ammassing of wealth and the seeking of high positions, ignoring or violating the natural laws of God in their pursuit of pleasure, sowing the seeds of dissolution by allowing their baser passions to rule them, will not only be unhappy but will wither and pass away, and a race more worthy will inhabit God's footstool.  
  
My brethren and sisters, it is not a matter of concern to me what will be the outcome of this work, but it is this: keep yourselves clean and pure and you shall inherit the earth, for your Heavenly Father has ordained that it will be so. Let your light so shine that the purity of your lives will evidence your faith in the gospel of our Lord. Let us bear witness in our daily acts, as well as in our conversation, that we believe this is the Father's work and joy inexpressible will come to us, and the children that grow up in our homes will increase in faith and humility. They will be added upon, and be given power to turn aside the shafts of the adversary that are directed towards them, and in place of the distress that has afflicted the children of men, because of sinfulness, there will be comfort, peace and happiness, and a race of men and women will inhabit this earth who will have strength of character to put aside the evils of life, by reason of their birthright.  
  
God grant that we may be worthy of our birthright; grant that we may be worthy of the blessings that He places within our reach; grant that day by day we may say within our souls, "Father, show me Thy will, and I will perform the labor." If this be our desire, if this is what we live for, then will our children be lifted up to higher ground upon which they may build, and from generation to generation there will develop a stronger race of people — a people who can draw ever nearer to our Father in Heaven. These things appeal to me, my brethren and sisters; it is a natural condition and I am grateful for the hope that they inspire in my bosom. I am grateful for the purity of the lives of the men and women who belong to the Church of our Lord, and I am thankful that throughout the world there are those who, seeing the effect of a sinful life, are striving in earnestness to avoid its terrors, and who encourage others to do likewise. They are indeed preparing for Eternal life.  
  
Now may the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters; may His peace be in your hearts and may His light illumine your pathway, that day by day you may know the way He would have you go. May each of us, in our prayers and in our lives, sustain the men whom God has chosen to preside over and direct us, thereby serving Him who was the Redeemer of the world. May His Spirit and blessings be upon all Israel and may the prayers of the Latter-day Saints ascend on high that the hearts of men may turn from the evils of this life; that they may desire to turn unto God and keep His commandments. May the lessons that we learn by reason of the havoc that is wrought by the elements in commotion in this world, from time to time, be lessons that shall turn our hearts heavenward, and that will make us kinder and more charitable toward our fellow men.  
  
I pray that the man who stands at our head may have his strength continued unto him; that he may live in the future, as he has in the past, in the favor of our Father in Heaven. I pray that he and his counselors may be inspired of the Lord, and physical strength and power given to them to perform their great and arduous labors, and discharge their duties in the cause of the children of men. God bless them forever is the prayer of my heart; and God bless all Israel, and all men and women everywhere who strive to do right and do good to their fellows, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
