9
Morning
05 04 1913
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
30-33

None

None

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I have been very much pleased, my brethren and sisters, in the sessions of this conference that have been held, in listening to the remarks of my brethren. I was especially pleased with the remarks made by President Smith yesterday morning, for the reason that, to me, it was the same as any commandment or section in the book of Covenants; I regard is as the voice of the Lord unto the people. It covered a point that has been of vital importance to me, in the short period of time that I have labored in the ministry, for without that principle of loyalty and fidelity to the cause here upon the earth, there would be absolute failure.  
  
The missionary in the field who does not put his heart into the work, and who does not sustain his missionary companions, by his faith and prayers and actions, and his conference and mission presidents, does not make a success of his work, and does not carry with him that power and spirit of stability that goes with the man who has in his heart an unyielding determination to serve God, and labor earnestly for the children of men. In my mind the principle of loyalty is one of the greatest that the Lord has implanted in the hearts of the children of men. In any capacity where men may be called to labor, the man who works with unyielding determination to succeed will surely do so and if he manifests that characteristic in the work of the Lord, as he probably will, success is sure to follow.  
  
We pray and labor for the success of this work, and we pray for our fellow men. We pray for the leaders of nations and for men of influence, that their hearts may be softened towards this work, that they may kindly receive the elders who are sent to them, and that they may understand the reason why the Lord has sent His messengers to the earth again. I believe that the Lord loves His children with a greater love than it is possible for any father to love his earthly children. No matter where they may be, in any land or clime in this earth, all are the children of God, and His love embraces them, even as the sun shines alike on all. As the Lord said, while in the earth, that His mission was not to the whole but to those who needed the physician: "I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance." For that reason He has again visited the earth and revealed the true gospel of salvation to Joseph Smith, and placed the people of this world upon a new basis.  
  
In times past, the mention of Joseph Smith's name has almost been, in some places at any rate, sufficient to arouse a mob, to day it is safe to stand upon any corner in any city in the United States and preach the gospel the Lord has revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Joseph Smith's name is now held among the children of men in greater reverence than ever before, because of the unyielding truth, spirit of loyalty that has characterized the Latter-day Saints from the very beginning. Through the men who devoted their lives to the testimony of Jesus, who labored deligently and established churches and branches throughout the countrty, where ever they were sent, there has been erected in this land of ours, in the valleys of the mountains, a monument of faith. Here we are in large numbers, in strength and power, having many of the gifts and blessings of heaven that the world does not realize or know of. We ought to be willing at all times to respond to any call that is made upon us to assist in the establishment of God's purposes in the earth. Take away from a Latter-day Saint the gospel, if you could, and nothing of real worth remains.  
  
No man ever apostatized from this church and gospel, who had a knowledge of it, who could ever truthfully deny that it was the church of God. Whenever I have listened to them, I have noticed they shield that part of it all they possibly can, and they work along lines of persecution and try to destroy what the Lord builds up. Brigham Young once said — so I am informed — that you cannot hurt Mormonism it is like a rubber ball; every time you kick it the farther it goes. It is my experience, and is history, that where men persecute the church, or the principles of it, and those who preside in Israel, they often make friends for the Latter-day Saints; I tell you, honest men are looking for the truth everywhere. Men and women throughout this land will yield obedience unto the gospel of the Redeemer of the world in their day and time, and that time comes to them when they seek for light of our Father in heaven and as a result of their faithfulness. The Spirit of the Lord is in the earth among thousands of men and women who are good and true, according to the light that is within them, and when they become so well acquainted with the principles of truth that they are able to discern truth from error, they will yield obedience unto the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.  
 
People are not looking, not many of them at any rate for the gospel to come through the "Mormon" church; they think that it will come from some other source. Those people who were looking for the Christ in His day expected Him to come in pomp and display. They never looked for Him to come in the manner that He did. They were not prepared for Him, and so they were easily led astray by that evil power which was opposed to Him from the beginning, and their faith and confidence was destroyed in the hearts of the children of men.  
  
We pray for the success of this work, and unless we also work to that end, my brethren and sisters, we shall not have success. The man that comes into the mission field such as that wherein I am more closely assocated at the present time with the work of the Lord, and who in his heart firmly resolves to carry the gospel message into the homes of the people, receives power from God that is not enjoyed by the sons of men outside of that work. He appears among his fellows and is kindly received by the honest among them for the truths that he teaches, and which the Lord is the author of. God gives unto us all, the power and blessing that we have ever received in this life.  
  
Here at home, in this land of ours that has been prepared by the Almighty to sustain this great people, here are men and women who are qualified to preach the gospel to those who are in darkness. Our fathers and mothers laid the foundation for this great commonwealth. They gave their lives for the testimony of Jesus, and for the permanant establishment of this community. They wished for peace and prosperity, and worked early and late for it. They had to work hard in order to secure a livelihood, but today it is a much different proposition. It may be said that the youth of Zion have never seen a day, or have never had a dream that would give unto them an idea of the sufferings of our fathers and mothers that paid the price for the pleasure we now enjoy here.  
  
We young men and women ought to yield absolute obedience to the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. A man in his ward ought to hold up the hands of his bishop, and faithfully perform his church duties, that his bishop and stake president may know that he is reliable and true. In all my experience, I have never learned to love men like I have those who have proven themselves loyal and true, men you could rely upon to perform the work they were called to do, that would go from you alone hundreds of miles and do their duty, men who would stand for right and truth, for liberty and justice. Such men would stand for the gospel, and for those who preside over them, and when others criticise the leaders of the church they were ever ready to defend them. They would never sit down and listen to any man, defame or say things that were untrue concerning the Church of Jesus Christ, or the Latter-day Saints.  
  
This people are greatly blessed in having men at the head of the church to-day who have been with the church practically from its inception, who know the ins and outs of the past, who can correct error, and who can say from their own experience, I know thus and so. There will come a time when men who have known the prophets Joseph and Hyrum personally shall no longer be among us. We shall only have the testimonies of men who have known those who were acquainted with those prophets, but who did not have the privilege of seeing themselves. So I feel that I am blessed in the fact that our Father in heaven has permitted me to know men and women who can speak to me in the flesh and say, "I knew Joseph Smith; I have seen him, and I give you my testimony that he lived, and that he told me that he received a visitation from the Father and the Son, that he received messages from angels, and that he associated with other heavenly beings." I tell you, my brethren and sisters, these facts shall be matters of history in just a few short years. When we realize and know what it means to talk face to face with a man, and then merely have the testimony from one who has seen that man, there is no comparison.  
  
I feel to praise the Lord, and to love the Lord's work here upon the earth, and to labor, whether at home or abroad, for the purposes of the Lord, as well as I can. To a man who thinks that it is an easy thing to go in the mission field and stay for a number of years, and leave home and friends and all behind you, let him who thinks that it is an easy thing try it. Let him who believes that it is easy to take the part of one of these brethren of the general authorities, who I know labor earnestly proclaiming their testimony of the truth, for no earthly reward, but because they have been called to that labor through a servant of the Lord, let them try it. The men who have the privilege of laboring at home and of acquiring the things of this earth that give pleasure, who think they are not in a position to go into the world on account of their occupation, let them leave their affairs and go on a mission, and I tell you, they will soon cheerfully hold up the hands of these men and women who preside in Israel, from President Smith down to the least of these authorities, they will sustain them in any position in the church, abroad or at home.  
  
That is the principle that makes us strong. This is the word of the Lord unto me as it came from the President yesterday morning, and I rejoice in it, and I shall rejoice in reading it, for it is true doctrine, and it is worthy the consideration of all Israel as a guide unto us in this day in which we live. The Lord bless you. Amen. 