11
Afternoon
07 10 1904
Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 

(President of California Mission.) 

While I speak to you,, my brethren and sisters, I desire the Spirit of the Lord, and I ask that you will assist me by your prayers of faith; for although I know I am in the house of my friends, and that here my kindred dwell, still there is greater fear in addressing you than there would be if I were called upon to speak to the people of the world. I sense the fact that we have a message to convey to them, which is new to them. We oan teach them some of the simple things pertaining to the plan of life and salvation, which our children here have heard from the lips of their fathers and mothers, as well as from the organizations which are helps of government in Israel. Therefore, I desire that you will pray for me so that I may be strengthened by the Spirit of God to speak of those things that will be of interest and of benefit. 

The testimony of my brethren in regard to missionary work is much the same as I would give. I love my associates and companions. I greet the fathers and mothers of the Elders in our mission, and I assure you* that as the Lord gives us strength and life, and keeps us humble, we are striving to uphold the principles that you have inculcated in our minds. For I want to tell you mothers that despite the learning that your sons have received in schools, in religion classes and in the higher institutions of our State, the teachings of the mothers shine out behind it all, just as does the name of the great architect of the mighty tower which Ptolemy Philadelphus erected to his memory. You may remember that this great king had thought to perpetuate his name by erecting what was once one of the wonders of the world, and in order that he should not be forgotten.he ordered that written high upon its face, should be his name; and by the lights at the top of this tower the mariners at sea and in the delta of the Nile were guided at night. His name, however, was inscribed in plaster, and in time it wore away, and the name of Sostratus, the Greek, shone out as the architect and the builder of that great pile. And so in the inner life, and in the labors and the devotion of the Elders in the missionary field, shine out the teachings of the mother. They breathe anew the prayers they have learned at mother's knee; they live for the love of mother. Men have come to me in tears and have told me how in times of trial, when the tempter would have beguiled them, and they would have listened to his voice, and have departed perhaps from the path of rectitude, the face and the prayers of mother have arisen before them and they could not do it. I want you mothers in Israel to know that I feel this way, so far as the teaching? you have given your sons are concerned. 

Speaking of material things, it is not long since that a gentleman called at our office and asked for the president of the mission. When he found who it was it rather astonished him to see such a boy, and he wanted to know if I was sure of the matter. He then proceeded to take off a great muffler and disclosed the uniform of a Catholic priest. He said to me: "Mr. Robinson, I am a Catholic priest, but I have come to the conclusion that no man can live a correct life in celibacy. I am desirous of taking to myself a wife and answering the ends of my creation by raising a family. I know nothing of your religion except that your people are the most successful colonizers in the world; that you are a home-building and a home-loving people; that the system of economics which has prevailed among your people, the plans laid out by your founders in making settlements and bringing the people together, has brought to the smaller hamlets many of the privileges  city life in the way of drama, music and art, and that nausteology or homesickness is hardly known among them. I am desirous to know what opportunity there would be for me to get a home among your Saints." I assured him that he could not expect to gain a living or to build a home among us without effort and labor; that there was no paid ministry with us, and that he could not receive a salary for teaching and preaching, as he was receiving at that time. He replied that this would not deter him from the effort. The crucial point with him, however, was whether we believed that Jesus Christ was the Son of God or not; and When I told him that we most assuredly did, and that we believed what the Scriptures said, that there is no name given under heaven by which mankind can be saved except the name of Jesus Christ, he remarked, "Well, I presume that in a sense we are all sons of God, but I do not believe that Jesus the Christ was any more or less than the son of Joseph." And yet he was a teacher of Christianity! I have been asked three other times in my missionary experience, whether we, as a people, believed in Jesus the Christ — once by a sprig of nobility from England, and twice by other travelers — and my first thought was, how useless it is to work against such lack of understanding upon the part of the people. Then, I thought, why the very fact that they know so little of us and of our belief makes it all the more necessary for us to preach to them the Gospel of Jesus the Christ; to let them know that God has spoken from the heavens; that His Church, with all its gifts and powers, its Priesthood and authority, has been established on the earth for the salvation of men; that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; that Prophets and Revelators guide the Church today, and that the destiny of the Church of Christ is assured. For I know, my brethren and sisters, that men of God, men who are led by His Spirit, are at the helm, and that they will guide most successfully this work in the. last days for the uplifting of humanity, until all nations  have heard the sound of the Gospel, and until every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ to the glory of God the Father. I know, not only by what I have seen and read of the fulfillment of prophecy, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet, but by direct inspiration and revelation, as every man and woman many know by seeking for it in sincerity and faith. I well remember when, as a raw country boy, I first came into this Tabernacle and heard President Taylor addressing the congregation, and as he did so, he put up his coat collar, rounded up his shoulders, and warned the brethren and sisters that there was a storm coming and for thein to prepare to meet it. He foreshadowed what would take place because of certain conditions, and predicted that our fathers and mothers would suffer, and many of them perhaps would die in exile, while others might be incarcerated in prison and our property confiscated. I put that down as the first utterance of a prophet of God that I had heard. Did I live to see the fulfillment of it? Why, I remember in my own father's family, when on one occasion I went to visit him, as he did not rear me. Tha shades of night were falling, the sun was sinking in the west, and he came to bid me good night. I had thought to spend the night with him in converse, and so I said, "Father, you are not going away, are you?" Said he "My boy, because I will not ignore those whom I have sworn to cherish and love, I must find safety in the caverns and rocks up here above our city," and none of his sons knew where he laid his head at night. And so, I know, from some things that have entered into my life, that God reveals His secrets unto men, and that those who fear Him and keep His commandments need not be in the dark nor have doubts and misgivings. They may know, by the light of eternal truth, that the Gospel is true, and that it will save and exait all men in the presence of God who will obey it. God grant that we may be true to it, that His peace may be in  homes, joy in our hearts, and love towards all men actuate us, that plenty may wait upon our gates, and that, eventually, we may be saved with our loved ones in His presence. This is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen.
