20
Afternoon
09 10 1904
Elder B. H. Roberts. 

If from a distance you look upon the dial of a clock, you may know that the  are moving, but you cannot see them move. You may look upon the grass, upon the trees, and upon other fcrms of vegetation, and you may know that the grass and the trees and the other vegetation are growing; but you cannot see the minute additions made to them by which they grow. And so it is in relation to a work of the character of this work in which we are engaged, and which the world calls Morrronism— a work that has grown to its present proportions little by little; whose doctrines have developed precept by precept, here a little and there a little, line upon line. Its growth has been so gradual, the development of its doctrines so slow, that men, looking upon it casually, or from a distance may not possiblj- be able to discern its growth. After the lapse of time, however, we may see that the hand upon the dial has moved some distance; that the grass has increased several inches, and that the trees have grown several feet taller and several inches larger in diameter. So also, by looking upon "Mormonism" after the -lapse of considerable time, I think we may gather very much of encouragement from the amount of growth discernable in it. 

If you count thel sending of the prophet of this last dispensation to the earth as the beginning of God's great latter da3 r work, we shall have nearly a, century in which to consider its growth; for on the twenty-third of next December it will lack but one year of being a century since the Prophet Joseph Smith was born. At about fifteen, you remember, in response to his beautiful faith in God, he received his first great revelation, in which he beheld the Father and the Son as they communicated to him the great truth that they were about to begin a great and marvelous work in the earth that should prepare the way for the glorious coming of the Son of God in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, to reign with his Saints in the earth not or.ly as Lord of lords, but also as King of kings. A few years later the knowledge was revealed of the American volume of scripture — the Book of Morrnon— an abridged history of the ancient irhabitants of thi~ western world, and containing- an account of the hand dealings of God with them. "While it was in course of translation, John the Baptist, a resurrected man, an angel of God, came to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, as was most fitting, to instruct them in the matter of repentance and baptism. I say as was most fitting with reference to John's coming and instruction because the information these men, Joseph and Oliver, were seeking was about baptism; and who among all the heavenly hosts was so competent to tt ach men on that subject as he who by way of pre-eminence in his earth career was called the Baptist — John, the Baptizer. Upon them, that is upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, he conferred what is known to us as the lesser Priesthood, and gave them the great promise that this Priesthood should never again be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi should offer an offering in righteousness to the Lord. He promised them also that soon still higher authority would be given them. Tn fulfillment of that promise three great Apostles of the Christian dispensation — Peter, James, and John, the disciple whom Jesus loved — came and conferred upon the heads of these men, Joseph and Oliver, the holy Apostleship, the High Priesthood, by virtue of which they were authorized to organize the Church of Christ once more in the earth, and preach the Gospel in all the world. "Under the keys of this authority and power, on the sixth day of April, 1S30, they organized the Church with six members, in the humble log home of the Whitmers, in Fayette, Seneca county, New York. Shortly afterwards they began to extend their ministry in the surrounding neighborhoods, baptising the people and confirming them members of the Church. 

Side by side with this early development of the work of God, there was also developed a spirit of opposition and persecution against it. Wherever the work spread, the spirit of opposition accompanied it. But notwith the efforts of the) adversary, it prospered and grew; for there was the germ of life in the seeds planted by the hand of God and His angels. 

In a short time the Zion of God, or the center place for the Zion of God upon this American continent, was pointed out and dedicated unto the Lord. The land of America was declared to be, not the new world, but the old— the land where Adam, the Ancient of Days, dwelt, and where the smoke of his burnt sacrifices to God rose from the altar which he reared in the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman; located in the northern part of th,e State of Missouri. The further declaration was also made that that was the place to which finally the Ancient of Days would return, and nations should be assembled, and our father Adam, not bowed and bent with age, but in the full vigor of an immortal manhood, would gather together the hosts of his posterity, and would come there to bless them, while the heavens would open and one like unto the Son of God should come, and there should be given unto him a kingdom, and power, and the dominion of the earth, and the Saints should possess the kingdom forever and forever. (See Daniel, vii.) 

These were a few of the things revealed in the early history of this Church. These were the foundation stones upon which your faith and my faith today is resting. This was the beginning of the great building whose Builder and Maker is God — the structure the world may see rising ever higher and higher before the world's gaze. 

After a time other great truths were unfolded. Moses came and conferred upon the Prophet the keys of the gathering of Israel; Elias who lived in the days of Abraham, came and conferred upon him the keys of the sealing power; Elijah also came — Elijah of whom it was decreed that before the great, and dreadful day of the Lord should come, he should be sent to earth to perform a mission, the effect of which would be to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers  the children, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse at Messiah's coming: and from thence comes the great principle which makes us understand the meaning of that term, "the everlasting gospel" — one that endures not alone in time, but in eternity; one whose saving power is not limited to the brief span of mortal life as known to us, but a gospel that shall endure as long as the ages endure, carrying with it, too, all those great powers that make for the salvation of the children of men. 

And so step by step, step by step, line upon line, precept upon precept, these principles have been revealed, and they have been operating, and have brought to pass that which men may see this day. This is th* dispensation of the fullness of times, and we see running into it, as mighty streame rush into the ocean, all the former dispensations, putting us in touch with them, putting them in touch with us; and we see that God has had but on ' great purpose in view from the beginning, and that has been the salvation of His children. And now has come the final day, the final dispensation, when truth and light and righteousness must flood the earth. 

This work in which we are engaged is not a mere skirmish with error. It is not a battle of the outposts. It is not an occasion where a more or less brilliant mind has seized upon and developed some fragments or truth, and made them honorable for a moment in the eyes of men, but soon to be lost sight of — to be forgotten with the death of him who advocated them. Our work is not a mere guerilla warfare taken up against error and sin, and against the spiritual bondage of mankind. It is God's heavenly army of peace and of righteousness in the earth with all its companies battalions and divisions properly organized. Its movements remind one of the marching of the old Roman legions. It is God's spiritual kingdom, which is going to remain and prevail in the earth. And I love to think that when the nations shall assemble in the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and when the Ancient of Days  sit in honor and glory, when the Son of Man shall come in the clouds of heaven, accompanied by His Saints, there shall be one among them who afore time was known to this generation, the Prophet Joseph Smith. He will be there, glorious among the mighty ones; honored among the Gods. In the very land where he was driven to and fro by his enemies there shall he triumph, there shall he stand a prince among his people, a prophet among the anointed of God, and the nations shall sing, as we sing now: 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah; 

Jesus anointed "that Prophet and Seer." 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Hail to the Prophet .ascended to heaven; 

Traitors and tyrants now fight him in vain; 

Mingling with Gods he can plan for his brethren; 

Death cannot conquer that hero again. 

This great work of ours — and of God's — for it is both His and ours — this work is the truth. And will it win? Why of course it will win. "For truth is truth, since God is God. and truth at the last must win. To doubt it were disloyalty; to falter would be sin." 

The Lord bless you. Amen.
