21
Afternoon
09 10 1904
General Authorities. 

The General Authorities of the Church were presented to the conference, by President Smith, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and R^velator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as president of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant. John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith and Charles W. Penrose. 

John Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the presiding Fatriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First seven presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldste-d. Brig-ham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian and general Church recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Orson F. Whitney, A. Milton Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

As members of the General Church board of education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, John R. Winder and Charles W. Penrose. 

Arthur Winter, secretary and treasurer. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the conference. 

RELIEF SOCIETY. 

General Officers— Bathsheba W. B. Smith, general president, Annie Taylor Hyde, first counselor; Ida Smoot Dusenberry, second counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, general secretary; Clarissa Smith Williams, general treasurer. 

Members Board of Directors, or General Board— Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jenne Cannon, M. Isabella Home, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Martha A. Cannon, Emma S. Woodruff, Julia L. Smith, Ernily S. Richards, Ellis R. Shipn, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Phebe Young Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Mer Home. Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Margaret A. Caine. 

Missionaries — Harriet A. T. Badger, Sophia T. Nuttall, Mary A. C. Lambert, Mary T. Smith, Rebecca E. Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Harriet B. Harker, Friscilla Smith. 

Superintendent of Relief Society Nurses — Emma A. Empey. 

Instructor — Dr. Margaret C. Roberts. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. 

Members of the Board — Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Joseph W. Summerhays, Devi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder. James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon. Horace Cummings, Josiah Burrows, YV. A. Morton. 

George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, general treasurer; William A. Morton, business manager. 

Y. M. M. I. A. 

General Officers — Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; Heber J. Grant, B. H. Roberts, assistants; Thomas Hull, secretary and treasurer; Evan Stephens, music director; Horace S. Ensign, asst. music director. 

Aids — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Matthias F. Cowley. J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy. Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor. Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Briant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner, Hyrum M. Smith, William B. Dougall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., O. C. 

Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon, Philip S. Maycock, Benjamin. Goddard, George 

A. Smith. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

Officers — Elmina S. Taylor, president; Maria Y. Dougall, first counselor; Martha H. Tingey, second counselor; Ann M. Cannon, secretary; Agnes Campbell, assistant secretary; Mae T. Nystrom, treasurer. 

Aids— Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington. Agnes Campbell, Lillie 1". Freeze, Susa Young Gates, Minnie J. Snow, May B. Talmage, Joan Campbell, Emma N. Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Alice K. Smith, Elizabeth C. McCune, Ruth M. Fox, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle Neff, Nellie C. Taylor, Emily C, Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace. 

Alice Tuddenham, music director; Mattie Read, organist; Lizzie Thomas, assistant organist. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS. 

Members of the General Board — Louie 

B. Felt, president; Lillie T. Freeze, first counselor; Josephine R. West, second counselor; May .Anderson, secretary and treasurer; Olive D. Christensen, assistant secretary; Vera I. Felt, recording secretary; Margaret Hull, chorister; Norma Fenton, organist. 

Aids to the General Board — Aurelia S. Rogers, L. L. Greene Richards, Isabelle S. Ross, Camilla C. Cobb, Euphemia I. Burnham, Eliza Slade Bennion, Edna L. Smith, Josephine G. Smith, Ida B. Smith, Clara W. Beebe, Minnie Loveland Snow, Edna Harker, Lilian L. Maeser, Grace Folland, Allie Howarth, Annie N. Wallace. 

RELIGION CLASS BOARD. 

Anthon H. Lund, general superintendent: Rudger Clawson, first assistant; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant; L. John Nuttall, general secretary. 

John M. Mills, Henry Peterson, Horace Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Matthias F. Cowley, Hyrum M. Smith, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Louis A. Kelsch, John H. Evans. 

Board of Examiners of Church Schools— Joseph M. Tanner, Benj. Cluff, Jr., George H. Brimhall, Joshua H. Paul, James H. Linford. 

Joseph M. Tanner, general superintendent of Church schools. 

Evan Stephens as director of the Tabernacle choir; Geo. C. Smith, secretary; Sidney Phillips, treasurer; J. J. McClellan, organist, and all the members of the Tabernacle choir. 

The vote to sustain was affirmative throughout. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

It gives me pleasure to announce that, so far as my eye could detect, the voting has been unanimous in favor of sustaining the officers whose names have been presented before the conference. I now only need to express the hope that we will sustain by our faith and prayers, by our good works and words, and by our confidence and love, all these men and, women who are called tc officiate in these responsible positions in the Church, as we have sustained them this day by the lifting-up of our bands. 

May God help us to be united and strong for in union there is strength, and our strength will be made more and more manifest among men in proportion as we manifest our union and our love one for another, and for the children of men, and especially for the cause of Zion. God bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God bless good and honest men everywhere. May the blessing of peace rest upon our great nation. May the favor of the Lord accompany our people throughout the length and breadth of our broad land, and upon the islands or' the seas, where the benefits of our glorious government are being extended for the uplifting of the heathen ana for the civilization of nations which have for ages dwelt in barbarism and ignorance. May God bless those who bless our nation and our people, and may the mercies of our Heavenly Father be extended unto our enemies and those who would overthrow us and wipe us out of existence if it were in their power. May they repent that He may forgive them, open their eyes and soften their hearts, that they may foresee the pits into which they are hastening, and that they may turn away from their sins in time to receive the clemency and mercy of our all-forgiving Father, and be saved at last in His Kingdom. These are my prayers and my earnest desires in behalf of the people of God and of all the peoples of the earth, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
