4
Afternoon
06 10 1904
Elder John D. T. Mcallister 

(President of Manti Temple). 

I will try to -make you hear, if possible. It is a good while since I spoke from this stand, and my voice is not so strong as it used to be. It has been used a great deal in the work of the Lord. I was on this ground when we built the tabernacle on the corner of this block where the Assembly Hall now stands. At that time our meeting place was over where the wall now is, in a little, rough house, but the meetings were greatly enjoyed by the Saints. That is fifty-three years ago. I have seen the growth of the people. Today we find a great people in these mountains, comfortably housed, clothed and fed, and enjoying the visits and blessings of the servants of the Lord who preside over us. "We have remembered our leaders and their families, and we pray always that the Lord will bless them, and that their families will be found walking in His ways. It is very nice indeed to have the privilege of meeting in this Tabernacle. I worked with the brethren when the house was built, and a good, sweet spirit was with us. The lumber that came here from the canyon, I measured it; and I also measured the stone work of the masons on the Temple, and reported it to David O. Calder at the President's office. I am sixty years in the Church, the eleventh of the month. I came into these mountains but a boy. I made the acquaintance of the boys that are now men, and some of them great grandfathers like myself. They have striven all that they could to carry out the purposes of the Lord, and some of them, I presume, count from thirty to forty children. We were poor, but the Lord blessed us. We worked. If we had nothing to eat, we asked the Lord to open the way, and He has done so. Today we find beautiful cities and beautiful temples. We commenced our labors here for the dead, I think, in the Endowment House. The first endowments for the living given in Utah were given in the old Council House, which stood on the corner now occupied by the Deseret News building. Since then we have progressed until we find ourselves very comfortably located in the temples that have been erected under the blessing and power of God. 

For the last eleven years I have been in the Manti Temple. I succeeded President Anthon H. Lund. Elder John B. Maiben is my assistant. I was called there by President Woodruff from the St. George Temple, where I presided in his absence, with Elders David H. Cannon and James G. Bleak assisting. What a glorious work has been done in that house of the Lord, and we rejoice that we were privileged to work therein. President Young sent for me and wanted me to go to St. George to assist in the temple. I made everything ready as well as I could and at once proceeded to assume the position. 

The work of the Lord in His house is for His sons and daughters. We have the word of God, and it is published. The way has been revealed for ourselves and our children to walk in. I wonder sometimes that our children who live so near to the house of the Lord should marry outside of it. When we do not marry in His house. we do not marry in His way. If we marry outside of His house, it does for this life; but when we get beyond we have no claim upon each other. Sometimes our children go into by and forbidden paths, leaving the way of the Lord, but the Spirit feels after them, the parents feel after them, and they are brought to a knowledge of the truth, they receive blessings in the house of the Lord, and are numbered with the faithful today. The work for the dead is upon our shoulders. Joseph Smith, before he was assassinated, gave unto us the word of the Lord in relation to the work for the dead, and he quoted some scripture in reference to it. Our fathers and our mothers have been sealed together, the children have been sealed  their parents, and the work has been done for our kindred who passed away without a knowledge of the truth. This is the work that has been spoken of by our brethren, and it is increasing. In three days I sealed to parents over thirteen hundred children, and those that have done this work feel glorious before the Lord. 

I represent now the Manti Temple. This season we have been repairing the roof and the water-pipe. We have beautiful water, and all that we need, not only for temple work, but also to water the grounds. It will require a great deal of means, however, to make that house as beautiful outside as it is in. We have one of the most beautiful temples in the mountains. It is well taken care of, and those who go in feel the Spirit and power of God resting upon them. Our brethren and sisters who were in ill health have come there to be administered to, and we have attended to them, and by the blessing and power of the Lord their sickness has been overcome and they are well today. We get letters sometimes from those who have been blessed of the Lord in this way. It gives me joy to speak of the work in the temple. I must not forget to mention the faithful labors of those workers who have been sent unto us from the stakes of Zion. We release them, and some are sent again to help us. We have never had to stop on account of workei's being absent. 

I thank the Lord that I have lived as Ion? as I have, to see our boys grown up to be men and to become ministers of the Lord Jesus Christ. I love them, and I am satisfied with them, and especially so with our brethren who compose the First Presidency. They are good men, the Lord's men, whom He wanted to lead, guide and direct in the affairs of Zion. Bless you, my brethren who preside; bless you, Saints, in your homes; may you continue to be healthful, peaceful and full of love, and may all things work together for your good, that you may 

ever enjoy the blessings of life and live till your days are fully numbered on the earth. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
