8
Afternoon
07 10 1904
Elder J. G. 

perchance many of their sons and daughters will do so, in fact, they are doing so. In Davis stake we feel that we must have the hearts of those that live among us in order to get them to join with us, the same as we find in the missions abroad. We rejoice that we have this good feeling and this good class of people living with us. 

The Davis Stake of Zlon was reorganized a couple of weeks ago, with myself and Elders James A. Eldredge and Jesse M. Smith as the presidency of the stake. We feel very weak in taking the places of those that presided over the stake before us, as we realize that some of the best men that ever lived on the earth, among them President Joseph F. Smith himself, have presided over that stake. We feel that nothing but the direction of the Spirit of the Lord can qualify us to t o forth and do anywhere near as well as our predecessors. But we know that the work of God is true. We have proved that in going to Him for help and support He will not desert us, and we rejoice in this. I am thankful for the help that I have in our High Council. It is a strong body of men — men who are willing to work in any capacity, and who labor particularly as home missionaries and as peacemakers in the stake. They have been so successful that for three or four years at a time, there has been no necessity for a High Council trial. There are 18 Patriarchs in the stake. Most of these men are doing a great deal of good in blessing the people, holding cottage meetings, dedicating the home's of the Latter-day Saints, and warming up the hearts of those that have grown cold, as well as teaching the Gospel to those who have not yet accepted it. Our organizations are complete, with strong workers at their head. The Lord is blessing us in our stake, and we rejoice in it. We feel to sustain and hold up the hands of the Prophet of God, with his counselors and the Apostles, who have been called to lead and direct the affairs of the work of the Lord upon the earth, and I pray that this spirit may continue with us. I ask for your faith 

McQUARRIE, 29 

and prayers, that I may be enabled to accomplish what is required of me. I rejoice in my heart that I am able to be here, for I have been in very poor health during the last year. The Lord has blessed me, however, with one ot His great gifts — to have faith in the promises made to me through His servants. I pray that God will continue to bless and to guide us into all truth, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
