9
Afternoon
07 10 1904
Elder J. G. Mcquarrie 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

There are times, my brethren and sisters, when we feel that we are separate, single individuals and when we feel to draw down the shades and close the doors of our homes. There are other times when either a common sorrow 01 a common joy gives us the desire to throw up the blinds, to open the dcors, and to invite all our brothers and sisters to look into the light and comfort of our homes. So, too, there are times when we feel a desire to throw our souls open, that our friends and our brothers and sisters may look in and see the warmth, the love and the joy that we feel for them. That is my feeling today. I wish I could throw my soul open to you, that you might see the love and the joy which I have in associating with my brothers and sisters after an absence of six months. It is such a pleasure for us to get back again among the homeguard, and to meet with our friends in Zion. One of the greatest joys that I have had, perhaps the greatest joy that the president of a mission feels is in meeting the mothers and the fathers of the noble sons or daughters that may be laboring under our guidance. Today, as I looked into the eyes of mothers lit up with pride when I told them of the good works and noble deeds of their sons, and watched their eyes fill with tears and their faces quiver with emotion, I thought how grand it is to feel that warm, true, godlike love of a mother. I will not be able to meet all the mothers and fathers of the noble boys that I have the honor to preside over, but I want to say to you that they are all doing you honor where they are laboring, and without an exception, I believe, are giving God the very best that is in them; and that is all anyone can do. 

In mission work, like other labors, there seems to be a kind of ebb and flow. Some seasons we reap a good harvest, while others we do not get very much fruit from our labors. Last year was a very fruitful one. We gathered in the harvest. This year the result? in the Eastern States Mission, so far as baptisms are concerned, are not so encouraging. Still we have had enough success to keep us from being discouraged, and enough opposition to keep us stirred up. During the early part of the season, there was quite a severe storm which seemed to break with rather terrific force over the Eastern States mission, and while it did not shake any of those who were members of the Church, it seemed to blight some tender plants among those who were just commencing to investigate the Gospel, and of course those plants have not borne us any fruit. But we feel encouraged in our labors. Perhaps you have noticed in the papers the account of the re-baptism of John Rigdon, the or.ly surviving son of Sidney Rigdon, who was a counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sixty-six years ago, I believe, John Rigdon was baptized by Hyrum Smith in the Mississippi river, and I think the Prophet Joseph Smith confirmed him a member of the Church. He was a bright, brilliant, promising youth, and I can not help but think of what he might have accomplished, where he might have stood in the councils of the Church, andi how far his influence might have extended, if he had exerted all his energy in trying to establish the principles which God had revealed from heaven, rather than directing his mind toward the weaknesses of men. I feel grateful that the sons and daughters of the first families of the Church are gradually being gathered into the fold again. It is also a striking testimony to me, as it may be to others, when we  such events, because men like Sidney Rigdon knew whether Joseph Smith was a prophet or not. There was no guess work upon their part. Joseph testified that he and Sidney Rigdon saw Jesus Christ in the Kirtland Temple, and he was in a position to absolutely know whether he had witnessed this manifestation, and whether Joseph Smith was a prophet of God or not. And so, when the effort of his life was over, when he was about to pass into eternity, his son approached him and asked him what position he should take in reference to Joseph Smith — whether he was a prophet and whether the Book of Mormon came as he said it did. With tears streaming down his cheeks, Sidney Rigdon testified that the Book of Mormon was true, that Joseph Smith was a pi-ophet of God, and that the world would yet know it. That testimony clung to his son, and, ringing in his ears, made him afraid to die before being reconciled to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Oliver Cowdery was also in a position to know absolutely whether Joseph Smith was a prophet of God or not, and he, too, before he passed away, seemed anxious to come in again at the door and regain his fellowship in the Church. This should be a witness to us, and especially to the young, of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Not only so, but it should be a warning also to the bright sons and daughters of La>tter-day Saints, that they should not waste their energy in looking for and criticising the weaknesses of some frail individuals who may be placed in responsible positions, but that they should rather exert their energies in trying to establish the principles of the Gospel, which have been revealed for the very purpose of strengthening frail humanity. We are all weak, but the Gospel is true, and it will strengthen those who live it. 

I feel not only to report the condition of the Elders who are laboring under my direction, but also some of those who come to study and to gain technical and professional knowledge. I am glad to say that where they have the 

opportunity to attend our meetings the great majority of them are trying to keep in touch with the Saints and with the Church, and in many instances they are reflecting credit upon the people of God and upon the community that is responsible for their training. In every instance where they try to live the Gospel and are not ashamed of the truth, they not only honor their people, but they honor themselves. I was glad to note that in the graduating class of the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Baltimore, where four gold medals were given, two of them went to Utah boys, and one of these was the first medal; and a good minister had the honor of reading out their names and awarding these prizes to our Utah boys. Another instance I will take pleasure in mentioning. In the graduating class from the law school in Washington two years ago, there was one young "Mormon" Elder who had preached the Gospel, and who had fainted on the streets from exhaustion and hunger while he was trying to proclaim these truths to the people. This "Mormon" Elder, who was competing in a. class with the brightest and smartest sons of America, was elected president of his class by acclamation— an honor perhaps that was never given to anyone before in that school. 

I desire, in conclusion, to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel. I testify that all those who will incorporate its principles in their lives and live them will know they are true. The Eastern States mission is in a fairly good condition. "We are constantly growing a little, and some of our members are gathering to Zion. I am proud of all those that I have had the pleasure of meeting since I came here. I pray that the blessings of God may rest upon Zion, upon those who preside in the Church, and upon all the Elders who are laboring abroad, with those who preside over them, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
