Morning
09 10 1904



ELDER BEN E. RICH, (President of Southern States Mission.) 

There is always a feeling of timidity with me when I arise to speak before a congregation of any size, but it seems as though it is increased when I face a congregation like this. I can only pray, my brethren and sisters, that I may be influenced by the whisperings of the Spirit of God for the short time that I shall address you, and that the 1 same Spirit may also rest upon you. We are told that we can understand the things of man by the spirit of man, but to understand the things of God it is necessary for us to enjoy the Spirit of God. It is as necessary to listen by the assistance of that Spirit as it is to si eak under its influence. 

It has been my lot, for some little time past, to labor in the missionary field known as the Southern States mission. It is probably the oldest mission in the United States, and perhaps in the Church. Many of the prominent men who stood with the Prophet Joseph labored and bore their testimony in  missionary field. A great many people have joined the Church in that section. Large numbers have emigrated to Zion: and the fathers and mothers, tho grandfathers and the grandmothers of many of the youth of Zion today were found by the Gospel in the sunny south. In no place upon this earth can a more hospitable and kinder people be found. During my stay there, thirteen hundred Elders have labored in the South. They have taken their grips and gone out among the people, and lived where night overtook them. They would go to a house where they could see it was washday; they would walk boldly" up and tell thej folks that they were ministers of the Gospel, traveling without purse or scrip, and preaching the Gospel as Christ commanded it should be taught, and then humbly ask if they would wash some linen for them. In this way they got their laundry done for them. At the time we had five hundred Elders in the field, it was remarkable how few of them had to sleep out in the woods. Whether the people belonged to the Church or not, they would entertain and feed the Elders. And God will bless all, whether in His Church or not, who entertain His servants. The people of the South are the religious people of the United States. They love to hear preaching; they read the Bible. There is less of fashion and less of a desire to go and show new bonnets and diamonds in the churches of the South than in those of the North. They are a Godfearing and God-loving people. While their prejudices are very strong, their love is strong also. 

At present, we have less than a hundred and seventy-five Elders in the field; and if we were to release all who have been there for two years we would have less than a hundred and -five, where we once had about five hundred. While we have between eight and nine thousand Saints in that mission, they are so badly scattered that it seems almost impossible to get enough of them together to maintain one healthy branch of the Church. Some months we baptize eighty or ninety new converts. When I left we could not fill the calls made of us to go and preach the Gospel and to baptize people who had been converted and were ready for baptism. We do not want our friends, the enemy, to think that "Mormonism" is losing ground in the Southern States. There seems to be an awakening in the hearts of the people, a desire to know God's will, and our Elders find plenty of opportunity to preach the Gospel; and the more persecution and opposition, the more opportunities we have for preaching. Our Elders are faithful and energetic. 

There is one thing that I want to mention here regarding Elders who return from the South. Sometimes Elders in that mission lose their health, and they are often home years and years without regaining it. Many times they should come home before they do; but I have had Elders say to me, "Brother Rich, I would rather stay here and die, than to go home before I have been here two years, and fulfilled an honorable mission, such a one as will gain me the approval of my Heavenly Father, and my brethren and sisters at home. There is no such thing in this Church as a two-years' mission. Sometimes it is just as much the will of God for an Elder to return home when he has been absent six months as when he has been absent three years. If the people here would only have confidence in the ones whom the authorities of the Church have appointed to preside over missions, they would then cease their gossiping about an Elder returning home before his two years are up. Should there be anything radically wrong with an Elder returning home, the presidents of missions understand that it is their duty to report the case to the authorities of the stake; and  it is not reported, and an Elder returns home in six or in twelve months on account of ill health, the Saints should extend to him as loving a welcome as they would if he had been absent two or three years. When they come home sick, you ought to sympathise with them, not criticise them. Very few ever come home before they are expected from any other cause than sickness. Sometimes an Elder comes to a mission when he could do the work of God more good at home than abroad, and when it is better for the mission that he should return home. In cases of that kind the presidency of the Church have instructed the presidents of missions to send them home. You know what the "Mormon" creed as laid down by President Young was: "Mind your own business." When you send one of your sons to the Southern States, then it becomes my business and not yours. I am amenable to the authorities of the Church, and if I see fit to send an Elder home when he has been there six months, especially if he is sick, sympathize with him, pray with him, help to build him up, and do not try to tear him down. By the way, if mankind could only observe that "Mormon" creed, what would it not do for this world. God has said that He will forgive whom He will, but He gives us to understand that we are expected to forgive all men. Our business is to forgive; the judging part belongs to God. Let us mind our own business, and not interfere with that which belongs to our Father in heavem He has said that He will mete judgments ,out unto those who deservethem; and He has told us to have faith, hope and charity, and to love one another. 

We know that the Gospel is true. We know the conditions existing in the world, and if we do not love one another what a disagreeable condition we are in. The world do not love us, and we do not expect them to love us; for Christ has said that if we were of the world the world would love its own, but because He has taken us out of theworld the world hateth us. So we need not expect the world to love us; but we should love one another. We should not only love one another, but we have been commanded to let our love go over the wall and to love even our enemies, always remembering the love that God the eternal Father had for the world, which was so great that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever would believe on Him might have eternal life. 

This is the mission of the Latter-day Saints. We are very small in numbers compared with the fifteen hundred millions in the world, yet we are expected to carry the light of the Gospel to all mankind. Hence we have plenty to do. We know that God has spoken in the age in which we live, that He has restored the Gospel of His Son in fulfillment of prophecy, that He spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that by revelation and the voice of God this Church 'was organized through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, that the organization is perfect, that the Gospel has been sent out just as it always has been when God's power has been upon the earth, and that it is made free to all men. The requirements of salvation are the same today as they were in the days of Christ. Man must have faith in God and in the divinitv of Christ's mission. He must repent of his sins. He must understand that those who reject the principle of baptism reject the counsel of God against themselves. He must remember that Christ Himself said that baptism was necessary in order to fulfill all righteousness. He must understand that it was taught by Peter, by John, by James, by Paul, and by all the Apostles, as also by the Priests, the Elders and the Seventies who were commissioned and sent out in that day. There is but one plan of salvation, but one way to eternal life. No man has the right to climb up any other way. There is but one way of receiving the seal of the Spirit. It is necessary for us to be born of the water and of the Spirit to enter into the kingdom of God, because Christ Himself said so. The faith of the Saints of old  been given to us, and we are contending throughout the length and breadth of the earth for the faith once delivered to the Saints and now delivered to us. We have been commanded to go into all the world and cry repentance; yea, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. You know that this is true, if you have not driven the Spirit of God away from you; and if you know 7 the truth, then you know the Master's will, and you must remember that he who knoweth the Master's will and doeth it not w r ill be beaten with many stripes. 

I wish to bear my testimony to you that I know that the Gospel has been restored to the earth in this age. I know that Joseph Smith was one of ' the greatest prophets that ever stood upon this earth. Without the learning of the world, by placing himself in communion with the Spirit of God, and in saying, "Thus saith the Lord," by the whisperings of the Spirit.he pointed out the organization of the Church and set the house of God in order as the Lord revealed it to him; and the theologians of the world from that day to this have failed to find one single flaw in the organization of the Church or in the requirements of salvation to be found in the Church. Whence came the superior wisdom of Joseph Smith, if it did not come from God? As a farmer's boy he pointed out the plan of salvation and the Church of Christ as it was not then found upon the earth, and it cannot be successfully attacked by the theologians of the world. The only argument is the argument used against Christ and His disciples—that their characters Avere not good. Their characters not good! The character of the Smiths not good? Where can you And a name upon the earth today where the fruits brand such a charge more falsely than the fruits that have come from the loins of the Smiths who were the father and the uncles of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The character of their generation brand it as a lie. Not only that, but we can hurl it back in their teeth, and challenge them to find as good an abstract of pedigree running down the  of time as can be found with that name. Four hundred thousand people know the character of these men. And while I am speaking- I see two young- men here who have been called as special witnesses for the Lord Jesus Christ. Start with them; they belong to the two families of the Smiths, — the father of the Prophet ^Joseph and his brother. Do you know these young men? Do you know their lives? And do you know their fathers, President Joseph F. Smith and Elder John Henry Smith, also special witnesses for the Lord Jesus Christ? And the brother of President Smith, Patriarch John Smith — do you know him? Do you know the fathers of these mighty men — Patriarch Hyrum Smith and the late Apostle George A. Smith, a member of the First Presidency with President Brigham Young? Anything the matter with their characters? And the grandfather, — the great grandfather of the present Elder George A. Smith, — who was the Uncle of the Prophet Joseph, and who, after the assassination of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith remained as the Patriarch of the Church — the Patriarch John Smith — do you know his character? We will even go farther than that. We will go to those who do not belong to the Church, — to the children of the Prophet Joseph Smith who are opposing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Tell the people of the world who charge the Prophet Joseph with being a drunkard, a loafer, and a dishonest man, that the character of the sons of the Prophet himself brands the charge as being false, because men do not gather figs from thistles nor graces from thorns, nor do they expect an impure fountain to send forth pure wnter. So far as the characters of these men are concerned, they maintain the testimony which the other Smiths maintain concerning the falsity of the charges that the Prophet Joseph, his father and his father's brothers were not sober, industrious and honest people. We cannot find such a genealogy in any other place on earth. God bless the name. God bless the memory of the instrument that was chosen by  Almighty through whom all these mighty truths came to the earth. 

My brothers and sisters, remember what the Church has done for you. Do you enjoy happy homes? Where did you get them 9 Through the instrumentality of a humble Mormon Elder the Church probably found your mother in Scandinavia and your father in England. Tt brought them together, and was the cause of the marriage between them which gave you existence upon the earth in a land where it was possible for you to enjoy happy homes. And what do you owe to the Church? You owe everything, even life itself; and you should remember that Christ the Redeemer has said that if you lose your life for His sake you shall find it again, even life eternal. I bear testimony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and that those who have stood at the head of the Church from the death of the Prophet Joseph up to the present time have been and are prophets, seers and re vela tors. I bear my testimony to tr is.Jn the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. Preservation of Health of Missionaries. 

It may be proper for me to state at this time, for the information of the Elders, and also for the information of the local authorities of the Church, as well as the fathers and mothers and kindred of the Elders who are out in the world preaching the Gospel, that the Presidents of all the Missions are under strict instructions from the Presidency of the Church to guard carefully the health of the Elders that are laboring under their direction. These Presidents of Missions are also under instructions to send home any and all Elders whose health or whose other circumstances may make it necessavv for them to return. We are frequently enquired of by parents relative to the health of young men who are out preaching the Gospel, and we invariably inform them that the Presidents of Missions are carefully guarding the welfare of their sons, and if anything serious occurs to them, making it necessary for them to return home, it will be promptly attended to, and they need not worry about their boys on that account. And while I am on my feet, I would like to exhort the Elders who are upon missions, and those who shall go upon missions in the future, not to allow the thought to enter their hearts that they will be criticised or be made to suffer in their character or their standing in the Church because their health will not permit them to fill a two or three years' mission abroad . We would like them rather to feel in themselves a wholesome aversion to coming home without having filled an honorable mission, when their health and other conditions will permit them to do so; and if they have any reluctance about coming home at all, before completing their missions, it should be based upon this principle. These men that are appointed to preside over the missions are men of intelligence and of heart, men who are filled with affection for their fellow laborers, and they will see to it that none of the Elders are left in their fields of labor to suffer, if it can be avoided. So, brethren, and sisters, you need not worry at all in regard to these matters. 

ELDER ASAHEL H. WOODRUFF 

(Late President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I have enjoyed to the utmost the spirited talk delivered by President Rich this morning. I only regret that circumstances have rendered it impracticable for me to attend the previous meetings of this glorious conference. I feel greatly the need of the faith and prayers of my brethren and sisters during the few moments I shall address you upon this important occasion. As is doubtless known to many, it has fallen to my lot to have presided for a brief period over that important branch of the Lord's work known as the Northern States mission. In the providence of the Lord and as dictated through His servants, I have been released from that post of duty, after having enjoyed the privilege for about thirty-two months. During the major part of that time I have enjoyed greatly my labors. It has given me much satisfaction and pleasure to  that I enjoyed the confidence of my brethren to the extent that they were willing to entrust me with that important post; and while I felt greatly my inability in many respects to fulfill the requirements of the position, yet I have tried to perform my labors to the best of my ability, and I trust with some degree of success. I have had the confidence and support of the Elders that were appointed to labor with me in that part of the Lord's vineyard, and I believe that through our united efforts some good has been accomplished. A great deal of literature has been distributed among the people who reside in the six States that go to make up the Northern States mission. During the past two years and a half we have distributed four hundred thousand tracts and over twenty thousand books. We have held over ten thousand meetings, and over four hundred thousand Gospel conversations, and striking a fair average of five members to each family visited, and twenty at each meeting held, we believe we have reached four millions of people in the Northern States mission during that time. Vast as this number is, it is but a small part of the entire population of those States. When we remember that the population of the city of Chicago alone is as great as the combined population of ten of our western States, we can perhaps realize the magnitude of the work that lies ahead of the small body of Elders who are laboring in that field at the present time. The people there, to a large extent, are not naturally religious. Their hearts, in a great measure, are set upon the things of this world. President Rich uttered a truth when he said that the people of the south were different in this respect. Many of the people of the north, particularly in the large cities, do not read the Bible to any great extent, and they relegate religion to the background. They seem to think it is something that pertains to women and children and to those who are not quite sound in their mental faculties. Consequently, we have to reason with them upon the 

Gospel, and to show them the philosophy of it; and we do not have more people applying for baptism than what our Elders can comfortably take care of. We rejoice, however, to be able to report to our brothers and sisters that the work of the Lord is progressing in the Northern States, and that the baptisms are quite satisfactory. As I learn from Elder German E. Ellsworth, of Lehi, who has been appointed "to succeed me in the presidency of that mission, some of the conferences held this fall have been unusually successful, one particularly, which was held in the State of Indiana, in a district which has been worked for some time by the Elders, and which promised to yield fruit. It was decided to hold a conference near the town. of Robinson, Greene county, Ind. The conference convened in a grove, away from any populous center. Brother Ellsworth states that he did not see two houses together any one time, but the woods seemed to turn out the people in large numbers, in response to our invitation to attend the conference; and the interest aroused during the first few sessions of the conference was so great that they felt constrained to appoint a time for baptisms. The conference commenced on Saturday, and on the following Wednesday afternoon seven of the leading citizens of the neighborhood, four men and three women, presented tnemselves as candidates for baptism. This was followed later by two other baptisms, and the total added to the fold during that conference was 15. The brethren continued the meetings for 14 days, and it is stated that there are two or three other districts in that state where it is believed these results can be duplicated. 

It might be of interest to the Latterday Saints to know that the work has been opened up vigorously in Hancock county, State of Illinois — a county which suggests so many historic recollections, some pleasant and some otherwise, particularly to the older members of the Church. Two Elders, full of faith, hope and courage, and possessed of proper ability and reliance upon the Lord, were sent down to that coun some few months ago, without purse or scrip, and they were more than suc cessful in reaching the hearts of the people and making friends. They wero able to hold successful meetings in the city of Nauvoo, and in Carthage. Their headquarters, at the present time, are in the town of Carthage, and it is not improbable, if suitable arrangements can be made with the Presidency, that ere long the Gospel will be preached regularly on the Sabbath day in Carthage jail. This is a great reversal of conditions as they existed in the forties, and we feel that the Lord is workins with the honest in heart in those States. 

My brethren and sisters, I want to endorse the words spoken by Brother Rich in regard to meddling and interfering with business that properly belongs to the mission on the part of our brethren and sisters at home. No doubt this is done thoughtlessly in the great majority of cases; but we found in the Northern States that it was almost impossible to carry out the counsel which President F. M. Lyman gave to us as he was passing through there sdm;; time ago, that we should break up the notion in the minds of the Elders that a mission was simply for two years, by reason of the criticism and interference of those at home. We have endeavored to carry out that idea, and have released some brethren even before the two year period, because th^y were advanced in years and had family cares. On the other hand, we have tried to keep some younger men who were in a position to do us a great deal of good; and I want to say that an Elder who has served two years, if he can be retained in the field for another six months, can accomplish about as much good during those six months, if he will keep up steam, as he could during the previous two years. So we have tried to keep some of them two years and a half; but in a great majority of cases, either their parents, or the President of the Stake, or others interested, have sent for them to come home, sometimes we fear without good excuse. We believe that when an Elder is sent out into the field he is under the direction of the mission president, who certainly should be entitled to the spirit of his office and calling. Jf he does not enjoy the inspiration of the Lord to direct him in his labors, he is not a suitable person to be retained in that position, and I do not believe the Lord will long retain him there. I merely mention this fact because I sometimes think parents do not view the matter in a correct light. It seems to me that every father and mother ought to feel that it is an honor conferred upon their son if he be retained beyond the usual period. It should be an evidence to them that he is appreciated and that he is of value to the work. 

Through material assistance received from the Presidency of the Church, there has recently been acquired a magnificent church and parsonage in the city of Chicago, which will serve not only as a meeting place for the Saints of that city, but also as headquarters for the Northern States mission. It is almost centrally located and accessible from all parts of the city. The auditorium of the building will seat at least five hundred people, and is provided with splendid seats of walnut, and a fine pipe organ. The lower part of the building is divided into a chapel room, capable of seating some thre hundred people. There is also several Sunday School rooms, a parson's study, a dining room and a kitchen. We feel that this is a very valuable acquisition to the mission, and will serve to further the work greatly in that important metropolis. While our meeting place in the past has been quite comfortable, it has not altogether created a favorable impression upon our friends, and I rejoice to learn that the attendance has already been greatly augmented through their being privileged to meet under more favorable conditions. 

I am sure that President Ellsworth and the Elders laboring in Chicago will be glad to welcome the brethren and sisters from Utah who visit that city for business or other purposes. Some  them make it a point to call on the Elders as they pass through. Others, however, come and go without showing themselves. There are many who are in the habit of going there with carloads of cattle and sheep, many of whom are actively interested in the Lord's work, but they do not always bless the Saints with their presence, and I am sure the Elders would be glad to extend an invitation to them to come and listen to them, and thereby advance the interest of the Lord's work. Sometimes we have had the privilege of preaching to visiting brethren on street corners, but we could not get them into the hall. I remember last summer I was preaching on the streets, and there was a group of men came along, and I was quite surprised to see some of them remove their hats when the opening prayer was offered, but I learned at the close of the meeting that it was a group of our brethren who had come down with cattle, and who were on their way to the theater, and they were attracted by the singing. Some of them afterwards remarked that it was the first time in their lives that they had ever heard the principles of the Gospel preached in such plainness. I would like our visitors not only to come to the street meetings, but to the indoor services as well. 

It has been claimed by some misguided women, particularly one in addressing a convention at Denver a few days ago, that many of the young Latter-day Saints were becoming ashamed of the religion of their fathers. I do know that the young men who are preaching the Gospel in the Northern States, are young men of courage and conviction, they are fearless and hesitate not to go out upon the crowded thoroughfares, though it may be necessary at times to go along and sing their own songs, hold their own services, and they look fearlessly into the faces of hundreds of people and declarp unto them the pure principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. What is there in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, 45 religion of our fathers, to be ashamed of? Surely we need not be ashamed that God has been so kind as to bear testimony to our souls that He indeed does live, that Jesus Christ lives, and that He has again spoken from the heavens, and recommitted the keys of authority and power, by which men were authorized to organize His Church upon the earth, in all its fullness, in the day and time in which we live. There is nothing in this to be ashamed of. There is nothing in the history of our people to be ashamed of. There is nothing to be ashamed of in the material progress we have made, by which this despised religion has taken the people from a state of dependence, if not poverty, in the nations of the earth, and placed them in a position of independence, and made them land owners and householders. I want to testify to you that none of the young men out in the Northern States mission are getting ashamed of their religion, and I have failed to find any at home. If there are any such, I fear that the Lord is as much ashamed of them as they are of Him and His work. 

I bear my testimony to the divinity of this work. I do know it is God's eternal truth restored to the earth. . I do know that He raised up His servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and gave him authority to organize His Church upon the earth. He fulfilled all that was required of him, he laid the foundations of this work, and he laid them deep, and he laid them well. After him came others who were specially qualified for the peculiar work and the peculiar conditions that they were required to meet in their time. And I do testify that we have a Prophet of the Lord standing at the head of this work at the present time. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with us, that His spirit may fill our hearts, and that our first consideration and desire may always be to labor for the advancement of His work upon the earth. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH A. McRAE. (President of Colorado Mission.) My brethren and sisters, I rejoice with you this morning in the opportunity of meeting in this conference. I have enjoyed exceedingly the meetings we have had during the past few days and the remarks that have been made, and I trust that the few moments I shall occupy this morning I may be endowed with the Spirit of our Father in heaven, that I may speak unto you that which will be of mutual benefit to you and myself. I realize that without the Spirit of the Lord we are not able to accomplish anything pertaining to His great work. I have listened w.ith pleasure to the reports made by our brethren of the missions which they preside over. I suppose that the work in our part of the country is similar in many respects to that which you have heard. We are endeavoring to preach the Gospel unto the people: but if we are to be measured and judged by the number of converts, or the baptisms which are performed in the Colorado mission, it seems to me that our work will appear to have been in vain. But we have a great many friends. Many of the people in Colorado are friendly to the work that we are engaged in. They come to us with expressions of friendship, and they give unto us their aid and assistance in every way they possibly can. About the only opposition we receive in Colorado is from people who have come from some other part of the country. Brother Woodruff referred to remarks that were made in Denver a few days ago by some good sister. Similar remarks were 

made by people from other parts of the country, and not by any who live in the state of Colorado. It was the national convention of the Female society of the Methodist church. I went to the president of that society, and asked the privilege of presenting "Mormonism" before the convention from a "Mormon" standpoint, but they told me the program was full, and it would be impossible to give me any time. I felt in this matter like one of the brethren said President Woodruff felt in relation to the St. George Temple. When it was proposed to close that Temple, President Woodruff said it should remain open so that the people might have an opportunity to do their "work, and if they did not do the work, then the responsibility would be upon them. I felt that we should give these people an opportunity to hear the Gospel; then if they refused to hear our testimony, the sin be upon their heads. 

I notice that this convention resolved to stamp out "Mormonism" entirely; and I thought while listening to the remarks of President Smith, and the report which he made of the organization of the Church, what part of this great organization are they going to begin on with their stamping-out process? And if they should stamp out one part of it, what about the other parts? How futile are the efforts of those who are endeavoring to tear down "Mormonism!" Prominent men of Colorado and the other States in our mission are coming to us voluntarily and assuring us that they are our friends, and they tell us that we are the only religious people in the world who are advancing. I can readily believe this when I look over this sreat sea of faces. I can realize the advancement this Church has made in the few years since it was organized. A few days ago I called on my grandmother, who is now 86 years of age, and who was baptized into the Church in the year 1833, and I asked her if she felt sorry for having been baptized. She said: "No, my son, I have not seen one hour of sorrow for it." Although she has passed through many trials and seen much sorrow in the early historv of this Church, being separated from her family and driven from one part of the country to another, destitute of food and clothing on many occasions, yet never a day had she felt to regret having joined this Church. She said: "I know the 'Gospel to be the power of God and salvation, not because man has told it to me, but through the Spirit of my Father in heaven." I feel this testimony myself. I know that we are engaged in the work of the Lord, and 

I realize that the efforts we are putting lorth are yielding fruit. We are reaping the harvest, not in baptisms perchance, but in the good opinion of the thinking men of the world. 

I believe that the great evil of the age is the tendency toward infidelity. The people of the world are becoming impregnated with that spirit to such an extent that I fear it may contaminate some of those who have taken upon themselves to serve the Lord and to keep His commandments. I hope it will not; but in laboring among the people I see so much infidelity that I ask myself, how is it possible to keep this spirit from spreading among the Latter-day Saints? Where we are laboring, many people are becoming disgusted even with the teaching of the Bible. They say that the Bible would do for the people who lived ages ago, and .didn't know any better, but we have gone past those things now. I!; makes me wonder whether or not this spirit is getting among the Latter-day. Saints, but I do pray it will not. 

We are striving in our mission to have the Elders who go there become thoroughly acquainted with the principles of the Gospel. We are trying to keep them at work, realizing that so long as they are working and striving every day to preach the Gospel and to bear their testimony, the Lord will be with them, and will strengthen the testimony which they already have. I believe we have as good a lot of Elders and sister missionaries in our mission field as can be found in any part of the world. They are working zealously and earnestly for the advancement of truth, and you do not need to have one moment of worry regarding their condition. You need not trouble as to whether they are sick, or whether they will be sent home before their time, or whether they will be kept longer than their time. We have determined to keep an Elder in the mission field as long as the Spirit of the Lord directs. We have Elders now who have been there from thirty to thirty-three months, and they may be there thirtysix or forty months, before, they return home. We do not want them to come , for we feel that they are accomplishing a great amount of good. In some instances, while they may not be accomplishing much good for others, they are doing a great amount of good to themselves.  While they may not be baptizing many, they are becoming thoroughly imbued with the spirit of the Gospel and receiving the testimony of Jesus Christ for themselves, and when they return to their homes they will be in a position to do you and the great work in which they are engaged more good than if they were to return at an earlier period. The Elders should remain in the mission field until those who preside over them feel that they should return. This is the policy we have been endeavoring to carry out. We have tried to, show the Elders that their mission is not for any stated period of time, but they are to remain until they receive their release, and they will receive their release just as soon as the Spirit of the Lord indicates that it should be given. 

We who are laboring in the Colorado mission, love the word of the Lord, and we love to bear our testimony. The Elders have borne testimony upon many of the street corners of the cities and towns of the Colorado mission. In the little towns and hamlets they have gone into the streets on Saturday afternoon, when the people have gathered to do their shopping, and they have found there congregations of four and five hundred people who have stood and listened to them while they preached the Gospel. It was rather a new thing to some of the Elders to hold meetings on the streets in the afternoon, but we have found it has done a great deal of good and has opened a great many doors to the Elders. And while the people in this mission were hospitable before, and took the Elders in and gave unto them everything necessary to their comfort, we feel that these street meetings have resulted in much good, in allaying prejudice, and in various other ways. May the Lord bless us and help us to be faithful and to do His will continually, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Eva Ward of Provo sang a solo entitled, "The Redemption." 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

A good word to the Young— Importance of enlarging home ludustries. 

It gives me great pleasure, my dear brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of speaking a few minutes to this vast congrgation of Latter-day Saints. I am proud indeed to hear the reports that have been given and the testimonies that have been borne this morning by three presidents of missions, and to partake of the Spirit of this conference. I know they are interested in your sons, and in the great missionary work of the Church. I feel to say, thank God for them and their labors. 

Our enemies would very much appreciate the claim, if it were true, that many of our young people are ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Clirist. But in my travels among our people, and in coming in contact with the young people in our meetings, I can testify to you that instead of being ashamed of the great work, they are proud of the fact that they are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are proud of their fathers and of their mothers. I am not ashamed of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for I do know that it is the power of God unto salvation; and I hope I may never live long enough to be ashamed of the Gospel, or of the devotion that my father and my mother gave to this great work. I only hope that I shall have that same fidelity, that same love, and that same confidence in the work of God that they had; that I shall, at all times, have sufficient of the Spirit of God to enable me, if it became necessary, to give all on earth for its advancement, as I know that the father and mother who gave me life would have done any minute after they were baptized into this church. 

There are many things that the Apostles of the Church speak of at the iifferent quarterly conferences pertaining to the welfare of the people and properly so. As I visit the different sections of our State, and see prosperity on all hands, I thank our heavenly Father that the people are so well provided with comfortable homes, happy surroundings, and loving- children, and while I know that there is very little suffering among the Saints of God, yet, as I travel from one end of the state to the other and mingle with the people, I can plainly see in different localities that there are many natural advantages that are not made the best use of by our people. At the earnest request of the presidency of the St. George stake of Zion, I took a trip rcently through that stake for the purpose of seeing if the conditions.were favorable for the re-establishment of an industry by which a part of the woolen goods used by the southern people could be manufactured at Washington, Utan, This state had for its emblem the beehive, which means industry, frugality gathering for future need. Would that we all might incorporate its meaning into our lives. Tn years past that great aj ostle of home manufacture, President Brigham Young, taught very strongly from one end of the land to the other, the duty and principle of making what we wear and raising what we eat. You can go into many of our communities and you will find the result of his teachings in different kinds of factories and mills, but I am sorry to say that almost every woolen mill in the state is closed today, with the machinery not only lying idle, but going to rack and ruin. Then again we can go into the different counties of Utah and see hundreds of car loads of fruit rotting and going to waste. 

It seems to kip, for want of proper care and lack of means to preserve the same, we are neglecting one of the great cardinal principles of prosperity, that has been taught to us by President Young and all of his successors, that of loyalty to home manufactured goo:!*. The trouble is we have forgotten the great principle of co-operation by which the mill and factory in our early his were established. And why is this? I rather think that one of the causes is loss of confidence in one another's ability to make money in manufacturing institutions. Perhaps one reason is because there have been a few failures and a loss of means in some of these undertakings. But I believe that if the people today would be as loyal to the great principle of home manufacture as they were when these institutions were established, not only those which we have in our midst would be running, but many others would be started. If the men associated with the institutions that have been established in the past ir. different parts of Utah, would only get together, and if the men of means wculd join with them and furnish enough money to resuscitate these industries, and all work upon the principle of sustaining home institutions, I am satisfied, that we would grow in our material interests much faster than we have in the past. 

I also find in traveling around, that there is a lack of interest among the people in providing work for their children, and many of them are idle. I have noticed, too, that many of our young people are becoming professional idlers. If there is any one thing that, will bring trouble to the children of the Batter-day Saints more than another it is to raise them up in idleness; for an idle brain is the devil's workshop. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, we ought to provide some means of employment for our young people, and teach them in their youth to be industrious and avoid the crime of idleness. The proper time to correct this evil is now. Upon the great face of the world's time piece is only written one word, and that is NOW. I hope and trust that where we see the great blessings which our Heavenly Father showers upon the people going to waste upon this hand and upon the other, we will be interested enough to get together, and men who have been blessed of God with means, utilize their means in starting some kind of industry that will employ our young people. I know that if we will do this and the people be loyal  their support, numerous industries can be established and made a success. It is almost a shame to think of the number of factories that have, been started in Utah in the shape of woolen mills and only one running — a mill at Provo, running night and day, and ninety per cent of all its products going to eastern markets! It did not use to be that way, and it should not be now. Many of our people are restless, .and some of the younger men, and some of the older ones, too, are moving away in search of new homes, claiming lack of opportuntiy to make a living. I tell you that there axe just as good advantages and as many of them right within the borders of our own state, if they are only utilized, as you will find most anywhere in this country. Do not get discouraged, and do not leave your homes, but make use of the advantage? around you. I have seen lately many who have sold their homes to go to different localities, and they have spent most of the money in trying to get located, and now they are coming back to where they went from, not as wei. off as when they went, and without any home, and most of the means gone. 

I have in mind now many industries that could be started in different parts of the State, and should be by men who have the interest of the people at heart. I ask the leading men of our communities to take an interest in this particular direction, and see if they cannot find something to do for all our boys, and for the idle men, if there are any. I suggested the other day to the Commercial Club of Provo that it would be a very good thing for them to appoint a committee to visit every locality in Utah, and even beyond the borders of our own State, and see what was being done in other localities by way of manufacturing industies, and returning study the natural resources of our city, and see if they could not be converted into something that we must have and for which we are now sending our means out of the State. I believe it would be a good thing, whenever men travel from one place to another, to  of the successful manufacturing establishments, and perhaps they might find something that would be of advantage to the people where they are located. If these things are looked after, I believe greater prosperity will be brought to the people than they have enjoyed in the past. 

My brethren and sisters, I ask God's blessings upon us as a people, and upon all that we undertake to do in righteousness, that we may be successful. That His blessings may ever attend us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus'. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Arous, c , O ye Mortals." 

Eenediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph W. McMurrin of the seven presidents of Seventies. 



