Morning
07 10 1904


ELDER HUGH S. GOWANS, (President of Tooele Stake.) 

I feel very pleased, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of meeting with you in the general conference. To enjoy the society and fellowship of my  is inestimable. The association and fellowship of the Saints is all that I feel to live for; it is my joy, my happiness, my life. 

I l-epresent what is known as the Tooele Stake of Zion, located between the county of Salt Lake and the Great American Desert. The population of the stake is something over 3,000; and to give you a brief idea of the condition of the people I will here state that it is 22 years this month since I was chosen to preside over the Tooele stake. At that time the population was about the same as it is now. In 20 years there has been an increase of 159 souls in that stake. The question might be asked, why is this? The answer is, our young people have gone away to different parts of the country. The Cassia stake has been settled princi by people from Tooele Stake. We have had no particular inducements to offer for people to settle with us, like some of our northern stakes have, our resources have been so limited. But there is one feature that I feel pleased to report, and that is, during- all that time, although the increase of population has been so slight, the amount of tithing- paid by the people has been doubled. I take this as an evidence of an increase of faith on the part of the people, and possibly an increase of wealth also. The Tooele valley is a very beautiful one, but our water supply is quite limited, and we are not able to increase on that account. The land, however, is capable of much cultivation. An experiment farm was commenced there last year, and although I have not been to see the state fair yet, I am informed that the display from the Tooele experiment station exceeds anything in that line in the fair. This is a very gratifying report, considering that the exhibit is the result of what we understand of dry farming. We are living in comparative peace. We have mining camps in our Stake, and they furnish a good marTcet for the products of the farmer, and in this respect they are beneficial to the people. We have no factories or public works in our county; but I feel that the admonition given to us yesterday by -'resident Lyman, in regard to the establishment of canneries and other : n.nstries, was very good advice to the people of Tooele county; for, as in other places, we have not been prepared to take care of the blessings which God has bestowed upon us as much as we ought to have been. 

J rejoice very much to be with you, and to make this report of the Tooele Stake. I pray that we may be enabled to live in the front ranks of the Stakes of Zion, enjoying the light of the Spirit of the Lord, and living in harmony with the authorities that God has placed upon the ea.rth. "To be in harmony" should be the watchword of every Latter-day Saint. That God may -enable us to do so, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM BUDGE, (President of Bear Lake Stake.) My brethren and sisters: I am very much pleased to have the opportunity of representing the Bear Lake Stake, though that pleasure would be increased if I were certain that I could speak so that the congregation might hear. It is not very pleasant to sit and not be able to follow the remarks of the speaker. I do not know how interesting my report may be, neither am I certain that I can interest you at all in reporting a country like Bear Lake, after the many very pleasant reports we have heard from presidents who live in more favored localities. The name of Bear Lake has been with many people the occasion of a cold chill coming over them, they laboring under impressions which they have received from reports made of the valley in the earliest times. I believe that Bear Lake is the oldest organized stake in Idaho. We are living 6,000 feet above sea level, and it is naturally a cold, country in the winter. The winters have been long and the summers comparatively short, although, as I shall explain to you, there has been quite a change in the climate and in the length of the summer seasons, agreeable with the promises made by the leaders of the Church during their visits to that country. The first settlers went there in 1863, I believe, under the leadership of that noted pioneer and fatherly adviser, Apostle C. C. Rich. It was in the year 1870 that I was sent to labor in that country, and I have been there for 34 years, so I am well acquainted with the people and with their situation. One portion of the Bear Lake Stake has been taken from it and called Star Valley Stake, another portion has gone to the Woodruff Stake, and a small portion to one of the other Stakes in Idaho; but we now have, I believe, a larger population than we had before. Bear Lake has prospered, and the Church has prospered exceedingly in Idaho, for we now have ten Stakes of Zion in that State, and all the Stakes are growing and increasing in population, and doubtless in faith and good works. 

When I went to Bear Lake I found the people wrestling- with untoward conditions. The country was quite frosty. Sometimes in the summer, when they expected a return from their labors in the fields, they were disappointed, in consequence of the action of the frosts. Many hardships were endured, which it is not necessary for me to take up time to refer to particularly; but the situation of the people was such during the early years of settlement, that it was necessary to haul almost all they needed for their support from other places, chiefly from Cache valley, which entailed a great deal of labor. Yet the people, trusting in the Lord and in the promises of His servants, continued to work and to build up, and we now have occasion to thank God for the fulfillment of the predictions of His servants. We now can raise grain without much fear of loss. Sometimes in certain places the frost touches the vegetation, and occasionally does considerable damage, but on the whole we are confident about raising the grain that we need. We have been quite self-contained in that valley in consequence of our situation in disposing of our products. We also raise all kinds of common vegetables. We do not raise potatoes quite as large as some we have heard of, but they are large enough to be handled conveniently, and they are of excellent quality, as are the other vegetables that are raised there. We tried to raise fruit in the beginning, but the frost stripped the trees. We planted out more, — the frost took them; and so it continued until about 12 or 15 years ago, when we began to think about it a little more. President C. C. Rich used to advise us to get into that valley as soon as possible after the October conference lest we might be snowed out, and many who were out a little late had to take longer roads to get home in consequence, and I remember some companies being snowed out altogether. But now the people travel in and out a'lmost till Christmas, so that the sum has stretched out considerably,, and the winter is shortened probably six weeks or two months. Last winter we had more snow than we had for several winters, but some of the brethren traveled occasionally during the entire winter. 

When we speak of the favorable changes that have appeared in connection with many things, we are reminded by some people that such changes are common in all valleys after settlement, cultivation, building of houses, the making of so many fires, and so on- — as much as to say that tnere is nothing at all remarkable about these changes. Now, I have no disposition to say that changes of this kind are not brought about in this way, but it does not lessen in the least degree the thankfulness in my heart toward God for His goodness in bringing about the changes in any way He pleases. The Lord does His work among us in many ways. The means employed sometimes appear in part, and at other times they are not plain to us, yet we have a right to say that God has done it. It does not matter to a Saint how the Lord brings about changes in fulfillment of His declarations through His servants, so long as they come. Hence we acknowledge His hand in all things. There is one peculiarity to which I might refer to aid us in our talks upon this point. It snowed a great deal in that country in the beginning, much more than it does now, and every time after a snow a strong wind arose from the north, not so strong as those winds which used to blow occasionally near Farmington, but strong enough to blow the snow from the benches down upon the towns, and against the buildings and fences, sometimes covering up the fences completely. This probably gave rise to some extravagant stories about Bear Lake valley. Now, although the beginning of the cessation of those winds was not particularly noticed by us, yet after a time we did observe that the winds ceased, and now we have no such winds to contend with. These winds were a great hardship to the people and pro of much labor, the roads being filled up in a few hours, and people much inconvenienced by the snow being piled up against their houses. And now that these winds have actually ceased, how shall we account for it? We may admit the cultivation theory in reference to the changing of the climate, but what shall we say about the cessation of the winds? Why, the Lord has done this as He has done other things for His people. In thif case, however, we cannot make any reasonable explanation as to how it has been done. We now raise grain, and vegetation of every kind. It is a good hay country, and we are raising fruit which is as good, and I might say a great deal better than most of the fruit that is raised in these lower valleys; for we have no worms, and, what is better, if the testimony of an expert is to be taken, we are not likely to be troubled with them, as the altitude and climate are against the propagation of the pests, according to his statement. So we have fruit limited in quantity only by the efforts made to plant the trees. We have a glorious valley in the summer. We have many visitors in the summer time, and the old stories about the country are being forgotten in consequence of the good reports given by our friends who visit us in the summer time. Altogether we are doing fine; the Lord has blessed us and we acknowledge it. We have a fine lake in our valley— as beautiful a sheet of water as I have seen in some of the continental countries. The borders of the lake, though not improved much yet, are girded by the wild cottonwood tree, and in some parts it is a beautiful sight. The tired visitor may sit upon the golden sands of our lake, bathe his tired feet in the waters, if he is so disposed, and, reclining back under the scent of the sagebrush and the wild rose, may dream of happier days. 

The people of the Bear Lake stake feel exceedingly well. Our meetings are well attended. Our visitors from Salt Lake whom the Presidency kindly send us to attend our conferences and  meetings of a general character, understand that our people are good meeting attenders. The people pay their tithing so well that the Presiding Bishop says that we are in the first rank. So, take it all in all, we rejoice very much, and I believe I can say, judging from reports, that there are fewer of our people moving away from Bear Lake than from many other places. We rejoice in the work of the Lord. We uphold the authorities of the Church unanimously, and we are thankful for the goodness of our Heavenly Father to us as a people in the Bear Lake stake. 

As for myself, I have been in the Church for a long time, having embraced the Gospel in 1848. I have been honored with missions to different lands and among different peoples, and I have naturally made the acquaintance of the leading men of the Church; and I want to say to our stranger friends here that I have never seen nor heard of anything that has weakened my faith in the divinity of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have met with a great many of those authorities of the Church that are spoken disrespectfully about, but I repeat I have not seen or heard one thing to disturb my faith in this work with which I have been so long connected. 

May the blessings of God be multiplied upon the Latter-day Saints, and may great power be given to those who represent them at home and abroad, that the fulfillment of the predictions of the Almighty may speedily come to pass. This is my prayer and desire in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY, (President of Millard Stake) 

My brethren and sisters, it is with a degree of pleasure that I have the privilege of standing before you to represent the Millard Stake of Zion; and though I feel very timid I hope, if I may be blessed with the Spirit of the Lord, to be able to make a true report of the conditions of that Stake. On the twenty-first of next month it will be two years since I was called to take the position that was filled by my father for twenty-five years in the Millard Stake. It is one of the largest slakes geographically in this State, having the same boundary lines as Millard county. We have 11 organized wards, with a population of 6,000 souls, a little over 5,000 belonging to the Church. We live in peace with one another, and while we have a thousand people dwelling in our midst who do not belong to the Church, with very few exceptions they are honorable people and good citizens. While President Smith yesterday was giving the number in the Church who hold the Priesthood, I thought of the Millard Stake of Zion. Out of 5,000 members of the Church we have 1,000 bearing the Priesthood. Our Priesthood meetings, which are held monthly, are well attended, and they are among the most enjoyable meetings held in that Stake. We usually have a full attendance of our High Council and Bishops. We are united in our labors, and the people are a good people. The population of the Stake remains about stationary, and has done ever since I can remember — and I was born in Millard Stake. I feel in relation to the people of that Stake that the good are growing better, and many who have been careless and reckless are awakening to a realization of the 1 fact that Mormonism is worthy of investigation, and as a result of investigation our Mutual Improvement associations have never been in as good a condition as they are at present. In the Stake Mutual Improvement convention held last month there were over 300 interested workers present, and we had an enthusiastic and an enjoyable convention. In the 11 wards that we have, there are but three saloons, and, thanks be to the Lord, not one of them is conducted by a Latter-day Saint. Concerning the morality of the people, in the last four years I know of but one case of divorce among our people. The faith of the people is good, and they love the Lord. The authorities of the stake are united in their efforts. As to myself and counselors, we love one. an, we love our labors, and we are moderately well acquainted with the conditions of the people generally, being able to call all of them by name; and, knowing their lives and understanding their faithfulness, we love them. We are united in support of the general authorities of the Church. We live in a locality that, is barren in many parts for the lack of water, still there have been many predictions made concerning the development of the Millard Stake of Zion. We have faith in those predictions, but we are not content toidly wait for their fulfillment. As the Lord shall make manifest unto us what to do, we hope to labor until there shall not be any amount of water unutilized in the stake. We hope to see all available ground bro.ight under cultivation that can be made to produce.even without water, until a much larger population can be supported than at present. We know that this result will be brought about, for the servants of the Lord, filled with the spirit of inspiration, have made these predictions untous, and the Spirit of the Lord has testified unto us that the predictions were true and would be fulfilled. 

As to myself, I feel happy in the work of the Lord. I rejoice that I was born of goodly parents. I cannot recall a moment in my life when I doubted the divinity of this work. I have always looked upon the Authorities of this Church as being servants of the Lord. I can remember in my childhood when President Young: used to make his trips through the stakes. My father pointed him out to me as the servant of the Lord, and I looked upon him as a Prophet of God. From that day to this, I have looked upon the various Presidents of the Church as Prophets of the Lord, and I have felt to sustain them, not only by my faith and prayers, but by my works as the Lord should manifest unto me what there was for me to do. The Lord has given me a testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel. I know it is true, and I doubt not. When I was called upon a mission to the Netherlands and placed in one of the cities there, unable to speak a word  the language, I gazed into the faces of those people as I walked along, and, feeling that they were honest, a yearning desire filled my heart to be able to bear testimony unto them of the truthfulness of the Gospel. I felt that I was not an ordinary man, but that I was sent out as a messenger from the Lord; and being filled with that desire, and unable to speak the language, I studied and labored hard to become acquainted with the Dutch tongue, and on many occasions I fasted and prayed. There was a time when I was almost discouraged, and felt that I could not acquire that language, but upon one occasion the power of the Lord rested upon me, and I think I would be justified in mentioning the incident in this conference. I had learned from some Dutch brethren a few simple sentences, which enabled me to go around delivering tracts. As I delivered each tract I would say that it was a Latter-day Saint tract, and that I would call for it in a few days; but if the people wished to converse with me I could not understand them. One Friday, Brother B. G. Thatcher and I were out and gathered nearly every tract, leaving about 12 out. He was called to remain in the office at Rotterdam on the morning when this incident took place, and it occurred to me that inasmuch as I was able to ask for a tract, I might as well gather these tracts that were still out. The first house I went to, the lady opened the door, passed me the tract, and said, "Who are you?" I could understand that, and I had learned to say that I was a missionary, representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. She said, "Why didn't you say "Mormons?" I did not realize at the time what a change had taken place in my hearing through the power of the Lord, but I could understand every word that that lady spoke to me. She )said many vile things against thle Church, which I knew were false, and I was filled with a yearning desire to be able to speak to her, and refute the slanderous statements she made against an innocent people. I testify to you,  brethren and sisters, I did receive upon that occasion, through the power of the Lord, the gift of tongues sufficiently to bear testimony to the divinity of the work of God, and to defend an innocent people, so much so that the woman herself was impressed by the Spirit of the Lord, for she broke down in tears and said: "There may be bad people among the Latter-day Saints, but I know that you are a servant of the Lord." I mention this to show that though we may sometimes feel downcast and discouraged, the Lord will never forget His servants, and when they need His help He is always ready to help them. I bear testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel in the name of Jesus. Amen, 

ELDER A. H. SCHULTHESS 

(Of the Presidency of Liberty Stake). 

My dear brethren and sisters, with my brethren I feel very thankful for this oppotunity of attending our general conference. I regret, however, that the conditions of so many of our people at present are such as to prevent them from having this privilege; but the hope fills our hearts that a day will come when the people of God will be able to lay aside their temporal affairs for a few days and devote their time to the worship of the Lord in the conferences of His Church. I feel honored in being called to speak to you for a short time and to represent the Liberty Stake of Zion. Our stake wa3 organized on the 26th day of February, this year. It is one of the four new stakes which formerly constituted the Salt Lake stake. Our President, Elder Hugh J. Cannon, is at present on a mission, presiding over the Swiss and German mission, where he has been for the last 38 months. During his absence it falls to the lot of myself and fellow counselor to take cnarge of the affairs in the stake, and I can testify to you that while we feel our unworthiness in our positions we have experienced great joy in our labors among the people. Liberty stake embraces* eight wards, located in the southeastern, part of this city, with a total membership of about 5,600. I take pleasure in listening to the reports of the presidents of other stakes and in reading in the Deseret News reports of the various stake conferences held throughout Zion, and in doing so I notice quite a difference in our conditions. For instance, I have read that in some of the stakes it requires as much as from three to six days for the president to visit one of the wards in his stake. In our stake we can board an electric car at one end of the stake, and in less than 30 minutes can ride to the other end of the stake, making the round trip for 10 cents. If necessary, we can call a meeting of all the officers in our stake on 30 minutes notice and have all the brethren present, if they are not absent from the city. These conditions, I consider, are in our favor, and on this account more may be expected from us than from other stakes. 

I can say nothing but good of those with whom we are called to labor in the Liberty stake. Our Bishops and counselors are united among themselves, and with the presidency, and we feel to sustain one another. Thanks be to God, so far we have been able to work in perfect harmony. The High Councilors, the Bishops, the various officers in the Stake, are good, faithful men. The object of dividing the large Salt Lake Stake was that the people might toe looked after more thoroughly than was possible before, the Stake being so very large. We have already seen the advantages of this division. The people get closer together, and the officers can look after them better than was possible when the Stake was so large. Our meetings are better attended also. For example, at our last monthly Priesthood meeting we had a larger attendance, I believe, than we used to have when all the four Stakes were in one. The advantages of this division are also apparent in other ways. 

Our auxiliary organizations are doing a great work in assisting the Priesthood to look after the people. We have endeavored to explain to the Saints the importance of laboring with those who have grown weak in the faith, and I  pleasure in saying a good word for the Saints in this direction.for many of them have followed our advice and are doing a great deal of good in this way. Where they see a young man or young woman who is on dangerous 5 ground, or one who has grown cold in the faith, they have taken up an individual labor with them in love and kindness, and have endeavored to bring them into line with the Latter-day Saints who are keeping the commandments of God. Already we can see the results of their labors, and we rejoice therein. We feel that it is the mission of the Latter-day Saints to labor not only for the salvation of their own souls, but for the salvation of the whole human family. This was the mission of our Savior. His whole life was devoted to the salvation of mankind, and He died for the same. His disciples followed in His footsteps, and they devoted the greater part of their lives in bringing salvation to the people, and many of them lost their lives in this service. The same mission and duty has been placed upon the Latter-day Saints. It was the mission of our great Prophet Joseph Smith. It has been of his successors up to the present time. They have labored for the salvation of the whole human family. Why is it that this Church has nearly two thousand Elders out today preaching the Gospel? Because they are laboring for the salvation of man, carrying the glad tidings of great joy unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people. Why is it that we erect temples in the land of Zion? In order that we may labor for the salvation of the dead This is our mission, at home and abroad, and we should fulfill this duty to our neighbors and friends in the various wards and stakes where we reside. I can testify to you that there is great satisfaction in performing such labors. 

I" rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that this is the work of God, and not of man. In our Stake we desire to be united, and to sustain the leading brethern of the Church, for we know that they are men of God. We desire to lighten their burdens and to  their hands wherever we can, and to accomplish as much good as we possibly can, to the honor and glory of God and for the working out of our own salvation. May God bless us and help us to be faithful, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: 

"From afar, gracious Lord, Thou hast gathered Thy flock." 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

The Saints should seek to impress others with the truth of the Gospel— Obligations they are under in that regard. 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of being with you in attendance upon this conference. The condition of my health prevented me from being present at the April conference, and I have not been able of late to discharge in any great degree the duties and responsibilities of the calling under which I labor. But I am pleased to say to you today that my condition is very much improved, and I trust that my voice will be heard in the various stakes of Zion with the same activity in the immediate future as has characterized my labors in the past. 

I have rejoiced in the spirit of the conference. The considerate and thoughtful remarks of the Presidency yesterday, bearing upon our duties and obligations: the practical instructions that were given yesterday afternoon by Elder Lyman; the reports of our brethren who are ministering in that field in which we are so intensely interested — the work for the dead — all appealed to me very forcibly. I have also listened with interest to the remarks made by the presidents of stakes this morning, and I trust that their reports may be an inspiration to us who are convers'ant with the conditions of the people in the various sections where we live. I was more than pleased with the report of President Hinckley. The spirit of it especially struck my heart, when in speaking of the people who lived in his diocese he not only remembered the people of his own faith, but also those who werei not of his faith and he spoke of them in  respectful, considerate manner and bore witness to their good character. I believe that a remark of that kind, coming from the lips of a man of his standing, will bear fruit in the future in the overthrow of animosities and the awakening in men's minds of a spirit of fairness and justice to one another. I believe that the souls of the thousands of people who have made their homes in this inter-mountain region are as dear to our Heavenly Father as the souls of the thousands who are scattered abroad and who have not been made conversant with the work that we have to do. I trust that some remarks, made recently in one of the stake conferences by President Lyman, found lodgment in the hearts of those who were in attendance upon that service, wherein he impressed upon the minds of the Saints the sacredness of their obligation to endeavor to impress their neighbors with the truth of the gospel they themselves have received, and thus free themselves from the responsibility of the blood of their fellowmen. That obligation should lie very near our doors, and should be discharged thoughtfully and prudently by us. Not that we should seek to harass our neighbors by trying to force upon them our faith and doctrines; but in our associations with our fellow-men, in our business affairs, and in the discharge of the varied requirements that rest upon us all, we are brought into immediate contact with many men of fairness and of uprightness, some of whom perchance have no religious faith while many may be members of the various religious organizations, and it rests with us to discharge this obligation to these neighbors of ours. When President Lyman sprung the question as to how far we had gone in fulfilling this duty and seeking to impress upon the minds of our fellows the nature of the work so dear to ourselves, I was led to ask myself whether I had fairly, honestly and frankly discharged my duty in this respect. "When President Hinckley spoke in such a respectful manner of those not of his faith I was led to think that probably every President of a stake, every Bishop of a ward, conversant with the condition of the people in their midst, could reiterate his statement concerning their neighbors. I trust that we will not be unmindful of the fact that some men and women in our communities have received the Gospel after living in our midst. They have watched the lives of the people, have become impressed with the nature of the work, and have accepted of it. It is probable that sometimes we are too thoughtless in regard to our responsibility to these people. We mingle with them, week in and week out, transact business with them, and yet never presume to seek to bring to their understanding that faith so near to our own hearts. I believe that in these matters the possibilities of accomplishment in the future are very great, if we will but discharge our obligations to these men and women who have come here, without doubt, to better their condition, and to enjoy the privileges and blessings that are vouchsafed to us by the liberal government under which we live. One President of a stake, with his associates, has recently been considering this question and weighing the possibilities of a missionary work that shall be in keeping with the best interests of the Latter-day Saints as well as make its impress upon our brothers and sisters whose faith is not as our own. This can and should be done upon the basis of frankness and fairness, with no desire to crowd upon our fellonvmen that which is sacred to us, but in a way and manner that shall appeal to their thoughtful consideration, and cause them, while weighing the doctrines as presented by the religious organizations of the worlds to also consider and weigh the views and doctrines as presented to the human family in the mission and ministry of the Prophet of God in this last dispensation. I believe that there opens up for us a wonderful work in this direction, to be thoughtfully and prudently done. I know of no reason why my neighbors who are not of my faith and myself should be enemies, so long as I  their liberties and my own justly and rightly, and am willing that they should 'worship God according to the dictates of their own consciences, while insisting upon the enjoyment of that right for myself. I know of no reason why the men who are united together in their citizenship and in the upbuilding of a commonwealth should not be able to associate together in friendship, guarding with sacredness that which is dear to us all, respectful of one another's faith, courteous in our treatment of one another's family, and considerate in our regard for everything that tends "to the upbuilding and ennobling of man. 

The work of the ministry that has been entrusted to us requires the preaching of the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. The brother who preceded me has discharged that obligation in several lands himself; and.as another of the speakers remarked, he had been at work in the ministry since 1848. Another brother made the remark that he had labored to extend the work of tne Almighty in a foreign land, and had undergone hardship and trial in seeking to secure to himself a knowledge of the language. All this is but a part of the fulfillment of that sacred obligation which was declared necessary in the introduction of this dispensation of the fullness of times, namely, that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus was to be preached in all the world, and that a heavenly messenger would fly through the midst of heaven bearing this decree. To this end the brethren who have spoken this morning have discharged that obligation. In many instances our Elders have gone hungry, have been banished, and have been made outcasts in the countries to which they have gone to discharge that most sacred obligation. They were not enemies of their fellowmen; they were not implanting one theory that would lead a man to perpetrate a wrong; their warning voice was raised only in declaration of the primary principles of the Gospel as enunciated by the Redeemer of the world Himself. Their  was to impress upon the minds of men and women who had read the Scriptures, the sacredness of those writings, the character of the work laid down in them, and the necessity of the human family obeying the requirements of heaven, as taught by the Redeemer of the world to the young man who came to him asking what he should do in order to obtain eternal life. His instructions to that young man were clear and explicit: "Thou shalt do no murder, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother; and, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." The burden of the ministry of the servants of God in the day and age in which we live has been the fulfillment of that requirement. They have sought to lay the foundation of the Gospel in the souls of men upon the basis presented by the Redeemer in the cuf^e of Nicodemus. He pointed out that the course to pursue was to enter in at the door of the Gospel, be baptized of the water and of the spirit, and walk in harmony with the principles enunciated to the young man. Those who have addressed you during this conference have had part in the accomplishment of that ministry. Not one of these men has ever counseled a man to steal, or to lie, or to bear false witness against his neighbor, or to violate the honor of any man or woman, or to take the life of a fellow creature; but each of them, in the discharge of his sacred duty as a servant of God, has proclaimed the divine mission of the prophet of this dispensation, the visitation of heavenly messengers, and the restoration of the Gospel in its fullness and purity. Christ and Him crucified has been the theme dwelt upon by these Elders, and they have gone forth in the performance of this responsibility without money and without price. Not one living can of a truth say that any of these have counseled them to violate the laws of their country and to trample beneath the\ir feet the institutions of the state; for the articles of faith  the Latter-day Saints lay down the proposition that the members of this Church are to obey the laws of the country in which they live, to maintain the principles of liberty and justice, and to deal rightly and properly with their fellowmen. 

Standing before you, my brethren and sisters, as one of the witnesses of the mission of the Redeemer of the world, and of the restored truths of the Gospel given in the day and age in which we live, I bear this record in your presence today. I have grown from childhood to manhood in 'connection with these leading men of the Church of Christ. I knew Brigham Young as intimately as a boy could know his father. I knew John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff. Lorenzo Snow, in like manner. I have been as intimate with President Joseph F. Smith as kinsman could be. Standing here as a witness before God today, I solemnly declare that I have never received one item of instruction from these men and from the Council of the Apostles— those of the old school as well as those of the present school— that did not breathe words of life, words of encouragement, words of loyalty and devotion to every element of true manhood. Those who have violated the rules of morality have turned back upon the instructions of the authorities of the Church of Christ. Those who have stolen have disobeyed the instructions of their associates. And when I speak of these men as the leaders of this Church, I would speak the same of these Presidents of stakes with whom I have been conversant, and whom God has blessed and made great in the accomplishment of good. The requirement laid at our door is that he who is warned, let him warn his neighbor. It is upon us to fulfill that duty, to discharge that obligation, and to acquit ourselves fully of its responsibilities. I trust that the goodly words spoken by the brethren as affecting you who are Saints shall make its impress upon those who are not united with you in a knowledge of the truth, but to whom the seeds of the truth must be carried and they utilize their agency to accept or reject it. 

The Gospel is true. The angel of God spoken of by the Prophet of old has flown through the midst of heaven, "having the everlastingGospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people." Upon the head of this man (pointing to President Smith) and his associates today lies the responsibility of seeing to it that every child of our Father within reach shall hear that witness and accent or reject it. My witness before you is that God has spoken, that His truth is established, and that His Church is in the Avorld. God, the Father and His Son Jesus Christ have spoken to man in this dispensation. The key has been turned, and the work is in motion. It lies at our door to see to it that every child of our Father shall hear that warning voice, if within our power. While we discharge this obligation, we want to discharge our obligations of citizenship in justice and right, standing for the principles of liberty, in the interest of every other mortal as well as ourselves; for if we should seek to take away the liberties of any man, it would only result in the destruction of our own liberties. Those who plot and scheme for the overthrow and destruction of your liberty and mine are not alone the enemies of the Latter-day Saints, but they are the enemies of liberty, the enemies of God the Father, the enemies of justice and mercy, and in the due time of the Lord, it will come their turn to pay the penalty of outraged mercy and justice. 

May God bless you with His Spirit. May the feelings and sentiments of this conference go forth to the world, showing that here are indeed true Christians, who love Christ and the principles of righteousnef,^, and who propose to devote themselves to the accomplishment of our Father's purpose and to the blessing of His children to the utmost limit. God bless the good and noble among mankind. May He remember the statesmen of our land, that they may fulfill their destinies in , and that 'justice may characterize the land. God bless the people in this land who stand by the principles enunciated by the fathers of the republic, so that they may never be overthrown, but that beneath the flag and under the Constitution of the United States the right of conscience shall never be infringed, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah. 

Jesus --minted that "Prophet and Seer," 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Benediction was pronounced by Edwin Woolley, president of Kanab stake. 

