Afternoon
07 04 1916

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m.. President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The choir and congregation sang the hvmn. "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear." 

Elder German E. Ellsworth, offered the invocation. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Lo! the mighty God appearing." 

ELDER PHILIP H. HURST. (Of Juarez Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I can say that it is indeed a surprise unto me to be called to this position, to address the Latter-day Saints in the general conference of the Church. I feel my unworthiness, my inability to say anything unto you that would be edifying or instructive, unless the Lord will be with me and assist me upon this occasion. 

I want to say, in beginning, that I do know that this is the work of the Lord; that I have a testimony in regard to the truth of the Gospel we have received. I have been endeavoring to bear this testimony to all those I have come in contact with, and especially during the last three or four years, since my lot has been cast in the city of El Paso, among people who are not of our faith. I have endeavored to proclaim the Gospel unto them. A number of years ago our brethren endeavored to do missionary work in that. city, but at that time were unable to accomplish anything, on account of the prejudices of the people, but since our people have come out from Mexico, many from our colonies have resided in the city. We have become acquainted with manv of the people of El Paso, and have been enabled to remove a great deal of prejudice from their minds and hearts. At the present time we have some elders preaching upon the streets, and holding meetings, and the results of their labors have been very satisfactory. 

While T have not been in the colonies for - some months, I have been upon the border, and probably we have had more excitement immediately along the border than what our brethren have had in the colonies. The missionary work has been hindered to a certain extent during those trying times. I want to say, in regard to the preservation of our people, that men who are unbelievers, who do not have the faith that the Latter-day Saints have, admit that our people have been miraculously preserved. We all admit that. We believe that the Lord is handling- the nations of the earth, and we believe that He has raised up friends who have come to the assistance of our people in their time of need. All of you know, or have heard of, that great general and soldier, Hugh L. Scott, who was in command of the border patrol for a number of years. T have met this great man and talked with him, on a number of occasions, and he always wanted to talk about the Latter-day Saints; he wanted to know something about the Book of Mormon, the history of the American Indians. T made the General a present of a copy of the Look of Mormon, and he said he would read it, and he took it with him when he went to Washing-ton. He has said to me, repeatedly, "Mr. Hurst, I am a soldier, my orders at the present time are for me to stav on this side of the border, but if the time ever comes when we are ordered to go to the other side, let me know what I can do for your people and we will do it." In the present emergency, we feel, as I said before, that the Lord preserved our people in the colonies : the danger that they would be destroyed seemed threatening, but it  them before the United States forces arrived there. We do believe that, had they not have arrived those bandit marauders, would have returned, and massacred our people. It seemed a great contrast to me to what the conditions were many years ago. I remarked to our people in meeting, the other Sunday in El Paso, that it looked to me like a great change has come over the American people, in this great land of ours. You know that once there was an army hastening to these valleys of the mountains with the avowed purpose of destroying- the Latter-day Saints; but we recently had an example of American cavalry riding om forced marches across the plains and deserts of Mexico to preserve some of the Latter-day Saints. We feel that a great change has come over the people of this great nation in their feelings towards us. I want to say that, during our sojourn in El Paso, we have been able to make friends among the best men in that city, men of influence, representatives of the President of the United States and of the State Department. These men have worked unceasingly and untiringly for the safety and salvation of the Latterday Saints in the colonies of Mexico. A few have criticized and said, "We owe them nothing; they have paid no attention to the request of the United States Government, when they were asked to withdraw from Mexico." But many other men, greater than these, have said, "They are our own people, our own flesh and blood, and we must continue to work for their safety and preservation." 

None of us know what the end of this trouble will be in Mexico. 

You all know the revolutionary condition has continued now for over five years. At times it has seemed as though a stable government would be established among that people, but just as soon as that appeared about to be accomplished, we find them dividing again, turning against each other and starting new revolutions. It seems, to us who have been observers of this situation, that those people are unable to control the situation, and establish a government among themselves. The spirit of confidence in each other does not exist. It seems to us that the time must come, if it has not already come, when some power other than that which they possess will have to be exercised for the establishment of a stable government in that land, under which the people's lives will be protected, and their property and rights will not be molested. In looking over the situation of our people we find that, although our lives have been preserved, we have been robbed, plundered, and peeled by all factions, none of them have passed us by. I have wondered whether we would be able to hold on until peace is established. As far as this world's goods are concerned, it has been a losingproposition with us from the commencement' of this trouble until the present time. Our horses and wagons have been taken, our fences have been destroyed, and a number of our bouses have been burned. The implements that our people had new and in good condition, five years ago, are now worn out, and thev have not got the money with which to replace these implements. In talking with merchants in F.I Paso last Monday, some of our brethren asked for credit some who  wagons, mowing machines and other implements to harvest this year's. crop, and the question arises, who is going to stand good for these things? Of course, those of our people who have anything left, that they can sell, can dispose of it for real money, for American coin, but our people have but little left. While some of the bandit leaders have offered to pay in the past for the produce that they have taken, they have paid in money that was worth, perhaps, two cents on the dollar, practically nothing. At the present time, we feel that our people are safe in the colonies, as long as the United States forces are there we feel that they are amply protected. We do not know what the condition may be if those forces are withdrawn. 

My brethren and sisters. I do not wish to take up more time this afternoon. There are others who can edify you better than T can; but I want to say again, as I said in the beginning of my remarks, that I do know that the Gospel is true,' that the hand of the Lord is over this great latter-day work and over His people. We know that He is able to protect us, and provide for us. May we live so that we will be worthy of His blessings from day to day, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Meaning of immortality — Eternal life is salvation and glorification of the soul — Man's futile substitute for God's plan — Disbelief in Christ's atonement hinders salvation — The principles and ordinances of the Gospel must be obeyed. 

I have been honored, my brethren and sisters, with the privilege of addressing this large assembly of Latter-day Saints and our friends who have gathered with us, and while I occupy this position I desire to speak so that all can hear, and more than this, I desire to say something that is worth your hearing. In this I am sure you can very materially aid me. "The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much." It is also true that the prayers and faith of many righteous men and women availeth much with the Lord. I desire to feel that I am in the presence of the Lord, and that you are in His presence and that we are influenced by His presence and by His Spirit, for I desire to say those things only which the Lord would have me to say, on this occasion. 

I have thought to use as my text the word of the Lord to His servant Moses, as it is recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, first chapter, 39th verse, which reads as follows: "For behold, this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." This being the work and glory of the Lord, which I take to mean the all important work of the Lord, it is important that we analyze this expression, and obtain, if possible, a proper understanding of its meaning. 

The word immortal means not mortal; that is, not subject to the power of death. I would define immortality as being that state to which we attain in the progress of life when we haVe passed through death and the resurrection, the spirit and body being reunited and inseparably connected, constituting the soul of man prepared to receive a fulness of the glory of God. Immortality is a means to an end, the end being the accomplishment of man's eternal salvation and glory. 

In support of this statement, I call attention to the word of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph, as recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 93, verses 33 and 34, as follows : "For man is Spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receiveth a fulness of joy, and when separated, man can not receive a fulness of joy." Hence the importance of bringing about the immortality of man. 

The eternal life here referred to means something more than that man shall not cease to live. I read the word of the Lord from Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 14, verse 7, as follows : "And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end, you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God." The revelations of the Lord indicate to us the height, depth and grandeur of the glory of God to which the righteous may attain. Eternal life, as here used, being the greatest gift of God, must include a fulness of glory of God, in His celestial kingdom. 

The Lord uses the expressions "eternal life" and "salvation" synonomously (See Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 6:13): "If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God : for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation." My text, then, might be stated in other terms expressing the same meaning, such, for example, as the "resurrection and glorification of man," or what, for my purpose, I like better, "the saving of souls." The institution of the Gospel plan from the foundation of the world including the creation of the world, was accom with this end in view, the saving of souls. I am convinced that the Lord never planned nor engaged in a greater work than that of saving souls. All His works so far as we have any account, were accomplished with that end in view, and such is the magnitude and importance of the work in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged as instruments in the hands of the Lord, authorized and directed by Him. The Gospel, which has been revealed from heaven through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints as its vehicle, represents the means by which this great work is to be accomplished.  

It is a tremendous responsibility men assume when they presume to set aside the plan which the Lord has instituted for the saving of the souls of men, substituting therefor one of man's making. There are, however, thousands and millions who have so done. I think it was this class to whom the Lord referred in his expression contained in John 10:1, which reads as follows : "Verily, verily I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheep fold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber." 

There is another class whose responsibility is still greater, for they have not only accepted a substitute plan for the saving of souls, but they have adopted as their vocation the preaching and teaching of the same to their fellows, thus blinding their eyes to the simple truths of the Gospel, and prejudicing their minds against the true cause of God. I have authority for this statement in the words of the Apostle 

Paul as addressed Bo the Galatian Saints (Gal. 1 :8), "But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other Gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." 

I thank the Lord with all my soul that the light of the everlasting Gospel has come to me as He has revealed it, that my environment and teachings have been such that the Gospel has appealed to me, that I have accepted it, and so far obeyed it that I have learned of its truth. To those who will obey the Gospel it is one of salvation both in this life and in the life to come. Talk about Christianity in the world! If you can find a people who have not rejected Jesus Christ as the Son of God in the flesh, the Messiah, the Savior and Redeemer of the world, then we will not question their right to be called Christians; but, we do not acknowledge those as Christians who deny Him in part or whole of what He is. I understand that many, if not most, of the preachers of today, professed Christians, reject Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of the world, accepting Him only as a great philosopher or wise teacher. They have rejected the chief cornerstone of Christianity, and have undermined and rendered powerless for salvation their professed Christianity. Not so with the Latterday Saints. We realize that there is no virtue for salvation and exaltation outside of the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, our Savior. There is no other name under heaven by which man may obtain salvation. The whole plan of salvation is founded upon revelation and Jesus Christ; rejecting these there is no foundation left upon which to build nor to stand. The ordinances of the Gospel have virtue in them by reason of the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, and without it there would be no virtue in them for salvation. 

In this Gospel of Jesus Christ, revealed to earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, through which to accomplish the immortality and eternal life of man, there are certain indispensable principles and ordinances, such, for example, as faith, repentance, baptism, confirmation and the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, etc. Faith in God the eternal Father is an absolute necessity to salvation. The Apostle Paul presents this fact clearly to the Hebrews (Heb. 11:6), "But without faith it is impossible to please Him; for he that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." Do men hope to obtain salvation outside of His presence, that they can reject Him or believe Him to be but the shadow of one's self or of one's imagination ? I think that such doctrines are as pernicious as the doctrine that there is no God, and those who accept such doctrines place themselves in the condition of those of whom the Psalmist wrote, Psalms 14:1, "The fool hath said in his heart 'There is no God.' " God has given us sufficient evidence of His existence, His personality and attributes that unbelieving man is left without excuse. It is no less important that we accept Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of man, as has been already explained. 

Repentance is also a necessity. As long as we are mortals we. will have sins to be repented of, for sins not repented of will not be forgiven, and, in our sins unforgiven, we can  attain to salvation. But repentance means something more than to forsake our sins. If we have transgressed against others it is our duty to right the wrong done as far as lies in our power, and, if it so be that we can not fully do so, then he whom we have wronged is under obligation by commandment of the Lord to forgive us and the Lord will forgive us inasmuch as other conditions are satisfactory, for we must forgive others who have transgressed against us (Matt. 6: 15), "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your Father forgive your trespass." Another condition making our repentance perfect and effective is the water baptism or burial in the grave of water in likeness and typical of the burial and resurrection of the Lamb of God by which the sins are washed away. This ordinance of baptism by water is followed by the baptism of the Spirit or confirmation to membership in the Church of Christ, and the bestowal of the Holy Ghost by those who are duly authorized. We are then to go on to perfection, adding to our faith virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, chastity, etc. We are to seek after that which is virtuous, lovely, of good report and praiseworthy and obey all commandments of the Lord living by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. This indicates the method of securing salvation for our own souls. There is the further responsibility of laboring for the saving of the souls of others, by the preaching of the Gospel abroad, by laboring in the organizations of the Church where called, and by perceptive teaching wherever opportunity is afforded as well  preaching, always and wherever our lots may be cast, by the consistent exemplary life. If we have uppermost in our minds and hearts the saving of souls we will find ample opportunity of laboring to this end. 

I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, of the truth of these things which I do in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A contralto solo entitled, "Supplication" was sung by Sister Mamie F. Stark; it was written by S. B. Mitton. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Evidences of continued and accelerated progress of the Church — Important mission of the Church in Peace movement — The Saints an example of peace and righteousness — Vital questions now perplexing the world — Present great need of nations is just men to make and administer laws — 'Responsibility of the people to elect good men — The Church wants prohibition. 

The proceedings of this conference, my brethren and sisters, have been very gratifying to me as I believe they have to all of the Latterday Saints who have been present. The definite, unmistakable manner in which the fundamental doctrines .of the Church have been presented by the Presidency, the testimony to the divinity of the work which has been borne by the presiding authorities of the Church and our brethren who have addressed us, the reports made to us in regard to the development and progress of the Church during the past fourteen years have all been very gratifying indeed to me, and T think ought to put at rest any doubt, if doubt there is, or has been, either in the Church  out of it, as to its development, its progress, its stability. 

I have been thinking that if comparative figures were available, it would be seen that since the organization of the Church, eighty-six years ago until today, development has been consistent and constant, that from year to year the Church has gained greater strength, greater prestige, and that greater faith has come to the people as the years have passed. I have been asking myself the question, what will the next fifteen years of the history of the Church develop? Where will we be, what will be our numbers, what will be our increased influence in the world, what progress will the Church of Christ have made? I look forward with optimism because I believe that, just as from year to year there has been greater development, just as during the fourteen years of the history of the Church, which have been reviewed, its progress has been greater comparatively, perhaps, than at anyother period of its history, so in the future will there be increased development. This is the Lord's work and is in the world to prevail, to become better understood and to gain greater influence for good among the people. 

T have been thinking if we could confine ourselves to this environment, if we could always be together, if we could always enjoy the spirit of testimony and assurance as the Lord gives it to us in these conferences, we ought to be a very happy, and contented, and satisfied people, and I believe that we are as a rule. But we go out from these conferences, and find ourselves in the world a very small part of the world, but nevertheless, a very important part of it, because the work of the Lord is not confined to the state of Utah; it is not confined to these United States; it is a world work, and consequently it must be vitally interested in world conditions, and its influence and power must be exercised in the affairs of the world if its destiny is to be accomplished. So as I have thought of the peace which prevails at home, of the satisfactorycondition of the Church and the comparatively satisfactory condition of our country compared with other countries of the world, I reach the conclusion that our work is not by any means accomplished. It is just beginning, the influence that we expect to attain, the power of the Gospel for good, the establishment of peace and order in the 'religious and the civil world, for we cannot separate them, is a mission that has tremendous possibilities. Perhaps I should not say possibilities, but tremendous certainty before it. 

I have been thinking, while sitting here, of the words of Paul. Some of his words have been quoted this afternoon. He wrote, you know, to Timothy whom he addressed as his son, one who had accepted the truth just as we have accepted it. The spirit of those epistles, his whole admonition to Timothy was that he should continue devoted to the Lord, that he should retain the faith, never wavering; that he should remember the law of the Lord which he had pledged himself to keep and observe; that he should remember to honor and uphold the law of the land; and being devoted to these doctrines himself, admonish all other men and women to observe them. That he should teach men to keep the commandments of the 

Lord; that he should teach them to be industrious, providing for their own families, avoiding extravagance; that he should teach women to be modest in their apparel, not adorning themselves extravagantly. That he should teach the poor to be obedient and acknowledge God in their poverty, and the rich to seek righteousness rather than riches, admonishing them that the love of money was the root of all evil, but that if they acquired riches they must acknowledge God in it and give Him the credit. He told him that these things must be taught in the Church in order that men's feet might be firmly established in the truth; for he bore witness that the time would come, which he called the last days, when men would be lovers of their ownselves, rather than lovers of God; they would be covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemous, disobedient, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness but denying the power thereof. From all such turn away, for such people he says, are ever learning yet never able to come to a knowledge of the truth. Comparing the condition of the Church with the condition which prevails in the world generally, I thought of these words of the apostle-prophet. Do you know, my brethren and sisters,, how fruitless, in acomplishment have been the teachings of modern Christianity? The Christian world is engaged in deadly strife, nation arrayed against nation, people against people. They have taken up the sword one against the other, are  each other, and yet professing to be followers of the Redeemer of the world, all having the Bible, all having the word of the Lord as it is contained here in these scriptures, and yet are engaged in the most heartless and bloody war the world has ever known, in modern times at least. 

While Brother Grant was quoting statistics this morning I thought of, and during the noon hour copied from remarks made in the British Parliament, just a few days ago, by the Premier of England, these facts, that the European War is costing Great Britain alone twentyfive millions of dollars every day, or nine billion, one hundred twentyfive million dollars a year — figures that are staggering, almost beyond our comprehension. Statesmen in that country, and not in that country alone, for the very same question is being asked here in the United States, are asking what can we do to be saved? It is not so much spiritual salvation that they are asking for, but to save ourselves from ourselves, for they realize that this dissipation and waste in the wealth of the world cannot long continue, to say nothing of the waste in human life and human sacrifice which is being made. So these statesmen in England begin to look around for means of retrenchment. The English people are warned against extravagance, they are warned against needless expenditures; and among other things, and one of the most import-, ant things to which their attention is being called, is the fact that in that country every year there is expended for strong drink and narcotics, that might better be done without, the tremendous sum of five hundred fifty millions of dol, or half a billion dollars every year. 

We are not asking in the United States, so directly, what we may do to be saved, but we are asking what can we do to perpetuate existing conditions ? Can we save ourselves from this world war? Will we be attacked? Will our resources be too dissipated and wasted? Men advocate greater navies, greater armies, stronger fortifications, in order that the God-given principles of liberty that exist in the United States, as they exist in no other part of the world, may be maintained and this heritage of our fathers be perpetuated. They are vital questions, questions that are before the world. They are before us and we cannot escape nor shirk them. Now there must be a cause for this condition, and a remedy, and I take it for granted that if I see, or think I see the cause, and if I see or think I see the remedy, it is not only my privilege but my duty to say so. I asked myself the question, the first day of this conference, in what does the strength of the Church consist? And the answer very readily came to me — in the first place it is the work of the Lord restored to the earth in the dispensation in which we live, divinely established through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith; the Gospel in its fulness has come to us. We understand it, we know that the laws and ordinances, of the Church are perfect, but I thought to myself, except those laws and ordinances are administered in righteousness, by trustworthy men, they amount to nothing. We may have the word of the Lord. We may profess righteousness, we may know His will, but if the will of the Lord is not manifest in our works. works being the expression of faith, they amount to nothing. I know that you could begin at the very head of the Church, and go down through all these quorums, to the presidents of stakes, the members of high councils, the bishops of wards, those who preside over the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and you will find that every man of them are selected with the greatest care, because of their integrity, and integrity expresses it all. If a man profess faith in God and has integrity, he will adhere to God's commandments; and you will find in the Church that these are clean men, devoted men. You cannot find an immoral man among them, not one. You cannot find an intemperate man amon»' them, you cannot find a man whose word is not to be relied upon, you cannot find a man who is a hypocrite, who professes religion and does not exemplify it in his life; and that constitutes the strength of the Church, the strength of the men who are in it and who control its affairs. There can be no strength in the Church, there can be no strength in the state, except that condition shall prevail, no matter what the constitutional law of the land may be. 

They have just as good a constitution in Mexico as we have in the United States, but there has never been men there to execute it. They have perverted the laws; men have transgressed the law of God, changed the ordinances of the Church, and broken the everlasting covenant, while they profess to speak in the name of the Lord, so have men there perverted the just laws that have been written into the statute books by their fathers, until anarchy and confusion pre. Now, in the scripture that I have read, Paul said the conditions referred to there would come in the last days. The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph, "In the last days, even now, the day in which I am beginning my work, the angels of the Lord stand ready constantly crying to Him to be permitted to go out and reap down the world, for the harvest is ripe." So we are living in the last days. Do you need to be told that men manifesting in their lives the condition referred to by Paul exist? We come in contact with them wherever we go, and so I say — and I have little fear of successful contradiction — that the condition of confusion that exists in the world, both in the religious and in the civil world, is the result of the administration of the affairs of the church, and of the state by men who have departed from the way of the Lord. They are not men of faith, they take honor to themselves, they do not give Him the credit. They misinterpret the word of the Lord, because to properly interpret it would defeat their purposes. 

Now, what is the remedy? Our Church needs no present remedy because it adheres to the word of the Lord, as I have borne witness to you. The responsibility of calling these men to conduct its affairs rests with the presiding authorities of the Church. Every one of these men know how they have been catechised, how their lives have been scrutinized and criticised before they are called to responsible positions, and they know that they must pass successfully that criticism if they are selected and sustained as representatives of the Lord's work and that if one of them should cease to be a man of  and character, no matter who he may be, one of us or one of them, the minute we depart from the way of the Lord, we lose our place. The minute we forget the obligation which rests upon us in His service, no matter what may have been our calling, the moment we place our personal affairs before the affairs of the kingdom, the minute we seek to gratify our own ambition or to accomplish our own selfish purposes through the influences of the priesthood, the Lord has told us that we lose the power that He has given us, and amen to the priesthood or authority of that man. He cannot be an immoral or wicked man and hold his place in the Church. Just as long as that condition continues, the Church is absolutely safe. 

The state needs the very same thing. 1 am going to assume to say that the one thing in the world that is needed today, the one great preparedness that the world needs is the men — men of integrity, men of faith, men of economy, men of industry, men who will control and manage your public affairs as you manage and control your private affairs, men selected by the voice of the people. 

If conditions of confusion exist in the world I always look to the word of the Lord for a remedy, because I believe in it, I believe in it as He gave it to His people anciently, I believe in it as He revealed it to us through His prophet in this dispensation, I believe in it as it comes to us through living oracles of God who declare His word to us in the day in which we live. Tf the word of the Lord is to be depended upon the safety and development and welfare of the people of all nations depends upon the  of good men, and honest men, and righteous men to represent them in public affairs. 

How are you going to separate the church from the state ? The state controls the church absolutely, controls your property, controls your lives. It takes your property from you if it wishes, it presses you into service, it declares war or makes peace and you cannot avoid it, however much you may desire, and however much we may claim that we are independent, that what we have belongs to us. After all the finality is that the state controls us. Is it necessary or important, then, that good men administer public affairs, trustworthy men ? It seems to me that it is; not only necessary, but absolutely indispensable, and that is the reason I am calling your attention to it. There can be no peace, there can be no perpetuity of the institutions of this country without it, there can be no proper development in this state of ours without it. 

I don't know that I need take time to read it to you, but here, in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord tells us that in order that these conditions may be maintained it is our duty to seek out good men, and wise men and just men to control our civil affairs. I want to put emphasis on these words "Seek out." It seems to me that it has almost come to a point when, instead of seeking out men to serve us, we sit suplinely down and let the men seek the office and hunt their way in. A man said to me the other day, "I have been approached and asked to run for governor. I have been told that if I can put up ten thousand dollars I will have a good chance to be elected." That kind of politics is dangerous. Men ought to be sought out by the people. Do you know what the Lord said to the Nephites who lived upon this continent of ours, and who were destroyed because of the very forces to which I am referring? Mosiah said, when they would have elected him king, that it was not wise, nor proper that a king should be elected among them, but rather he said let men be chosen by the voice of the people to frame laws, and administer them. It was done, and they administered the law in righteousness. For sixty years there was peace but at the end of that time there came an element into the politics of the nation which, under the very same laws, the very same constitution, so ingratiated themselves into the hearts of the people that the majority voted for wicked men instead of good ones, and the historian bears record that in the beginning of that sixtieth year, when the majority of the people accepted wicked men as their chief judges and rulers, their dissolution and destruction commenced. 

So it is going to continue to be in all nations, and I wanted to sound this note of warning. Men who do the will of the people should be sought for office. Have I had any reason to doubt that the will of the people will be done, or has been done by men that you have elected to office, I think you only need to review the history of the last six years for an answer to this question. In a congregation similar to this the Presidency of the Church, the presiding authorities of the Church, expressed themselves clearly and unmistakably upon a great issue which was before the people, and we voted here to sustain that issue. The words were , and have gone out to the world, and repeatedly you have sent men up here who absolutely ignored it, ignored your will, for I believe it was the will of the majority. Who was responsible for it? We don't want you to hold us responsible. We do not elect legislators. You who hold the franchise in this state are responsible and if you don't want good laws, if you want this state to continue to stand abashed and humiliated among its neighbors, if you want it to continue to sustain the two most pernicious influences that are at work today in the world for the destruction of your sons and daughters, go on sending up men that will vote for liquor, for open saloons, and with them for houses of prostitution, and it won't be very long till you will get it. I tell you that you must control it, you must subject it to your will, or it will subject you to its will. 

I do not want to be misunderstood on this question. If you are like those people to whom I have referred, if the majority want a wicked man, a man who will disregard your will send him up; but do not be deceived; in the words of Rudyard Kipling, "Do not allow knaves to twist the truth men utter to make traps for foolish men and women," and lead them to believe that truth is error, and error truth; but exercise your judgment, with the Spirit of the Lord to direct you, and take this matter in hand and control it. There has been no change of policy so far as the Church is concerned upon that great question of prohibition. It stands right where it did in the beginning. We are for it and want it. 

God bless vou, my brethren and , in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

Testimony that the Lord is pleased with His Church officials — Duty of Church members to marry in the Temple — Man and wife should be of same religious faith — Observance of Word of Wisdom enjoined — Wonders of sound transmission — Blessings invoked upon the Church and its members. 

My brethren and sisters, I am grateful for the privilege of standing before you for a few moments. I know that this is the work of the Lord, and I am very grateful to Him for the experiences I have received in His service during my visits throughout the Stakes of Zion; I have visited nearly all of them during the last three and a half years. I have made a number of observations, and have learned that the Lord is pleased with those who preside over the Church, those whom He has honored to hold responsible positions, who have been referred to in this conference as the General Authorities of the Church, including the presidencies of stakes of Zion, high councilors, the bishoprics of wards, and many others who bear the Holy Priesthood. This is my testimony, the Spirit of the Lord is with them wherever they are called to labor, even from the greatest down to the least. 

The blessings of the Lord are with this people, yet in spite of this condition there are a few things existing in our midst with which the Lord is not pleased. I have noticed this particularly among some of our young people. Our young people are choice, they are the sons and  of Israel, the chosen blood of Ephraim, upon whom responsibility rests in this age. The thing to which I specially refer that is not pleasing in the sight of the Lord, nor to our faithful fathers and mothers in Israel, is the fact that too many of our boys and girls, choice young men and women, are not availing themselves of the blessings of the Lord as administered in the Holy Temples. To the Latterday Saints, the Lord has given His law, which provides that if they abide not by it, there will come a time when there will be weeping and wailing, distress and sorrow, and we do not have to wait until after death, either, because we see these conditions in this life, because of our disobedience, and because of the fact that altogether too many of our young people, when they marry, accept the laws of the land only, and not the laws of God, both of which are legal and lawful as far as this life is concerned, but only the laws of God are valid after death. This conduct on the part of many of our young people, to marry outside the Temples, or to marry those not of their own faith is not pleasing in the sight of the Lord. I counsel my brothers and sisters, particularly those who are born and raised in the Church, to avail themselves of the blessings of the House of the Lord; and, if they are not now prepared to do this, that they humble themselves and repent, and prepare to live worthy of the teachings of their faithful parents. 

Very much has been said in this conference about the Word of Wisdom. I believe that the time has passed when the Lord will look upon us as a people, or as individuals, and, as was said anciently, will wink at our failings and weaknesses. I believe that the Lord expects the youths of Israel today to live clean and pure lives, and leave alone the things which He has said are not good for us. My exhortation to the youths of Israel today, and to the parents in Israel, that we should obey the laws of the Lord, and abstain from the things which He has said are not good for us, repent of our present failings, and live hereafter in accordance with the laws of God. Let the youths of Israel secure their blessings in the House of the Lord, that their future generations may not condemn and censure them for having neglected their privileges as fathers and mothers. 

I am thankul for the blessings of the House of the Lord, and I thank the Lord for my present standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know that the Lord lives and that He will hear and answer our prayers. As a people, our prayers will be answered if we will humble ourselves and call upon the Lord in faith. We are living in an age when developments in the scientific world are bringing forth many valuable lessons. There are many good men and women in the world who do not humble themselves in prayer because they cannot see and understand the philosophy of it, they cannot reason it out in their own minds. Some of those who possess bright minds have invented and manufactured apparatus with which they can send the human voice across the continent, or ocean, thousands of miles, even without the use of wires, but yet individuals of such intellectual ability do not humble themselves sufficiently to admit that in the human mind there is an apparatus which has the power, if operated in obedience to  laws of God, to send the human voice into the heavens. This is a force which the world's scientists do not understand at present; but, as Latter-day Saints, we have been praying to our Father in heaven for many years, and have learned that our prayers will be answered as long as we keep our minds in tune with the Spirit of the Lord. The key-note to it all is humility and faith. 1 pray that the Lord will bless us with faith to understand and appreciate the plainness of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and render obedience to it. May we comprehend the revelations, live by them, and teach them to our children that they also may live by them. May the youths of Israel be valiant in defense of the truth and live worthy to receive the promised blessings. 

By virtue of my calling, I bless this people, the Latter-day Saints in all the world. May God bless all Israel; bless the choice youths of Israel that they may have confidence in their parents' teachings, and listen to them with honor and respect. May we not turn away from sacred things, and laugh or scoff at them, but may we have in our minds respect and reverence for sacred things and sacred rites, that the Lord may not withhold His blesssings from us. I pray the blessings of the Lord upon you, and upon the Church from first to last, all the faithful in the House of Israel, gathered and scattered, that the time may speedily come, my brethren and sisters, when the purposes of the Lord shall be accomplished in the earth. May we think seriously of the sacred things of life, and not turn away from the laws of God nor the blessings promised to the children of Israel in  the last days. I pray our Father's blessings upon us all in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"God bless our mountain home." 

Sarah L. Wood, James Moncarr and the choir. 

Elder Rey L. Pratt offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until SunTHIRD DAY. 


