Overflow
09 04 1916

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m. The services were presided over by Elder George Albert Smith; and the Forest Dale. Waterloo, and Richards ward choirs, combined, furnished the music. 

The hymn, "O awake! my slumb'ring minstrel/ 'was sung by the choirs. 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder George C. Lambert. 

The choirs sang the hymn, "Ye simple souls who stray." 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President Northern States Mission.) 

I am very grateful for the privilege I have this morning, in meeting with you to worship the Lord in our conference. I have no wisdom of my own with which to enlighten you, except I become a medium in the hands of the Lord through which His Spirit may prompt me to say something that will be good for our souls. I rejoice in the testimony I have of the Gospel, and as I listen to the testimonies of my brethren, and hear their declarations of its restoration, my whole being warms, and I rejoice that I also am found worthy to possess a testimony, and to be numbered with men and women whose hearts are set on righteousness and the salvation of our Father's children. 

The testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the coming of the Father and the Son grows more wonderful to me all the time. Likewise the testimonv concerning the visit of Moroni and the great mission of the Rook of Mormon. I do not know of any book that has ever come forth in the earth that has so many evidences and so many testimonies concerning its truthfulness. The Angel Moroni came and instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the whereabouts of the plates upon which the P>ook of Mormon was written, and the circumstances connected with its coming forth. Joseph Smith the Prophet tells us the events connected with its coming forth, and declared that he translated the writings on the plates bv the gift and power of God. We have three witnesses who likewise declare that thev, in the presence of an holy angel, handle 1 the plates and heard a voice from heaven, affirming the truth of Joseph Smith's words, that the plates had been translated by the gift and power of God, a testimony that they could never afterward deny. Eight other witnesses also signed their names in testimony concerning the plates, and their belief in the truthfulness of this book. 

The first writer in the Book of Mormon, Nephi, tells us that it is a true and faithful record. The last  in the Book of Mormon testifies, in like manner, with a promise that all who read it with a sincere heart may know of its truth, for the Father will declare it unto them by the power of His Spirit. This vast assemblage of people, together with all other Latter-day Saints, bear solemn testimony that they have received a witness in their souls concerning the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon. 

My humble testimony to you and all the world is that the Book of Mormon is true. Along with the witness in my soul, the Lord has blessed me with inspiration, akin to revelation, concerning the important part the Book of Mormon should plav in the conversion of the world. The Bible has been scattered throughout the earth, and all nations who have received it are now called Christian nations. The Bible has been preceded, and accompanied, and followed by stories concerning the great characters named therein, and the hand dealings of God with His people. I believe the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, the depicted lives of its leading characters, and the faith-promoting incidents recorded therein, should find place in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. I believe they should be well prepared to narrate those stories and tell them as well as the Christian missionaries tell the story of Adam and Eve, of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, of Joseph, and Daniel, and the three Hebrew children, together with the sacred history of Mary and her Divinely begotten son, Jesus, and His life ministry and miracles. 

In my missionary experience I have found that people who are converted through reading the Book of Mormon, are solid in the faith, their  seems to be planted firmly upon the rock of revelation. I was told today that in war-stricken Europe, where the people are left much alone, those who are converts to the Book of Mormon are not falling away from the faith. Within the past year numbers of families have sent for the elders to baptize them, who have read no other literature, or received no other instructions save that which they found within the lids of the Book of Mormon. 

I am reminded that the missionaries who were sent out in the early years of the Church, had no other literature but the Book of Mormon, and this book, together with the burning 1 testimony in their hearts concerning its truthfulness, and the wonderful way in which it came forth, was so powerful that it brought the honest in heart into the Church by hundred's. The character of these early converts is a strong testimony that there is no hetter missionary book. As years went by, smaller books and tracts were written, many hundreds of thousands distributed, but T do not believe they have had the same effect as the Book of Mormon. In the Northern States mission, we have sought, diligently, for twelve years, to distribute the Book of Mormon, exerting every effort in our power to place it in the hands of the people, that it might fulfil its mission in connection with the Bible in bringing the world to Christ. The distribution of the Bible has made Christian nations, so the distribution of the Book of Mormon amalgamates the Latter-day Saints, with such nations. There is no more powerful record written concerning Jesus the Christ, no more beautiful stories of blessings following faith in God, and no  explanation of the plan of salvation found than that recorded in the Book of Mormon. 

I rejoice in the testimony I have received from our Heavenly Father concerning the Book of Mormon. In listening to the testimony of President Joseph F. Smith, at the beginning of this conference, wherein he said he felt like he stood in the presence of the Lord, my mind immediately went to the time when the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the woods of Palmyra, as a boy, stood in the presence of the Lord and His Son Jesus Christ, and how He was almost consumed as it were, . with the influence of their presence. President Joseph F. Smith made the Latter-day Saints feel, during his remarks, that he was standing in the presence of Cod, our Father, and we all rejoiced in the power and spirit of his testimony. The early missionaries of the Church felt much the same way. Some of them had stood in the presence of angels, or in the presence of men who had. They had felt the burning influence of the Spirit that had accompanied the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I bear witness to you that every elder who has ever come to the Northern States Mission, and has sought, with all his heart, to place the Book of Mormon in the hands of the people, has been made bigger and better than those who have delivered it doubtingly. The Christian world did not particularly want the Bible when it first came to them, neither did they sanction all the movements that were put on foot to scatter it abroad in the world. The Christian missionaries were not received with open arms; but they have persisted until the Bible can be found in almost every home in almost all nations of the earth; it can be found in hotels, upon railroad trains, in stations and everywhere that men and women are wont to congregate. I believe the Book of Mormon should follow the Bible, for in the Book of Mormon is found the more simple testimony, and a plainer explanation of the doctrines of salvation, accompanied by a spirit that finds lodgement in the hearts of the honest seekers after truth. 

While we have not neglected to bear our testimony in a personal way, nor failed to seek entrance to the homes of the people, yet we have kept uppermost in our minds the distribution of the word of God as found in the inspired record called the Book of Mormon. We have encouraged our elders to read it when they are feeling blue, or homesick, or discouraged, or in doubt, for they will thereby be comforted, their faith increased, and their courage to face the world be strengthened. 

My brothers and sisters, I would like to leave this admonition with you, that you go home and become better acquainted with the faithpromoting stories of the Book of Mormon, with the strength of character of its prophets, and the wonderful doctrines of salvation that it teaches. Teach your children to relate the stories found therein as they hear and tell those found in the Bible. I believe that the missionaries, and all our young men and our old men; should know the stories found in the Book of Mormon that inspire faith in our hearts, as well as we know the Bible stories. They are beautiful, and faith-promoting. We ought to learn  tell them that the world may know them, for the knowledge of the world has not come to them so much by reading the Bible, as it has come to them by the stories that have been told, by the sermons that have been preached from the Bible. The knowledge of the Book of Mormon will spread in the earth the same way, if we will learn to tell the stories found therein. 

We have sought to establish the Book of Mormon in the homes of people by selling or loaning it to them and pointing out to them the good things found therein. On our first visit we leave a book and point to one or two good things; then go again and turn down a few other cornets of the leaves until we have maybe 25 or more places thus marked in the book. Just as soon as we can induce the people to read two or three places in the Book of Mormon, they will not permit that book to leave their home. We hope, in time, they will learn to value it as thev do the Bible, and value the Bible more than they do today. 

The Book of Mormon, has, to some extent, changed the thought of the religious world. They are beginningto reverence Adam as they should, and no longer consign unbaptized infants to eternal damnation. Easter sermons have been so modified that you can follow the very language of Alma in some of the easter sermons of the Christian ministers of todav. That has come about, possibly, bv a few copying some of the sayings of Alma, and others repeating it without knowing its source. If we will learn to appreciate the value of the doctrines contained in the Book of Mormon, and proclaim them to the world, thev will become uncon part of the doctrines of the world. 

I rejoice in the testimony of my brethren and the spirit of civic righteousness that I feel is spreading over this state. The world had no revelation concerning the word of wisdom which condemns the use of liquor and tobacco, but they are fast driving those evil things from their midst. In one or two of the states in the Northern States Mission you do not see cigarette smoking. I have been at times in several cities of 350,000 people, and never saw a man or a boy with a cigarette. I came here and met them on every side smoking cigaretts and yet the Lord told us more than two generations ago, that it was not for man. We have states in which there are no saloons, and they are praying there will be no state with saloons. When the saloon was banished from the state of Iowa, the 1st day of January, 1916, there was a great exodus from that state. Not one of you would have followed the crowd or desired habitation where they dwell. On the other hand you would have been glad to have followed the crowd that came in when the state was freed from the influences of liquor. Every decent person desired to live in Chicago and eastern cities in the prohibition districts. The homes are better, the surroundings are better, the people are better. Sometimes we elders have to bow our heads when people say. "Why do you people in Utah, who have the balance power, permit saloons and cigarettes" When T see states and nations leading out in these things, I am reminded of the scripture wherein it says the "children of the world are wiser in their  than the children of light." 

May God help us to faithfully live the first principles of salvation, inspire us with the spirit of the Book of Mormon, and bring back to us the spirit of communion with angels, for they are willing to come today to all who serve the Lord, and court their influence. Many elders have had their eyes opened, and have stood in the presence of holy messengers who have been sent to help them in their ministry. I think that the Latter-day Saints of all people in the world, ought to understand that they are children of God, and live according to His ways. Follow Him, and cast out those evil things that destroy peace and happiness, and drag men down to the level of the beast. 

May God help us, my brothers and sisters, to save our young men, and women, that they may believe the spirit and testimony of the angels of God, who came to the Prophet Joseph and accept the testimony of the Book of Mormon, and the doctrines that it teaches, that our light may be the light of a people set upon a hill. May we be leaders instead of followers of darkened Russia in casting out the liquor evil. May we be, as God has designed, real leaders, and a real light to the world, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President Eastern States Mission.) 

My heart was touched in listening to the testimony of our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith, in the opening session of our conference, when he made that statement, very feelingly, that we stood in the presence of God, and that the eyes of great, good men who have lived upon the earth were upon us. I thought then, and have thought since, that the spirit of this conference is turning the hearts of the Latter-day Saints toward that personage whom we worship, as our Heavenly Father, and our God. Jesus Christ said in His reconciliatory prayer, which was offered up in the olive garden of Gethsemane, that "This is life eternal, to know thee the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent," and if it is life eternal to know God as He is, then I consider it a vital question affecting the welfare of every son and daughter of God. My mind goes back to an ancient incident found in the 18th chapter of First Kings : 

"And it came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? And he answered, I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Baalim. Now, therefore, send and gather to me all Israel unto the mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezabel's table. So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together unto Mount Carmel. And Eliiah came unto all the people, and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? Tf the Lord be God, follow Him; but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered not a word." 

Here was a time in Israel when they were following after false gods, and the prophet of God stood up in the midst of Israel and gave them a challenge, or gave a challenge rather unto the priests of Baal and the priests of the groves. He  upon Israel saying, "How long halt ye between two opinions ?" There are two opinions respecting God's character today in the world, and the message that is being sent forth by the Latter-day Saint elders to the ends of the earth is calling upon Israel to choose between the priest of baal and the true and living God. I do not refer to the Christian world with any asperity, but rather to draw the comparison in these two points. The Athenasian creed says, "There is one living and true God, without body, parts or passions." This seems to be the prevailing idea throughout the world with respect to the character and personality of Deity. And with the Athenasian Creed agrees the Apostles' Creed and the Nicine Creed, so that we can say that the whole Catholic and Protestant world have founded their faith upon that sort of a creature. 

It is not strange to a Latter-day Saint that God has revealed Himself in our day and time, for with that prophetic announcement made by the Revelator John, when he said that 

"I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come; and worship Him that made heaven and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Now, had the Gospel been upon the earth there would have been' no necessity for an angel to restore it, and had the people been worshiping the God who made the heavens and the earth and the seas and the fountains of waters, there would have been no necessity for that prophetic announcement. In the 130th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the description of the God of the Latter-day Saints is given, differing with the bodiless, partless, passionless god, between which a choice should be made. 

"The Father has a body of flesh and bones, as tangible as man's; the Son also, but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us." Here you have the "two opinions" stated, one that "God is a personage without body, parts or passions," and the other that "God has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's." Now we call upon Israel, "How long halt ye between two opinions." We might ask with the Savior, when addressing the Pharisees: "What think ye of Christ?" Is Christ God? Is He not the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob the God of Israel, the God who made the heavens and the earth, the seas and the fountains of waters? We read the testimony of John : 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, the same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. * * * And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, * * *. full of grace and truth." 

Here you have the testimony of the Creator who "made the heavens and the earth and the seas and the fountains of water." I would like to know what purpose there would be in the resurrection, which is being commemorated throughout the Christian world at the near approaching Easter ? If He is God, to what purpose did He take up 

His body? If the unembodied state of the spirit is a higher order than the resurrected state, the embodied state, then Jesus Christ was farther advanced the three days when His body lay in the tomb than He was when He had burst the bonds of death and walked forth with His immortalized, resurrected body. Can any one ever think that Jesus took a step backward from glory? Positively no. The greatest stride that was ever made toward glory was when that inanimate form that was put into the tomb of Joseph of Aramathaea was reanimated by the Spirit, which had three days previously been commended into the hands of His Father as He expired upon the cross. 

Now, the. whole Christian world has been teaching the doctrine, as has already been stated in this conference, that the resurrection is something else other than the bringing up of the body. They look upon the resurrection as a sort of a spiritual resurrection, or awakening of spirit in some indescribable way. The Apostle Paul gives us a very striking testimony with respect to this question, which I would like to read. It is found in the 15th chapter of First Corinthians: 

"Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen; and if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain. Yea, and ye are found false witnesses of God, because ye have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ risen, and if Christ is not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. But every man in his own order; Christ the first fruits, afterward they that are Christ's at His coming. Then cometh the end, when He shall have delivered up the kingdom to God even the Father, when He shall have put down all rule and all authority and power, for He must reign till He hath put all enemies under His feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death." 

Therefore the greatest victory ever won by Christ was when He broke the bands of death, and when the seed of the woman crushed the head of the serpent that brought death into the world. 

Why, the world is preaching Jesus Christ crucified, and they leave Him crucified, and they have a crucified and dead religion. We are proclaiming to the world the resurrection of Christ, and we get a vital religion, a live religion that enters into the lives .of men and women and raises them to the lofty pedestal of sainthood. If Christ be not raised, then is our preaching vain. I thank God that we have hope as Job of old, who said : "I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth, and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall' I see God." That is the testimony of Job of old. When people declare that God cannot be seen they are drawing into question the testimony of that righteous man, they are bringing into question also the statement of Jesus when He said, in that sermon upon the mount: "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God,"  if He is unseeable, then how can Jesus Christ's promise be fulfilled? Some people claim that it was in the death of the cross — that the Christ was glorified. I do not speak disparagingly, nor do I wish to detract from the sacrifice that was made on Golgotha's hill, but I want to turn your attention to the thought and to the life that has come through that sacrifice. The very fact that Jesus was crucified did not make Him the Christ. That was the infliction of Roman capital punishment. You remember the scene at the crucifixion, the malefactors upon either hand of the Master, who were also crucified. Their crucifixion did not make them Christs. The malefactors had not the power to lay down their lives and take them up again as the Master had, who became the Savior of the world, by putting under His feet that enemy, the arch enemy of God, even death. 

It is not an uncommon thing to meet people who say that Jesus Christ has come for the second time. I met a very influential minister in Brooklyn who declared that Jesus Christ has made His second advent and come into the world, in 1874, and is dwelling in the hearts of the children of men. What has He done with His body? Why, Jesus Christ, who was the Word, who was with God, who was God, took upon Himself that body of flesh and bones which Thomas handled and felt in his doubting moment, and then cried, "O Lord, my God," thus dispelling all doubt. He no longer doubted. As Christ ascended into heaven there stood upon the mount two angels also, who said: "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing into heaven ? this same Jesus which is taken up  you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen Him go into heaven." Then He has not descended, in 1874, as His apostles saw Him ascend. 

To show the necessity of accepting Jesus Christ as being a personage, possessed of a body of flesh, I want to bring to your attention the testimony of John, recorded in the fourth chapter of his first epistle : "Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world." Now a key given in the following verse : "Hereby know ye the spirit of God, every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God, and every spirit that, confesseth not that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. And this is that spirit of anti-Christ whereof ye have heard that it should come, and even now is it already in the world." There were people in that day who were possessed of the spirit of anti-Christ who said that Jesus Christ did not come in the flesh; and when Jesus shall, make His second appearance those who have been faithful, and have become familiar with His voice in this life, will know positively that it is Jesus Christ who stands before them, and they will see the marks in His hands and in His feet and in His side. Then will He declare, "These are the wounds that I received in the house of my friends." "How long halt ye between two opinions?" If God is God, worship Him. If this nonentity without body, parts or passions be God, then worship it. I feel like saying, with Joshua of old, when he called Israel together and said, "Chose this day whom ye will , but as for me and my house, we will serve God." 

May God add His blessings to us all, and sustain Israel in all His work in the earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sisters Myrtle Doelle and Mary Cornwall, and the combined choirs, sang the Easter Song, "Christ is Risen.' 

ELDER URIAH G. MILLER. 

(President Cottonwood Stake.) 

I am not accustomed, my brethren and sisters, to standing in the presence of such a vast congregation of people. If I contribute anything this morning to the interest of this gathering and for the welfare of those who are assembled in this meeting, it will be because my heavenly Father, in whom I have faith, will come to my assistance and bless me with a goodly portion of His Holy Spirit. 

I have rejoiced thus far in the things I have heard in this conference, in the testimonies that have been borne, in the doctrines that have been enunciated and, above all, I have rejoiced exceedingly in the Spirit that has been manifest throughout the conference. I am convinced, as a member of the Church, that these conferences are extremely beneficial to the individual members of the Church. I hope that, as men and women who are assuming responsibilities of the Church at home, that we have had our hearts opened to the things that have been said, and that will be said, that they will find lodgment in our hearts, that we shall be able to carry the instructions, and the spirit of them, to the various wards and branches of the Church, and bring them to the members of the Church who are not privileged to be with us in the congregations in the various sessions of this conference. 

I am beginning to recognize, I believe, more than I have ever done before in my life, that there is a great mission and responsibility resting upon the members of the Church who reside in the wards and stakes of the Church. We are blessed, and privileged, to be members of what is recognized throughout the world as one of the most perfect organizations that has ever been established among the children of men. We recognize that there is one part of the organization that is directing the affairs of the Church; and that there is another department that is carrying the message of the Gospel to the various parts of the world. We recognize that in this organization there is provided ways and means by which the powers and influence of the Gospel are brought to the hearts of the children of men. 

In our own homes, the responsibility is resting upon us, who are called to labor, and who are moving within the confines of the various wards and stakes throughout the Church, to do our part just as carefully and consistently as are the other branches of this wonderful and magnificent organization to which I have alluded. I trust that we will be mindful, to a degree, at least, of some of these responsibilities that are upon our shoulders, for we recognize the fact that, very largely, we at home become members of the Church not, as do the people in the world, through conversion. We become members of the Church through the ordinance of baptism when we are children; consequently we have a responsibil resting upon us to take into our confidence, into our care, the boys and girls of the stakes and wards of Zion, and to give them in their own homes, testimony of this work. 

I thank God that He has provided in this organization efficient ways and means by which we may be able to reach the hearts of the boys and girls of the Church. As parents, we very often recognize within ourselves that we are not able to reach the hearts of all of our boys and all of our girls. It becomes necessary that the organizations that have been provided will come to our assistance, and possibly through one or another of these organizations that are so well officered we shall, under the favor of our heavenly Father, be able to reach the hearts of the boys and the girls that possibly we are not otherwise able to reach, ,'and be the means of instituting within their hearts the love and the testimony of this work. Of these wonderful auxiliary organizations that have been provided, possibly the Sunday School with all of its beautiful methods, and its powers, may not be able to appeal to some of our boys and girls; it may fall to the Mutual Improvement people to reach them. It may be possible that the Mutual Improvement people may not be able to interest them, but the Primary officers or the Religion Class, or perchance it may be the Relief Society sisters who shall be able, under the spirit of their work, to reach the hearts of these boys or girls, and bring them into the fold of Christ, with a testimony of the truth in their hearts. 

In the midst of all of these, there are other organizations that to me seem superior to all the organizations put together, these are the  quorums of the Church, and I hope that the spirit of the brethren in this Church will be inclined to the betterment of priesthood work. In my affiliations with the work with which I am connected, I am led to observe that very largely our boys, when they leave the deacons' quorum, are not noticed until we find them recorded, possibly, in the elders' quorums and when found in these quorums they simply have their names upon the records, and do not have the spirit of this work in their hearts. I shall rejoice exceedingly when the time shall come in the history of this Church that the boy as he leaves the deacons' quorum will be transferred to the teachers' and priests' quorums with the great spirit of this work in his heart. He then goes into the elders' quorum because he is eligible to become an elder, and has been educated in all the affairs of the Church, in all of the other priesthood quorums that have led up to it. 

May God's blessings be with us. May we be true to our religion, and stand for that which is right; and may our lives be an example of the thing that we believe to be right and that we bear our testimony to the world is right, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. CARDON. 

(Editor of Liahona The Elders' Journal) 

I rejoice with all my soul this morning for this opportunity of again attending the annual conference of the Church. It has been my blessed privilege to attend these conferences for the last 16 or 17 years, and I have always felt in the different capacities in which I have , that I could not prosecute the work required at my hands unless I partook of the spirit of these conferences. I am happy to say today that this spirit is being manifested among the Latter-day Saints everywhere, so that in great numbers we are privileged, through the blessings of the Lord, to come to this place and partake of the spirit that is poured out in such rich abundance. 

We do not, nor cannot, comprehend how blessed we are as a people. It is only necessary for us to go into the world and see what others have in order to appreciate the many blessings which the Lord has so abundantly bestowed upon us as His people, and I rejoice with all my heart that His work is being so generously carried among the children of men within the confines of our own beloved country. 

It is a glorious privilege to know, my brethren and sisters and friends, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, our Redeemer, and that Joseph Smith was a humble instrument in His hands in restoring the great work of the Lord, and that we have been made partakers of these glorious and blessed privileges which came through our acceptance of the Gospel of the Son of God. The world does not know that God lives, simply because they have not been willing to comply with the requirements of our Heavenly Father. If we do His will, we shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether it be of man, and it has been, in part at least, through our having done the will of the Father that we are able to testify to all the world that God lives and that Jesus is His beloved Son and our Redeemer. 

The great Prophet Noah knew. through the inspiration of the Almighty, that the mission to which he was assigned was divine, and he went about under the direction of the Holy Spirit in the prosecution of the great mission which was placed upon his shoulders; and had the people of that generation believed in that message and humbled themselves as did Noah, they too would have known that the message which the prophet gave unto them was divine. The manifestations of the power of God alone are not sufficient to prove whether these truths are from God or not, but it is necessary that every human soul who can testify that he knows shall be in possession of the Holy Spirit, and that can come only through our obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

When the Son of God asked His disciples, "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" They said: "Some say that Thou art John the Baptist, some, Elias; and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets." "But whom say ye that I am?" "And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God." "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven, and upon this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." Notwithstanding the fact that Peter had daily ministered along with the Savior, yet it was necessary that the Lord should reveal unto him the fact that Jesus was the Redeemer of the world. And so it is with us today. It is necessary that we should be in possession of the Holy Spirit in .order to testify to each other that these great truths which have come into the world are di, and that they are binding upon the children of men. I am happy in the thought also, that men in these latter-days have seen the Father and the Son, and have witnessed the ministration of angels and holy beings, but notwithstanding these miraculous experiences, we, too, may know just as assuredly as they of these divine truths, if we comply with the requirements of our Heavenly Father. The Holy Ghost is their witness unto the children of men and unto the world, and we can gain possession of that Spirit in the same way that others have, and this influence and power will lighten the hearts and the minds of all men. 

I do know that God lives, and that He is ruling the destinies of the children of men, and that He answers the supplications of His humble children, and will reveal unto them the things that are necessary in order to go back into His presence. I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that if we will obey Him and follow the example and the pattern which He has laid for us to follow, we will associate with Him in the eternal worlds. I also know that through the great and mighty modern Prophet, Joseph Smith, this latter-day Gospel has been restored, and is being proclaimed to the nations of the world by authorized servants of God, who are endowed with divine authority to administer in the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, and make it possible for all men who will yield obedience thereto to know for themselves whether this doctrine is of God or whether we are speaking by the spirit of man. "If any of you lack wisdom," the Apostle James has said, "let him ask of God, that giveth to  men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering." 

The inspiration of this scripture rested so mightily upon the boy prophet, that he went and supplicated the Almighty to know which of all the warring and jarring creeds was right and which he should follow, for, in his early boyhood, he knew that it was necessary to yield obedience to the requirements of his Father in heaven. Every son and daughter of God who will go humbly before Him may also know for themselves whether or not we speak of ourselves or whether we are in very deed, divinely commissioned servants of the Lord Jesus Christ. By that same spirit also we are able to testify that President Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of the true and living God, and a more humble, devoted, fearless man does not live in the world today. And those who are associated with him are men of God. There are no better in the world today; and we can, through that Holy Spirit, testify to all the world that they are prophets, seers and revelators unto the children of men. 

I pray that the power and the Spirit of the Lord may permeate the hearts of those who are seeking after truth, wherever they may be, that they may come into the light and partake of the influence, power and glory that have come to us through our having yielded obedience to the laws and the ordinances of the house of the Lord. 

May His peace and blessings be with the Saints everywhere, that they may follow the whisperings of the Holy Spirit, and vield obedience thereto, that upon all occasions we  know for ourselves whether or not we are following in that straight and narrow way that the Father hath laid out for us. That we may be saved and exalted with Him and His Son and the righteous who have fought the good fight and endured to the end, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choirs sang the anthem, "Daughter of Zion." 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Strong condemnation of use of intoxicants and tobacco — Statistics showing splendid results of prohibition in Kansas — Dreadful disclosures of an old lawyer — Convincing quotations proving terrible evils of liquor traffic. 

I realize that, in the language of the hymn, "the time is far spent, there is little remaining." You, no doubt, are all tired, but I have something which I wish to say to this congregation, and if any of you do not care to remain and hear it, you will not offend me or hurt my feeling in the least if you get up and go out, and your doing so will not confuse me. I have preached on the streets of Liverpool and London; in Portland, Oregon, and in other parts of the United States, and have become accustomed to preaching to traveling congregations. My ideas come just as rapidly when my audience is a moving one. We did not start this overflow meeting until 20 minutes after 10 o'clock, and therefore there are just thirty minutes belonging to me and I give all fair notice of what is coming, as I propose to occupy them, and it will be all right with me if anybody goes out. 

I desire to continue the remarks that I started to make in the Tabernacle day before yesterday. I talked as fast as I knew how, but did not get half through. I am going to cut out fully one-half of what I would like to say. 

It is claimed that the saloon, if banished from the community, causes a financial loss. I want to give a few facts as they are told in the Anti-Saloon League Year Book for 1908, page 26. Pellman, of the University of Bonn, tells of a very notorious drunken woman who died in 1800. A scientific investigation made regarding herself and her descendants has brought forth the following astonishing facts : 

"The total number of her descendants have been 834. Of that number 709 have been traced, with the result that the record shows that 7 were convicted of murder, 76 were convicted of other crimes, 142 were professional beggars. 64 lived on charity and 181 of the women descendants were prostitutes. It has been estimated that the cost to the government of the crime and pauperism of that one line of descendants has been $1,250,000." 

How many of us would like to have saloons enrich our community by this kind of process? 

I want to give you the opinions of some eminent people on the use of tobacco : 

Benjamni Franklin — -"I never saw a well man in the exercise of common sense who would say that tobacco did him any good." 

Thomas lefferson — -"The culture of tobacco is a culture productive in infinite wretchedness." 

Horace Greeley — -"It is a profane stench." 

Daniel Webster — -"If those men must smoke, let them go to the horseshed.' 

T. DeWitt Talmage— "The pathway to a drunkard's grave and a drunkard's hell is strewn with tobacco leaves." 

Ruskin — -"Tobacco is the worst curse of modern civilization." 

E. H. Harriman [to whom we owe more for the development of this intermountain country than to any other man not a resident of Utah, and who believed implicitly in the future of our fair state] — "We might as well go to the insane asylum for our men as to employ cigarette smokers." 

I desire that every man, woman and child within the sound of my voice shall be workers to bring to our fair State prohibition, and I want to quote to you one single verse of a poem by James Russell Lowell : 

"They are slaves who fear to speak For the fallen and the weak; They are slaves who will not choose Hatred, scoffing and abuse, Rather than, in silence shrink From the truth they needs mustthink; They are slaves who dare not be In the right with two or three." 

We hear so much of the financial ruin of Kansas because of prohibition that I want to give you some statistics that were furnished me by President Henry H. Blood, of the Millers' Association of Utah, taken from the Millers and Grain News, published at Kansas City, Jan. 9, 1912: 

"Statistics from Kansas. 

"Not only wheat, but morals, showed a high quality last year. 

"Ninety-six counties out of the 105 in Kansas have no inebriates." [Gracious, how prosperity is disappearing in Kansas!] "Six or seven along the Missouri border have them." [Please do not forget that Misouri is wet.] 

"Thirty-nine counties did not send a prisoner to jail last year." [My, prosperity is disappearing in Kansas!] 

"There were 912 prisoners in the state penitentiary last year, but only 17 per cent of this number were Kansas born." [the 83 per cent, you see, brought prosperity to Kansas by allowing the state to support them.] 

"Fifty-seven counties in Kansas  no use for poor houses, and last year did not send a member there." [I declare, thev can't even be charitable in 57 (counties in Kansas— haven't even the poor with them.] 

"Eighty-four counties last year did not report a case of insanity." [My gracious, if there are no insane there how wonderfully they must be failing to progress financially in Kansas.] 

"The death-rate in Kansas is less than in any other section in the world, seven and five-tenths per thousand of the inhabitants." [Thus vindicating God's promise in the Word of Wisdom.] 

"There are 700 newspapers in Kansas, and only four of them carry whiskey ads." 

The Lord says in the Word of Wisdom, in the last verse, regarding those who obey it: 

"And I the Lord give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass them by, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart, as I announced in the Tabernacle, that all over the wide world the doctrines of the Lord Jesus Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith are being vindicated. In Kansas they have prohibition and are, therefore, partially living the Word of Wisdom and are receiving the benefits therefrom, which is shown by the fact that the death-rate there is less than in any other section of the world. 

The great life insurance companies with their hundreds of millions of dollars of assets, with their medical examination for every man who applies for a policy less than $50,000, and two examinations where he applies for fifty thousand or more, have a death-rate of ten per 1,000, or more than they have in the State of Kansas. No stronger proof on earth, it seems  me, can be found of the beneficial effects of prohibition in Kansas than the fact that there are 700 newspapers in Kansas, and only four of them carry whiskey ads. in their columns. Do you think we have prosperity in Salt Lake because three of our four daily papers carry whiskey ads. ?' 

Now, I intended to quote a great deal from a sermon which I preached in the Tabernacle at the Mutual Improvement Association Conference, June 14, 1908, but you will find the sermon in the August, 1908, number of the Improvement Era, and I shall read only a small part of the sermon, but appeal to you to get the Era and read it all. Here is something I quoted in that sermon : 

"Leaves from the Diary of an Old Lawyer: 

"I believe that it will require the force of the whole people, men and women, applied at the ballot box, to effectually blot out of existence the great curse to the country, 'The laws that license and permit the sale of alcohol as a beverage.' I deny the right of the government to sell to one citizen the orivilege to tempt another to commit crime. I doubt the policy of those laws that seek to raise a revenue by the sale of that which debases the people, it is the prolific source of crime and pauperism, and costs the country annually a thousand times more than the revenue received therefrom. I deny the justice of those laws that on one page of the statute books legalize that which promotes crimes and makes criminals, and on the next, provide severe penalties to be administered to those they have tempted to transgress. This little volume [larger than our large edition of the Doctrine and Covenants] is presented to the public to promulgate those views. They may be thought radical, and perhaps are so; but they are the result of long years of experience in our criminal courts, and are but a feeble expression of my abhorrence of the vice of intemperance, and the laws that encourage and promote it. 

" 'Tell me if I hate the bowl — 

Hate is a feeble word; I loathe — abhor — my very soul 

With strong disgust is stirred Whene'er I see, or hear, or tell 

Of the dark beverage of hell.' 

My experience at the bar has satisfied me that intemperance is the direct cause of nearly all the crime that is committed in our country. I have been at the bar over thirty years, have been engaged in over four thousand criminal cases, and on mature reflection I am satisfied that over three thousand of those cases have originated from drunkenness alone, and I believe that a great proportion of the remainder could be traced either directly or indirectly to this great source of crime. In sixty-three cases of homicide forty-nine have been caused bv the maddening influence of strong drink. 

Think of it, my brethren and sisters, forty-nine murders out of sixty-three cases, were caused by strong drink! 

"I have seen upon the counsel table of our court room the skull of an aged father who was killed by a drunken son. My brother and myself sat by his side as his counsel, and I never shall forget the look of that son when the ghastly evidence of his guilt was laid on the stand before him. That silent yet eloquent witness! It was but an arch of bone, and was handled carelesslv by the jury in their investigation, yet it had once been covered by a father's gray hairs, beneath it had throbbed a brain full of pride and affection for the son who was now on his trial for murder, and as it passed from hand to hand the fearful expression on the face of the accused plainly told the terrible feeling of remorse that filled his soul. It was a wicked and most unnatural crime, and begot feelings of loathing and horror in the breasts of all who witnessed the trial. Yet it was not in reality the son who had committed the crime, but the demon that lurks in every cup of strong drink. 

And that cup had been filled and placed to the lips of that son by the hand of a most respectable member of society — a man who had a license from that very court to sell that which maddened the brain and prompted the hand to murder. 

"I saw upon the table the skull of 

young B , who was killed by his 

most intimate friend in a drunken brawl at Hartstown, and the respectable proprietor at whose hotel the murder was perpetrated, and who sold the maddening spirit that prompted the deed, was witness to the trial. He said he had a license from that respectable court to sell liquor; yes, from the very court then sitting in judgment on that act, which was but the natural sequence of the license it had sold and granted. 

"I have seen upon the table the skull of a little child, with the evidence upon it of a murderous blow, inflicted by the hand of a drunken mother. Yet it was not the mother who had committed the most unnatural crime. All our knowledge of the promptings of the human heart deny the charge. Who that remembers his own mother and her maternal love could believe it? No! a demoniacal spirit had violated the sanctuary of the mother's heart and cast out the tender, loving tenant that once resided there, and that was the spirit of strong drink, sold to the woman by a man who held a license to sell under the seal and sanction of that very court. 

"I have seen upon the table the blood-stained skull of a wife, cleft from top to base by an ax in the. hand of a brutal, drunken husband, who came home from a neighboring licensed beer-shop, reeling, drunken, and maddened by drink there sold by a most respectable dealer, by a man who had a legal right to sell that poison whose effects are more terrible tha" the plagues confined within the fabled box of Pandora, and under v hose baneful influence 

"The hand that should shield the wife 

from ill, In drunken wrath is raised to kill. 

"I once defended a man for killing his own brother, by whom, in a fit of drunken frenzy, he had been attacked with a dangerous weapon, thereby  him in his own defense, to strike a blow that had taken his brother's life. He was tried for murder, and in his defense I called the 'landlord' to prove that the murdered brother was mad from the effects of the liquor he had received at the witness' bar. He so testified, vet seemed conscious of no wrong. Why should he? He had a license from the court, and why should that brother's blood cry to heaven for venegcance against him? Oh, no! he was a respectable citizen, possessing a good moral character, for the law grants license to none other. He had a legal right to present the maddening cup to his fellow's lips, and no one should complain of him. He had acted in accordance with the law, and did not one of England's greatest and best of men say that 'the law was that science whose voice was the harmony of the world, and whose seat was the bosom of God?" 

I had the privilege of being one of the several thousand that walked down Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D. C, and who stood before the Capito' and presented a human petition to our representatives in Congress to give us national prohibition by an amendment to the Constitution of the United States. I listened to a splendid speech there, a copy of which I hold in my hand, by Mr. Ernest H. Cherrington, the General Manager of the Anti-Saloon League of America. I will read only a few extracts. I wish I had time to read it all. 

"The Supreme Court of the United States is authority for the declaration that 'the statistics of every state show a greater amount of crime and misery attributable to the use of ardent spirits obtained at these retail liquor saloons than to any other source." 

Really, is it not too bad that in every prohibition state they should be losing prosperity! 

"No state of the Union has given prohibition so fair a trial as has the State of Kansas. Today t' n °t State  the unparalleled record of almost two-thirds of the counties of the state without a single prisoner serving sentence for crime, while in some of the counties a jury to try a criminal case has not been called in ten years." 

How sad they must feel in Kansas because of a lack of prosperity, in not having their share of paupers, and just think how in prohibition Kansas they are robbing the poor jurors of their fees! 

"One-half of the people now living in license territory in the United States live in four states of the Union, New York, Pennsylvania, Illinois and New Jersey." 

The large cities of our Union are where crime concentrates. Every district all over the fa; r State of Utah, where the Latter Jay Saints were in the majority, with one exception, went dry when we had the privilege of voting on this question a few years ago. " Had the people of Utah not been robbed of the privilege of voting on the liquor question as county units instead of changing to precinct units by amending the existing law, we would have had a dry state years ago. 

'One-fourth of the people in this nation who live in saloon territory live in six cities, New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Boston and Cleveland. One-half of all the saloons of the United States are located in fourteen cities. There are fewer saloons south of Mason and Dixon's line than there are in the City of Chicago. Thirty-six states of this Union have fewer saloons in the aggregate than the City of New York. These significant facts, together with the well known fact that the vices of the nation center in our cities, thus adding complications to complications, make the great moral and social problems of the city practically unsolvable so far as the city alone is concerned." 

Those of us who live in the cities appeal to you who live in the country to help us to rid Utah's fair cities of crime. 

I have here a newspaper clipping from the Spokesman Review, which shows that Russia, Germany, England and France have learned that they can not win in the great war now raging unless they first kill whiskey. It reads as follows : 

It is Something More than a War Against War. 

"One of the many remarkable features connected with the war of the European revolution is that it is not only for many of the combatants a holy war against war, but for the governments is a war against alcohol. It almost seems as if the world at war had declared war upon the use of intoxicating drinks by soldiers. 

"No vodka for the fighter is the word in Russia, no saki for the Japanese army, no whiskey or rum for the British trooper nor any absinthe for French infantry or cavalry. Reports from Germany as to the use of drink by its armies have not appeared, but doubtless the German military staff has no more use for drink than have its opponents. 

"This almost absolute elimination of alcohol from the supplies of armies in the field forms part of the modern theory as to efficiency in war. The inexorable demand for the maximum of effectiveness in the soldier insists that his condition in the field shall approximate the Sunday school standard of conduct. Tommy Atkins, Jean Crapaud, Ivan Ivanovitch and Banzai Idzumo are far from the Captain Falstaff who recognized his Corporal Bardolph through the redness of his nose. 

"The German emperor early in the year declared against drinking in the army and held up abstinence as the military ideal. Kitchener, when the war began, declared for total abstinence and ordered that no gifts of liquor be forwarded to the British forces. The government of France forbade the sale of absinthe at Paris  the war. Czar Nicholas has stopped the sale of liquor throughout Russia and one of the first acts of the Russians in Prussia was to shut the saloons. The French bill of fare for the soldiery omits alcohol." 

Let me tell you one thing about Russia. One of the officers of the largest life insurance companies in the world, on his way to San Francisco, stopped off in Salt Lake City, and I had the pleasure of spending an evening with him. He told me that he had found some astounding figures in Russia, which were almost unbelievable. That notwithstanding the war, because of the banishment of liquor, the death-rate of his company had been less than before the war. He felt there must be something wrong,, some mistake, and was going to investigate it further. I feel sure his additional investigation will only be one more confirmation of the Lord's promise in the Word of Wisdom. 

Here is something I must read to you, although my time is going : 

"According to the Kansas City Star, Mrs. James Watson, editor and publisher of the Dearborn, Mo., Democrat, has the following suggestion to make to booze fighters: 'To the married man who cannot get along without his drinks, we suggest the following as a means to freedom from the bondage of the habit: Start a saloon in your own house. Be the only customer. You will have no license to pay. Go to your wife and give her $2 to buy a gallon of whiskey, and remember there are sixty-nine drinks in one gallon. Buy your drinks from no one except your wife, and by the time the first gallon is gone she will have $8 to put in the bank and $2 to start business again.. Should you live ten years and continue to buy boose from her and then die with snakes in your boots, she will have money to bury you decently, educate your children, buy a house and lot and marry a decent man and quit thinking about you " [Laughter.] 

"On the 3rd and 4th of this month a remarkable temperance meeting was held in Philadelphia. Those in attendance were physicians and scientists. Sevaral notable papers were read on the increase in the number of slaves of alcohol and drugs, the relationship between disease and drink, and the conclusion arrived at by insurance societies regarding the mortality of drinkers of intoxicants. These are questions of immense importance to all." 

"Col. Maus, surgeon in the U. S. Army, made this statement: 

"During the last year (1912), 2,000,000,000 gallons of wine, beer, whiskey, brandy, gin and other intoxicants were used in this country at a cost of as many billions of dollars. The country would be electrified if called upon to appropriate this sum to suppress diseases and national epidemics. Yet this expenditure is the most important factor in the cause of our misery, poverty, suicides, robberies, murders and crimes, besides the hundreds of thousands of deaths and the intellectually dead to be found in the insane asylums, feeble minded and epileptic institutions of the country." 

"Dr. Keister declared that if the American people would quit drinking intoxicating beverages homicides would be reduced by SO per cent, suicides by 60 per cent, and lunacy by 33 per cent. [Thus adding to our financial ruin!] 

"These startling statements did not come from fanatics, but from men with exceptional opportunities to study the causes of sickness and crime, and well equipped for that study. We must accept their conclusions. And if we desire the betterment of existing conditions, the evils must be attacked at the root." 

The following is a statement of the causes of deaths in the state of Kansas for 100,000 population : 

In In 

U.S. Kan. 

1913 1913 

Nephritis (Bright's disease) 102.9 64.5 

Typhoid fever 17.9 19.4 

Diphtheria 18.8 7.8 

Tuberculosis (all forms).. 147.6 61.8 

Cancer (all forms) 78.9 55.9 

Diabetes 132.4 85.5 

Diarrhoea and enteritis (under 2 years) 75.2 52.8 

Violence (ex. suicide) .... 92.5 63.6 When the United States officials in Washington received the report of the death rate— 9.8 to the 1000 — in Kansas they would not believe it, and so they sent a special commissioner out there to investigate, and the report was substantiated. I would like to read the whole of the Era article by Brother Edward H. Anderson, from which the above is taken, but my time is gone. The article is an additional confirmation of the promise of the Lord Almighty that the destroying angel shall pass by those who obey the Word of Wisdom and keep His commandments. I appeal to you all to read Brother Edward H. Anderson's splendid article in the April Era, "For the Consideration of Utah Citizens." 

We listened yesterday to the testimonies at our prohibition meeting in Barratt Hall of Stephen H. Love, John L. Herrick, Melvin J. Ballard, Andrew Kimball and Joseph E. Robinson, as to the beneficial effects arising from prohibition in Colorado, Arizona, Washington, Kansas and Oregon. I wish every man, woman and child in Utah could have heard these testimonies. 

May God help us to keep His commandments, to live the lives of Latter-day Saints, that we may be worthy of an exaltation in His Kingdom, is my prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"Song of the Redeemed," was rendered by the combined choirs. 


