Afternoon
09 04 1916 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The choir sang Evan Stephens' hymn, "Loyal to the True and the Right." 

The invocation was offered by Elder Brigham F. Grant. 

A chorus, entitled "The Snow," was rendered by the choir. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

A marvelous work and a wonder — The "Mormon Church" — Characteristic teachings of the Church concerning Jesus the Christ — The Lord's second advent — Near at hand — Today and tomorrow — The Church and the Kingdom. 

The presence of these multitudes at each recurring conference of the Church, and particularly the spirit of . earnestness and devotion which the people manifest, appeal to me as striking evidences of the marvelous work and the wonder which the God of Israel has accomplished and is accomplishing in these, the last days. That great work, of which the prophets in the ages past have predicted to be characteristic of the day toward which they looked with anxious and eager anticipation, is the establishment of the Church and the development and growth thereof in the dispensation of fulness. 

The kingdom of God has been set up upon the earth. In ancient writ, scriptural and otherwise, the expressions "Kingdom of God" and "Kingdom of Heaven" were often used interchangeably; or at least our modern translation of those writings present to us interchangeable usages of these names and titles of the great institutions; but 125  this, as in many other instances, we find the light of modern revelation illuming and making plain what may otherwise be dark and in part unintelligible. Through the revelations given in this day and age, we recognize the fact that there is a distinction between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of Heaven. The Church established in the present age, embodying the restored Gospel, is the Kingdom of God, it is the Church of Jesus Christ. 

The members of that Church are often spoken of as "Mormons," and the Church has come to be known more generally as the "Mormon Church" than by its proper name and distinguishing title, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We as a people do not maintain any strong protest against the application of the term "Mormon" and its several derivatives; though we deplore the fact that misunderstanding may arise in the minds of inquirers and investigators respecting the significance of that name, which originally was used as a nickname in its application to the Church. You may call us Mormons if you will; remember, however, as you must — must, if you will have respect unto the truth — that this is not the church of Mormon. Mormon was a man, a very worthy man and a very great man in his day when he lived in the flesh, and a very great personage since that time; but he was a man among men, and while his name is very properly applied to the abridgement of certain early records, which abridgement he made and supplemented by many writings of his own, now published under the name of the Book of Mormon, the Church is not his , nor is it the church of Peter or James or John, nor is it the church of Joseph Smith, nor of Brigham Young, nor of Joseph F. Smith, nor the church of the present authorities of the body. It is the Church of Jesus Christ and it is the only Church upon the face of the earth affirming divine authorization for the use of the name of the Savior of mankind as part of its distinctive designation. 

It is very proper that we inquire as to what particular message the Church thus distinguished has to give to the world respecting its Master, its divine Head, the Son of the living God, in vindication of its claims to so honorable a title as that which it bears. In the first place, it reiterates all the truth that has been given in former ages and earlier dispensations regarding Jesus Christ and His ministry, and it sets forth in plainness, together with other matters of the greatest worth, knowledge beyond all price, which has been given unto the Church as new revelation in the day and age in which we live. Among the distinguishing features of the teachings of the Church concerning the Savior and Redeemer of the race are these: 

First, the Church affirms the unity and continuity of the mission of the Christ in all ages. This, of necessity, involves the actuality, the verity, of His pre-existence and preordination or foreordination in the spirit state. 

Second, the fact of His antemortal Godship. 

Third, the actuality of His birth in the flesh as the natural issue of divine and mortal parentage. 

Fourth, the reality of His death and physical resurrection, as a result of which the power of death GENERAL CONFERENCE.  mankind shall be eventually overcome. 

Fifth, the literalness of the atonement wrought by Him, and the absolute requirement of individual compliance with the laws and requirements of His Gospel as the only means by which salvation maybe attained. 

Sixth, the restoration of His Priesthood and the re-establishment of His Church in the current age, which is verily the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

Seventh, the certainty of His return to earth in the near future with power and great glory to reign in person and in bodily presence as Lord and King - . 

In the interest of conciseness I have read these several specifications as they have been summarized and will appear in the forthcoming edition of a work now published by the Church to its members and to the world respecting the life and mission of Jesus the Christ. I invite your attention to the last of these specified points, the certainty of the return of Jesus Christ to earth in the near future, to reign upon the earth in person by bodily presence as the rightful King of earth. You have read, I am sure, of the wondrous incidents connected with the association of the resurrected Christ with the apostles and others between the time of His resurrection and that of His ascension from Mount Olivet, and when, on that eventful day, He led the Eleven who were still faithful to Him, and whom He had ordained to the holy apostleship, out toward Bethany. As He was conversing with them and giving them final instruction and doubtless encouragement, He rose from their midst and they saw Him ascend until He was  from their sight. In worshipful wonder they became aware of the presence of personages other than themselves — white-robed messengers from heaven who, remarking their wonder and astonishment, addressed them in these words: "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven ? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven." From that day the apostles preached the return of the Christ to earth, even as prophets before their time had predicted the great event. By the second advent of Christ we do not mean His manifestation to chosen prophets, to individuals or to a few, such as His ministrations to Saul of Tarsus or His appearance to Joseph Smith in 1820 and again in the Kirtland temple after the organization of the Church, but a return in glory of which all the world shall know. His coming shall be like unto the lightning that flashes from the east to the west, to be seen of all men. 

This Church proclaims the doctrine of the impending return of the Christ to earth in literal simplicity, without mental or other reservation in our interpretation of the scriptural predictions. He will come with the body of flesh and bones in which His Spirit was tabernacled when He ascended from Mount Olivet. One of the characteristic features of the Church concerning that great, and in the language of the scripture, both glorious and terrible event, is its nearness. It is close at hand. The mission of the Church is to prepare the earth for the coming of its Lord. Biblical prophecies are numerous; the Book of Mormon prophecies are 127 , respecting the return of the Christ. His own words, both before and after His crucifixion and resurrection are unambiguous, definite, convincing, and convicting unto those who do not close their ears wilfully against the truth. Referring to Himself the Savior said : "For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works." Read the context in the 16th chapter of Matthew. The prophets who lived before the meridian of time said comparatively little, though their testimony is abundant and all sufficient, concerning the return of the Christ; for they were devoted to the teaching of the doctrine of His first coming in the flesh, to live among men, to suffer and to die and to be resurrected from the dead. But after His resurrection and ascension the words of inspired teachers were definite in fore-telling the certainty of His return; and in this day and age of the world He has spoken with His own voice unto His prophets, impressing upon them the fact that the time of His coming in judgment is near at hand. Thus, within a few months after the Church was organized, in the year 1830, as recorded in the 29th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord Jesus Christ said unto His Prophet Joseph Smith : 

"For the hour is nigh and the day soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall oe as stubble, and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth; 

"For the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass; 

"For T will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand." 

A month later, or at least in the month following, He spake again admonishing His servants to diligence : 

"Wherefore," said He, "be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be ready at the coming of the Bridegroom; for behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I come quickly. Even so. Amen." 

Referring to the teachings of the apostles of old, and particularly to His own instructions unto them, and employing the same figure by which He had made plain unto them that men may know of the imminence of His coming, by the signs which He specified, He said in March, 1831, again speaking through His Prophet Joseph : 

"Ye look and behold the fig trees and ye see them with your eyes and ye say that when they begin to shoot forth and their leaves are yet tender that summer is now nigh at hand. 

"Even so it shall be in that day when they shall see all these things, then shall they know that the hour is nigh. 

"And it shall come to pass that he that feareth me shall be looking forth for the great day of the Lord to come, even for the signs of the coming of the Son of man: 

"And they shall see signs and wonders, for they shall be shown forth in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath; 

"And they shall behold blood, and fire, and vapors of smoke; 

"And before the day of the Lord shall come, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood, and stars fall from heaven; 

"And the remnant shall be gathered unto this place, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"And then they shall look for me, and, behold, I will come; and they shall see me in the clouds of heaven, clothed with power and great glory, with all the holy angels; and he that watches not for me shall be cut off." 

Still further impressing upon the Church in the early days of its history the fact that there was no time to be lost in preparation, for the time was all too short, He made plain the fact that His coming was so near that the intervening time is properly to be spoken of as today. "Behold, now it is called today," said He, "until the coming of the Son of man; and verily it is a day of sacrifice and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming, for after today cometh the burning. This is speaking after the manner of the Lord; for verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon. Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today." 

The scriptures abound in declarations and reiterations, in repeated and solemn affirmations of the great fact that the day of the Lord's coming will be a day of glory and a day of terror — of glory and recompense unto those who are living righteously, and a day of terror unto the proud and unto all who do wickedly. Now, many have asked, do we interpret that scripture as meaning that in the day of the Lord's coming, all who are not members of the Church shall be burned, or otherwise destroyed, and only this little body of men and women, very small compared with the uncounted hosts of men now , shall be spared the burning and shall escape destruction? I think not so. I do not think we are justified in putting that interpretation upon the Lord's word, for He recognizes every man according to the integrity of his heart, and men who have not been able to understand the Gospel or who have not had opportunity of learning it and knowing of it will not be counted as the wilfully sinful who are fit only to be burned as stubble; but the proud, who lift themselves in the pride of their hearts and rise above the word of God and become a law unto themselves and who wilfully and with knowledge deny the saving virtues of the atonement of Christ, and who are seeking to lead others away from the truth will be dealt with by Him according to both justice and mercy. 

A word concerning the distinction between the Kingdom and the Church. As already stated, the expression "Kingdom of God" is used synonomously with the term "Church of Christ"; but the Lord had made plain that He sometimes used the term "Kingdom of Heaven" in a distinctive sense. In 1832 He called attention to that in these words, addressing Himself to the elders of the Church: 

"Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men — Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. 

"The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the Gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth until it has filled the whole earth; 

"Yea, a voice crying — Prepare ye thf way of the Lord, prepare ye the 129  of the Lamb, make ready for the bridegroom; 

"Pray unto the Lord, call upon his holy name, make known his wonderful works among the people; 

"Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of man shall come down in neaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth; 

"Wherefore may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that Thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven, so on earth, that thy enemies may be subdued, for Thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen." 

Such was the prayer, such is the prayer, prescribed for this people to pray, not to utter in words only, not to say only, but to pray — that the Kingdom of God may roll forth in the earth to prepare the earth for the coming of the Kingdom of Heaven. That provision in the Lord's prayer, "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven" has not been abrogated. We are praying for the Kingdom of Heaven to come, and are endeavoring to prepare the earth for its coming. The Kingdom of God, already set up upon the earth, does not aspire to temporal domination among the nations. It seeks not to overthrow any existing forms of government; it does not profess to exercise control in matters that pertain to the governments of the earth, except by teaching correct principles and trying to get men to live according to the principles of true government, before the Kingdom of Heaven shall come and be established upon the earth with a King at the head. But when He comes, He shall rule and reign, for it is His right. 

Many of us are prone to think that the day of His coming, the day of the setting up of the Kingdom of Heaven in its power and glory is yet far distant. I take it that that assumption is based, perhaps, upon our wish, none the less real, because we hesitate to frame it in words. How would you feel if authoritative proclamation were made here today that on the literal morrow, when the sun shall rise again in the east, the Lord would appear in His glory to take vengeance upon the wicked, and to establish His Kingdom upon the earth? Who amongst you would rejoice? The pure in heart would, the righteous in soul would, but many of us would wish to have the event put off. We are very much in the frame of mind, or we may allow ourselves to fall in the frame of mind of the rule bound Pharisees and the casuistical Sadducees in the days of the Christ in the flesh. They were intent upon keeping the people's interest alive in a future Messiah, in a Christ who was to come, but not one who was amongst them. We are very loath to accept and believe that which we do not want to believe, and the world today does not wish to believe that the coming of the Christ is near at hand, and consequently all kinds of subterfuges are invented for explaining away the plain words of scripture. We rejoice in simplicity. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is wonfully simple. We as a people value, I believe, scholastic attainments at their full worth. While we foster and encourage the training and development of the mind, .1 was about to say to the full limit, certainly almost to the limit, of our material ability, as witness the unceasing effort and continuous exGENERAL CONFERENCE.  of vast sums in the maintenance of church schools, and the willingness with which the Latterday Saints as members of the community impose upon themselves, in common with their fellow citizens, taxes for the support of schools under state control and direction, we nevertheless hold that scholastic attainments are not essential to a full understanding of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We do not believe that a diploma from a theological seminary is an essential part of the credentials of a teacher or preacher of the word of God. Nevertheless we endeavor to encourage and aid in a material way the training of the mind and the development of all the faculties that shall be conducive to educational advancement in the truest sense of the term, but we hold the Gospel is simple that all may understand it who will. It is the proud and they who do wickedly who close their eyes and their ears and their hearts to the signs of the times, to the word of the Gospel and to the testimony of the Christ. It has long been a favorite excuse of men who were not ready for the advent of the Lord, to say, "The Lord delayeth His coming." Don't attach too much importance to the fact that He has thus far delayed His coming, for He has repeatedly told us that the day of His coming is very, very near, even at our doors. There is a tendency among men to explain away what they don't wish to understand in literal simplicity, . and we, as Latter-day Saints are not entirely free from the taint of that tendency. Prophecies that have not yet been fulfilled are by many of us made the subjects of hypothesis and theory and strained interpretation. We read that one of the  signs to precede the second advent of Christ shall be the bringing forth of the tribes that have been lost to history, led away where men have not yet found them, and we are told that they shall be brought forth with a strong hand by the power of God and shall come unto Zion and receive their blessings at the hands of Ephraim. But some people say that prediction is to be explained in this way : A gathering is in progress, and has been in progress from the early days of this Church; and thus the "Lost Tribes" are now being gathered; but that we are not to look for the return of any body of people now unknown as to their whereabouts. True, the gathering is in progress, this is a gathering dispensation; but the prophecy stands that the tribes shall be brought forth from their hiding place bringing their scriptures with them, which scriptures shall become one with the scriptures of the Jews, the holy Bible, and with the scriptures of the Nephites, the Book of Mormon, and with the scriptures of the Latter-day Saints as embodied in the volumes of modern revelation. 

The Lord has said it. I am just simple-minded enough, my brethren and sisters, to stand upon the rock of assurance that not one jot or tittle of the word of the Lord shall fail. Do not allow yourselves to think that the coming of the Christ means merely the spread of different or more advanced ideas among men, or simply the progress and advancement of society as an institution. These shall be but incidents of the great consummation, the consummation of this particular stage or epoch of the Lord's work. The Lord Jesus Christ shall come in the clouds of heaven, ac131  by the heavenly hosts, and His advent shall be marked by a great extension of the resurrection of the just, which has been in progress since that resurrection Sunday on which He came forth from the tomb and took up the wounded, pierced body which He had laid down; and those who are not able to bear the glory of His coming because of their wickedness, their foulness, and wilful state of sin, shall, by natural means, perish. A strong current of electricity passes safely through a pure conductor, but where resistance is encountered it becomes a destructive power. It was necessary that the work for the dead be undertaken by the living, that temples be reared and this vicarious labor be performed, that the hearts of the departed fathers might be turned toward their yet mortal descendants, and the hearts of mortal children be turned to their dead ancestors, lest the earth be smitten with a curse at the time of the Lord's coming. 

The Bible is very simple to those who read it with earnest and honest intent, as are all the scriptures, but it is very puzzling to the theologians, very puzzling, sometimes to Biblical scholars and interpreters who seek to apply to it only those tests that are common among men. I rejoice in the testimony of the Savior that He is verily the Christ and we proclaim Him as such. Great interest is manifest at this time in the work and ministry of Jesus Christ, not only among the Latter-day Saints but in the world in general; and He has been analyzed and measured and written about from many points of view, and as viewed from many different angles. There are volumes of recent publication dealing with the 

Christ of literature, the Christ of history, the Christ of reason, the Christ of experience. Never lived a man of whom more has been said or sung; and there is none to whom is devoted a greater share of the world's literature. But the tendency is to view Him from this angle or that and not to look with direct vision. I am thankful that the Church to which I belong preaches Christ and Him crucified, and resurrected, the Christ that ascended into heaven, the Christ that shall come again, the Christ that was the offspring in the flesh, as well as in the spirit, of the very Eternal Father, the Christ who is the Savior and Redeemer of mankind, beside whom there is none, beside whose name there is no name under heaven, whereby mankind may be saved. May His Spirit be ever with us, and may we be prepared for His coming, I humbly ask, in His name. Amen. 

"A Temple in Hawaii," words by "Ruth May Fox, and music by Orson Clark, was sung by Ethelyn Walker, Hazel B. Neilson, James H. Neilson, and Almy C. Clayton. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

Loyalty, a doctrine of the L. D. S. Church — God the only King on this land of Liberty — "Mormonism" makes f c good citizenship" — No "hyphenated" Americans in "Mormon" Church, all are true Americans — Admirable characteristics in people of other countries. 

It comes as a surprise to me, my brethren and sisters, to be asked to occupy this position this afternoon. I respond cheerfully, however, and even gladly, to testify to you of my faith and confidence in this work of the Lord and of the blessing that GENERAL CONFERENCE.  has in store for mankind, to all who believe and obey. 

While the first song was being sung this afternoon, "Loyal to the true and the right," I thought in that line was composed the whole duty of man, for if I am loyal to the truth and to the right in all things; then I must be at all points acceptable to God, my Heavenly Father. We are taught in the revelations of the Almighty to this Church the doctrine of loyalty. If we believe really and truly in the doctrines of the Church, and believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, then that very belief must of necessity make us better citizens than those who do not so believe. Why? Because I believe that God -Almighty raised up men to lay the foundations of this great government. I believe in the Book of Mormon, which declares that there should be no king upon this land, but that God would be our King. By a singular co-incidence, the writer of one of our national songs seems to have hit upon this very thought, when he declares in the last verse of the hymn, "My Country, 'Tis of Thee" : 

"Our fathers' God, to Thee, Author of Liberty, 

To Thee we sing; Long may our land be bright With freedom's holy light; Protect us by Thy might, 

Great God, our King." 

The same inspiration that gave to Joseph Smith the understanding that there should be no king, but that the Lord would be our King upon this land, gave to the author of the song, our national anthem (who, by the way, is a Smith also) the same inspiration, that the Lord our God should be King over this land. Believing so, and under that the Lord has had a hand in the establishment of this freedom and liberty that we enjoy, I say that if I really believe it, and live by it, that citizenship which I have must of necessity be more sacred to me, and will make me a better citizen than the man who does not believe that God raised up the founders of this land, and that He declared that there should be no king, only that He should be King, and that we should have Him and look to Him as King and Ruler of all. 

So, "Mormonism" makes for good citizenship, don't you see — the best, the very best that there is. I do not say but what there are millions of excellent citizens — I know there are — in our land here who are loyal to what they believe to be right, but I want to impress upon you, and if my words could only go out to the world who do not understand us, this further fact that my religion impels me, constrains me, nay, I may say compels me, if I will listen to its advice, to be a better citizen in consequence of the belief in that religion, than I could be without it. And so we desire, as said in Brother Stephens' song, to be "loyal to the true and the right." 

There is no hyphen with "Mormonism." We have in this Church no Scotch- Americans or DanishAmericans, or German-Americans, not one; we are all Americans. Why? Because God is our King. No King George of England or King Wilhelm of Germany or no other do we acknowledge here, only the great God Almighty, He is our Ruler, He is our King, Him we will serve. And so right on that, a question is settled that which has to a certain extent perplexed this nation at this time, the hyphen133  American, as they call him, who owes, as he thinks, some allegiance to some other country than his own, whether it be England or Germany or what it be. In England they are singing, today, as they sing always, "God save our gracious king, Long live our noble king, God save the king," but in this country we are singing, "Great God, our King," and the hyphenated citizen cannot exist in "Mormonism." There is a problem that is solved by our religion which may trouble the people, and which has troubled some of the leaders of this nation, and is troubling them at the present time, and I would like the word to go out that by the very fact that a man is a Latter-day Saint, a member of the "Mormon' Church, if you please, that by that fact it is impossible for him to be a hyphenated citizen or to have any hyphen between his native country and his home here in the mountains. His religion teaches him loyalty-teaches him that he must absolve himself from all emperors, from all potentates, from all countries; and that this is the land of Zion, and that he must abide here and revere the King of this land, who is God Almighty Himself. 

Now I am not saying that there are not good people in different lands who take different views on this question. I admire the peoples, many of them, who are at war at this present time. The German nation as a people — there is no better people in all the world than the German people; they have proved it, too, before this war began, in efficiency, in every man who could work being at work, work provided for him in some way, and more or less every man contented and comparatively happy. They had given  the nations of the world a lesson in this respect; they had even given us a lesson, but there are those who hold, and I am one of them, that the very system which has grown up there is to some extent subversive of liberty; the system, not the people; the people, I repeat, are of the very best and choicest in the' world. Our German brethren and sisters, who have come from that land, and are settled with us here in this land of Zion, there are no better people among us; you cannot produce them anywhere. But I wish those German brothers and sisters, and English and Scotch and French, to remember this — I must repeat it again, and my time is up, I see — that there is no hyphen connected with the loyalty of citizenship when once you are a "Mormon." 

I use that word "Mormon" as applied to a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, so that it may be more widely known, if possible, that this Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, makes for the best citizenship in all the world. The very teaching of my Church, my religion, the counsel of those who are over me, the revelations of Jesus Christ to me, impel me to the best citizenship, to be "loyal to the true and the right," and that there shall be no hyphen connected with the "Mormonism" and citizenship of any one who is connected with it. 

God bless you, bless Israel, bless those who give guidance and direction to this organization; the Lord does that through His servants. The Lord bless those servants that we may listen to them, and if we do we will never go far wrong. The Lord bless Zion, multiply and increase the people of Zion; that we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  be kind to the poor, that we may see that the poor do not suffer — that is a principle of our religion and we must live it — the poor shall not. want and suffer while there is abundance in the Church. The Lord bless us and help us to understand our duties and do them, and be "loyal to the true and the right," through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Mabel Poulton Kirk and the choir sang- the hymn, "Beautiful Zion for me." 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I hold in my hand an excerpt from a recent number of the Outlook, of which Mr. Lyman Abbott, a religious teacher of great fame is the editor and also the publisher. In it he has a department in which he answers questions from those whom he calls "unknown friends," and this question appears in that column : 

_ "Have there been any prophets since Christ who add to the great prophecies which are of value to those who wish to know the truth; or is it sufficient tc know the old prophets and the teachings of Christ?" 

To this question Mr. Abbott makes the following answer : 

"The prophets, we are told, spoke as they were moved, inspired, guided by the spirit of God. There is no reason to suppose that God has ceased to move upon the spirits of men and to inspire and guide them. Certainly there is nothing in the New Testament to warrant any such opinion. Peter expressly declares that the promise of the Holy Spirit is to all who will receive it, and Paul bids us pray that we may be filled with all fulness of God." 

To the second part of the question he answers : 

"On the other hand there is ho reason to suppose that anything has been added to the substantial truths  God and His relations to His children, which are taught in the Old and New Testaments. Their teachings that God loves and serves and sacrifices Himself in love for His children leaves nothing beyond to be desired or even to be conceived. The prophets since that revelation are guided, not to add new truths, but to show how the truth of love, the love of God to man, and the love of man to God and to each other, is to be applied in all the changing situations and conditions of human life." 

I thought I would like to read that passage to this great multitude, because in some respects it does mark a forward movement in the conceptions of this religious teacher, at least, in regard to the principle of revelation. In the early history of our Church, the great novelty associated with it, and the wonder of its message, seemed to be that God had again spoken from the heavens; that angels had visited servants of God to restore the Gospel. This was the point at which our message was met by the religious teachers of those times with the claim that the volume of scripture was completed, and forever closed; that the awful voice of prophecy would no more be heard, that the last word of revelation had been spoken. In that controversy the early elders of the Church obtained an easy victory over their opponents; because it was so easy for them to do just what Mr. Lyman Abbott here does, namely, point to the fact that prophecy came not in olden times by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and wherever that spirit is possessed there is the spirit of prophecy; and it was an inconsistency on the part of the Christian world to claim that they were in possession of the Holy Ghost and yet without the gift of 135  and of revelation. Consequently, I say, the victory of God's servants on that point was easily obtained. Mr. Abbott concedes the reasonableness of that argument, because he himself here uses it. But the astonishing thing in connection with this answer of his to the question submitted to him is, in the second part of it, viz., that while admitting that the spirit of prophecy may still be upon the children of men, and there may be prophets among Christians, who possess that spirit, yet they may add nothing new to what has been revealed! It would be extremely interesting to point out to Mr. Abbott and those who think with him how great necessity there is for divine wisdom to be manifested in, and divine instructions given upon, every many vital religious questions. One might call his attention, for instance, to the fact that in the matter of the very ordinance by which men may be admitted into the Church of Christ — baptism — the formula to be used and the proper subjects of baptism, and the purpose of baptism — in respect of all this the Christian world seems not able to come to a unity of the faith. Evidently they constitute problems that may not be solved by the scholarship of the world, applied to the interpretation of the scriptures, either in the original language in which they were written or in the translations; for Christendom is hopelessly divided upon these subjects, and the world stands in need of the word of God to settle their disputes. I am happy to know that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which proclaims the reopening of the heavens and the restoration of the Gospel, with divine authority to administer its ordin, has a message to the world from God upon this subject of baptism; and that when the Lord restored that part of the Gospel, He fittitngly did so by sending him who was known in earth-life pre-eminently as The Baptist, and he restored the authority to baptize, and he supervised the first baptisms in this dispensation of the fulness of times. That is one added truth that has been revealed by the Lord in this dispensation. 

I might also call the attention of Mr. Abbott and those who think with him that in the important matter of administering the holy sacrament — the Lord's Supper — the means that God has established in his Church for the perpetuation — Latter-day Saints, mark it! — for the perpetuation of the spiritual life that he brings into existence through acceptance of the Gospel, they are — the Christian world- — they are without the formula by which the emblems of our Lord's Supper may be fittingly and effectively consecrated to this great spiritual purpose. They know not how to administer the holy sacrament of the Lord's supper, for the perpetuation of the spiritual life of man. Through the Book of Mormon and in the Doctrine and Covenants, by the revelations we there have, something more is added to the religious truths by which men may be guided, viz., the prayer for consecration of the holy sacrament. 

It is not, however, for the purpose of referring to these matters, and many more that could be enumerated, did time permit, that I presented the answer of Mr. Abbott to the questions that I have read to you. I did not have baptism and the sacrament in mind, but this : He tells us that no added GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to that which is contained in the Old and New Testaments in respect of God may be looked for, notwithstanding the admitted pressence of the spirit of revelation among men; and I wanted to place this man's statement in contrast with the great truths that have been announced in this conference, by President Smith and President Penrose, as proof that a world of added knowledge, of intelligence, and understanding respecting God has been brought forth by the revelations of God to the great prophet of this new dispensation, Joseph Smith. Two things confuse the world today in respect to their knowledge of God — the duty that some feel, on the one hand, to regard God as a personality; and on the other hand to regard Him as universal spirit, as everywhere present, and everywhere present with power. Reconciliation of the two conceptions is puzzling the theologians and the philosophers. Dean Mansel, in his great lecture, which amounts to a book, on the subject of "Limitations of Religious Thought," writes this as his conclusion : "It is our duty to think of God as personal, and it is our duty to believe that He is infinite;" although he confesses that there is something inconsistent with the two views. Herbert Spencer seizing upon this inconsistency of the dean's and commenting upon the conclusions, remarks : "Let those who can believe there is eternal war between our intellectual faculties and our moral obligations. I for one, admit no such radical vice in the constitution of things." Of course, when you speak of God as a person, especially if you regard Him as a person in the sense that He is an individual., of whom Jesus the Christ, as a resurrected, immortal, and all-glorious personage was  full and complete manifestation — if you thus regard personality, then to think of God as everywhere present, diffused as a presence and a power through all His creations, there does appear a contradiction; because form means limitation in space, and the simplest philosophy teaches that a body, an object of form, bounded as it must be by certain lines, cannot at the same instant be present in two different places; that cannot be. 

The scriptures do teach, however, these two things — about God, viz., that God is a person of whom Jesus Christ is "the brightness of His glory and the express image of His person;" and they also teach the omnipresence, or every whereness of God. David said when he contemplated perhaps — I know not — but perhaps, the desirability of getting away from the presence of God, because of his great sins; but in any event he was led to remark — and it is scripture, and it presents the truth : 

"Whither shall I go from Thy Spirit, or whither shall I flee from Thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold Thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall Thy hand lead me, and Thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me. Yea, the darkness hideth not from Thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to Thee." 

Yet Mr. Gladstone, the great English statesman, like Dean Mansel, felt the need of holding to the conception of the personality of God. Indeed, he regarded it as the need of the world, and the hope of the future. Speaking of those questions to his friend, Mr. Stead, who asked him, a short time before 137  death, what his greatest hope for the future of humanity was, the great statesman replied : 

"I should say we must look for that to the maintenance of the faith in the invisible. That is the great hope of the future. It is the mainstay of civilization; and by that I mean a living faith in a personal God. I do not hold with streams of tendency; after sixty years of public life, I hold more strongly than ever to this conviction, deepened and strengthened by long experience, of the reality, and nearness, and personality of God." 

But you observe that among these great minds there is a marked diversity of opinion concerning this great question, the necessity of holding to the faith of a personal God, and at the same time other men equally intellectual doubting the possibility of holding in consciousness and in faith the personality of God and at the same time His everywhereness. What a blessing that Prophet would be to his generation who should have his mind moved upon by the holy spirit, or who, by direct revelation and face to face communion with God, could come to the world with a word from the inner fact of things, and settle this question. Mr. Abbott needs it settled for him, as also other people need it settled for them. No human wisdom could find that word, but the inspired prophet of this new dispensation comes with a message that will settle it; a message that appeals to the understanding as well as to the emotions and the desires of men in their thirst for knowledge of God; and I may so far trespass upon your titme as to read that brief message in which both great truths — the personality of God and the universality of His presence are maintained. Listen to this sweetest — no, I may not say that it is the sweetest , as it is difficult to tell which is the sweetest out of the many messages that God is sending forth to the world in this new dispensation; so perhaps I am not warranted in characterizing one as sweeter than another, but listen to this splendid message that our Church has for the world. Speaking of the Son of God, this revelation says : 

"He that ascended up on high, as also He descended below all things; in that He comprehended all things, that He might be in all and through all things, the light of truth." That is, the power by which the truth is manifested. "Which truth shineth." That is, it is apparent, not hidden; it is before your vision. "Which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ." I pray you remember that phrase. "As also He" this light of Christ, "is in' the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made. 

"As also the light of the stars, and the power thereof by which they were made. 

"And the earth also, and the power thereof; even the earth upon which you stand. 

"And the light which now shineth, which giveth you light, is through Him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings." 

The Apostle John speaks of it as "the light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world." Job must have had it in mind when he said : "There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of God giveth him understanding." But to continue with the revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Which is the same light that quickeneth your understanding;" and now the message, "which light," the creative power, worldsustaining power, intelligence-inGENERAL CONFERENCE.  power — "which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space. 

"The light which is in all things; which giveth life" — and therefore the vital force in the universe — "which giveth life to all things; which is the law by which all things are governed : even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things." 

Now, my beloved brethren, with this great truth before you, it is easy to comprehend the great mystery that confuses the world, namely, how to hold in your consciousness, in your faith, the belief that God is a personality in the sense that He is a glorified individual such as the Christ was after His resurrection, and now is — an immortal personage. We know not, perhaps, on what bright sphere, as a personality He makes His home, but wherever He is, as a personality, the Christ, is as He left the earth — after His resurrection — He is as He will return to the earth, as set forth in the remarks of Elder Talmage at this conference. It is also possible at the same time to regard Him as a universal presence and power — which men rightly call God — proceeding forth from the personal presence of the Christ, also from the presence of God the Father, and from the presence of the Holy Spirit — there goes forth into the space depths, the Spirit which emanating from these Holy Personages fills the immensity of space with the very presence land power of God. That presence and power is constantly maintained, too, and is actual presence of God in all consciousness, in seeing, hearing, feeling, knowing, and loving. I say this presence called in the revelation I have read from "the lisfht of Christ" — be it is of His nature, and strongly bears forth into space his attributes — this Spirit is actual presence of God; for as the ray of light is not separate from its source, so this Spirit and Power which proceeds from the presence of God is not separated from the personages of the Godhead whence He proceeds to fill the immensity of space. In this manner God in-dwells in his worlds, and those worlds in which God in-dwells shall fulfill and accomplish the purposes of God. 

This is the immanent Deity of which men in our day have so much to say; and for our enlightenment — that we might know God — even the Spirit of God — though proceeding from the several Divine personages of the Godhead — is called "the Light of Christ/' for the reason already given, and, further, that the Christ might be in very deed and in all respects the manifestation, or evelation of God to man. 

I thought I would like to present this truth that attention might be called to the world's problem regarding the doctrine of God; and that the sermons of President Smith and President Penrose might stand as an answer to the sophistry and vain philosophy of the times about nothing being added by revelation to the world's knowledge of God. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

To demonstrate the sweetness of tones of the remodeled great organ, Prof. John J. McClellan played variations of the music, now usually sung to the hymn, "O, my Father." 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Heavens are telling the glory of God." 

Elder Walter P. Monson pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 139 

As the vast congregation left the building the organist played, and the people sang, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W.> Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 

ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. 

[The copy of the stenographer's transcript of Elder Andrew Kimball's discourse having been lost in transmission by mail, Elder Kimball has written a statement covering the principal features of said discourse, and it is printed here. It would have been included in that part of the pamphlet where the other discourses appear that were delivered at the outdoor meeting, Sunday afternoon, April 9, but was received too late for insertion therein.] 

What appeals to me as one of the strongest testimonies of the divine calling of Joseph Smith as a Prophet, and benefactor of his race, is that contained in the revelation known as "the Word of Wisdom" (Sec. 89, Doctrine and Covenants). It is eighty-three years since the Lord admonished the world, through His Prophet, that strong drinks and tobacco were not good for man. 

Recently, while in Los Angeles, a gentleman who had been active in  state in the Anti-saloon League work, and now employed in the fight against the saloon in California, lectured before an audience at the Latter-day Saints Church, on the subject of prohibition. In the course of his remarks he traced developments from an early day in this country, showing activities of various sectarian churches in their efforts to break down the liquor traffic. When he had concluded, Elder Joseph E. Robinson, President of the California mission, read the following revelation, and showed conclusively that through the "Mormon" Prophet, God had made known the truths concerning the detrimental use of liquor and tobacco, antedating every other move made in the world. I will here read the revelation : 

[The speaker read the "Word of Wisdom" in full] 

For over eighty years this people, the Latter-day Saints, have been taught, and have more or less abstained, not only from the use of intoxicating liquors, but also tea and coffee and tobacco, and the result is we have two or three generations of our people almost entirely free from the evil effects of these contaminating things. 

The Lord has made no mistake in this revelation; like many other good things, He has given to the world admonitions and commandments calculated to improve His children physically, as well as spiritually. Along this line of reform, as also in many others, the "Mormon" people living in Arizona have been foremost and among the most reliable of the people residing in that State. 

Saloon keepers are bluffers; they would make you believe that the abolition of the saloon would destroy all business relations, they GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that the loss of revenue would be so great you would have no means to run the government, that business would be dull; in short, it would kill the country. This is about the kind of talk they gave us in Arizona when we went into the light and put them out of business. In 1901 it was my good fortune to secure the passage of the "Texas" local option law while a member of the Arizona Territorial Legislature, but, my friends, "local option" will not do the work. Three counties only took advantage of the law and voted dry. They were where the Latter-day Saints were in the majority. 

Later, while an effort was made to amend the law, its enemies segregated the large cities from the country districts, making it almost impossible to rid the municipalities of the saloon; so we can say from experience, that while local option is better than the saloon, it is not sweeping enough in its effects to rid the country of the liquor traffic, accordingly we insisted upon Statewide prohibition. 

The Temperance Federation of Arizona, so termed, was organized, an executive committee was chosen, with representation from the various organizations, W. C. T. U. Young Men's and Young Ladies' Christian Associations, Labor Federation, the various sectarian churches, business and professional interests, and our "Mormon" people, women being very active in the work. We gave women their franchise and they gave us a dry state. God bless the women. 

A private citizen of one of our leading cities compiled statistics of the State, covering a period of but six months, and termed the compilation, "Six Months Prohibition  Arizona." From this pamphlet I will give you a few figures. You may draw your own conclusions as to the havoc wrought in Arizona by closing the saloons. It must be remembered that when the saloons closed Dec. 31, 1914, at 12 o'clock at night, many saloon keepers retained a quantity of liquor, and scores of citizens laid in a supply, so that when the law went into effect the State was not quite dry. I here give you the wording of the prohibition amendment to the Constitution : 

"Ardent soil its, ale, beer, wine or intoxicating liquor or liquors of whatever kind shall not be manufactured in or introduced into the state of Arizona under any pretense. Every person who sells, exchanges, gives, barters, or disposes of any ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating liquor of any kind to anv person in the state of Arizona, or who manufactures, or introduces into, or attempts to introduce into the state of Arizona any ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating liquor of any kind, shall be guilty of a misdeameanor and upon conviction shall be imprisoned for not less than ten days nor more than two years and fined not less than twentyfive dollars and costs nor more than three hundred dollars and costs for each offense: provided, that nothing in this amendment shall apply to the manufacture or sale of denatured alcohol." 

The constitutional amendment made it mandatory upon the first State Legislature to enact police regulations for the enforcement of the law. This they failed to do, so that all we have accomplished has been under the mandates of the constitution. 

Efficiency increased in the workingmen of the state in six months, according to these statistics, an average over the state of 25 per cent, and at the Copper Queen, the larg141  copper company, 31.4 per cent. Understand by this that, before prohibition, after each pay day through employes spending their wages and time in the saloon, and recovering from the consequences of drink, they would lay off two or three days each month, causing the company to lose 31.4 per cent in the efficiency of its operations. The pay rolls . being $4,000,000, 25 per cent of that amount is $1,000,000 saved, for now men go to work after pay day. Eighty-four per cent reported for work before prohibition, 98 per cent since. 

When men drank up their wages, their boys had to stay out of school to help support the family. There has been a great increase in attendance in the public schools, and 50 per cent increase in our state university. 

There is 37.3 per cent less crime in the country, and 50 per cent less in the cities. Drunkenness has decreased 85 per cent. There has been 2880 less arrests for drunkenness in the state in six months. 

Eleven out of fourteen counties went dry. Three (Mormon) counties were already dry through local option. There has been 796 less commitments in six months, a saving, by decrease in arrests, of $50,773.98, a falling off of 50 per cent in commitments. 

In cities and towns of prominence there has been a decrease in arrests of 2.403, an average of 50 per cent; saving by such decrease $85,170.14. While the state has apparently sustained a loss in revenue of $100,998, but when we take into consideration the many channels through which business has increased, this loss of revenue is more than made up in business channels. 

In considering the moral benefits, it is inestimable. 

In Phoenix, our capital, there were 1125 less arrests in six months, 6 less police employed, $20,000 less cost in city government. 

The City of Tucson had 255 less arrests for drunkenness. Such arrests had cost $12.50 each, thus making a saving of $3,000 in six months, or $6,000 annually. 

Taxes have not increased in consequence of phohibition. 

In Apache county, taxes have decreased 14.5 per cent, and in Graham (my county) 28.5 per cent. These counties had been dry long enough to make a showing. 

There has been a great increase in savings deposits. Before prohibition, the laboring men, on pay day, would deposit their pay check in the saloon and go home with a stomach full of liquor and an empty pocket book. Now they deposit their earnings in the postal savings and in banks. There has been an increase of $387,252.00 in the postal savings, and over $3,000,000 in the banks. 

Where the saloon formerly stood, you now see progressive business institutions, moving picture shows, and other taxable property. Where before prohibition, children were running the streets barefooted and hungry, and mothers humiliated and dejected; now, under prohibition, there are thousands of happy homes. 

There has been a corresponding increase in public spiritedness, good roads, public improvements, better markets, and in every way there has been a livening up of affairs, greater confidence in business, and a general uplift to society. 

At the annual Temperance ConGENERAL CONFERENCE.  held this spring in Phoenix, and while presiding during the evening session, I presented the following figures on the birth rate and death rate of the various nations of the world, figures that may be used to prove the good effects of temperance. 

A short time after this meeting, the president of the Federation wrote and asked me for a copy, saying that of all the papers and talks in the convention this had impressed him most. These figures came into my hands from a very reliable source, and you can depend upon them as being correct, at least up to a recent date. 

Birth Death Country Rate Rate 

Russians (Europe) 44.8 28.8 

Southern Slavs 40 25 

Armenians 40 24.7 

Germans 29.8 16.2 

Italians 31.5 22.8 

Portuguese 29.7 18.8 

English and Iiish 28.5 16.1 

United States (All) 28 14 

Dutch 27.6 14.4 

Australian (Whites) 27.4 10.8 

Scandinavians 25.3 13.4 

Belgians 23.5 15 

Irish 23.3 17.1 

French 18.7 19.1 

Egyptians 43.4 35 

Indians (U. S.) 35 32 

Hindus 38.6 32.6 

Japanese 33.9 21.8 

Negroes (U. S.) 40 32 

State of Kansas 9 

Mormon (entire world) . . . .40.2 8.3 Mormons of Arizona (four 

stakes of Zion) average... 44 7.2 

St. Joseph Stake 44 6 

It will be observed from these figures that the death rate is something like one-half of the birth rate, in the United States — 28 births, 14 deaths. France, you will observe, has more die than live; consequently, unless they attend more closely to family raising, they will eventually become extinct. The state of 

Kansas has the lowest death rate of any in the Union, which can be accounted for because of their long drawn out efforts for temperance. But what we get out of this comparison is that the Latter-day Saints lead the world in high birth-rate and low death-rate. This does not mean only its numbers residing in these healthy mountain valleys, and the offspring of "Mormon" parentage, but our people in all the world. There has been more or less sympathy extended to our people living in Arizona, but mark from church statistics the splendid high birthrate and low death-rate. The four stakes average 44 births to the thousand, and 7.2 deaths; and the St. Joseph stake, where I have the honor to preside, leads the average of the Church, with 44 birth-rate and 6 death-rate. I am not claiming that this splendid record is because the state went dry a little over a year ago, but it is a fact that we are largely the offspring of "Mormon" parentage who . have lived temperate lives. 

Another thing, the test is now on in these United States. I quote from headlines in a Cambridge, Mass., paper, under date of March 19, "Americans Not Fit for Duty. Average Man Can't Meet Military Hardships, Says Harvard Professor." Compare this unfortunate condition with the acknowledged fact that not to exceed 10 per cent of American boys can stand the military examination. Is it not about time we were taking notice, and as an American people, correcting our mode of living ? Contrast this with the record of "Mormon" boys. I was told that 100 per cent of our boys at St. Johns, Arizona, passed muster when undergoing examination for the National Guard. 143 

Intemperance alone is not responsible for this alarming status of our American young manhood. It was told me by an instructor in a college in Los Angeles that from 75 to 90 per cent of the male population of that city, and other large cities of our nation, were more or less affected with disease resulting from immorality. As a general rule, this is traceable to intemperance, which, of course, with all its attendant evils, mean disaster to the human family. 

What is "Mormonism" doing? What are we doing, as a people, to uphold the high standards of right living ? As I observed at the beginning of my remarks, the temporal salvation of this people means the perpetuation of a people whose work is not only to preach the gospel of spiritual salvation, but also the practical uplift of humanity, and observance of God's laws by His children upon the earth. Amen. 

^HISTORY OF 

THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and Published by the Church 

SIX VOLUMES NOW READY 

COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD® 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith,"' with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest' possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per vol. - $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per Vol. 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top , per Vol . 2 . 5.0 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, per Vol. - 4.00 WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE, FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

 ml 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

A New Church Work "JESUS THE CHRIST" 

By Dr. JAMES E. TALMAGE. Third Edition with mary added notes and references will be off the Press of the Deseret News May 15th. A study of the Messiah, and His Mission according- to Holy Scriptures both Ancient and Modern. Well printed in large type and bound in half Morocco, $1.50. 

Two Books That Every L. D. S. Family Should Have 

The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price, $1.25 postpaid. Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead, $1.25 and upward. 

Joseph Smith's Teachings 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints", and arranged accordingto subject in alphabetical order. Price, 75c postpaid. 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE, FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

