Second Overflow
09 04 1916 

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder George F. Richards presided. The combined choirs of Forest Dale, Waterloo, and Richards wards again furnished the choral numbers. 

The hymn, 'Arise, my soul, arise," was sung by the choirs. 

Elder Samuel C. Parkinson offered the invocation. 

The combined choirs sang the anthem, "Palm Branches." 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President California Mission.) 

"Praise ye the Lord; blessed is he who bringeth salvation." This is the strain that we have just listened to and the burden of the song rendered. 

I want to read to you from the holy scriptures an admonition from Paul's great epistle to his own brethren, the Hebrews, as recorded in their book, second chapter, beginning with the first verse : 

''Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which ive have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip, For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward; How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him; God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, according to his own will?" 

I have thought that we may be well admonished in this day by this exhortation of Paul's just as well as the ancient Saints, for God has  witness in this day and age. He has revealed Himself anew to men in the flesh. His beloved Son, our elder brother, the first born among many brethren in our primeval childhood, in the pre-mortal life, born of woman in the meridian of time, crucified on Calvary's cross, resurrected and risen from the dead, the Redeemer of mankind, hath made Himself known again, and by personal ministry reestablished His Church in this day, with divers gifts, with the visitation of angels, with tongues and interpretation of tongues, with miracles, with healings and with all the gifts and signs that followed in the wake of the ancient apostles. Therefore as these things are manifest before our eyes, how can we hope to escape if we neglect so great salvation? Shall neglect, shall indifference, shall unbelief wean us away from the covenants of our fathers and mothers, and lulling us to sleep in the sense of security, make us unmindful of the responsibility that rests upon us as children of the Most High ? For in such sleep we forget God, forget our calling, and therefore lose our election and reward. 

In the remarks of Elder Orson F. Whitney and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., in the tabernacle, this morning, it was fairly indicated to us that it is the unbelieving one who has shut himself away from God. Let me read the admonition of the Master, as recorded in the twentieth chapter of St. John: After He had arisen from the dead and had made Himself known to the brethren and the faithful saints upon that first Lord's day. the Sunday that they observed by gathering together to partake of the emblems of His blood and flesh, and being afraid  the Jews, had shut themselves up into an upper room, when they were suddenly visited by the Master. We read that they were affrighted because they thought they had seen a spirit, but He said unto them, "Peace be unto you," and admonished them that it was even He Himself, and invited them to come forward and thrust their hands into His side, and feel the prints of the nails in His hands and in His feet, which witnessed that it was even He Himself and not His spirit. They seemed fearful still, and evidently did not take advantage of His invitation. Then He asked them if they had any bread or meat there, and they brought Him a broiled fish and part of a honey comb, and He did eat in their presence. They bore witness of this to Thomas, who was not present that day but who was one of the chosen disciples. Thomas, as manymen today, would not believe the testimony of his brethren. He said, I will not believe it unless I can see and feel the marks of the nails in His hands and His feet, and when they had come together upon the next Sunday, the Master again appeared before them, and these are the words that are recorded : 

"And after eigth days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless but believing." 

Remember this admonition, not faithless, but believing." "And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God." 

The Master rejoine'd, saying: 

"Thomas, because thou hast seen me thou hast believed; blessed are they that have not seen, and have believed." 

So here again do I read this admonition, that we ought to be faithful and not faithless, that we ought to be believing and not unbelieving. And if you will recall the remarks of Elder Smith this morning, you remember how he cited the men of the world who hold the places of prominence as teachers and ministers for Christ, who do not accept the atonement of the Master, who do not accept the fact that He is the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, who do not believe we are created in His form, but that if we are made after Him at all it is in reason only that we resemble His personality. They question the statements of the early fathers of the ancient church, the statements of the apostles and of the patriarchs of old, because they think that in this day we have come into more learning and knowledge relative to the great course of life and the being of this world, its creations and its environment. 

Let me recite a few words of Col. Robert G. Ingersoll. His brother Obed was a minister, so called, of the gospel of Christ. The colonel expected that when death overtook him his brother would see to the last sad rites, and would speak parting words of benediction over his body. But his brother died early in life, and the Colonel had the sad office to fulfill instead for his brother. In addressing the people assembled, he likened the life of his brother unto that of a beautiful ship that had set sail under most favorable circumstances, every sail in place, every rope taut, everything in order, so that a most GENERAL CONFERENCE.  voyage seems propitious, when suddenly, without a warning, the vessel, struck amidships by .a submerged rock, had broken it in two, and it drifted out upon the waves, driven and tossed by the winds, and was scattered to the four parts of the earth, never more to be brought together again. But when he had drawn this picture, his own soul within him remonstrated with the thought, and he expressed these feelings : 

"This life is a narrow vale between the cold and barren peaks of two eternities. We strive in vain to pierce beyond the heights. We cry, and the only answer is the echo of our soul: he who lies before us, mistaking the approach of death for the return of health, murmured with his latest breath, I am better now." 

And the Colonel concludes : 

"Let us hope in spite of doubt and fear, dogmas and tears, that this is so, of all the countless dead, for in the dark night of death hope sees a star and the listening ear catches the rustling of a wing." 

A complete contradiction to his former statements, "and showing that within his heart, as within the soul of every man, there is something that reaches out after the infinite. He said, "We strive in vain to pierce beyond the heights : we cry, and the only answer is the echo of our wail.'' Now because he was faithless; and lacked faith in God and in His work; — he believed not, and therefore he received no answer, for we are to walk by faith and not by sight. And I take it in this scripture that I read to you, the Lord Jesus rather reproaches' Thomas than blessing him, though happily for Thomas, he did confess his Master when his  beheld Him and his ears heard His loved voice; but the Master said to him, "Thomas, thou hast believed because thou hast seen me. Blessed are they who have not seen, and yet have believed." And so with these modern men who were quoted today. So with Colonel Ingersoll. Those who are faithless and are not believing, do not have the testimony of the Christ. The Holy Ghost does not come to them as a witness for it has not been conferred upon them. They have not complied with the teachings of the Master, wherein He said, "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me, and if any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether I speak of God or whether I speak of myself." And that promise is to the least of the children of our Father and to the least that shall come in the flesh, as well as to the great ones of the earth who lived with the Master in His day. 

So we may not wonder at the lack of understanding upon the part of those who were regarded as wise and prudent after the knowledge of men, for God has said that He had not chosen many rulers from among the great and the wise; — but from those who were looked upon as insignificant, from the meek and the lowly of the earth He has raised up witnesses unto Him who bear with them such earnestness in their testimony that men cannot make light of the same, no matter if they stumble in their language or not. We feel it in their very presence, in the clasp of their hand. We read it in the light of their countenance, and cannot doubt the testimony of such men as these, to whom God has spoken by the voice of His spirit, or unto whom 101  Holy Ghost has come and borne witness of the truth, taking of the things of the Father and of the Son and revealing them to men. Not only the wise men, so called, of the world, but, sad to relate, some of our own young men, who have a little smattering of the knowledge of the world, and who have studied some of the philosophies of men, who are misinformed, and whose philosophies are not grounded on the truth, have by their specious pleading been led to believe, as was stated this morning, in evolution and in the higher criticism of the scriptures. They will tell us that the books written are not to be ascribed to those whose names follow as the authors of the works, that they are eastern allegories and fables and stories, and that they are not true histories of the dealings of Providence anciently nor in the meridian of time; but the deductions that they make and the sophistries that they teach are much more difficult to explain, to accept and believe than the plain, simple statement of the holy scriptures themselves. 

An added testimony to the truth of these scriptures comes to us in the manifestos of some of the greatest living scientists, members of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, as given, I think, but about six years since, when unitedly these men declared that not only the history of the Bible and of God's hand-dealing with His people was true, but the very miracles performed, as stated in the New Testament, the turning of water into wine, the revivifying of the dead, the healing of the leper, the unstopping of the ears of the deaf, and the opening of the eyes of the blind, not only might be demonstrated scientifically, but  true to the principles of higher science. This wisdom and knowledge is gleaned in part now by men in their blindness; and these very men feel that about us there are forces unharnessed as yet to serve men's will, — planes upon which we do not function, and are slow to reject the testimony of men of the past and even of the present, who say that they do know because they have come in touch with this, power and are witnesses of the hand-dealings of Christ and of the visitation of angels and the healing of the sick, etc. 

Why, how weak, how impotent after all, despite all that man has achieved, is man himself. Our poor ears, though they have been enraptured by the melody of song this afternoon, so sweetly rendered by the combined choirs and by the instrument accompaying them, — our poor ears can only interpret and receive a very few of the vibrations that we call .sound, and between the vibrations of sound and sight there lies a wondrous field, unheard, unknown, unexperienced by mortal man, because in our weakness, our finiteness, we cannot . function in that plane. The sights that might be seen, the sounds that might be heard, are uninterpreted and unseen because we are mortal. But sometimes God quickens the ear and the eye of man, and they hear and see things unheard and unseen before. And so the poets have declared that 

"Ever near us though unseen, The dear immortal spirits tread, 

And all the universe is life; There is no dead." 

Ofttimes in rejecting so great salvation, we do it by looking back mournfully, as was stated this morning, into the past, by thinking GENERAL CONFERENCE.  things that might have been, by weeping over time and conditions and .opportunities, perchance, that cannot come again, or that we lose because we look to the past and do not take heed of the present and look for the future. Ofttimes too there may be dreamers who are living in the future, who have buikled up for themselves an ethereal existence that is not real, and because it is unreal is unhealthy. I have met people who think that they are so saintly that if they can retain certain divine thoughts, they shall never die, that they shall not taste of death, that they arrest the seeds of dissolution, and cannot even grow old. I have seen them not only grow decrepit and old, but die since they first announced this doctrine to me in the mission field. Such creatures and dreamers of the future — and men who look mournfully to the past, and put off the issues of the present for the future, crucify today between, the thieves of yesterday and tomorrow the opportunities for salvation gained only by living godly in Christ Jesus today. 

I admonish you Latter-day Saints to see to it that so far as you are concerned, complying with the doctrines of Christ you shall set in your hearts and in the hearts of your children such love of truth, such a testimony of the Christ, that you will not be led astray by the specious pleading of so called learned men, but in the effulgent sun of revelation you will be able to say, as did Peter, that "Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God;" that with one of the ancient prophets you can say, "as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." If tried, if tormented, if perplexed with griefs and fears, if there be  in your pathway that you feel that you cannot surmount, if broken-hearted because loved ones have been wrested from you, or wantonly have gone astray, still be like Job, who could sit down in the ashes of his once happy home and declare, "though he slay me yet will I trust him," "for I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter-day upon the earth; and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself and mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reins be consumed within me." That is the faith that surmounts the doubts and the difficulties of today; that is the faith that will enable you to surmount every obstacle; that is the faith that will help you to recognize the hand of God in all of His hand-dealings, and meet meekly chastisement when it shall come from His beneficent hand. "Be not faithless, but believing, for blessed are they who have not seen and yet have believed." 

May the peace of our Father be with you, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

SAMUEL O. BENNION. 

(President Central States Mission.) 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity of attending conference this spring. I think that the opportunity to meet here with the Latter-day Saints and mingle with them, and shake the hands of friends, of brethren and sisters, is one of the great pleasures of life, and I appreciate it very much. My experience in attending these conferences has always been a source of joy to me from the very 103 . I have learned to love my fellow men and enjoy the association of friends. I have never seen a crowd too big, or too many people, and I find happiness and great pleasure, when I can associate with men who bear the priesthood of God and who are true to life. We find this condition among the Latter-day Saints to a greater degree than it is in the world among any other body of people. 

I appreciate the power of the priesthood. I have been thinking during this conference most seriously that I ought to be very careful with the testimony which I have received, and guard it as a precious gift. Above all other gifts is a testimony of this gospel, that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet sent from God to live in this dispensation, and to bear testimony unto men with such power that the Lord's work would be firmly established. It is a precious gift to you, my brethren and sisters; it is worth more than anything else; I want to guard mine more carefully in the future than T have ever done in the past. 

The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Men who have not the testimony of Jesus do not believe in prophecy and in revelation. Hence we are not surprised at all to hear them say there is no such thing as an authorized priest in the earth, no such thing as a temple of God in the earth, no need of them any more. I attended a church in one of the Southern states a few weeks ago, between trains, when I was visiting the elders in the Central States mission. I had two or three hours to wait, so T went into one of the . They were in session that evening, with a large number of people present. The minister made the statement that I have mentioned, that there was not a priest upon the earth, that there was no need of a temple in the earth; Christ had performed the work for all of us, and if we admitted Christ we were sure of salvation. He did not believe in revelation at all, said it was unnecessary. He did not believe in prophecy, and I was not surprised, for I knew the Apostle John had said that "the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." Men who have not the testimony of Jesus are not in a position to state or to say that there are prophets in the earth, and that revelation does exist. They have not learned that much. And so I was not surprised when I heard him make this statement; but remembered at the moment the words of Paul, when he spoke along the same line, "that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost" (1 Cor. 12:3). I remembered how the apostles preached that the Holy Ghost would be received. On the day of Pentecost, when the people, touched in their hearts, asked, "Men and brethren what shall we do?" Peter said unto them, "Repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost" (Acts 2:37, 38). He thus followed an order that had been outlined by the Christ, who labored with Peter and those apostles. Jesus said, "My doctrine is not mine but His that sent me." He never claimed it as His, but He claimed it as His Father's, that He had sent Him into the world to preach the gospel and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  unto the children of men the words of life, the words that would give unto them the testimony that Job gave us, which has been so beautifully repeated here this afternoon. 

There is no salvation, no eternal life, outside of the gospel. There is only ohe way by which men can be saved, according to Paul wherein he states, "One Lord, one faith, one baptism" (Eph. 4:5). No matter how well a man may be read in the scripture, — and that gentleman that 1 listened to that evening was well read; in his letters he was perfect — unless his mind is illumined by the Spirit he cannot comprehend the Truth. I remembered, as he spoke, the words of the apostle that "the letter killeth but the Spirit giveth life" (11 Cor. 3:6). He was not able to understand the gospel, for as one of the former prophets stated, according to the scripture, "Where there is no vision the people perish." Where the visions are closed, the Lord does not reveal Himself; then the people perish in unbelief, and they do not know the Lord, they have not the testimony of Jesus, they are unable to stand up and truthfully say, "I know that God lives, I know that Jesus is the Savior of the world." They are not in possession of that knowledge, for that comes only in one way, through revelation from God unto His servants the prophets, for it is said, that "surely the -Lord God will do nothing but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets" (Amos 3:7). My mind went to a revelation of the Lord here, that we are all acquainted with, recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, 13th chapter. I should have liked to have had the opportunity of reading it to that gentleman that even. I did not want to engage in a debate with him; I did not want to engage in anything that bordered on contention, for contention does not carry with it the Spirit of the Lord; but I should liked to have read to him the truth that the Lord has revealed from heaven, the priesthood of God, the power that our Father delegated to man upon the earth. It was revealed through John and later through Peter, James, and John. Section 13 reads as follows : 

"Words of the angel, John (the Baptist), spoken to Joseph Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery as he laid his hands upon their heads and ordained them to the Aaronic priesthood, in Harmony, Susquehannah County, Pensylvania, May IS, 1829: 'Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and this shall never be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness.' " 

Whether that minister stated that the priesthood was not in the earth or not, it makes no difference; he never knew. But it was and is in the earth, and I should like to have had the opportunity of reading the revelation of the Lord upon it. for after all there are thousands of men and women in the earth who are ready to receive the eospel. Thev are a little afraid of "Mormonism." because "Mormonism" and polyeamv are regarded as synonymous in the world, and they take snao iudgfment and are not informed. Thev do not understand the gosoel. Thev do not know why we have, at one period of the Church's historv. preached polygamv. We believe in revelation from God : we believe in 105  restoration of the gospel, not in a "reformation," and with the restoration there was revelated a principle which Abraham practiced and believed in — that Abraham of whom the Lord said, that through him and his seed all the nations of the earth should be blessed. That principle was restored and obeyed to a limited extent, under most trying circumstances, by men and women of great faith and integrity. The time came when it was taken away; but it had been restored, and it has left its history. No better men can be found in all the world than those who came through that lineage. 

In this connection I remember the words of Jesus in the gospel of St. Luke, when he said unto the people that they should see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of God, and all the holy prophets, and they themselves should be thrust out; there would be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. I want to tell you, if Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and those holy prophets did not forfeit their rights, neither did the Prophet Joseph Smith, and Brigham Young and others who conscientiously accepted and lived that principle. Had it not been included in "Mormon" doctrine, I suppose our opponents could have censured us for not believing in it, for they could have produced abundant evidence in its favor from the ancient scriptures. However, I allude to this matter only incidentally and without the slightest intention to advocate the doctrine now, because as you all know, its practice has ceased among us by commandment of God, in order that another law — the law of the land — might be obeyed. And that is the situation today. Nevertheless the world will yet become  with the true nature of our belief and discover that w,e did keep God's commandments; an 1 they will learn that "Mormonism" is the biggest and the greatest thing in the world, and the testimony of it is the greatest thing that one can possibly have. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you. I see the time is going, and there are a number of others to speak. I take a delight in bearing my testimony for I have one. I know that the Lord lives and rules in the earth and in the heavens above, and that He has servants to administer unto the children of men. I know that this is His work, and that He has established it never more to be given to another people, never to be re-organized, but to continue organized as it was in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and it shall remain here until Christ comes to take His place upon the earth at its head. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

A solo was sung by Sister Annie Woodbury. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President Western States Mission.) 

A few weeks ago, Prof. Harvey A. Overstreet, of the College of the City of New York, speaking to a convention of ministers of one of the great Christian churches, at Pittsburgh, said substantially as follows : 

"The time is ripe for the formulation of a new religion. Much that is peculiar of the period of today is also peculiar of the Alexandrian period, when Christianity had its birth. Today sees great cults arising. There are great social upheavals. It is a great age of ferment. I sometimes think that out of this vast social caldron will come some new thing. Tt GENERAL CONFERENCE.  we can believe this; that the accredited religions institutionalized as they are, have been failures. We find the attitude towards the church is rather lukewarm. The accredited religions are not the great soul-inspiring, encompassing things they ought to be. The new religion will come out of the midst of those groups which have accepted the scientific, democratic and social point of view." 

1 wondered, as I read the dispatch accredited to this educator, if he had familiarized himself with all of the religions of the day before making the statement attributed to him, for it would seem that there is one rather widely known creed which might cover the vital features demanded by the gentleman in the new religion he is looking for. That religion I do not hesitate to say is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Let us see how the Church would line up by comparison. The theology of "Mormonism" is in harmony with science, or better stated, the conclusions of some of the greatest scientific minds have been made to harmonize with much that has been set forth as "Mormon" teaching. When that religion was founded there was need, apparently, for some new thing, because there was much lacking in the confessed creeds of the various religions. For instance, most of them professed a belief that God was an incorporeal immaterial Being, without body, parts or passions. They professed also that the world was created, literally created, out of nothing, and likewise that man also was literally created, and that he was predestined to either a glorious salvation or eternal damnation, and that no act of his could change the plan of his life. 

With the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, these impossible ideas were set aside, for he testified that God and Jesus Christ were separate and distinct beings, corporeal beings, that they visited him in vision the most remarkable of modern times, or for all time perhaps of which we have record, when he talked face to face with them, and received instructions regarding the contemplated work to be established in the world for the last time, the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is also a cardinal teaching in "Mormonism" that matter is eternal, and that the object had by the Almighty in forming the world was to bring together the various forces that were already here, and that matter, while altered, could not be destroyed, i. e., annihilated. As respecting man, it is confidently asserted that he was born into the world of mortality through the plan of the Almighty, and that the intelligence of man is also eternal, — is in fact co-eternal with God. Some advanced thoughts as regards astronomy were also made known, which science has since recognized. From the standpoint of democracy in religion we can pass muster surely for a revelation was received in 1830, but three months after the organization of the Church as follows : "And all things shall be done by common consent in the Church by much prayer and faith for all things you shall receive by faith." That rule has obtained and still maintains in the Church. Candidates for the priesthood must be approved by the voice of the people. Stake and ward authorities are presented to be voted upon and this great conference has set its seal of approval by vote upon the General Authorities, and similar action is 107  taken throughout the stakes at each quarterly conference. 

As to the social point of view. We are given credit for having solved most satisfactorily the most important problems, by those who have impartially investigated our conditions. Thomas M. Bicknell, a former president of the National Education Association and prominent educator of New England, writes as follows : 

"The 'Mormon' polity, on the side of social order, is recognized as the most thoroughly organized sytem in the world. Every intelligent man should study it for its recognition of the solution of economic health and social problems. Its details of supervision are exact, thorough-g-oing and efficient. 

"Beyond and above all in perfection of system and in the realization of grand results, are the industry, frugality and temperance of the people. The beehive properly symbolizes the spirit and practice of the 'Mormons.' Go where you will, you will find no poverty, while wealth abounds in practical abundance. Homes are full of comforts and luxuries; art, music and literature are the endowments of all. The wealth of the land has attracted the 'Mormons' more than the wealth of the mines, and both are making wealth common and fairly distributed. 

"Utah is a rich land of great possibilities. Its richest possession is its 'Mormon' population of honest, pureminded, sweet-hearted men, women and children who have drawn on Nature's forces for her grateful services and returns. They have, out of the lion's mouth, plucked the honeycomb of sweet content and honest life, and were the Master to walk the streets of Salt Lake City today, would he not say to all critics and detractors of 'Mormonism:' 'Let him that is without sin cast the first stone'?" 

We are judged by the world because they know little of the teachings of professed "Mormonism." Only last fall, while making a tour  the South, the Vice-President of the United States, Thomas R. Marshall, was quoted in the dispatches from Phoenix, Arizona, in speaking of Efficiency, as follows : 

"We want to be an efficient people, but we want to be also a free people. We cannot be both. The German nation and the 'Mormon' Church are the two greatest organizations in the world, but in each the individual is subservient to the organization. What we want is efficiency, but we also want freedom with it." 

I think one might well agree with him in the statement regarding the German nation, and without saying anything derogatory of them as a people it is pretty generally conceded that they have been subservient to the powers that rule them. But we do take issue with him when he undertakes to say that men and women comprising this Church are subservient to men. The strength of the "Mormon" Church lies in the individual testimony of its members, because they know the truth, and yet we honor and respect the priesthood, and the great and good men at the head of the Church. We love them, and cherish them, and would lay down our lives for them, if need be; yet we do not worship them. We worship God and Jesus Christ. 

As we view the great mission of the Church, there looms before me this question, how are we individually shaping our lives to advance that great work? Are we ready to go on missions and labor to advance God's purposes in the world? Are we prepared to sacrifice when the times comes to that end ? Is our example to the world such as we would have it to be, and since we are said to be one of the greatest organizations in the world today, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  those who stand high in the councils of the world, then we ought to be ready to say: I will dedicate my life, or a portion of it, to- the end that God's purposes may be magnified in the earth, and that this Church may also be magnified commensurate to the claims we make. 

I call upon you returned missionaries, men and women, with all the fervor of my soul, as I called upon the missionaries of the Western States last night, in our reunion, to carry with you and keep with you as you return to your homes the spirit of the mission field; seek to be engaged in the work of the Lord, and be ready for any call that is made upon you, and endeavor to carry throughout the Church the spirit that you had in the mission field, for we at home have not all of us that inspiration; many have not the power and influence that you had in the mission field, to keep young men and young women from going astray, as well as to keep yourselves free from sin. We have much to fear, let me tell you, from the powers of the Adversary, for they are at work in Zion as well as abroad in the earth. 

As I view sometimes the magnitude of this work and what 1 humbly hope to do, I recall the lines of a poet, when he said : 

"If you could know that half of all I yearn to be to you, dear heart! 

Each day that dawns I struggle to be strong and do my part, 

Yet when at last the night comes softly down I humbly pray, 

'Lord, grant me still to prove my tender love just one more day!' 

"Just one more day to strive to rise above small troubles, petty care, 

That my cramped soul may break its earth-forged bonds, at last to dare 

To face the future and to gladly live 

with courage new, Loyal and cheerful facing toward the 

light for truth and you. 

"And yet I feel in spite of all the 

heights which I can never scale, In spite of all the many tests in which 

I daily fail, That my deep love, more deep and 

pure and strong than I can ever show, You somehow, through my failures, 

doubts and fears, will come to know. 

"The dreary clouds can't hide the sun for aye; it glimmers through. 

The sweet, wet violet, struggling through dead leaves, still shows its blue. 

And so I trust, though oft I strike love's chord with clumsy hand. 

You'll feel the melody I tried to play and understand." 

May God's blessing be with us to guide and keep us in the way of life and truth, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Softly beams the sacred dawning." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President Southern States Mission.) 

Sacred thoughts fill my heart as I face this congregation, because I know that all of you have made great sacrifices for the preaching of the gospel and the establishment of the kingdom of God in the earth. But you have embraced the truth and the faith which connects your souls with God, and you walk in the comfort of the Holy Ghost. 

In the Book of Mormon is this prophecy: "And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at that day, for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost." Bearing in mind that among the choicest gifts of the Holy Ghost is the gift of prophecy, 109  us examine this prophecy for a moment or two and see whether it has been fulfilled. When the Prophet Joseph translated the Book of Mormon he was only 25 years old. The Church had not been organized, but God did fulfill that prophecy by the mouth of His Holy Prophets, who spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. The Prophet Joseph Smith, by the gift and power of revelation predicted the great Civil War which raged in ferocity and fearfulness for a number of years. He predicted that the war would terminate in the death and misery of many souls. When war was declared the people of the South thought that the bravery and the valor of their soldiers would end the war in a few months, and that great patriot Abraham Lincoln himself believed that a few months would terminate the struggle. One of our brethren in the South, who was appointed to a command in the Confederate army, in addressing his men before they went to war, said : "Boys, do not delude yourselves; this is going to be a long and a bloody war." They said, "How do you know?" "Because," said he, "I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and he predicted that this war would terminate in the death and the misery of many souls." Did Joseph Smith have the gift of the power of thf Holy Ghost? Consult the annals of our great republic. Shakespeare declares there are sermons in stones. The monuments erected in the North and in the South to commemorate the valor and the heroism of the bovs in blue and the boys that wore the gray are eloquent sermons in stones that Joseph 

Smith did speak by the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost. 

In that same revelation on war, it is predicted that after this war between the North and the South, then war would be poured out upon all nations. Behold the deadly war in Europe. Listen to the bursting of the bombs, the roar of the cannon, the groans of the dying, the moans from the mothers' anguishstricken hearts, and then tell me if Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. The Latter-day Saints do not as a people pray for the victory of one wavering nation over another wavering nation. I will tell you what they pray for, they pray that the nations of the earth that are at war may lose their lust for conquest, may stifle their greed for gain; and they also pray that these nations may seek God for that choice gift which cometh from Him, even the gift of repentance. 

Isaiah, the prophet, declared : "When thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness," and O may God grant that these warring nations may forsake their stubbornness of heart. We pray that they will have a change of heart, that they may pray with David : "Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free Spirit." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the mission of this Church is to preach the gospel, to awaken in the hearts of men and women the spirit of repentance. Indeed, so important is this, that Cod has said : "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." The gospel is "God's GENERAL CONFERENCE.  warning" to men, and your sons and your daughters are boldly, bravely and grandly proclaiming the mission to bring to pass the purposes of God. 

Recently a minister said, "The description of the Millennium plainly indicates a revival of the pure faith and practice of primitive Christianity." "It is to be remembered," says this minister, "that the protestant reformation did not effect this. During the millennium period these will be brought back to their best estate, and become dominant, and this state of things will continue during the thousand years." It is our testimony, which we are bearing to the nations of the earth, that this primitive gospel hath been restored to the earth, and with it has been restored the holy priesthood, which is the power and authority to minister in the things pertaining to the Almighty. Jesus said : "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world as a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come." Among many nations are heard the voices of your noble sons and (laughters, approved of God, choice young men and young women, crying "Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 

May God grant that the nations of the earth may not be compelled much longer to learn righteousness, to learn repentance, but may they turn to their God with repentant hearts and renewed spirits, and accept the everlasting gospel, be baptized without stubbornness of heart, and with you and me rejoice in the blessings of the everlasting gospel, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Convincing character of testimony borne by the Saints — Man should follow Nature's example of obedience to law. 

My dear brethren and sisters, if President Joseph F. Smith were in attendance at this concluding meeting of the conference, we might reasonably expect that he would leave his benediction with us, as that is his custom, and I know that many of the Saints look forward with keen anticipation of the privilege of attending the last session of the conference, in the tabernacle, that they may hear his words and receive his blessing. Some of you, no doubt, feel very much disappointed at not having this privilege today. Therefore, as a representative of President Joseph F. Smith and of the Lord, and by the authority of the Holy Priesthood, I bless you, my brethren and sisters. May God's choicest blessings attend you in the future as in the past, and even more abundantly, thus rewarding you for all your faithfulness and integrity in serving Him. 

The testimonies to which you have listened this afternoon have been inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, those who have spoken have done so as the oracles of God. Their testimonies and instructions will be published to the world, and shall stand as a witness against those who, hearing or reading these testimonies, shall reject them. To see both the Tabernacle and Assembly Hall filled to overflowing, and at the same time great throngs of people out on the Temple grounds must impress the thoughtful of those who are not of us, with the devotion of the Latter-clav Saints to their reIll . I thank the Lord that I am identified with this great work, and have fellowship with you, members of His Church. The Latter-day Saints are, perhaps, more than any other religionists, convinced and sure of the correctness of their religious attitude before the world; this is evident in the strength of their testimonies. Can anyone who has heard these elders speak this afternoon doubt their sincerity or the assurance they have of the truth of their own statements ? 

The Latter-day Saints have unstinted faith in God; they do not undertake, in any degree, to abridge His knowledge, His power, or His authority. While we regard Him as a man perfected, we accept literally the scriptural declaration, "The Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that in them is." All His creations are governed by laws of His own making, and, excepting man, all His creations are obedient to His laws; hence the order everywhere throughout the universe. If these inanimate creations were as disobedient to laws made for their government as is man to laws made for his government, there would be universal confusion and chaos. On the other hand, if man were as obedient in his sphere as the heavenly bodies are in theirs, there would be like harmony and order, with peace on earth and good will towards men everywhere. If man's disobedience then is apparent, as also its baneful effects, what is the lesson we should learn by it ? As for the Latter-day Saints, we know better than we do. and have need of being impressed with the necessity for doing as well as we know. The poet, Waldo Emerson, felt this same weakness and expressed it in terms as follows : "What I most need is somebody to  me do as well as 1 can." The Apostle James declared unto the people of his time : "Wherefore, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls, but be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." When the Savior was concluding His sermon upon the Mount He seemed to have in mind man's failing and took occasion to leave this admonition as the climax of His sermon : 

'Therefore whosoever heaieui these sayings of mine, and doe-h them, 1 will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock; and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: and the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it." 

It is one thing to give intellectual assent unto the commandments of the Lord, and another to obey the same. It is the obedience that counts for righteousness and for salvation. Obedience is the lesson we need to learn. This lesson learned, as the Lord would have the Latter-day Saints to learn the lesson of obedience, and the first suggestion from the presiding authorities of the Church that we do not indulge in card playing, immodest dancing, immodest dressing, etc., would be sufficient. We sing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet to guide us in these latter days," and then in many instances refuse to be so guided. This is displeasing to the Lord, as well as being hurtful to the individual. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Prejudice in the minds of people who have been misinformed in relation to the Latter-day Saints and their religion, is a great barrier in the way of such people receiving the message of the Gospel which we have for the world. If our lives were consistent with our profession of faith, it would go a long way toward removing this prejudice and preparing the way for effective sowing of the seeds of truth, to the honor and glory of the Lord and the salvation of His children. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may His peace be upon Zion and her people, and upon all the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The anthem, "Praise ye the Father," was sung by the combined choirs. 

The closing prayer was by Elder William C. Parkinson. 


