Morning
09 04 1916

President Smith announced an overflow meeting to be held this a. m., in the adjoining Assembly Hall, under direction of Elder Heber J. Grant, for the benefit of those who cannot be accomodated in the Tabernacle, now overcrowded. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

Prayer was offered by Elder John A. Elison. 

The male members of the choir sang the hymn, "See, the mighty angel flying." 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Past, present and future — The Missouri troubles and events that followed — Prophecies concerning Zion and her stakes — Joseph Smith and the exodus — -Anson Call's Statement — What Brigham Young beheld — "Mormonism's" monument. 

"Look not mournfully into the past; wisely improve the present, and go forth to meet the future with a manly heart." So says the poet Longfellow. 

I am convinced of the uselessness of dreaming too much upon the past, or of speculating too much about the future. I regard the duty of the present hour as paramount. The present is the outcome of the past; and it is the great hook upon which the future hangs. Its im is not to be undervalued. Nevertheless, I believe it is sometimes a good thing to reflect upon the past, which is as a guide book to the present and future; to read the history of God's people, to ponder upon the predictions of His servants and their recorded hopes and expectations concerning things to come. And in this spirit I wish to draw the minds of the congregation toward a revelation given through Joseph the Seer in the month of December, 1833, just after the expulsion of our people from Jackson County, Missouri. Therein the Lord says : 

"Verily, I say unto you concerning your brethren who have been afflicted and persecuted and cast out from the land of their inheritance, 

"I, the Lord, have suffered the affliction to come upon them wherewith they have been afflicted, in consequence of their transgressions; 

"Yet I will own them and they shall be mine in that day when I shall come to make ur> my jewels. 

"Behold, I say unto you, there were jarrings and contentions and envyings and strifes and lustful and coveteous desires among them; therefore by these things they polluted their inheritances. 

"They were slow to hearken unto the voice of the Lord their God, therefore the Lord their God is slow to hearken unto their prayers, to answer them in the day of their trouble. * * * 

"Veril ' I say unto you, notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled with compassion towards them: I will not utterly cast them off; and in the day of wrath I will remember mercy. 

"I have sworn, and the decree hath  forth by a former commandment which I have given unto you, that I would let fall the sword of mine indignation in behalf of my people; and even as I have said, it shall come to pass. 

"Mine indignation is soon to be poured out without measure upon all nations, and this will I do when the cup of their iniquity is full. 

"And in that day all who are found upon the watch tower, or in other words, all mine Israel shall be saved. 

* # # # 

"Therefore, let your hearts be comforted concerning Zion; for all flesh is in mine hands: be still and know that I am God. 

"Zion shall not be moved out of her place, notwithstanding her children are scattered; "They that remain, and are pure in heart, shall return, and come to their inheritances, they and their children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste 

places of Zion." 

* * * * 

"I have other places which I will appoint unto them, and they shall be called Stakes, for the curtains or the strength of Zion." 

Several very important facts are here presented for the consideration of God's people. In the first place, they are reminded of the great object for which this Latter-day work was instituted, namely, the building up of Zion, preparatory to the glorious coming of the Lord. Prior to that expulsion, the place for the city, New Jerusalem, unto which a people will gather, to make the preparation that is absolutely essential before the Lord will come — the very place for the city had been designated, and from this revelation we learn why those who had been sent to Jackson County to build up Zion were not permitted to accomplish the work at that time. Inferentially — nay, directly, we are told what kind of a people will be permitted to do that work, namely, "the pure in heart," for that is the  of Zion, according to the word of the Lord. A prophecy is contained in this revelation: The colony driven from that land in 1833, or their descendants, joined with Zion's other children, or a people gathered out from among them, a pure-hearted people, are eventually to return and build up the waste places of Zion. In the meantime other places, called Stakes of Zion, likewise appointed of God, are to be inhabited by the Latter-day Saints. 

How wonderfully the history of our people has fulfilled, thus far, that great prediction. How can we doubt that the God of Israel, who has made good His word in so many respects, will keep His promise as to the greater fulfillment? There is no room for doubt in my heart, nor in yours, as I believe, brethren and sisters, concerning these things. 

A few years after this revelation was given, the Church of Christ, the Latter-day Saints, were once more on the move. They emigrated from Northern Ohio, where they then had their headquarters, to Wsetern Missouri — not to Jackson County, from which part a portion of the community had been driven, but to Caldwell, Daviess, and other counties, where Stakes of Zion were organized or projected. There the Saints gathered to the number of about fifteen thousand. But a repetition of the troubles that had driven the colony from Jackson County, caused the cruel expulsion of the entire body from the State of Missouri, in 1838-1839. 

Four years later, or thereabout, the Prophet Joseph Smith voiced a great prediction which you and I are now helping to fulfill; a prediction fulfilled in part by our parents and grandparents who came to the Rocky Mountains to build up these Stakes of Zion. I will read to you just what the Prophet said on that occasion. At Nauvoo, Illinois, under date of the 6th of August, 1842, he made this entry in his journal : 

"Passed over the river to Montrose, Iowa, in company with General Adams, Colonel Brewer and others, and witnessed the installation of the officers of the Rising Sun Lodge, Ancient York Masons, at Montrose, byGeneral James Adams, Deputy Grand Master of Illinois. While the Deputy Grand Master was engaged in giving the requisite instructions to the Master-elect, I had a conversation with a number of brethren in the shade of the building on the subject of our persecutions in Missouri and the constant annoyance which has followed us since we were driven from that State. I prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction, and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains, many would apostatize, others ivould be put to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." 

One of the men who was present on that occasion and heard this prophecy, has left a statement concerning it which I will also read. That man was Anson Call. He lived to come to the Rocky Mountains and assist in fulfilling the Prophet's prediction. He was the pioneer of Millard County; he with others founded Fillmore, the original capital of the Territory of Utah. Afterwards he established Call's Landing on the Colorado River, there being a project at that time to bring immigrants and freight up the river to a certain point, and thence convey them northward into Utah — a project that would have succeeded but for the construction of the  railroad. Anson Call was subsequently a prominent figure in Davis County, where many of his descendants still dwell. He was a man of sterling worth, truthful, and reliable, and here is the statement that he authorized concerning Joseph Smith's prediction : 

"A block schoolhouse had been prepared with shade in front, under which was a barrel of ice water. Judge Adams, the highest Masonic authority in the State of Illinois, had been sent there to organize this lodge. He, Hyrum Smith and J. C. Bennett, being high Masons, went into the house to perform some ceremonies which the others %vere not entitled to witness. Lhese, including Joseph Smith, remained under the bowery. Joseph as he was tasting the cold water, warned the brethren not to be too free with it. With the tumbler still in his hand, he prophesied that the Saints would yet go to the Rocky Mountains, and said he, 'This water tastes much like that of the crystal streams that are running from the snow-capped mountains. I had before seen him in a vision, and now saw, while he was talking, his countenance change to white, not the deadly white of a bloodless face, but a living, brilliant white. He seemed absorbed in gazing upon something at a great distance and said, "I am gazing upon the valleys of those mountains.' 

"It is impossible," continues Anson Call, "to represent in words this scene which is still vivid in my mind, the grandeur of Joseph's appearance, his beautiful descriptions of this land, and his wonderful prophetic utterances as they emanated from the glorious inspirations that overshadowed him. There was a force and power in his exclamations, of which the following is but a faint echo: "Oh, the beauty of those snow-capped mountains! The cool, refreshing streams that are runnine down through those, mountain gorges!' Then, gazing in another direction, as if there was a change of locality, 'Oh, the scenes that this people will pass through, the dead that will lie between here and there!' Then, turning in another direction, as if the scene had again changed, 'Oh, the  that will take place before my brethren reach that land! But,' he continued, 'the priesthood shall prevail over its enemies, triumph over the devil, and be established upon the earth, never more to be thrown down!' " 

Joseph Smith, when he uttered this prophecy, when he beheld this vision, was standing upon the banks of the Mississippi River, fifteen hundred miles from where we now are. Yet he saw the Rocky Mountains, and the crystal streams flowing from yonder canyons, and I doubt not that if he had led his people to this land, as he once purposed doing, he would have recognized it as a familiar scene, having beheld it in vision, by the seeric gift, before he saw it with the natural eye. But the Prophet was not destined to fulfill his own prediction; his martyrdom prevented; and the Lord raised up another mighty man to carry out the project, to become the founder of Utah, and the redeemer of the Great American Desert. 

Erastus Snow, one of the Utah pioneers, declared from this stand, in July, 1880, that Brigham Young beheld Salt Lake Valley while crossing the plains in the spring or early summer of 1847 — beheld it in vision, and so vividly that when his eye, his natural eye, rested upon it, he could say with assurance : "This is the place." General Grant's famous phrase, "Let us have peace," is scarcely more noted now than Brigham Young's historic utterance, "This is the place." I notice that the "Gentiles" are beginning to use it to advertise this beautiful valley, which the great Pioneer saw peopled and inhabited while it was yet a barren waste — saw it filled with towns and villages — yes, saw it as one great city; and his proph vision concerning it has been ratified by the practical judgment of one of the biggest railroad men that this country has produced — the lamented E. H. Harriman, who expressed the conviction that Salt Lake City was destined to be one of the four greatest American cities. The point I wish to press home is this, that Brigham Young beheld it in vision, by the gift of seership, just as Joseph Smith had beheld it previously. According to Erastus Snow, President Young saw a tent settling down from heaven over this very spot, and heard a voice from above proclaiming : "This is the place where my people Israel shall pitch their tents." 

What availed it, after that, for men to come from the Coast, as did Samuel Brannan and others, and try to persuade President Young to pass by this then forbidding spot, and establish his colony on the fertile slopes of the Pacific ? Brigham Young knew what was best for God's people. He had the word of the Prophet, that the Latter-day Saints would become mighty, not in California, not in Mexico, not in Canada, nor in the islands of the sea (though there might be stakes of Zion there), but "in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." That was Joseph Smith's prediction. Brigham Young would not go past that prophecy, and to confirm his judgment and his reverence for the word of God, he had a vision showing him that this was indeed the place that the Lord had selected for His people. Colonel Bridger could not dissuade him from settling here; Samuel Brannan could not; and after the Pioneers had entered the Valley, and while they were organizing parties to explore the surrounding country, their leader said to them : "Brethren, you can go north, south, east and west, and you will find many-eligible sites for settlements, but you will come back and say with me that this is the place for our chief city." Driving his cane into the soil upon the very spot where now stands the Salt Lake Temple, he exclaimed : "Here we will build the city and temple of our God." 

Brigham Young was Joseph Smith's executor. The Prophet had beheld these scenes and foretold these happenings. God had spoken to him concerningthem. And we of today are participating in the fulfillment of his wonderful prophecy. We are building upon the foundation that he laid. President Young built upon it, the Latter-day Saints have built upon it, and are still fulfilling his inspired words concerning this western land. 

But will our mission end here? Is the State of Utah the proper monument of the "Mormon" people ? No. Utah, symbolized by her State Capitol, the noble structure crowning yonder hill, is the monument of the composite people of this commonwealth. The State of Utah is not big enough to be the monument of the "Mormon" people. It represents only a part of their work, and a preliminary part at that. The monument to "Mormonism" will stand in Jackson County, Missouri. There the great City will be built: there Zion will arise and shine, "the joy of the whole earth," and there the Lord will come to His Temple in His own time, when His people shall have made the required preparation. 

Meanwhile, what are we doing? We are establishing Stakes of Zion, and getting ready to build the Zion of the future. We are here only  enough to become strong enough to fulfill our greater destiny. The same Prophet who foretold the mightiness of the Saints in the midst of these mountains, declared that the much maligned, misunderstood 'Mormon" people would yet be the saviors of their country, would stand with their feet firm upon the rocky ramparts of liberty, holding aloft the Flag and the Constitution at a time when traitors and anarchists would fain trample them in the mire. They would call to their aid lovers of law and order from every part of the Nation and from every corner of the world, and would stand for freedom -m 1 equal rights, for justice and mercy and peace, when all the world around them would be at war, one nation with another, and every man against his neighbor. They would protect and maintain the sacred, God-inspired principles upon which the American Government is founded, and in due time would go down in the might of the God of Israel and sweep the land free from anarchy and evil in all its forms. 

Zion, the great monument yet to be reared, will stand in the proper place, upon the goodly land pointed out by the finger of God and consecrated for that purpose. No other place has been appointed for the New Jerusalem. The "Gentiles" used to say in derision that whenever the "Mormons" were driven from one Zion they had a revelation that Zion was to be somewhere else. This was intended to be funny, I suppose, though the theme is somewhat tragic. The "joke" would have more point if there was a grain of truth in it. It is sheer fiction. I have already refuted it by reading the word of the Lord : "Zion shall not be moved out of her place, not her children are scattered." Teach these things to your sons and daughters. Tell them why their ancestors came to this land. It was for something more than to redeem a desert, and found a State. They came here to prepare themselves for a far greater work, and the lion is only crouching before he springs. God bless vou. Amen. 

Sister Romania Hyde rendered a violin solo, with organ accompaniment by Prof. John J. McClellan. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

The Latter-day Saints have received the words of eternal life — "Christians" who do not believe in Christ's Divinity — Man's reason needs the Spirit's guidance — Prevalent disbelief in Scripture statements — The Infinite cannot be comprehended by finite reasoning —  Falacious dogmas of modern scientists — Essentiality of Spiritual guidance demonstrated. 

My brethren and sisters, I am very greatly impressed, this morning, with the many evidences that proclaim this to be in very deed the place — the place of Zion; that here are found the people of the Lord with whom He has made covenant, and who have made covenant with Him to serve Him and keep His commandments; that Zion will grow and prosper until her fame shall fill the earth and her glory and majesty shall cover the face thereof. 

I feel this morning very much as Peter did in his answer to the Lord after the feeding of the five thousand, when he confessed the Lord to be the Son of God. We read in the sixth chapter of John's Gospel that the Savior departed secretly  the people after this miracle was performed, and crossed to the other side of the sea of Galilee, to the city of Capernaum. The next morning when the people discovered that the Lord had departed, they followed Him and asked when He came hither, and Jesus rebuked them because they had not followed Him because of the things He taught them, but because of the loaves and fishes. He thereupon instructed them to seek for the meat which endureth unto everlasting life which He could. give unto them. They promptly informed Him that their fathers did eat manna in the wilderness which was bread from heaven. He answered that the bread Moses gave was not the true bread from heaven, but He was the bread of life, and that whoever came to Him should never hunger, and those who believed on Him should never thirst. This caused them to murmur, and to make it more emphatic the Lord declared unto them : "I am that bread of life. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness and are dead. * * * I am the living bread which cometh down from heaven." He offended them still more by saying, "Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man. and drink his blood, ye have no life in you," referring to the ordinance which He later instituted, the sacrament of the Lord's supper. When He made this statement they were greatly offended, and manv of those who had professed belief in Him declared that it was a very hard saying, and they could not receive it. Or, as it is written: "From that time many of His disciples went back and walked no more with Him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? Then Simon Peter answered Him : Lord to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

And I say, my brethren and sisters, that I feel this morning, after hearing the testimonies of the brethren at this conference, very much as Peter did in answering the Lord. Where can we go and find the words of eternal life? We cannot turn to the right hand neither to the' left for there spiritual darkness reigns. Right here are to be found the words of eternal life, as they are given by revelation and inspiration to the people of Zion, and we know, as Peter did, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. This is our message to the world; and it is a very timely message, for the socalled Christian world is departing from the fundamentals, if they ever had them, of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They are rejecting Him; they do not accept Him as the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Now, I do not wish to be misunderstood, for I realize there are many in the world who do accept Jesus Christ as the Savior of mankind and as the Son of God; but the tendency among the religious thinkers arid speakers today is very largely in the direction of which I speak. 

During the year 1914, and running into the year 1915, a number of articles appeared in the New York Independent, one of the leading weekly papers of the L T nited States which has a circulation in all the states of the Union and in many countries abroad. These articles appeared at intervals of a week or two during that year and were entitled, "What I believe and Why." 

The writers were men who are moulding the thought religiously and educationally, of the people of this land. I read quite a number of these articles, and as I remember it now, there was not among them all, one declaration, clear cut and without modification, accepting Jesus Christ as the Only Begotten Son of God, and the Redeemer of the world; and yet these articles were written by men who profess to be ministers of His gospel. They call themselves Christians, but they taught most everything else except the fact that Jesus of Nazareth was the Son of God. They were very modern in their views, and accepted the theories and the ideas that prevail so largely now in the world, in contrast and contradiction to the Gospel of our Lord, as His doctrine is set forth in the Holy Scriptures. The final article of these papers, appeared in the issue of that weekly for March 15, 1915, and was entitled "The Sum of the Whole Matter. What I Believe and Why," and was introduced as the final paper or word on these religious subjects. The author of this final paper was Dr. William Hays Ward. I want to read to you just a few sentences. Mr. Ward said : 

"The sum of the whole matter is this: Reason is the last arbiter; our own reason, our individual reason, my reason, nobody's else. There are various sources of authority. Bible, or church, or God, but each one must be tested by our personal reason before it is believed. We are all of us at bottom rationalists, can not help being. What God is, whether there be a God, we must decide by the best reason we have. If we are made in the image of God, that image is in reason, not in body." Now I want }'OU to reflect and remember that. "If we are made in the image of God," he says, "that image is in reason, not in body; and our little reason can and must get  true view of God, just as our little blinking myopic eyes can truly, if imperfectly, decry the infinite spangled universe. Reason may see faintly, even erringly, but it is all we have to guide us. It may rest on custom, tradition, social inheritance, the teaching from childhood of those whom we think possessed of more knowledge and judgment than we, but all our beliefs rest on such reason as we have. * * It is by reason that we too must test the Bible as well as the Vedas, Moses as well as Hesiod or Zarathustra. If we find in our Bible anything of cosmogony, or history or morals that does not approve itself to our reason, we must reject it, we can not help it. That did not, could not come direct from God, but came through fallible men, the framework and the chord of whose harp was constructed after the fashion of their day, and could not sound perfect music. Reason prefers our school text-book to our Bible on matters of geology and astronomy, sifts Bible history by comparison with contemporary records recovered from the sands and clay of ancient empires; and reason it is that judges the teachings of Jesus to be superior to the sacrificial cult of Leviticus, or the cursings of Ezekiel and Amos. Our light is better than theirs, for our reason has more knowledge, more experience, on which to rest. The best human reason — I think I do not err — whether it looks outward or inward, finds God." 

And I say it does not! Reason is all right when intelligently used. There is not a principle of the gospel that will not appeal to the reason of man, for every principle of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is reasonable, clear and easily understood with the aid of the spirit of truth. But man cannot determine upon the strength of his own reason unaided by the Spirit of God the power and saving grace of the gospel principles, and expect to find out God. He cannot do it! The judgment of these men in the world, is not by any means as good as the judgment of Ezekiel, the judgment of Amos  the judgment of Leviticus, that is, the word of the Lord as found in the book of Leviticus; neither is it as good as the judgment of Moses or any other of the old prophets, for the very good reason that Moses and the prophets were led and directed by the Spirit of God. These men are not so led, they have rejected the Lord and in His place have set up, as they did at one time in the nation of France, the god of reason which they worship, and which leads them into all kinds of errors because of their faulty and erroneous reasoning, such as these sentences express which I have read to you. 

Of course our reason is in the form and the likeness of the reasor of God our Father, but His is infinite and ours are limited and very imperfect. And it is true, notwithstanding what man may say or think, that we were created in the image of God physically, and this man's reason unaided by the spirit of truth has led him astray in this regard because he has rejected the assistance of the Holy Spirit. 

I am reminded of an expression found in the eleventh chapter of the book of Job. One of his comforters expressed it but it is nevertheless a true statement. He said to Job: "Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?" And the answer to that naturally is : No, you cannot, unaided by the Holy Ghost! It is impossible for man to discover God unto perfection by the aid of his reason and that -alone. We have the word of God for it. Paul tells us in the second chapter of Corinthians : 

"It is written, eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him, but God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of man, save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God." Or in other words, unless he has the Spirit of God. "Now we have received," he says, "not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned." 

Now these modern religionists — we have some of them in our own city — I happen to think I have a clipping- in my pocket from which I want to read a paragrph to you. This is the purported statement of a minister of this city taken from a discourse delivered not many weeks ago. He said : 

"I for one can't see why men should accept the proposition that there is^ a hereafter simply because it is so written in the books. What more did the writers hundreds of years ago know about that than we do, and why should we particularly believe them? No man has ever journeyed to the beyond and returned to earth to prove to us we do go on." 

And I say he is wrong! But this is the way these modern religionists reason. Many of those who have gone to the great beyond have returned and we have witnesses raised up in our dav who can testify that thev have seen and conversed with them. The Lord Himself, even the Son of God, appeared in the Kirtland Temple to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver 

Cowdery and ministered to them. The Prophet and Sidney Rigdon saw the Son of God in heavenly vision and they bore witness of it and their testimony is a matter of record before the world. They saw Him and bore witness, as they declared it, "last of all" that He lives for they saw Him. Angels, who are men that lived upon this earth and have been glorified, receiving their resurrection, returned and conferred upon the heads of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, keys and powers and priesthood which they held, and this same priesthood has been handed down and you hold it, my brethren. 

It is the extreme of foolishness for a man to rise up and say, because those who have gone to the beyond have not appeared to him, therefore they have not returned, that no one has returned from the great beyond to prove we do go on! and to teach such nonsense in his ignorance to the people, because it appeals to his reason. He never will receive such visitations and knowledge as long as he holds to such views, and rejects the Lord Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world. Peter says: 

"We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." 

Now this man asks, what did the prophets of old know more than we? And Mr. Ward, one of the great teachers in the religious world  the same question, or, declares that we have more light and a better vision than the prophets had, because of our greater experience. And I say unless we are in communication and fellowship with the Spirit of God we do not know as well as they knew, for we have it in the words of the chief of the apostles that these holy men of old, Moses, Elias, Elijah — all of the prophets of old — spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost, and that which they declared to the people was the vital truth. The Lord taught His disciples that the mission of the Comforter, or Holy Ghost, was to teach the truth and that He would teach us and lead us in all truth; that He would show us things to come — which is the spirit of prophecy. He would take of the things of the Father and of the Son and reveal them unto us, providing, of course, that we are in fellowship with Him. And so Peter bears witness that thes* prophets spoke under the inspiration of the Lord and gave unto us the word of the Lord. 

We have even a greater witness. The Lord Himself has borne record of this fact. You remember having read in the twenty-fourth chapter of Luke how, after His resurrection, He walked along the road with two of His disciples going to the little city of Emmaus, not far from Jerusalem, and the scriptures say, their eyes were holden, that they should not know Him. As He walked with them they were surprised, thinking Him a stranger and ignorant of what had taken place during the past three days, so they commenced to instruct Him as they walked along. They told Him how the Jews had taken Jesus of Nazareth, the one whom they  had come to redeem Israel, and had put Him to death. They were very much concerned about it, and they were feeling in their hearts that all was over, their hopes and promises were at an end. The Savior listened patiently for some time and finally He said to them : "O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken : ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself." So He testified to the fact that Moses and all the prophets whose records we have in the old scriptures — which today are quite generally discarded in the so-called Christian world — had declared that He was to come into the world, suffer and have His blood shed for the redemption of the world, to die upon the cross and that He was verily the Son of God the Redeemer of mankind. Thus He opened the scriptures to their understanding and taught His disciples after His resurrection, that these things were true, bearing witness and record to the fact that the prophets of old spoke, and wrote also, as they were moved and commanded by the Spirit of God. This is what we Latter-day Saints believe. 

Now these modernists who are instructing and leading astray the people of this and other lands, reject the doctrine of the atonement of Christ; they reject the resurrection of the Son of God, and consequently the resurrection of all mankind. They have discarded entirely the miracles of the scriptures and make light of the saving ordinances of the gospel which the Lord declared to be so essential to our salvation; and in the stead thereof they have accepted the theories and notions advanced by modern scientists which are evidently false, and have taken to their hearts and hugged to their bosoms the falsehoods set forth in the theories of evolution and of higher criticism of the scriptures. And why have they done this thing? Because the simple truth, which is understood by the Spirit of God and not understood and comprehended by the spirit of man, does not appeal to their reason. They have refused to hearken to the words of the Son of God wherein he rebuked the unpentant Jews: 

"I have greater witness than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do bear witness of me. And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not. Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life; and they are they which testify of me." 

All manner of theory and error they teach to the world, declaring that we cannot accept anything, only that which our reason teaches us. Therefore, if reason teaches me that baptism is not essential to salvation and it teaches you that it is, we are both right, which is a contradiction which cannot be true; and unless reason teaches us the same thing and we are agreed, both cannot have the truth and we are not in the narrow path, we are not in fellowship with God. We must walk in holiness of life in the light and in the truth with proper understanding which comes through the gift and power of the Holy Ghost  is promised to all who will believe unto repentance and receive the words of eternal life. If we are in fellowship with this Spirit then we walk in the light and have fellowship with God. He who is without the guiding light of the Spirit of God is in the midst of darkness and cannot with his reason unaided and unenlightened search and find out God. 

My testimony is that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he did receive ministrations of angels, and even of the Son and of the Father; that he was called to establish this work in truth and righteousness, and this message has gone forth to the world and many — even the great majority, have rejected it. However, this is my testimony and the testimony of the elders of Israel, and may it prevail, is my prayer in the name of Testis Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President Northwestern States Mission.) 

My heart rejoices, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of attending this conference and listening to the testimonies that have already been given; and most earnestly do I desire to enjoy the same good spirit with which our brethren have been impressed, as they have uttered inspired words to us. 

I rejoice more than I can tell you to have a name and standing in this Church, to be identified with what I consider the most wonderful movement in the world today, a movement, as suggested by one of our brethren this morning, that is only beginning its effective work;  we have not reached the end for which this work was established by the Lord. When I realize the meaning of those words of the Master that we are the salt of the earth, and that the leaven which has been planted with this people should work until it reaches the uttermost ends of the earth, I feel that, this being the truth, this work being the very work of God, Ilis precious promise having been given to it, no power can stay its progress, its growth, its development, the consummation of the end that God has decreed. If the Lord has selected these valleys of the mountains as the place where He would establish His people, He having decreed it and pronounced His blessings upon it, this will always be the place, though some of us may not be permitted to remain in this place. This will always be the saving work that God established it to be, though some may not continue to be identified with it. The Lord having decreed these things they shall be consummated, all His promises shall be fulfilled. 

The world has become impressed wtih some of the doctrines taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and although they have not acknowledged the source from which they have received their information, nevertheless great churches have been builded using as their chief corner stone some of the doctrines or principles anounced by the Prophet. Others have wondered at the beauty of these doctrines, and have been almost shocked when afterwards they have heard that these were the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Men have wondered why it was that if the Lord had such a beautiful system, if He had such a wonderful work  do, why He did not choose someone else besides a man who has been so much misunderstood and whose name has been held in contempt by the world generally. The one reason why the Lord did not give to the Reverend T. DeWitt Talmage, Henry Ward Beecher or others the message, the grand message that He delivered to- the Prophet Joseph Smith, is because He has always elected, as Paul indicated, the weak and not those who are wise in the things of the world, not those who are mighty, not those who were learned. Not that God despises learning, education, nor those things that make men great in the eyes of their fellow men, but He does this that no flesh shall glory in His sight. 

When I have witnessed the efforts of men to try to detract from the work established through Joseph Smith, rob it of its claims of divinity, by trying to find among his associates men who had learning and education and ability enough to produce the Book of Mormon, tried to give the credit to Sidney Rigdon or to Solomon Spaulcling or to some one else, I have wondered what the world would have thought of the Book of Mormon if the Lord had revealed its whereabouts to Henry Ward Beecher. Would they not have given the credit to man? Would the Lord have been glorified in this? I feel that the Lord has done it just as He always has performed His work, I am impressed by those words spoken by the Savior as found in the ninth chapter of Matthew, sixteenth verse : "No man putteth a piece^ of new cloth into an old garment, for that which is put in to fill it up taketh from the garment, and the rent is made worse. Neither do men put new wine into old bottles : else the bottles break, and the wine runneth out, and the bottles perish : but they put new wine into new bottles, and both are preserved." If the Lord had a new message or the old message to be re-given, it having failed to be preserved, through the inability of men to defend the truth and preserve it after the departure of the Christ and His apostles, if He had a new message of the truth to give, new wine of life to give to men, evidently, in His judgment, He could not find a vessel, an organization on the earth that could contain this new wine. Where could He find one in which there was a belief in God the Eternal Father as He is; where, one that believed in Jesus Christ as the very Son of God, and the Savior of the world? He had to select someone whom He could reveal Himself to, one without preconceived notions and prejudices. 

When the Lord sought to give Israel new promises, and lead them into the new land, He found it necessary to keep Israel in the wilderness forty years, to try to make them vessels who could contain the better things; but they could not. They all perished, who were over twenty-one years of age, except Caleb and Joshua, and only the children who were born and reared in the wilderness came into their new land. When Jesus Christ came, though there were religious organizations in the world, He could not find one suitable to receive His message, so He had to build anew again; He had to organize vessels and institutions, an organization that could contain this new wine. So in all the earth in the latter days, there was not, anywhere, vessels of organizations that could contain the new wine, the very truth of God;  so He organized new vessels, a new institution, an organization capable of receiving the full message of truth that has been given to this Church. It will, I trust, always be possilbe for this organization to cherish that measure of truth that has been given to it, to preserve it, to receive more as the Lord intends that it shall come; and not save it for ourselves alone, for we have been given this wonderful message for the blessing of all men. We are to treasure it with the thought, not of selfishness — "for me and my wife and my son John and his wife," but for the whole world. I rejoice that the truth has come to our understanding, no matter what the world may say or think or feel with reference to this message. If it is the truth, as we declare it is, it will stand, it will survive. 

I read some very comforting words a few days ago from an eminent author running like this : 

"Had the great truths waited until the majority voted in their favor they would never have been heard of in the world. Had they not found the place from which they are proclaimed at all times as sufficiently grand, they would be silent to this hour. Unadorned and out of the way were the seats whence they were uttered as they came like zephyrs; and though slight their rustlings they uprooted oaks and threw down palaces." 

While this truth came in a humble and obscure corner of the earth, to one out of the way of the seats of those who sought adornment, nevertheless, though the rustlings were gentle when the Son of God and the Father Himself appeared in the grove, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, on that spring morning, it was the beginning of the establishment of truth that should grow and  mighty; and like fire, when once started in dead timber, it shall burn and consume all that is dead, decayed and fit for consumption. So the truth, once clearly stated, will burn and consume error and spread unto the uttermost parts of the earth. 

I testify to you that this is the truth, that the wonderful message given to us is the thing of all things that can save and that will save the world. It is the power of God unto salvation; it is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, i do bear testimony to the fact that I know, all there is to me knows, reason is satisfied, yes, in my soul, by a thousand testimonies, I know it better than I know anything else in the world that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the very Son of God. I know equally well that if the Lord, who does live, if He ever spoke to men, if He ever delivered a message in all the world, He did speak to Joseph Smith, He did reveal Himself, and I believe that He revealed Himself to men anciently as well as that He revealed Himself to the Prophet Joseph. I treasure the divine message that has come unto us, and I do appreciate the opportunity of bearing this message to my Father's children. 

Oh, may the Lord inspire the hearts of the vouth of Israel, and the men and the women who have the great responsibilities of demonstrating to the world the virtue, the virility, the strength and the power of this Gospel, so that men mav not only be impressed and inspired by our utterances but that, seeing the fruits of this Gosoel in the lives of the Latter-dav Saints, thev mav be lead to acknowledge that the thing, after all. that they have sought and have not found in the forms of re upon which they have leaned with hope that it would solve the world's problem, and bring peace to the earth, is here in all its power, not lose their faith in God, nor in His Christ, but, that here they shall find hope. And may we live to invite and anxiously desire all men to come and drink of these waters of everlasting life which are now extended freely to all who will receive. May the Lord bless us in these noble efforts and in this grand mission, to live up to the requirements of the Lord, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President Smith announced another overflow meeting, to be held in the Assembly Hall at 2 p. m., to be presided over by Elder George F. Richards; and an outdoor meeting at same time, in front of the Bureau of Information, under direction of Elder Heber J. Grant. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG. 

(Of First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters : I have been asked by President Smith to say a few words this morning concerning the organization for the World's Peace Foundation that has been inaugurated here in the United States. Yesterday afternoon the Utah organization was perfected by the election of Hon. Wm. N. Williams as president; he with the other regularly elected officers, will take up the work of perfecting the organization throughout the State of Utah. At the head of the peace organization in the United States is Ex-President William Howard Taft. The movement has been inaugurated for the purpose of inculcating in the hearts of all American people the virtue of peace, and it is desired that such organizations be perfected in all of the states of the Union. 

Utah is recognized by a great many people abroad as being loyal to the gospel of peace. It is said that we have contributed here in this state more for the suffering people of Europe than any other state of the union in comparison to the population. It is greatly desired by the peace organization that all of the people of the State become interested in this movement and contribute in spirit and in truth, to the cause, that a sentiment may be aroused in the hearts of men and women, and of the children of the public schools, that we may have a backing that will count for something, and that it may be said that our own State is not dead to this great message which Christ brought to the world over eighteen hundred years ago. 

I was particularly interested in the words of Elder Orson F. Whitney. I believe every word that he uttered. I know that the revelation that he read is true, and the glorious thing to me is that the people throughout our government is beginning to recognize the great work of the Latter-day Saints. It has been recently printed in the Alumni Review of the Harvard University, that the "Mormon" people established in the Far West the most splendid American institutions of government, and when Dr. Turner, of the Department of Western History, made that statement he did it because of his careful study. But I believe we have gone farther and established in early days in this state the most splendid types of municipal and civic government of any American people that ever lived. In the De of Political Science of Columbia LTniversity, students are making a study of the development of the old English town government of this state. This institutional life which the pioneers established in this great country of the Far West is being recognized, and the truth of their work is destined to be known. 

But the Latter-day Saints have done more than establish American institutions in the Far West. They have established not only economic institutions that are wonderful in history, but "Mormonism" calls every man, woman and child into the field of constructive social activity. I believe we have the key to the social reformation of the world, through the priesthood and the different organizations of the priesthood of God. But over and above all of these things, Zion is to be established on this continent, as has been pointed out this morning by Elder Whitney, and all people who wish the truth, and who would bow to their God and ask for truth, shall know the truth and the truth will make them free. They will come up unto Zion and be purified, and Zion will be built upon this continent, and it will be the great center of all civilization and culture. The gospel of the Christ shall grow in the hearts of all, and Christ shall reign as Lord of Lords. He shall come and the great millennium shall be ushered in, but not until the people of the world shall have bowed to His great word and recognized that Jesus is the Christ. 

So here, in this State, we have every opportunity of establishing a peace society that will be effective. A part of Zion at least will be here, and Zion means the place where the pure in heart are living. This will be a veritable Zion. We will contribute a light to the world. The sorrowful, those that are placed in all kinds of terrible social conditions, because of the great war in Europe, they will look, I believe, to the United States government for succor, and in time will they kneel in prayer to God and ask for the light and truth, recognizing as they will, that the truth has been taken from the hearts of men and that they are in need of a knowledge of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. We urge that this peace movement receive your hearty support throughout this state, that organizations may be perfected in the respective Stakes of Zion, that it may be said thai among the Latter-day Saints of the far west, tiot only do they preach the gospel of peace, but they are perfecting the Gospel of peace by their righteous works. I believe that we have a great opportunity, my brethren and sisters, of doing a splendid work in this State. 

May Zion be built upon this continent, may we cleanse our hearts and do the great work and make the great contribution of bringing about the unfurling of the flag of peace, of helping to bring about the federation of the- world in a league of peace, that there may be no more war, that peace may come and that all people shall look up to Zion and know that God is God and that He has spoken to His people. May we so direct our lives that this message may be given to the world. 

I bear you my testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that He is the Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the great saving message of God, the Father,  been revealed unto His people no more to be taken from the earth, but to spread through the world as the great life and light of salvation and universal peace and happiness. Amen. 

The anthem, "Christ is Risen," was sung by the choir, 25 of the lady members rendering the solo parts. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Lewis W. Shurtliff. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


