Afternoon
03 04 1938


Conference reconvened Monday afternoon, April 4, at 2 o'clock p. m. 

President Heber J. Grant, who presided, announced that the Relief Society Singing Mothers would furnish the musical numbers for this session. 

The congregation and the Singing Mothers sang the hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 

Elder Leslie V. Merrill, President of the Franklin Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "How Lovely Are The Messengers" (Mendelssohn), was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

of the First Council of the Seventy 

My mind and heart are filled with the many holy thoughts that have been expressed at the meetings of this Conference. I am always grateful when I have the opportunity of listening to the word of God as expressed by his servants. 

A passage of scripture, familiar to every one present, is that found in the book of James of the New Testament. It reads : 

If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. 

These are the words that had such a great influence on the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and as a result of his reading them, he went into the woods and prayed for wisdom and understanding, and God answered him by his very presence. 

A few days ago, we had a very distinguished visitor at the University — Sir Herbert Ames. Versed as he is in world affairs, it was only recently that he had a personal interview with the famous dictator, Adolph Hitler of Germany. In a lecture before the students of the University, he took for his subject : "Conditions in Germany Today". The picture he drew of Germany and the youth of that land was anything but encouraging. He told us that all boys above the age of twelve years are put under heavy drill every day, and are clothed with black shirts, the uniform for the youth as prescribed by the Hitler government. In the public schools, they learn how to give the Nazi sign. By the time the boys are eighteen years of age, they are ready to learn the military tactics of their country. Every boy then is given a musket, and until he is thirty-five years of age, the daily drill teaches him the science of warfare. In this manner, the slogan of the old military leader, Bismarck, is kept alive, which was, "Might makes Right". The youth of Germany are becoming war-minded as never before. During the past hundred years Europe has been steeped in warfare. She has literally been "washed in blood." Today every European nation is preparing for war, except the smaller nations like Holland and Scandinavia. 

A thoughtful question was asked of the distinguished scholar by a student of affairs. It was : "What can we do to off-set the military-mindedness of Europeans today?" It was a pointed question, and an interesting one. Have we not inherited the spirit of warfare from our ancestors who went forth to war to protect their homes, and then for conquest ? It seems that modern man inherits all the innate pugnacity and all the love of glory of his ancestors. Today the horrors of war become man's fascination. War is the "strong life," we are told, and "war taxes are the only ones that we do not hesitate to pay." 

Our ideals here in America are those that are far aloof from the ideals of conquest and loot. The ideal of American civic liberty has always kept the Government from war for conquest. The Government of the United States has never gone to war except for the protection of her ideals and for the protection of her people. 

I do not speak as a Pacifist. The Latter-day Saints are not pacifists as that term is understood today. In the past, our people have protected the flag of their country, and our ancestors took their part in the American Revolution, which resulted in the writing of the Constitution of the United States. The Latter-day Saints will always be found protecting the Constitution of this Government. 

What will off-set war? What will become the religious equivalent of war? As I have said, we have inherited the war-like type. Our an56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

cestors have bred pugnacity into our bone and marrow. Let public opinion vote for war, nothing can stop or prevent our going to war. I believe that the Latter-day Saints have both the moral and religious equivalent of war. Should the noted British lecturer and statesman attend our Priesthood meeting this evening to be held in this famous old building, he would find ten thousand men disciplined for peace — disciplined in the principles of law and justice, love for all people, and for peace for all mankind. And then should all the brethren of the Priesthood gather here, there would easily be ten times ten thousand with the same dreams and ideals. These men are disciplined not for war, but for peace, for the love of mankind and God. What finer nucleus could one find for the moral and religious equivalent of war? It shows that the martial type of character can be bred without war. What is needed then is for us to inflame the civic temper, as in the past nations have inflamed the military temper. Should a stranger see the Priesthood assembled tonight, he would be convinced that this organized body of men is given to the ideal of the most peaceful of activities, namely, service for God. 

The only thing then that is going to overcome war and bring peace is man himself — man in the social and religious group, disciplining himself in the ways of the Lord, disciplining his thought, purifying his heart, and uniting in one great plan of the Priesthood of God. This will be the moral and religious equivalent of war. 

Said the distinguished English stateman : "The people who prepare for war have a battle-cry." So we have a battle-cry. The cry is contained in these words: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." Every soul has the right to ask for wisdom. And yet there are hundreds of "battle cries" for peace that might be sounded. May I propose another. In a few days the Easter Day will be celebrated in all Christendom. What nobler words could be taken for the regeneration of man and his purification than the words of St. Mark in his description of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord? 

And when the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had brought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him. 

And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. 

And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? 

And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away; for it was very great. 

And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted. 

And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted; ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified : he is risen; he is not here; Behold the place where they laid him. 

But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee : there shall ye see him, as he said unto you. 

War is an evil thing, and the only way to fight evil is to adopt some divine plan of campaign, given to us in the religion of Jesus Christ our Lord. Overcome evil with good. This is the secret of the battle against wrong. Evil is potent because it has control of the hearts of men. 

The Priesthood of God is the religious and moral equivalent of war, and we all pray in our hearts that this movement may grow until it fills the hearts of all people of the earth, for it will be the power for enduring peace. When this condition comes about, it will change everything. I can see the joy of women and little children some day, I can see cities and great spaces full of happiness, when war shall have ceased and the Kingdom of God has been established among men. 

It is Easter time. May we not fill our minds and hearts with the holier thoughts of thanksgiving and love for all mankind? May not the peace of our resurrected Savior fill the whole world with its light? We who labor for ideals which make for triumphant living have the resources of God on our side, and in this confidence it is possible for the ways of God to triumph. We must work and pray incessantly that his Kingdom may be established over all the earth. It is the illumination from on high that will awaken humanity to their divine worth and power. The light may be spreading slowly, but it is destined to find the hearts of all people. If any of us lack wisdom, let us ask of God. We will receive the divine answer. That the Lord may bless us all, I ask in his name. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I am grateful that I live in this day in which the Gospel of Jesus Christ has been revealed in its fulness, which gives to us power and authority to labor in the Priesthood. When I think of conditions today as we see them, I recall the statement of Nephi as recorded in the Book of Mormon : "I have been born of goodly parents." It is a heritage to be born of goodly parents. 

I am grateful that in my youth I had neighbors who were kind to me and who were interested in me because I had goodly parents, and because those neighbors had in their own soul the spirit of the Gospel and a brotherly love and an understanding of the Gospel message. Because of these, I was taught, as Nephi was taught, the things which pertain to God and our exaltation, and was encouraged to walk uprightly before the Lord. Through the quorums of the Priesthood, under the direction of wise men, I partook of blessings through passing on through all the grades of the Priesthood from Deacon to High Priest. In my youth the great honor came to me which I now bear, and I recall many early experiences in visiting in the stakes where I had the privilege of meeting your fathers — men whose heads were white, men who had seen the struggles of the Church from its beginning. They received me and the message I left with them in the spirit of love and kindness, and in departing they heaped upon me their blessings. I am greatly blessed now as I go among the Saints, for I find the sons and grandsons of these men with whom I labored as a young man, laboring in the authority of the Priesthood, and having known their fathers, I have rejoiced in the opportunity of laboring with them also in authority of the Priesthood. They, 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

too, have been born of goodly parents and are following in their fathers' footsteps. 

This morning at 8 :00 o'clock, nearly five hundred enthusiastic men met in Barratt Hall for the purpose of discussing ways and means by which the youth of Zion might be inspired and redeemed from the pitfalls and the dangers which confront them. We are living in a dangerous age, an age in which we need every protection. We need the kind consideration of each other; we need the spirit of brotherly love, for without that the Spirit of God will not dwell with man. I am sure that those who are here will agree with me in that, and perhaps it is not necessary for me to repeat it, but with all the feeling of my soul I rejoice in the opportunity which comes to me of laboring for the youth of the Church. 

In the days of our fathers, the problems were not nearly so great for the youth of the Church as today. It seems to me, Satan has been turned loose. Every device that man has been able to discover to lead the boy away from the teachings of the Living God, has been brought forth and is being used to steal from our children their heritage. They are our heritage, and without them what is life worth ? What will it be hereafter? We have all been taught that the family relationship can be broken only through our failure to keep the commandments of the Lord. I cannot forget the teachings of my father. Sometimes they appeared to be severe, but they always came in a spirit of love and kindness. He continually reminded us that his salvation was at stake if we failed to uphold and live in harmony with his teachings, teachings which he had received from those who had authority to teach, and the inspiration which came through power and inspiration from God, in whom we all believe. 

I am grateful that I do believe in God, that he has spoken in this day and that we are privileged to labor in authority of his Priesthood; that we have assurance and promise that through our faith and diligence in the performance of duty, we shall be redeemed and exalted in a glory of which we have no thought nor can we understand fully at this time. So, my brethren and sisters, I am happy to be associated in this day with men and women who fear God, men and women who are so living that they make it easier for me to live in harmony with these eternal principles. Now is the time when men who fear God must stand together to protect themselves from the evils that beset us on every side. 

I have been given a great responsibility, which came to me through the call of the First Presidency of this Church, the duties and responsibility of which are set forth by God, charging the Presiding Bishopric in a very positive manner to look after and watch over those who hold the Aaronic Priesthood. Brethren, we cannot do this alone. We want you to help and many are doing it. Let us not permit those holding the Aaronic Priesthood to develop habits which blind them and take away the light, and bring instead the darkness. Let us watch them day by day; let us help them to see the dangers, for it is much easier at that time than it is to bring them back after the spirit of the evil one has  possession of them. Then sometimes it is too late. Let us labor together in a spirit of love and in all diligence. 

May the blessings of God rest upon all of us continually; may we walk in the light of the Gospel message and have strength and power to accomplish his purposes; may we, who hold the Priesthood, not neglect the duty which rests upon us, for remember that it is our responsibility to save souls. Should we fail, we forfeit many blessings and we must answer for our neglect. 

May the Lord help us, that when the time comes that we are called to answer we shall be unafraid, having done our best, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My brethren and sisters, and friends, I am happy to be here to attend this Conference, and to listen to the many fine, inspirational remarks that have been made, and to the wonderful singing, both yesterday and today. These Singing Mothers have been an inspiration to all who are here. I wonder how many have counted the cost, and realize what it means for these singers and for our brethren from the mission fields to have come so far. And the same might be said of this entire congregation, because it is always a great sacrifice of the world's goods, for men and women to come great distances to attend these conferences. But out of it come great rewards and joyous privileges. 

Yesterday morning I thought I never had looked upon an audience that inspired me so much as that audience did. People were standing in the aisles until they were almost filled. When the congregation stood up to sing it looked like a solid sea of faces. I realized that the people are the leaders of the Church, to a very great extent. The majority of the men and women who are here this afternoon and who were here yesterday, are leaders of the Church. I was reminded of the passage of scripture which records the promise the Lord gave to Abraham. He said : 

Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said : These I will make my rulers. 

Men and women who have a knowledge of the Gospel, who know what it means to have lived before they came into this world, who have taken a part in the plans of our Eternal Father, are brought face to face with the fact frequently that we are only continuing the plan that our Eternal Father taught us even before the foundation of this earth was laid. 

This great congregation represents leaders from many places, men and women of responsibility, who have leadership, and who have the authority to delegate leadership. They are blessed with initiative, and they have in their hearts a desire to help, individually, in the building up of the Church and Kingdom of our Eternal Father. As a result of 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

experience, men and women obtain knowledge, a knowledge of the mission that comes to them in mortality, why we are here, from whence came we, and what is our responsibility while we are in mortality. The Book of Mormon prophet Alma said : 

This is the day and the time for men to prepare to meet their God. 

In this great school of experience we find ourselves following the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, in this Church of God, here in this western land. Men who have received the Priesthood, and all who have a testimony of the faith, have no doubt at all in their minds concerning this work; they have a knowledge that the Lord lives, and that he has revealed himself anew to men and women in mortality, through his prophets, those whom he has selected to lead Israel. 

Thus we see fulfilled the blessings that our Eternal Father predicted when he showed Abraham these great men whom he would call his leaders. Especially do we speak of those in this dispensation whose leadership has given them much wisdom, whose faith in God has given them abundant knowledge, and who have been preserved to a great age. 

All of the leaders of the Church in this dispensation, whose lives have not been interrupted by the bullets of assassins, as were the Prophet and his brother Hyrum, have lived to an advanced age. They have been selected by the Lord from among the rank and file of the people, and have been given a training that has made them worthy to be entrusted with the responsibility of his Church. 

I think things do not happen by chance. I think they happen by appointment, under the plans of God. I think he governs and rules, and that he whispers to those who will listen to him. And to those who listen to him, and respond, he confides his Holy Spirit, and he gives them a power and a strength that is not of man, but comes from Him. 

I think the example of leadership that we have in the Church today, in these perilous times, is a witness to all that the Lord is at the helm, and that he does not make any mistakes. He has selected a man whom he has trained from his childhood, President Grant, a man who, in his personal experience, has witnessed the growth of this country and the peopling of it from the days of Brigham Young. His great experience in life has given him a wise use of knowledge that comes as the result of experience and faith and leadership. He has given to the children of men in this dispensation the incentive to work. He has followed the instruction that came to him, as it comes to all men, to labor early and late for the building up of the Church and kingdom of God. 

The power of example is a marvelous thing. It probably is stronger than precept. If this great body of men and women go back home again and set an example that is in harmony with the revelations of the Lord and the impressions they receive from time to time it will have much to do with the correcting of many of the misuses of our time that bring sin and sorrow to thousands of people. 

The leadership of our Eternal Father is in this great Church. His authority is here. I bear that testimony to this congregation, and to all who may hear my voice. I am delighted to be able to say that I know with absolute surety that this is the work of God, and that the plan of the Priesthood our Eternal Father established in the heavens above before this earth was made, is here in action in mortality, and that the men who stand at the head are his servants in very deed. 

If this testimony and example be one that restrains us from doing things that we ought not to do, and is taken home again, it will have its effect in all parts of the earth where our people live. I pray the Lord to bless and protect every man, that he may grow in the knowledge of his Redeemer, through faith in God, and through prayer and through work and labor, and I do it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The Singing Mothers sang the anthem "Holy Redeemer." 

ELDER WILLIAM W. SEEGMILLER 

President of the Western States Mission 

I am honored in having the privilege of representing the Western States Mission. We have only begun our missionary work, and have done nothing that is worthy of special attention, but we have been blessed by the sincere support and loyalty of eight thousand Saints in the Western States Mission, and whatever we have accomplished we attribute to their faith and loyalty. 

We have twenty-six Singing Mothers in this congregation. They traveled by rail, under agreement with the railroad that they should have a comfortable place to ride and a clean place to dine, where they would not be under the necessity of either breathing or eating tobacco. This agreement was rigidly lived up to, and we thank the officials of the D. & R. G. W. Railroad Company for their kindness and gentility. 

I have been blessed many times for the effort which I have made in attending this great Conference. I have been blessed ten-fold by the address that was made by Elder Albert E. Bowen yesterday, so replete with sound doctrine in church and civil government. I hope always to be able to endure sound doctrine. 

I believe as sincerely in the story of Joseph Smith, the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, and the history of Lehi and his family coming to America, as I believe that Columbus discovered America in his time. 

I am sure that the Gospel of Jesus Christ can be nothing else than true, because it embraces all truth, wherever found, no matter from whence its source. 

We hope to be able to acquit ourselves in honor, that we may be able to improve upon the splendid foundation and organization which our predecessors have handed over to us. If this can be our happy lot we will feel that we have not struggled and labored in vain. 

I bear testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I know every man and woman will be blessed who lives by its doctrines. That we may all so live, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

ELDER CARL F. EYRING 

President of the New England Mission 

My beloved brethren and sisters: I hope that I shall have the capacity to carry back to New England the inspiration and the spirit which I have found here as our prophets of the living God have spoken the true word. 

I bring to you greetings from fifty missionaries and one thousand members of the New England Mission. 

The missionaries — your sons and daughters — are well. They are learning day by day how better to present the message of the restored Gospel to our friends and investigators, and they are trying to be the kind of person this Gospel ideally produces. I appreciate their loyalty and your support. 

Through the help of the missionaries, and through the greater activity of local members, the branches of the mission are utilizing more and more of the complete Church program. When compared with the enriched programs which members of well organized and efficient stakes enjoy, the Saints in the mission field are indeed pioneers. It takes the sterling qualities of the pioneer to preside and lead in such branches and to remain loyal to such small and often socially heterogeneous groups. 

As an important objective, we are diligently seeking to produce in the mission the same complete program enjoyed in the stakes of Zion, in order that the Saints may have the opportunity for religious activities, and the friends and investigators may obtain a true picture and impression of the vitality of Mormonism as they attend our Church services. Then, too, your sons and daughters who seek employment in the cities within our mission, or who attend the many universities of New England, have the right, we think, to find branches which are on a par with the wards they leave at home. We fully sense that such a goal is difficult to achieve, but we also keenly sense that if our Church is to offer the privileges and opportunities so necessary to keep intelligent and dynamic youth interested in religion, we must do our best to offer the facilities and blessings of an efficient organization. These branches must not be too much below par, when judged in terms of the home stakes, if we are to expect such members to continue actively in church work. We are fully conscious of this responsibility. We could not claim success, even with great numbers entering the front door through baptism, if we were losing, through any fault of ours, our precious sons and daughters through the back door of indifference. We pray that we may be faithful to our trust. Fortunately, the Church program which holds our sons and daughters also draws to us and holds the finest types of investigators. 

Through the program of the Boston branch and the facilities of the mission home, we offer to the students of the Universities in Cambridge and Boston and to the other members of the branch an enriched program which we believe is appreciated by all and which is fostering  fine loyalty to the Church and its teachings. In a similar manner, but with fewer facilities, the other branches are being strengthened. In this connection, we appreciate our lady missionaries. Without seeming to interfere with the local leadership of the Priesthood, they find ways and means of setting in operation an improved church program. We always place the lady missionaries where there is local leadership; their services are greatly appreciated. 

On the other hand, for the most part, the Elders are placed in new territory — on the firing line of missionary work, where their wisdom and courage is tested in new and discouraging situations. As you receive letters from your sons, you will often observe how discouragement changes to enthusiasm. The natives of New England are a cultured, and conservative people. One is not accepted with open arms on first meeting, but must prove oneself worthy of friendship. If one can thus prove oneself, breaking through what seems to be an aloofness, one may expect to make friendships which are strong and enduring. Not realizing this fact, missionaries become discouraged because of their failure to make friends easily and quickly. 

We teach our missionaries that conversion is a sacred process in which there is a very intimate relationship between God and the convert. The missionary simply leads the way to the conversion; he prepares the ground and sows the Gospel seed. As he strives to do his work, he must understand thoroughly that before converts come investigators, before investigators come friends^ and before friends comes friendliness. In the New England Mission, then, the missionary tries by word and deed to prove himself worthy of bestowing and receiving friendship. Until the missionary catches fully the vision of such an approach to his work, he often becomes discouraged. But with this vision, strengthened with a few successes, and as a tolerant messenger of love and goodwill he finds the joy of seeking friends and becomes overjoyed in his work. And you and I detect a new spirit in his letters. 

Out of such an approach, our missionaries have found friends among persons from all walks of life. They speak before schools, historical societies, young people's groups at churches, fathers' and sons' banquets, and small groups in the homes of friends. Often they speak only of the settlement of the West, no theology being discussed, but the ground is thus prepared for the sowing of the seed in the lives of those who express a wish to hear the message of the restored Gospel. 

Out of such friendly relations, we find that the eyes of thinking men and women are upon us. Are we in fact different in a fine way? At the moment, they do not seem interested in the divinity of the restoration, but following the pragmatic test, "By their fruits ye shall know them," they are looking for the results which we achieve as a religious people. Thus, our missionaries are asked to describe our organization, the nature of our economic system, our program for young people, our care of the human body, and so forth. Christianity, in too many places, has fallen into the decadent state of something to be talked about, but not to be lived. "Thus, if your perspective of Christianity GENERAL CONFERENCE produces results of great value," they would say, "then we are indeed interested in finding the power back of it." 

As the attitude of intolerance turns to friendly tolerance, we must be fully aware of the fact that our acts are before the bar of friendly evaluation. As we ask our friends of the world to investigate our religion, we are asking them to investigate us as its product. Surely you will loyally stand behind us — without your lives lived on the true Mormon pattern our message to the world may not be made articulate. 

In closing, may I suggest a number of resolutions which I offer, first to myself, then to my missionaries, and then to you ? 

We will demonstrate by our personal and community lives that Joseph Smith is a true prophet of God and has given us a true perspective of the teachings of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. 

We will preserve our uniqueness, never losing our savor by the compelling impulse to become respectable from the worldly point of view; but always adding savor by the urge to become a respectable member of the Kingdom of God. 

We will be a light set upon a hill because we will be different — different in the sense that we will be more industrious and self-reliant, yet more truly our brother's keeper; more honest in business, speech, and thought, yet more forgiving of those who steal, lie, or fail to think straight; more healthy in body and mind through adherence to God's health program, yet more helpful of those who in weakness have lost control of the appetite; more diligent for personal perfection, yet more concerned with brotherly helpfulness; more nearly ideal members of the kingdom, yet more teachable and poor in spirit. 

God grant that we may lift high the light of true Christian living, and that the world seeing our good works will glorify our Father which is in heaven — through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

In a revelation given to the Church, March 8, 1831, the Lord said this: 

But ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you, even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may not be seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils. 

Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given. 

QUESTIONS CONCERNING PURPORTED REVELATIONS 

It seems that periodically it becomes necessary to call attention to the true order the Lord has given us in regard to revelation. During 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 65 

the past three or four months I have received a number of communications, coming from various parts of the Church, asking if certain purported revelations or dreams or purported visions are reliable and have the endorsement of the Authorities of the Church. 

There have been individuals, from time to time, who have been invited to go into the wards, in the sacrament meetings, Priesthood classes, Sunday Schools and Mutual Improvement organizations, and at times, for their special benefit, cottage meetings have been held where they might come and relate remarkable visions or revelations claimed by these individuals to have been given to them. All this is wrong. 

KEY REVEALED TO DETERMINE TRUE REVELATION 

The Lord has given us, by revelation, a key that should be our guide in matters of this kind. In another revelation that was given to the Church as early as February in the year 1831, the Lord said this : 

But verily, verily, I say unto you, that none else shall he appointed unto this gift except it be through him; [speaking of the gift of revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith] for if it be taken from him he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead.  

And this shall be a law unto you, that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments; 

And this I give unto you that you may not be deceived, that you may know they are not of me. 

REVELATIONS GIVEN IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW 

The Lord has promised us that he would give us revelation and commandments when necessary, and that is recorded in another of the revelations also given in the same year, 1831, on the seventh day of August. And in that revelation the Lord says, speaking of those who should come to Zion : 

And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time — they that are faithful and diligent before me. 

Now, the Lord will give revelations to this Church, and he will give commandments to this Church from time to time, and as it is necessary, but always in accordance with his own law; and we do not have to run around and invite individuals who are without authority to relate unto us purported visions, or revelations or commandments, for the guidance of this people. 

Everything in the Church is done in order. Everything pertaining to the kingdom of God is in order, because it is obedient to law. 

JOSEPH SMITHES COMMENTS ON REVELATION 

In 1833 the Prophet Joseph Smith gave this counsel to the Church : 

I will inform you that it is contrary to the economy of God for any member of the Church, or any one, to receive instruction for those in 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

authority higher than themselves. Therefore you will see the impropriety of giving heed to them. But if any person have a vision or a visitation from a heavenly messenger, it must be for his own benefit and instruction, for the fundamental principles, government and doctrines of the Church are vested in the keys of the kingdom. 

Then on another occasion the Prophet gave this other counsel, as it occurs in the History of the Church : 

President Joseph Smith, Jr., addressed the assembly and said: 

The Melchizedek High Priesthood was no other than the Priesthood of the Son of God; that there are certain ordinances which belong to the Priesthood, from which flow certain results; and the Presidents or Presidency are over the Church; and revelations of the mind and will of God to the Church are to come through the Presidency. This is the order of heaven, and the power and privilege of this Priesthood. It is also the privilege of any officer in this Church to obtain revelations so far as relates to his particular calling and duty in the Church. All are bound by the principles of virtue and happiness, but one great privilege of the Priesthood is to obtain revelations 1 of the mind and will of God. It is also the privilege of the Melchizedek Priesthood to reprove, rebuke, and admonish, as well as to receive revelation. If the Church knew all the commandments, one-half they would condemn through prejudice and ignorance. 

A High Priest is a member of the same Melchizedek Priesthood with the Presidency, but not of the same power or authority in the Church. The Seventies are also members of the same Priesthood, are a sort of traveling council or Priesthood, and may preside over a church or churches, until a High Priest can be had. The Seventies are to be taken from the quorum of Elders, and are not to be High Priests. They are subject to the direction and dictation of the Twelve, who have the keys of the ministry. All are to preach the Gospel, by the power and influence of the Holy Ghost; and no man can preach the Gospel without the Holy Ghost. 

Now, these passages, these statements from the Prophet Joseph Smith, I have presented to you so that you may know how to be governed in regard to matters of this kind. If a man comes among the Latter-day Saints, professing to have received a vision or a revelation or a remarkable dream, and the Lord has given him such, he should keep it to himself. It is all out of order, in this Church, for somebody to invite him into a sacrament service to relate that to the Church, because the Lord will give his revelations in the proper way, to the one who is appointed to receive and dispense the word of God to the members of the Church. 

SPURIOUS REVELATIONS 

In the year 1918, at the October Conference, the last Conference at which President Joseph F. Smith spoke, I called attention to matters of this kind, and after I was through he arose and endorsed my remarks by saying what I am going to read to you now : 

Again I feel to say that it is an opportunity for me to say a few words. This wonderful, mysterious revelation that I have been said to have received a great many years ago, was given in French, and I never knew but two or three words of French in my life; consequently I could not  been the originator of that revelation. I want you to understand that I have denied it, I suppose, a hundred times, when I have been inquired of about it. It was gotten up by some mysterious person who undertook to create a sensation and lay the responsibility upon me. I am not guilty. 

When the Lord reveals something to me I will consider the matter with my brethren, and when it becomes proper I will let it be known to the people, and not otherwise. 

The ridiculous story about the red horse, and the black horse, and the white horse, and a lot of trash that has been circulated about and printed and sent around as a great revelation given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is a matter that was gotten up, I understand, some ten years after the death of the Prophet, by two of our brethren who put together some broken sentences from the Prophet that they had heard him utter from time to time, and formulated this so-called revelation out of it. It was never spoken by the Prophet in the manner in which they have it put forth. It is simply false; that is all there is to it. 

KNOW THE TRUTH 

Now, these stories of revelation, that are being circulated around, are of no consequence, except for rumor and silly talk by persons who have no authority. The fact of the matter is simply this : No man can enter into God's rest until he will absorb the truth, in so far that all error, all falsehood, all misunderstanding and misstatement he will be able to sift thoroughly and dissolve, and know that it is error, and not truth. 

When you know God's truth, when you enter into God's rest, you will not be hunting after revelations from Tom, Dick and Harry all over the world. You will not be following the will-o'-the-wisp of the vagaries of men and women who advance nonsense and their own ideas. When you know the truth you will abide in the truth, and the truth will make you free. It is only the truth that will free you from the errors of men and from the falsehoods and misrepresentations of the evil one, who lays in wait to deceive and to mislead the people of God from the paths of righteousness and truth. 

God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

The burning questions of good and evil constitute the most important problem that has ever confronted the children of men. There is no end to the variations in which this problem presents itself. There are so many manifestations of it that one is almost lost in a labyrinth of confusion. 

These questions are often asked: What is good and what is evil? What is sin? What is the cause of sin, and what is its cure? Vice, or gross immorality! What is vice ? Listen to the poet : 

Vice is a monster of so frightful mien As, to be hated, needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace. 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

Many varied opinions are given in answer to these questions, and it is astonishing to see how much misinformation and wrong conceptions are entertained by those who attempt to answer. Even those who are trying to solve the problem of vice and how to deal with it are greatly confused in regard to the real causes that lie under all of these evil manifestations. 

We hear remarks like this, "that it is highly improbable that gambling, alcoholism, prostitution, drug addiction and other forms of vice can ever be stamped out." Among the reasons given the first is "the unchanging nature of human appetites" and that "as long as that shall remain there will be vice." 

It is rather disheartening to hear such things as this, especially when they further say that there will probably be no change — no appreciable change — in the next few millennia, or next few thousand years. 

How well do I remember my father's family prayer and the impressions made upon me in my childhood of the impending judgments which were about to be poured out upon the wicked and ungodly. Let me repeat a part of it as I recall it to my memory : 

Remember the young and rising generation. May they not wander into by and forbidden paths; but may they walk in that straight and narrow way that leadeth unto life eternal. Hold them, as in the hollow of thy hand, that no harm or evil may befall them. Frustrate the plans and machinations of the evil and ungodly; may they fail in all their evil undertakings; may they be caught in their own snares, and fall into their own pits, which they set and dig at the feet of thy people. Hasten the day when sin and iniquity shall be banished from the face of the earth, and righteousness shall predominate and cover the earth, even as the waters cover the mighty deep. 

Well, that day is not yet come; but I am still looking for it and feel now as I did then that it is at our very doors and still entertain the thought that I may yet live to see it for I am still quite young — only four score years and three. But, whether I live or not I feel quite sure we shall not have to wait for another three or four thousand years in order to witness that glorious day when Christ shall appear in the clouds of glory — when this earth shall be renewed and receive its paradisaical glory, and inaugurate the great millennial reign of peace — when sin and iniquity shall be banished from the earth, and truth and righteousness shall prevail and Satan shall be bound — that old serpent, called the devil who, with his angels, was cast out of heaven into the earth and has wrought great havoc among the children of men, but now shall be bound, and sin shall be no more. 

What absurd misconceptions men have of sin! They blame it on human nature. When they make such statements as that, it is a libel against Deity. Human nature is not evil. Man has been fashioned and formed in the image of God, not only in his physical image, but in all of his divine attributes. There are no evil ones. Man possesses every one of them; as a child of God he has inherited them from his divine parents. We are God-like — not sensual and devilish — by nature. 

This is fully explained in Section 20, verses 18, 19 and 20 of the 

Doctrine and Covenants, where it is stated that in the beginning God gave holy commandments unto men, but because they transgressed those holy commandments they have become sensual and devilish. 

It is true that men have become devilish and sensual through transgression, but they are not by nature so; that is quite a different matter. By nature they are divine, formed and fashioned in the image of God, inheriting from him all of his divine attributes. God possesses those attributes fully developed — in their perfect form; — mankind, the children of God, possess them in embryo and in very imperfect form, but with infinite potentialities for development, and in the course of our eternal progress there is opportunity that we may perfect them and become indeed like God — which is the divine purpose in our being here on earth. Then do not blame it upon human nature, for our appetites, our passions, and natural urges are divine and are all designed for our happiness and well-being, and only through transgression do they become evil — when perverted, distorted or corrupted. 

In considering the problem of sin, if we are to have proper understanding there are some things that must be understood which are frequently lost sight of by those who undertake to discuss this vital and ever present subject. Let me explain : 

While it is true that these attributes may be developed to their divine perfection, it is also true that they may be perverted, distorted and counterfeited until they become vices, all depending upon the individual and his choice, in the exercise of his free agency — whether he chooses the good or the evil. In this conflict there are two influences that are brought to bear upon him. On the one hand "the spirit of Christ is given to every man that he may know good from evil." (Book of Mormon, Moroni 7:16.) This spirit is ever striving to lead us to God. And, on the other hand "that which is evil cometh from the devil, for the devil is an enemy unto God and fighteth against him continually, and inviteth and enticeth to sin and to do that which is evil continually." (Moroni 7:12) Thus, it will be seen that God is ever present to guard and protect us and deliver us from all evil. He is unchangeable for he has said : "I am the Lord, I change not." And then, too, Satan, with unrelenting zeal is endeavoring to carry out his evil purposes in leading men away from God and hence unto darkness and the bondage of sin, and "to do that which is evil continually." He shows no signs of reformation. The devil is absolutely incorrigible, and this is what the criminologists sometimes overlook and blame to "the unchanging nature of human appetites." 

Are God's purposes failing simply because sin and iniquity continue to exist among us ? Nay, not so. This is an individual fight against sin. The generations of men come and go and each generation and each individual member is in the position where he must act for himself and choose between good and evil. Some choose the good and some choose the evil. Some choose to walk in the "light" and others "love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil" — and all shall be judged according to the deeds done in the body. 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

How could we be judged unless we had a knowledge of good and evil? If we had no knowledge of good and evil we could commit no sin. Without free agency we could commit no sin. The spirit of Christ is striving with the children of men always. That is the light of Christ that has been given to every man. "That is the true light that enlighteneth every man that cometh into the world." "If we walk in the light," we are told, "even as he is in the light, then have we fellowship, one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin." 

But, the devil came also, and his power and influence is manifest among us and we see how he has made havoc with many; but always because they would not hearken unto the voice of the Lord. We meet our adversary every day of our lives. We may not see him, nor his angels, for they kept not their first estate and have no bodies of flesh and bones. We may not see them with our natural eyes, but they are here. We feel their presence, and we know that we are in the midst of them. 

All evil comes from that source. Every temptation to do wrong, every allurement to sin, every departure from the will of God is inspired by those evil spirits who are abroad in the world, seeking to draw men and women away from God. To hearken to the devil and his followers is sin. To draw nigh unto God is virtue. Drawing nigh to God is faith. Resisting the devil is repentance. Therefore: "Resist the devil and he will flee from you; draw nigh unto God and he will draw nigh to you." These two principles then — faith and repentance — should be the governing principles of all human conduct whether in the Church or out of it. 

There is no virtue in doing good under compulsion and likewise there is no vice in doing evil under compulsion. And, furthermore, if we had no knowledge of good and evil, sin would be impossible. Where there is no law there can be no condemnation. We are only responsible for that which we do in the exercise of our free agency, and according to the light — or knowledge of good and evil, which has been given us. 

For this reason God has endowed us with these divine attributes and our problem is to develop these and all the others through obedience to the will of God and to reject the devil's substitutes or counterfeits. 

Let me enumerate a few of these divine attributes which our Heavenly Father has transmitted to his sons and daughters dwelling upon the earth and to indicate how they may become vices under diabolical influences. Every virtue has its kindred vice. For example: 

1. Economy becomes stinginess. Some men think they are economical when, as a matter of fact, they are only stingy. How I hate a stingy man. 

2. Self Esteem becomes egotism, a miserable substitute for a divine attribute. 

3. Pride becomes vanity. I think it must be vanity "that goeth before the fall." 

4. Fear is a divine attribute and must not be confused with coward. "Be not afraid of the face of man, but fear God and keep his commandments." "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom." Even the Lord would fear to do evil. 

5. Acquisitiveness, or thrift — the faculty that enables one to acquire wealth; but when perverted becomes greed and avarice, these soul destroying vices — the love of money which we are told is the root of all evil. What will not men do when this divine attribute is perverted into greed and avarice — into the "love of money"? They will lie for it; they will cheat and misrepresent for it; they will steal for it; they will kill for it; and thus it becomes the cause of all our strife and contention, our wars, and destroys the peace and happiness of mankind. 

6. Faith, a sublime and saving attribute of Deity. A minister, not orthodox however, once said to me : "There is one thing you have in your Church which I don't like." "And what is that?" I inquired. "That is what you call faith." "What's the matter with faith?" again I inquired. "Just think," he said, "to believe everything you hear." "But sir, you have mistaken faith for credulity. The Lord does not want us to believe everything we hear." What does the Lord want us to believe? "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved." 

7. Love — This is the greatest of all the divine attributes — sometimes it is called Charity — which is the pure love of Christ. The biggest thing in all the world. Even this, under diabolical influences becomes lust — the very embodiment of everything that is vile — the devil's counterfeit. The greater, the holier, purer and nobler the divine attribute may be — all the more contemptible, vile and degrading is the devil's counterfeit. 

Are there any virtues that may not be perverted or distorted? Any divine attributes that may not be corrupted? Any good thing whatever that some devil does not try to counterfeit? 

Our government issues currency in various denominations — one, two and five dollar bills, ten, twenty, fifty and one hundred dollar bills (at least so I've heard), and these are legal tender all over our broad land, and easily exchanged in foreign lands, but some devil will make counterfeits and palm them off for genuine. Our government also issues gold and silver coins in various denominations, but some devil will take a baser metal and gild it over with gold and palm it off for genuine, but they are all counterfeits. Then do not despise the pure gold of religion because the devil makes a counterfeit of it in hypocrisy. Beware of counterfeits, there are many, many false religions. There is only one that is genuine, namely, the religion of our Lord, the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its purity as restored to the earth in the day and age in which we live, through Joseph Smith, the Prophet. 

The trouble with many men is that they resist God and draw nigh unto the devil. Even many men of science say "We cannot admit God into our laboratories." Why not? Let me say to them: "When you close the front door, against God, automatically you open the back door and let the devil in." 

Let no man think that I disparage the scientists. Nothing could 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

be farther from the truth. Nor do I underestimate the wonderful achievements they have rendered and are now rendering in service to humanity. On the contrary — I glory in their achievements in bringing truth to light, and sincerely wish that success may crown their efforts even though I may discount some of their vague theories. 

Inasmuch as we are God's children, possessing his divine attributes, there is real meaning in the Savior's admonition : "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." 

Let me now revert to the previous question, propounded at the beginning of my remarks. What is sin ? What is its cause and what is its cure? 

In what I have said I have endeavored to make answer to these questions. 

All this, however, suggests another question: What is the purpose of it all and why does the Lord permit this evil opposition? For a direct answer to this question, let me cite to you the following : 

And to bring about his eternal purposes in the end of man, after he had created our first parents, and the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and in fine, all things which are created, it must needs be that there was an opposition; even the forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree of life; the one. being sweet and the other bitter. 

Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself. Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other. (2nd Nephi 2:15, 16.) 

We have also seen the two opposing influences, the one the spirit of Christ leading and enticing us to partake of the fruit of the tree of life, thus leading us to God; and the other, the devil enticing men to partake of the forbidden fruit, thus leading us away from God and to our destruction. 

The divine purpose, therefore, is made plain : Our Heavenly Father like any natural father desires to bring us back into his presence, to dwell with him in his celestial kingdom throughout the endless ages of Eternity; but before this can be brought about we must be sanctified from all unrighteousness that we may be prepared for celestial glory. (See D. and C, Sec. 88:18) No unclean thing can enter there. Obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the necessary preparation, for in this provision is made for the remission of all our sins, "even though they be as scarlet, yet shall we be made as white as wool," washed clean in the blood of the Lamb of God. Now, therefore, here is the cure, a panacea for every ill: Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ whom God hath sent to atone for all our sins. Repent, for "except ye repent ye shall all likewise perish." And be baptized by immersion for the remission of your sins by one who is duly commissioned of Jesus Christ to perform that sacred ordinance, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands by a duly authorized servant of God. 

This is God's plan — it is the only way. Let all men give heed and may the Lord add his blessing I humbly pray, in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

It can never become commonplace and unimportant to speak in this pulpit. This is indeed a great responsibility. For two years I have been doing missionary work in the Northern States Mission. Distance seems to minimize your short-comings and imperfections and to magnify your virtues and your achievements. My brethren and sisters, deep in my soul I have great pride in the things you are doing and have done. 

During this Conference I have listened with pride and satisfaction to the eloquent discourses on the philisophy and doctrines underlying our great religion. This stimulates one's faith and inspires him, but these splendid doctrines are not accepted by those not of our faith; they might argue about them, but there is one argument that stands forever unanswered and unanswerable — the argument of righteous behavior. If the President of this Church were to ask every man and woman under the sound of my voice, who are free from the use of tobacco to arise, there would be very few who would remain on their seats. If he were to ask those who are not addicted to the use of strong drink in any form to manifest it by arising, most of those who are here would arise. If he were to ask those who cherish their virtue as they do the "apple of their eye" to stand up, the response would be universal. Somehow the world appreciates a religion that carries over, that registers in the lives of its adherents. 

As years and experience come to me there filters into my soul the settled conviction that Mormonism has something that the world needs, that it cannot succeed without. I do not think the world will ever emerge from the difficulties which seem to engulf it until it discovers what that something is and lives by it. 

The state of Illinois is a part of my mission. Since childhood I have heard the story of Nauvoo, but of recent years I have had frequent opportunity to walk the quiet streets of that little village and to contrast it with what it was when the Saints lived there. There is something missing now, something is gone. One cannot look across the century and see what a small group of our people, stripped of their earthly possessions — without borrowed money or material assistance from the state or nation, were able to do with nothing but their strong hands and their faith in their leader and in their Creator, without feeling in his soul that the world ought to learn the lesson which they practiced. When they reached Illinois they did not spend their days mourning over their persecutions in Missouri, bitter as they were, but they girded their loins, forgot their troubles and compelled the uncultivated earth to yield them a subsistence. 

The people of this generation should learn the lessons demonstrated in our history, the lesson of self-reliance, of faith in themselves, and in the Almighty. Through our present efforts to perpetuate this spirit of self-reliance we have won a place in public favor never before enjoyed by us. We do not appreciate the prominence that we have won through 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 this effort. The world is coming to see us — to see how we do it. To use the common phrase — "We are on the spot" and every man who has a modicum of patriotism in his blood, who loves the Gospel and loves his people has an opportunity now to demonstrate it — not by facing flashing bayonets or enduring great physical hardships, but by the simple process of living his religion. If we have faith enough to do this we are destined to become the pride and glory of the earth. 

I know that Mormonism is true. I have known it all my life, but I never before saw so clearly its grandeur and its beauty. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may he help us all to preach the Gospel abroad by living it at home. We are moving forward and with the help of our Heavenly Father we will win. May this be our happy lot, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus — Amen. 

The Singing Mothers sang "Inflammatus," Margaret Stewart Hewlett, soloist. 

Benediction by Elder Franklin L. West, Commissioner of Elucation. Conference adjourned until Wednesday, April 6, at 10 o'clock a. m. 


