Morning
03 04 1938

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for this opportunity of being with you in health and strength to enjoy the spirit of this Conference. There are many things that might be discussed, many things of great import in the progress and welfare of this people, and I am sure they will be brought out during the Conference. The time available to me prior to the Tabernacle broadcast is limited and will permit of brief remarks only. 

IMPORTANCE OF OBEDIENCE 

In thinking over that which I might say I have thought of many things, and among other things one of the greatest and most important is that spirit which brings us to a unity and a willingness to cooperate and to comply with the desires and instructions of our leaders, and particularly with regard to the observance of the laws and commandments of the Lord, which is the principle of obedience. 

When Saul, king of Israel, was instructed by Samuel the prophet to fight the Amalekites, who had been a bar in the way of the children of Israel in their trailing through the wilderness, he failed to do what he was instructed, and Samuel rebuked him in these words : 

Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the word of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams. 

Saul was rejected by the Lord as a result of his disobedience and failure to comply with the instructions which he had received from the Lord's servant. 

RESULTS OF DISOBEDIENCE COME IN NATURAL WAY 

Now, as a matter of fact nothing apparently happened, because Saul continued as the king of Israel. Anyone who heard that statement of Samuel's might have concluded that it had failed. But Samuel had gone, under the instruction of the Lord, to Bethlehem, and there had selected another man and had anointed him to become king of Israel. I say Saul remained as king for some time before the judgment of the Lord came upon him. After a certain time he went into battle and was killed in a natural way in the fight. And that I think is an evidence of what we may expect of mankind wherever we live. If we learn to obey the instructions that are given us, and especially if there come to us instructions from those who have authority; or if we fail to comply with the laws and commandments that the Lord has given us, we are in the way of undergoing condemnation. It may come about in a perfectly natural way, because obedience or disobedience to spiritual or natural law, or to civil law, brings the reward or the penalty in every instance. 

THE GOSPEL A PERFECT LAW OF LIBERTY 

The Apostle James, in speaking in regard to the importance of observance of divine law, and at the same time the perfect freedom of agency of every individual to do as he or she chooses, makes this statement : 

But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. 

Every principle given to us of the Lord as a part of the Gospel is a law of liberty, and the Gospel as a whole is the perfect law of liberty. We have the choice whether we shall accept it or reject it, whether we shall live it, or shall fail to observe its commandments; but according to that which we shall do shall we be judged, and that is perfect fairness and justice, not only in this life but in the life to come. 

OBSERVANCE OF LAW 

I might discourse at length, but time will not permit, with regard to the benefits that come to us through the observance of law. As Latter-day Saints we claim to obey, honor, and sustain the laws wherever we may be. Any man or woman, any boy or girl who fails to observe the constitutional laws, man-made though they may be, imperfect though they may be — if they fail to observe them they are the losers, and thereby if law-breaking continues there is confusion and destruction to civilization, whether in the community, the state, the nation, or the world. And to that extent it is very vital that we should realize that obedience means compliance with law, whether it is civil, natural, or spiritual. It is of vital importance to the continuance of progress of civilization. 

SOURCE OF UNITY 

I realize and you realize that if we observe to do what the Lord has 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

commanded us and expects us to do, we shall grow in unity and power, because that is the very source of power of this people — their willingness to comply and thereby become united. Yet they lose nothing of their individuality or their understanding or their intelligence or their judgment. So that obedience to this perfect law of liberty brings us joy and blessings, as promised by the Apostle James. 

BLESSINGS PREDICATED UPON OBEDIENCE 

You will remember again the statement made by the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven, before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. 

This applies to every principle of the Gospel. I will not take the time to discuss them in detail, I need only say to you that every principle of the Gospel that the Lord has given us is positive and forward-looking, and everything contrary to that is negative. Thereby we may conclude that everything we learn that is of light and advancement, that is true and exalted and forward-looking is of God and intended for the welfare and progress of mankind. It requires action, it requires discernment, it requires judgment to observe these conditions and to be obedient. The opposite is to fail and to neglect, which is negative, and only brings us sorrow and sadness. By doing wrong things we are doing negative things; by doing right things we are doing positive things. 

DIVINE PRINCIPLES 

Now, without going into detail, because time will not permit, I might refer you to some of the things the Lord has commanded us to do. In the first place he has commanded us to teach our children correct principles, that they may live righteously, that they may grow in the knowledge of the truth, and become faithful, active men and women in the Church. If we fail to do that as fathers and mothers we shall lose the blessing which would come to us otherwise; and if our children fail to receive these things and observe them they will also lose the blessing. How unfortunate it is when children of faithful, upright parents, either through lack of proper watchcare, training or spiritual, loving influence succumb to temptations and lose the spirit of the Gospel \ 

If we fail to observe the Word of Wisdom — that great standard of physical welfare — we are losing control of our better selves. If we observe it we learn to control our appetites and desires and our passions, so far as they affect us physically. One course is positive. It means self-control. The other is negative. It produces excesses. 

With regard to the observance of the Sabbath day: If we live in accordance with that instruction we shall grow in clear thinking, in peace, and in right living. If we break the commandments we give ourselves to thoughtless pleasure, we are losing that sense of relationship with the  and interfering with our progress. Likewise, if we cultivate hatred, envy, and jealousy instead of cultivating love, we develop negative instead of positive qualities — lower instead of higher — and suffer thereby. On the contrary, if we cultivate love for our fellow men generally and all who are dear to us, and for our Heavenly Father, then we grow in righteousness, peace and happiness. 

POSITIVE QUALITIES PROMOTE REAL HAPPINESS 

The same is true of morality. If we observe the principles of clean living which we are instructed to observe, we shall grow in faith and strength and power, and if we fail to do so we shall grow in vice and licentiousness, which are prevalent throughout the world today. Another principle that develops finer characteristics in men and women is that of fasting, the donating of the value of the food that would otherwise be consumed. If we practice it we develop in the spirit of self-denial and charity — two of the greatest qualities we can possess. Failure to live it invites selfishness, and hinders proper restraint. Again, if we are growing in faith we are becoming stronger and abler spiritually and thereby we shall increase in unity. On the contrary, if we cultivate doubt, and carping criticism, we hinder advancement and lose the opportunities that are ours. Then again, if we fail to observe the law of tithing, a divine law given us for our progress, a principle with a promise, we gain spiritual and temporal blessings. If we disobey it those benefits will be denied us. The observance of these principles develops the qualities in men and women most vital to civilization. 

I want to call your attention to the fact that we have been instructed by our brethren who preside over the Church here upon the earth to observe all of these principles. I think that in large measure Latter-day Saints are endeavoring to observe them. The more fully we observe them the greater the blessings to us. We are the ones who gain or lose by living or failing to observe these commandments, these instructions and principles. 

So, my brethren and sisters, I urge upon you that, as far as you have influence, you exercise that influence with the Church officers and members by example and by kindly encouragement, to observe every principle which the Lord has given through his servants. Such observance inures first to the welfare and progress of the individual, and, secondly, for the Church as a whole. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF CHURCH OFFICERS 

I remember that six months ago President Grant gave certain instructions with regard to what is expected of the officers of the Church in the observance of its principles. I think there should be no neglect or failure whatever in our faithful observance of these things. There is every reason why every man or woman who receives authority in this Church should set the example of righteous living in every way. The giving of authority requires a faithful compliance with every request made of us. Further, there is no request made that is not reasonable. GENERAL CONFERENCE Time will not permit my speaking further. I pray the Lord to bless us continually and may his choice favors continue with us throughout this Conference, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10 :30 to 1 1 :00 a. m. the following program of choral and organ music was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, in the Tabernacle, as a part of the General Conference session, and was broadcast by radio throughout the United States and Canada by the courtesy of the Columbia Broadcasting System, originating over Station KSL, Salt Lake City: 

"Again as Evening's Shadow Falls" (Fletcher) Choir 

"In Springtime" (Kinder) Organ 

"The Morning Breaks" (Careless) Male Choir 

"To Thee, O Lord" (Kalinnikoff) Choir 

Hymn arrangements by organist Organ 

"Praise" (Rowley) Choir 

The Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Organ accompaniments and Organ solo presentations were played by Frank W. Asper. 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

Immediately following the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, the following program was presented on the Columbia Broadcasting System's Church of the Air series : 

The Choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "O Say, What is Truth?" 

ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Observing the orderliness and unity of purpose obtaining among his followers, who had been gathered from various countries of the world and from numerous nationalities and creeds, a visitor to the Prophet Joseph Smith asked: 

"Mr. Smith, how do you govern these people?" 

Promptly came the pregnant reply, "I teach them correct principles and they govern themselves." 

Thus tersely is stated a concept fundamental in the creed of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — self-government fashioned upon fixed and enduring principles. It is a statement of the ideal in government. As concerns the individual, it is a statement of the law of progress, the law of salvation. 

STABILIZING POWER OF AN ULTIMATE AIM 

The discovery of eternal, unchanging principles, upon which the lives of men may securely be built, is the end of all search. We believe  such principles are to be found in the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth. Those teachings constitute our religion, whose mission it is to lead men to exercise over themselves a moral restraint, to curb the desires of their hearts, to guide their thoughts and actions into true channels, and to tie themselves down to the precepts of divine justice that they may be prepared for the eternity of life and progress that lies beyond. 

Everyone must feel the need for an ultimate aim in life — an abiding purpose. Without it there would be nothing to stand between a person and a surrender to the fitful direction of casual impulses. Many men who do not consider themselves religious nevertheless have high objectives and pursue them with fidelity, but they have adopted from some source a body of principles which constitute their code of living. Without the stabilizing power of such guides a man's life would be "like the waves of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed." There could result only futility of action and frustration of purpose. 

SELF-GOVERNMENT BASED ON OBSERVANCE OF CORRECT PRINCIPLES 

In secular relations the necessity for guiding principles has long been recognized. The whole body of our law has grown up out of the need for certainty. It constitutes a body of principles by which men regulate their relations. If there were no such fixed guides subscribed to and faithfully observed in the great majority of instances, there could be no dealing. Distress and confusion would reign supreme just as it does today in the family of nations. 

Furthermore, if the process of the law had to be invoked to compel obedience to its established principles in every transaction in which men engaged, human intercourse would be impossible. The whole legal mechanism would come tumbling down of its own weight. Human society is able to carry on only because the vast majority of men freely and voluntarily and as a matter of individual morality conform their conduct to the body of principles laid down in the law. Indeed, because they observe principles of morality which have not been enacted into law — -but are outside of and above its compulsions — they are self-governing, which brings us back to the second proposition of our discussion: Having been taught correct principles, "They govern themselves." 

Any system of government which depends for its continuance upon the compelled obedience of any considerable part of its citizens is foredoomed to ultimate failure, because it is violative of the principle of freedom which is a God-given quality coextensive with life, and, like life, one of man's inalienable rights. 

U. S. CONSTITUTION PROTECTS RIGHT OF SELF-GOVERNMENT 

What Lincoln called the sentiments of the Declaration of Independence — the whole essence of it — is that every human being, and every community of human beings, has some rights which no power on earth, not even government itself, is authorized to infringe. Every line in that Declaration is repugnant to the present day revival, in parts of the world, of the anachronistic dogma which undertakes to regiment the lives of 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

men into mere vassalage to the state. Such philosophy is in brutal contradiction of the basic concepts of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; which teaches that man, the spirit of him, was in the beginning with God; that Jesus Christ is in truth his elder brother; that as the offspring of Deity, through free acceptance of and adherence to the eternal law of progress, man's congenital immortality may unfold till he reaches the plane achieved by his "elder brother". This, the very essence of the theology of the Latterday Saints, is flatly denied by the totalitarian whose chief exponent has said that the ideal of happiness and indefinite progress is a "myth," and the inevitable consequence of whose teaching is the exaltation of the barbarities of paganism over the humane precepts of the Son of Man. 

The people of America have been the freest people on earth precisely because more of the activities of life have here been left to self-direction than has been the case anywhere else and the domain occupied by government has been correspondingly more circumscribed. It is an historical certainty that the express purpose of the framers of the' Constitution of the United States was to establish under it a government for the protection of their newly won liberties. Its highest sanctions are free speech, free press, free elections, a free legislature, a free judiciary and a definite limitation upon the powers of government over the lives of men. All these the modernistic despotisms — under whatever name — deny. 

Latter-day Saints believe that these are divine principles and that the men who formulated them into a system of government were acting under the inspiration of the Almighty, in the majesty of whose name every man who comes into office under it binds himself by oath that he will preserve and defend it. Here we clasp hands with the Honorable Hatton W. Sumners, chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives of the United States, who recently said : 

They were great men who sat in the Constitutional Convention but it has been withheld from human genius to write the constitution of a living government. It never has been done and never will be in a creative sense. Our Constitution came from the same source that trees came from. . . . The people no longer believe that there lived at one time a group of supermen, who met in a convention and out of their own creative genius fashioned the constitution of a living government. . . . The fact of it is our Constitution is worthy of all reverence among a people who love liberty, because it came from God Almighty. 

Parenthetically may I remark that in this sabre-rattling, demagogueshouting, Deity-banishing age of arrogant self-sufficiency, it is refreshing to hear words of humility issuing from the mouth of one in high station. 

PERFECTION POSSIBLE 

Freedom signifies more than a release from outward restraint. It is an essence, a quality of the spirit whose rarest blossoms, in an atmosphere of oppression, wither and die. As is said by Justice Maxy, "Whereever autocracy has prevailed, thought has been enslaved, society stratified into castes and enterprise discouraged. The era of Autocracy Ascendant was the 'dark ages of the world'. Progress came only when shackles began to be loosed from minds and chains from limbs." 

In our conception, the whole purpose and object of life is to achieve individual perfection through the unfolding of individual potentialities and the ripening of all the virtues. Learning, extension of horizons, expansion of vision, poise of character, serenity of soul — these coveted fruits of the spirit — are the consequence of voluntary free acts. In the foul and noisome air of despotism they may neither quicken nor flower. They are outside the power of human bestowal or coercion; they are in the realm of freedom. As these transcend physical acquisitions in value, so the principle of freedom transcends the power of force or compulsion. 

It is said that in the seed is a complete design of the tree. Planted in fertile soil, moistened by gently falling rains, warmed by the caressing rays of an effulgent sun, it unfolds : roots, trunk, branches, blossoms and fruit, the completed realization of its design. No amount of despotic terrorism can cause a seed to unfold into a tree. 

Our institutions which protect us in our freedom of thought and of worship were the product of a thousand years of struggle against tyranny. But they have no guarantee of immortality except such guarantee as inheres in the will and the fitness of our people to be free. 

Freedom is not bestowed; it is achieved. It is not a gift, but a conquest. It does not abide; it must be preserved. 

When signing the Constitution Franklin said that the government it created "can only end in despotism . . . when the people become so corrupted as to need a despotic government, being incapable of any other." 

So important is the principle of liberty, so essential is it to man's higher self-realization and so inexorably necessary to the dignity of his status as the issue of Deity that the omnipotent God himself does not countenance compulsion. Ample ancient and modern evidences of this have been scripturally recorded. For example, when the Prophet Samuel was grown old the people of Israel requested of him that he make them a king to judge them "like all the nations." Samuel was disturbed, thinking that Israel had repudiated him, but the Lord comforted him with these words : "Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them." Certainly there is nothing here of compulsion on the part of One omnipotent. 

Closer to us in time, there is a like example of the Lord's respect for the liberty of men. Nine years after the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (one hundred and eight years ago next Wednesday) came the revealed law that the Priesthood of God, the governing authority of the Church, neither could nor ought to be maintained except by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness and by love unfeigned; by kindness and pure knowledge, and that it could not with impunity be exercised to gratify pride or ambition or to gain unjust control or compulsion upon the souls of men. 

Self-government involves self-control, self-discipline, an acceptance of and the most unremitting obedience to correct principles. Its demands are commensurate with its high privileges. Duties are the inseparable companions of rights. No other form of government requires so high a degree of individual morality. "It is ordained in the eternal con10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

stitution of things," said Burke, "that men of intemperate minds cannot be free." It is one of the missions of the Church to foster in men those virtues, without which there can be no self-government, and the alternative to which is the mentally and spiritually sterilizing scourge of tyranny. 

Before we import despotic principles into our own land, which are so raucously clamoring for admission, we would better count the costs. Three weeks ago I read one morning the sickening, revolting story of an old world trial where the mockery of it was rendered the more cruel by the observance of outward legal form but devoid of every semblance of justice as known to free men. The sole offense of the accused was political disagreement with the will of the dictator. Then I walked into a United States Court where a Grand Jury was being impanelled. It comprised 16 men of the district of varied stations in life. They were instructed that under the Constitution no one could be called to answer for an offense against the government except upon presentment by a Grand Jury; and that they alone, without fear or favor, without regard to the station of the accused, be it high or low, without extraneous influence of any sort, but solely upon the evidence, must decide whether indictments should be returned. 

Thank God for Liberty! 

May we and all the generations to come be as heroic in its preservation as were the Fathers in its establishment, that in our land freedom may abide forever. 

Selection by Male Chorus, "Praise to the Lord," (Storl-Cornwall) "Praise God from Whom All Blessings Flow" was sung by the Choir and congregation. 

After the conclusion of the Church of the Air broadcast, at the request of President Heber J. Grant, the congregation sang the hymn "O, Ye Mountains High." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am sure that every Latter-day Saint within the sound of my voice has had great pleasure in listening to our program here this morning. I am sure that the testimony and the fine teachings of our Presiding Bishop have found echo in the hearts of all of you. I am sure that every Latter-day Saint who believes, according to a declaration of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the men who wrote the Constitution were inspired of the living God, has rejoiced in Elder Bowen's remarks here this morning, and that the things he has said have found an echo in the hearts of all of you. 

EXPERIENCES IN BORROWING MONEY 

Speaking of this song that we have just sung, some of the words of which are, "On the necks of our foes we shall tread," etc., I had the pleasure of singing it while coming down from Pine Crest (Emigration 

Canyon) in an automobile, to a dear friend of mine who is in the banking business, Mr. Fred W. Shibley. Mr. Shibley came to Utah to represent the banks of New York, Chicago, San Francisco and other places, that had lent $12,535,000 to the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company. 

When these loans were negotiated sugar was selling for $17.00 a bag of 100 pounds. When the beets were turned into sugar, sugar was selling at $5.00 a bag. We paid $12.00 a ton for the beets and we expected to make four or five million dollars, but we had a loss of more than $5,800,000. We expected to have all our debts paid but we found ourselves in debt $7,535,000, and we needed some more for our next season's crop of beets. We had a practical illustration of Victor Hugo's remarks that "Gratitude is a lively sense of favors to come." Our farmers received over $5,000,000 more than their beets were worth, but the following year nearly all of our factories had to lie idle because the price of beets was not high enough. 

I went East to get a renewal of $7,000,000 of obligations with the banks, and in addition to borrow $2,800,000, instead of $12,000,000 as the year before. I had difficulty in getting the company notes; but finally the bankers agreed to do so, and we were very grateful. They positively refused to lend us a dollar, however, in order to purchase preferred stock. I offered them local collateral and they asked for something that would sell on the New York Stock Exchange. I told them that I did not have any stocks or bonds that would sell on the New York Stock Exchange. One of the great bankers said, "Give us some Union Pacific preferred stocks or bonds." 

I said: "You must have been listening to Lulu Shepherd, perhaps the greatest female liar that ever drew the breath of life. She announced that I as President of the Mormon Church had over $100,000,000 in Union Pacific and other railroad preferred stocks and bonds." 

I had only one certificate of five shares of the common stock of the Union Pacific, and that was in my name. I had it transferred from President Joseph F. Smith back to the Church, and then I had it transferred to myself, hoping to be elected a director, but "another Pharaoh arose that did not know Joseph," and I did not get the job. {Laughter) A year later, however, somehow or other they got acquainted with "Joseph," and then I got the job. 

INCIDENTS IN REGARD TO "o YE MOUNTAINS HIGH" 

I took Mr. Shibley to one of our scenic wonders — Brighton — and seeing there in her mother's cottage, next door, the good wife of the man who has been talking to us today (Albert E. Bowen), I suggested that we go over to their cottage and hear somebody sing who knew how to sing. We did so, and I said, "Now, Emma Lou, I sang the song, 'O Ye Mountains High,' for Mr. Shibley, and I would really like to have him hear someone sing it who knows how to sing." She sat down at the piano, and turned around and said, "Of course, President Grant, you do not want me to sing all four verses." 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

I said, "I have already trod 'on the necks of our foes 'and made the 'Gentiles bow beneath our rod,' give him all four. {Laughter.) 

After she had finished singing, I said : "Mr. Shibley, it must have shocked you for me, the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, claiming that Jesus Christ himself organized it, claiming that God introduced Jesus Christ to the boy prophet, and believing in the teachings of the Savior that we should turn the other cheek and love our enemies — it must have been a great shock to you to hear me singing that we should 'tread on the necks of our foes,' and that 'the Gentiles should bow beneath our rod;' so, I have arranged with the author, Charles W. Penrose, who is now in his 89th year and is as lively and wide awake and as fine a preacher as anyone in the whole Church, that after he passes away we will quit treading on the necks of our foes." 

Our old song books, however, have not been changed, but we are now singing, "Without fear of our foes we shall tread." 

Mr. Shibley said : "Don't you do it; I am a student of the Bible, although agnostic, and that is a Bible figurative expression. You do not expect to step on the necks of your foes, but you do expect your foes to bow the neck to the rod of righteousness. Leave it alone, it is only once in a lifetime that a man gives off as inspirational a song as that." 

I said: "I have already pledged myself to change it after Brother Penrose dies." 

But lo, and behold, after hearing this compliment by a non-member of the Church I am, when singing it personally, going to make them bow to the rod of righteousness, even though it has been changed in the book. 

It is only fair to all of you to know that Charles W. Penrose spent ten long years of his life preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ in his native land, England, without purse or scrip, and then he came to the valleys of the mountains; but before coming here he wrote this beautiful, inspired hymn, without having seen our country. We feel that he was not only inspired as a poet, but he was inspired to describe our great and wonderful country. 

There are two spirits striving with all men — one telling them what to do that is right, and one telling them what to do that will please themselves, that will gratify their own pride and ambition. If we live as we ought to live we will always follow that spirit that teaches us to do that which is right. 

REPENTANCE MEANS FORSAKING OF SIN 

I have heard many, since my talk here six months ago, say that tithing is a free-will offering and that Heber Grant is laying down a law. Tithing is a law of God and not Heber Grant's law. It is God who said that the people were robbing him — those who did not pay their tithing — not I. I can forgive any man almost any great sin if he repents, and "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins — behold, he will confess them and forsake them." It does not do me individually any  or any harm, no matter how a man lives, but I know as I know that I live that every man who serves God with full purpose of heart is reaping a remarkable and wonderful reward. "Men are that they might have joy," as recorded in the Book of Mormon, and there are no people on the face of the earth that have more real joy, more contentment, more peace of mind, more true happiness, than those who have a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of mankind, our Savior, and who are living the laws that he has taught us. It brings a peace, a joy, and a satisfaction into the heart that money can not buy and that nothing else can buy. 

I have had men all over this country, during my long life, say to me : "Mr. Grant, your teachings are in harmony with the Bible, but I can not accept your teachings that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God." 

Speaking of our principles being in harmony with the Bible, when I reached Chicago, going East with Mr. Shibley, I handed him a couple of tracts to read. One of them was entitled, "Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story." 

By the way, Mr. Shibley made a very remarkable and wonderfully favorable report regarding our company, and recommended to the bankers that they lend us the money we wanted with which to buy preferred stock, in order to get a renewal of the $7,000,000 we owed them, but they would not do so. However, later, when Brother Smoot got us $10,000,000 from Uncle Sam they concluded to let us have the more than two million dollars with which to pay for the preferred stock. They were a good deal like the fellow who went to the bank to get his money; — there was a run on the bank — and they offered it to him. He said : "What! Have you got it? If you have it, I do not want it; if you don't have it I want it awfully bad." 

AN AGNOSTIC'S OPINION OF JOSEPH SMITHES STORY 

After reading the tract, "Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story," Mr. Shibley said to my son-in-law, Robert L. Judd (who had lunch with him) : "Do you know, that story of Joseph Smith's is true. No liar ever wrote such a story. Liars do not go into details. By every rule of my life to discover the truth this story is true. No liar would ever think of such a thing as saying that the Angel Moroni, who appeared to Joseph Smith and who afterwards gave him the golden plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, had on a loose robe, and that it was open, and that he could see his bosom." 

And he pounded the table, so my son-in-law told me, when he said it. "No liar would ever think of saying that the angel's feet did not quite touch the floor and that the robe came to his ankles. Liars learn a story off by heart and stick to it, and they never go into details." 

When he was here he went back into the records of the Sugar Company for twenty years. I wondered "What on earth is he going back so far for?" and when I heard of this remark I knew he was looking for something crooked and he did not find it, and that is why he made such an optimistic report, in my judgment. 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

ARGUMENTS IN TRACT UNANSWERABLE 

The other tract that I gave him was, "My Reasons for Joining the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and Leaving the Church of England." When I had lunch with Mr. Shibley the next day he said : 

"Mr Grant, I am a student of the Bible, although an agnostic, but if I actually believed the Bible I would be almost compelled to join your Church. I say to you that no believer in the Bible can gainsay these arguments. That tract by your religious friend is unanswerable, but do you know, I have written books myself and I think I could write a better reason for leaving the Church of England and joining your Church than he wrote? 

I said : "Mr. Shibley, please remember that this man who knew the Bible so well and gave so many scriptural references to sustain our doctrines which you say are unanswerable — please remember that he had reached the age of retiring on a pension of $5,000 a year as a Colonel in the British army, and that he had been known as a God-fearing man, a truly religious man all his life, and please remember that when he joined the Mormon Church he received letters from India and other places in the world asking, Why have you joined these awful Mormons ?" 

We all know of the drivings and the persecutions of the Latter-day Saints in New York; of the loss of our temple and being driven from Ohio; of the order of the Governor of the State of Missouri that we leave the state or we would be annihilated; that we were driven out of Nauvoo, Illinois, and our temple destroyed by fire; and that finally we traveled 1500 miles to these valleys. And what was this country at that time? A great sagebrush plain. One of the three women in the Pioneer company remarked : "Worn and weary as I am, I would sooner go another thousand miles than stop in such a desolate place," and one of the others echoed that sentiment. But Brigham Young said: "This is the place, and here we will build an empire and a temple to our God." 

BRIGHAM YOUNG'S PLANS FOR EMPIRE 

If Brigham Young had got all he asked for, for the new State of Deseret, we would have built an empire here. What did he ask for? There was then no California, no Nevada, no Idaho, no New Mexico, no Arizona. He asked for all of Utah, much of Wyoming, nearly all of Colorado, enough of New Mexico to get the San Juan River, every foot of Arizona and Nevada, to the Sierra Nevada Mountains. He established a colony at the foot of the Sierra Nevada Mountains. He sent his pioneers and representatives across the Colorado River and established a colony in what afterwards became the state of Arizona. He asked for fully one-third of California. He asked in plain English for every drop of water that flows into the Hoover Dam. Please remember the name, never forget it. (Laughter.) Every drop of that water would have belonged to the State of Deseret. Los Angeles would have belonged to us. We established a great colony at San Bernardino and we established a colony way up in the northern part of Idaho, but the government  the United States, because of the lies of some run-away judges, sent the army of the United States against our people here and all those outside colonies were abandoned. 

I am going to get another chance at you this afternoon and on several other occasions, and I see there are only a few minutes left. 

OFFICERS URGED TO KEEP COMMANDMENTS 

I want to leave with this vast audience my deep appreciation of all that has been said. I endorse it with all my heart, and I renew again everything that I said in the ten or fifteen minutes at the close of our Conference six months ago. I ask every man and woman occupying a place of responsibility whose duty it is to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to live it and to keep the commandments of God, so that their example will teach it; and if they can not live it we will go on loving them, we will go on putting our arms around them, we will go on praying for them that they may become strong enough to live it. But unless they are able to live it we ask them to please step aside so that those who are living it can teach it. No man can teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ under the inspiration of the living God and with power from on high unless he is living it. He can go on as a member and we will pray for him, no matter how many years it may require, and we will never put a block in his way, because the Gospel is one of love and of forgiveness, but we want true men and women as our officers in the Priesthood and in the Relief Societies. And a man has no right to be in a high council who can not stand up and say that he knows the Gospel is true and that he is living it. 

May God help us to live the Gospel, that our light shall shine before those who know not the truth. I know as I know that I live that God lives, that he is my Father, that he hears and answers my prayers. I know that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of mankind, the Son of the living God, my Elder Brother. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and the living God, and that he was the instrument in the hands of God of again restoring to the earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

May God bless you, one and all, and every honest man and woman that lives upon the face of the earth, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in humility in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem "Behold, God the Lord Passed By" (Elijah). 

Elder Stayner Richards, President of the Highland Stake, offered the benediction. 


