Afternoon
03 04 1938


Conference reconvened promptly at 2 o'clock p. m. Sunday, April 3. 

Again the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were filled to capacity with people who had assembled to listen to the Conference proceedings, and as was the case in the morning, the Assembly Hall was crowded with people and thousands of others congregated upon the Tabernacle grounds where, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, they were able to listen to the Conference services. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session. As an opening number the congregation joined with the Choir in singing "For the Strength of the Hills we Bless Thee." 

Elder Harvey Fletcher, President of the New York Stake, offered the invocation. 

"Onward Christian. Soldiers" (Sullivan-Nilson) was sung by the Choir. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The following telegram has been received : 

New York City, New York. Manhattan Ward assembled for Fast meeting. Enjoyed splendid reception of Tabernacle Broadcast and Church of the Air. 

Manhattan Ward Bishopric. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Text: 

Wherefore, my beloved . . . work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputings : That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world. (Philippians 2:12-15.) 

Though given over nineteen centuries ago, Paul's admonition to the Philippians is applicable to us today. 

A TRYING PERIOD IN HISTORY 

Present day difficulties and perplexities call for individual as well as cooperative effort. To paraphrase Lord Nelson's famous statement : Now is the time for every man to accept responsibility and to do his duty. 

We are today living through one of the really crucial periods of the world's history, writes the Assistant Secretary of State. Everywhere about us is prodigious change. Old institutions, old beliefs, old ideals are  fast. In this revolution of thought and life, new conceptions and beliefs born of Communism, of Fascism, of state totalitarianism, are competing relentlessly with the older conceptions which we thought were fundamental. The future is literally in our making. 

It is a time of disillusionment, of loss of faith, of bitter pessimism. We seem to be slipping backward in the long march of progress. We are in danger of losing part of the precious heritage for which our ancestors fought and gave their lives. Human liberty, democracy, parliamentary government, freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, tolerance, faith — these in important parts of the world have ceased to exist. Autocracy and dictatorship are demanding men's allegiance. Political institutions are cracking ominously. Democratic government is fighting for its life. Our whole capitalistic system is under fire. . . . 

Even today millions of men are wandering the streets of our great industrial cities, hungry and unable, through no fault of their own, to find work. We are still forced to mortgage unborn generations to care for present want. In the midst of abundance the world is multiplying poverty. 

RESULT OF REJECTING GOSPEL TEACHINGS 

Undoubtedly there are many causes contributing to these untoward conditions, chief of which is failure to adopt the teachings of Jesus. 

Certainly much of the hatred and animosity manifest among the peoples of the world are largely if not entirely due to men's rejecting fundamental principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Some men and some nations still apply the law of the jungle — cheat or be cheated, conquer or be conquered, kill or be killed — instead of "do unto others as you would have others do unto you," "love your neighbor as yourself," "do good to them who despitefully use you." 

Well, what can we do about it? Sometimes when we think how little we can do, we almost despair of attempting to do anything. But there are a few simple but fundamental things which everyone can do. 

One of these is for each individual to work out his own salvation. 

WORKING FOR SALVATION 

An outstanding doctrine of the Church is that each individual, carries this responsibility, and that the salvation of man is a process of gradual development. The Church does not accept the doctrine that a mere murmured belief in Jesus Christ is all that is essential to salvation. A man may say he believes but if he does nothing to make that belief or faith a moving power to do, to accomplish, to produce soul growth, his protestation will avail him nothing. "Work out your own salvation" is an exhortation to demonstrate by activity, by thoughtful obedient effort the reality of faith. But this must be done with "fear and trembling;" that is with a consciousness that absolute dependence upon self may produce pride and weakness that will bring failure. With "fear and trembling" we should seek the strength and grace of God for inspiration to obtain the final victory. 

However, to work out one's salvation is not to sit idly by,dreaming and yearning for God miraculously to thrust bounteous blessings into our laps. It is to perform daily, hourly, momentarily, if necessary, the 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

immediate task or duty at hand, and to continue happily in such performance as the years come and go, leaving the fruits of such labors either to self or to others to be bestowed as a just and beneficent Father may determine. 

I am not unmindful of the scripture that declares "By grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is a gift of God." That is absolutely true, for man in his taking upon himself mortality was impotent to save himself. When left to grope in a natural state, he would have become, and did become "carnal, sensual and devilish by nature." But the Lord through His grace appeared to man, gave him the Gospel or eternal plan whereby he might rise above the carnal and selfish things of life and obtain spiritual perfection. 

But he must rise by his own efforts and he must walk by faith. 

He who would ascend the stairway leading upward to eternal life must tread it step by step from the base stone to the summit of its flight. Not a single stair can be missed, not one duty neglected if the climber would avoid danger and delay, and arrive with all safety and expedition at the topmost landing of the celestial exaltation. 

The responsibility is upon each individual to choose the path of righteousness, of faithfulness and duty to fellowmen. If he choose otherwise, and as a result meet failure, misery and death, he alone is to blame. As President Young said on one occasion : 

If Brother Brigham should take a wrong track and be shut out of the kingdom of heaven, no person will be to blame but Brother Brigham. I am the only being in heaven, earth, or hell, that can be blamed. 

This will equally apply to every Latter-day Saint. Salvation is an individual operation. I am the only person that can possibly save myself. When salvation is sent to me, I can reject or receive it. In receiving it, I yield implicit obedience and submission to its great Author throughout my life, and to those whom he shall appoint to instruct me; in rejecting it, I follow the dictates of my own will in preference to the will of my Creator. 

I believe in individualism as opposed to paternalism. In saying this I recognize the fact that a man's duties to himself and to his fellowmen are indissolubly connected. Jesus taught that if a man is true to his own highest interests he cannot fail to discharge his obligations to his neighbors. Conversely, he taught, that if a man is faithful to the interests of his fellowmen, he cannot be faithless to his own. And as a man thinks so he acts. 

Within my experience there has never been a time when the doctrine of individual initiative and individual effort should be more generally taught and more earnestly put into effect than at the present day. 

Too many men are claiming that the world owes them a living, and are sitting effortlessly by expecting the world to throw its luxuries into their passive laps. Too late they will learn that the earth rewards richly only the strenuous stragglers. Emerson quotes someone as saying that "the world is in a state of bankruptcy; that the world owes the world more than the world can pay, and ought to go into chancery and be sold." Such reputed insolvency involves all the population, and he who does not get out and rustle for himself is a contributor to the alleged bankruptcy. 

NO NEED FOR IDLENESS 

Thousands, through no fault of theirs, are out of jobs, and are vainly seeking a means of an independent livelihood. However, failure to find it is no justification for idleness. There are fences to rebuild, barns to repair, yards to clean up, houses to remodel and to paint, vicious and destructive weeds to destroy as they deface the highway and ravage crops. Instead of waiting expectantly for the government to find work for us, let us look around and see if there is not work near at hand. Such work will be a benefit not only to the individual but to the community and the public generally. Last year there passed through Utah 1,250,000 tourists. We must not shut our eyes to the fact that these hundreds of thousands of visitors constitute one of the greatest assets of the state. Travelers come to behold sublime canyons and far-famed scenery, to hear the story and see the accomplishments of the Mormon pioneers. If, when they come here, anticipation exceeds realization, these tourists will go away disappointed. If realization is greater than anticipation, they will depart with satisfaction and words of commendation. 

Thriving villages with newly painted dwellings, cultivated farms and weedless highways, courtesy and fair dealing will bear an encouraging message to these hundreds of thousands of visitors; while dilapidated houses, ill-kept gardens, broken gates and tumbled down fences will indicate an indolence and shiftlessness that will discredit the whole people. 

WHAT ONE WARD ACCOMPLISHED 

This admonition applies not only to persons but to the individual quorum, to the individual ward, to the individual stake. Look around you and you will find that there is work for you in your own community. These suggestions are not impractical effusions of a dreamer, as Bishop Lawrence B. Johnson of Randolph, Utah (Woodruff Stake) has recently demonstrated. In that little village, 10 or 12 more houses are needed to meet the bare necessities of natural increase in population. People have not the money with which to pay for these houses. But there are certain resources which they do possess — health, brawn and muscle, and initiative and foresight on the part of leaders. Twelve miles from this town are groves of timber; trees that can be hewn into house logs. 

Bishop Johnson presented his plan, and called for volunteers from the ranks of the unemployed. He anticipated meeting 5 or 6 men with teams and axes. At the appointed hour one Monday morning 20 men responded. 

With a little help a saw mill was obtained, and with the cooperation of the Forest Department, 200 trees, the forest life of which was about ended, had been transformed into excellent housing material — 25,000 scale feet of logs made ready for use, and the work still continues. For their labor the men were given work receipts, which are accepted at the 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

regional storehouse in exchange for clothing, shoes, groceries and other necessities. 

Work brings happiness, and that happiness is doubled to him who initiates the work. 

OPPORTUNITIES AT HAND 

Too many of us fail to take advantage of opportunities near at hand. We justify inactivity by nursing the impotent thought that success cannot be obtained without influence, money, social or political "pull." Edward Rowland Sill gives an excellent illustration of the fact that sometimes "what one man throws away as useless, another man seizes as the best means of victory at hand." 

This I beheld, or dreamed it in a dream : — 

There spread a cloud of dust along a plain; 

And underneath the cloud, or in it, raged 

A furious battle, and men yelled, and swords 

Shocked upon swords and shields. A prince's banner 

Wavered, then staggered backward, hemmed by foes. 

A craven hung along the battle's edge, 

And thought, "Had I a sword of keener steel — 

That blue blade that the king's son bears — but this 

Blunt thing!" he snapt and flung it from his hand. 

And lowering crept away and left the field. 

Then came the king's son, wounded, sore bestead, 

And weaponless, and saw the broken sword, 

Hilt-buried in the dry and trodden sand, 

And ran and snatched it, and with battle-shout 

Lifted afresh he hewed his enemy down, 

And saved a great cause that heroic day. 

Writes Charles Wagner in the "Simple Life" : 

Each person's base of operations is the field of his immediate duty. Neglect this field, and all you undertake at a distance is compromised. First, then, be of your own country, your own city, your own home, your own church, your own work-shop; then, if you can, set out from this to go beyond it. That is the plain and natural order, and a man must fortify himself with very bad reasons to arrive at reversing it. 

NEED AND VALUE OF COOPERATION 

Now do not misunderstand me. In thus emphasizing individual effort, I am not unmindful of the necessity of cooperation — 

There is a destiny which makes us brothers, 

None lives to self alone; All that we send into the lives of others 

Come back into our own. 

A single, struggling individual may be stalled with his heavy load even as he begins to climb the hill before him. To reach the top unaided is an impossibility. With a little help from fellow-travelers, quorums, or wards he makes the grade and goes on his way in gratitude and rejoicing. 

This, I think, is in harmony with the teachings of Jesus, who 

"sought to perfect society, not by popular agitation or by re-organization, but by perfecting the individual. He recognized the fatal fallacy in the dream of those who hoped to make a perfect state out of imperfect individuals. The ideal social state, which he described as the kingdom of God, is a commonwealth in which all men are united and governed by a commanding love both for God and for their neighbors." 

The present day turmoil and bitter strivings threaten to undermine basic foundations of Christian relationship. Liberty, freedom of speech, self-government, faith in God, and particularly faith in the efficacy of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are facing a bombardment from the ranks of error as the world has seldom if ever witnessed. 

SOMETHING FOR EACH TO DO 

Too many men quail under the impending onslaught, and cry vainly, "what can we do?" This, I repeat, we can do : First : 

By self effort attempt to initiate work around the home, and in the neighborhood, quorums and groups rendering necessary aid whenever possible; and practice honesty; speak well of your neighbors; and if you cannot do this, say nothing. Seek the best in life, and thus give to your own soul and to your own environment a touch of the beautiful. 

Second : 

By proclaiming, and, what is even more effective, by exemplifying in life the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as the only permanent panacea for the ills of mankind. 

Wherefore, my beloved, . . . work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputings : That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I wish to tell of a new interpretation of the Gospel of Christ. The occasion will permit only an outline but I make the attempt in the hope that our friends who listen and some of our members may come to a clearer understanding of the distinctive features of our message and our work. I use the word "new" interpretation rather than "true" for diplomatic reasons. "New" postulates "old" and while most people prefer to be modern rather than old-fashioned, usually no serious offense is given by placing a man in an old school of thought. Whereas, "true" assumes the "false" and everyone resents an imputation against the verity of his ideas. I make this admission frankly because I have no desire for debate. I merely want to explain. First Day I set forth as the first aspect of this new interpretation the doctrine of the dominance of intelligence. I believe I am correct in the assertion that in all Christian literature prior to the advent of our Church there were to be found no such concepts of the origin, function, and place of intelligence in the universe as come from our modern scripture. Here are some excerpts : 

Intelligence or the light of truth was not created or made, neither indeed can be. 

All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also. Otherwise, there is no existence. (Doctrine and Covenants 93:29, 30.) 

The glory of God is intelligence — or in other words, light and truth. 

Light and truth forsake that evil one. (Doctrine and Covenants 93:36, 37.) 

Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. (Doctrine and Covenants 130:18, 19.) 

Now, since intelligence is co-eternal with God and is the very glory of God, it follows logically that it is the chief investiture of man. Indeed, it is man, for it is that part of his constituency that persists, that is eternal. This knowing, conceiving, illuminating principle of existence lies at the base of all our powers and potentialities. Without it there would be no virtue and no sin. It alone gives to man his free agency, the power to choose, to will, and to act, conscious of the effects of his decisions and his deeds. It accounts for the place of good and evil in the world and justifies their existence, — a philosophical problem that has baffled the minds and the thinking of great scholars, of all time. 

This conception of intelligence justifies the eternal quest for knowledge and it does more. It explains the necessity of acquiring knowledge for it makes knowledge essential to progression and progression in the last analysis is salvation. It places a terrific penalty on ignorance. It lays down a new and very definite gospel doctrine that : "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." (Doctrine and Covenants 131 :6.) 

The world in general and the modern world in particular with its science, scholasticism, and technology has been prone to scorn and slur religion and the church for an alleged backwardness and retardation in intellectual processes and in the acquisition of knowledge. Whatever justification there may have been in times past for such an imputation, I present now an interpretation of the Gospel that is a complete refutation of these disparaging allegations and inferences of the secular world. The Gospel of Christ offers a stimulus and a reward in the pursuit of knowledge and the development of intelligence that transcend in their appeal and promise anything that the students and philosophers have ever evolved. ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 



But the knowledge and intelligence that it rewards must be true. "Light and truth" are the words of the revelation. It places no premium upon the acquisition of falsehood and error. It distinguishes very clearly between sophistication and true intelligence. A man once said in distinguishing intelligence from education that intelligence is that which enables one to wisely meet the situations of life without education; whereas, education is that which helps one to meet the situations of life without intelligence. 

This statement may leave the inference that intelligence is largely inherited. The Gospel teaches us that it is — that it came as a native endowment of the race but that the efficacy of the endowment has been in many instances largely mitigated by the perversion of the race. It is encouraging and gratifying, however, to be assured that no man has ever quite lost this vital and all-important attribute. There is enough intelligence with every man to acquire knowledge and truth if he elects so to do. It is a significant fact, demonstrated by most extensive research and investigation, that there is no people in the earth, even the most primitive, which has not sufficient intelligence to grasp and hold to a conception of a God as a Supreme being. 

INTELLIGENCE A DIVINE ESSENCE 

How to exercise the intelligence we possess for the attainment and utilization of knowledge is a vital matter in the interpretation and application of the Gospel, but it is one that I must pass over briefly. The Gospel places highest value upon that intelligence and knowledge which contribute most to the enduring welfare of man. "Pure knowledge" it is called in the revelation, (Doctrine and Covenants 121 :42) which defines the attributes and functions of the holy Priesthood. This pure knowledge, without which the Priesthood can not properly be administered, contemplates an understanding of the divine plan of redemption and of the principles and laws that pertain to the celestial kingdom of our Father. In all the learning of the world there is nothing of higher import for the mind of man to comprehend than the eternal principles and truths that pertain to exaltation in the presence of God. And there is no higher order of intelligence than that which enables man to perceive these glorious truths. 

Since intelligence is a divine essence, it may function adequately only when recognized as divine. In that recognition faith is indispensable. Faith and knowledge constitute testimony and bring that conviction which is epitomized in the declaration, "that to know thee is eternal life." So I ask, where is the philosophy or school of thought that esteems more highly and ascribes nobler attributes to the mind and intelligence of man than does this exalted concept set forth in the new interpretation of the Gospel of Christ? 

THE FAMILY OF GOD 

I propose as the next major phase of this new interpretation a unique and distinctive conception of the family of God. God, the 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

Master Intelligence is the Creator and veritable Father of his children, the lesser but potentially divine intelligences who make up his family and populate his kingdom. As a kindly parent, he desires and designs the eternal welfare and happiness of his offspring. In modern revelation his purpose is clarified as never before in recorded scripture. It is the glory of God to "bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Pearl of Great Price — Moses 1 :39.) And, "Men are that they might have joy." (Book of Mormon — II Nephi 2:25.) These are the sublime declarations revealed in latter days, forever banishing all doubt and uncertain speculation as to the place and purpose of man in the universe. 

In what does the joy of man consist? There are two things : first, an eternal progression in intelligence, knowledge and power that leads to perfection, even as Christ is perfect; and, second, companionship with God in his presence and in the presence of his Son. 

NEW CONCEPT OF HEAVEN 

This pronouncement of the purpose of our being, together with additional revelations, brings a new concept of heaven. By the perfection of our lives we achieve joy and come into the presence of God. Where is he? He is in his own kingdom. Are there other kingdoms? Yes. And in that revealed knowledge we learn the truth about heaven. There are other kingdoms referred to but not fully explained by Saint Paul and also indicated in "the many mansions of my Father's house," spoken of by the Savior. 

These scriptures have been fully amplified by the new interpretation. Kingdoms of eternity have been defined. Laws that govern the various kingdoms have been set forth and entrance requirements stipulated. There are preferential places and conditions in the hereafter, as there are here. The highest and most desirable is the celestial kingdom of our Father. In that kingdom and only there do intelligences attain their highest state of perfection. Only there do we have assurance of the reunion of families and the perpetuation of family relationship and eternal increase. In that kingdom man may ultimately become divine. 

In the mercy of God other lesser kingdoms make provision for just compensation in the lives of men. But the lesser kingdoms are outshone by the celestial as the sun in its brightness and glory transcends the moon and the stars. 

Men attain these various kingdoms by the election and the work of their lives. We do not know all the conditions precedent to entrance into the lesser kingdoms but what is necessary to come into celestial glory has been definitely revealed. The principles and ordinances of the Gospel of Christ are the laws of that kingdom. Faith, repentance, baptism, the laying on of hands for the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, ordination to the Priesthood, — are all essential requirements. Why? Because God has stipulated them and because also they are consonant with the spirit, the purpose and glory of the kingdom. 

Is it necessary for one to be baptized to go to heaven ? That depends on the place in heaven to which one aspires. We have no knowledge as to whether it may be necessary for the lesser kingdoms, but we do know by revelation that it is absolutely essential for the heaven of the celestial kingdom of God. The scriptures give us to understand that through the general atonement of the Savior all mankind will be resurrected from the grave and come forth in a life hereafter but we know that the atonement itself is not adequate to place us in the celestial kingdom, in which respect we distinguish between the general salvation of the human family brought about by the Redeemer of the world and the exaltation of the individual accomplished by his own works and faithfulness, through the mediation of Christ. 

MISSION OF CHURCH FOR LIVING AND DEAD 

From this clearly defined sublime concept of heaven is devolved the mission of the Church which is : first, to disseminate knowledge of the celestial kingdom; and second, to assist in perfecting the lives of men so they may enter that kingdom. 

This mission of the Church, through the revealed justice of God, is extended not only to all the living but to the dead as well. It is not designed that the accident of death shall circumscribe the free agency of man to choose and attain his ultimate destiny. Since, however, it is in the plan that certain ceremonies and ordinances which are requisite for entrance into the celestial kingdom shall be performed in mortality, merciful provision has been made whereby the living may vicariously perform these ordinances for the dead. Hence our extensive temple work wherein all conditions essential for entrance into the celestial kingdom are complied with for both the living and the dead. 

I think of all Christian service vicarious work for the dead is the most Christ-like. It often entails great sacrifice. The beneficiary is not here, even to give thanks. It is true benevolence. 

NATURE AND NEED OF PRIESTHOOD 

As a concluding item in this new interpretation of the Gospel, I now present the doctrine of the holy Priesthood. Knowledge of God, his family and his kingdom, and reason also, assure us that we can not do his work and accomplish his purposes without a delegation of his power. The Priesthood is his commission to men. It holds the keys to his kingdom. The gates will not unlock without these keys. 

Not only is the Priesthood necessary for the kingdom hereafter, but it is essential in perfecting the lives of the people. This investiture of divine power in man is a boon to him who holds it and an inestimable blessing to others. I call it the perfect plan of service because it does for man the most vital and important things that can come into his life. It inducts him into the fold of Christ. It unites him in an eternal compact of marriage. It establishes the enduring bond in which his 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

children are born. It leads him into celestial glory, the benediction of his life. 

The nature of this divine power is set forth in some of the most beautiful language of all scripture. I have not time to repeat it all. Here is but a sample : 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — 

Reproving betimes with sharpness when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. (Doctrine and Covenants 121 :41-44.) 

DIVINE POWER EXISTS IN EARTH TODAY 

Are we sure that this divine power exists in the earth today? We are. We have incontrovertible evidence of its derivation and validity. Its origin is not lost in the obscure antiquity of the past. It came to us in relatively recent time,- — within the memory of our fathers. Angelic ministers, in person, bestowed it and delivered the keys. The unequivocal testimony of the witnesses is recorded and available. And the authenticity and genuineness of the power are attested, not only by accredited witnesses, but by what is equally, if not more important, the virtue and efficacy of the power itself. 

Our history is replete with instances and circumstances indicating the vitality and force of this precious endowment. So that, hundreds of thousands of honest men and women have positive conviction of the restoration of God's power in the earth and the establishment of his Church founded on that power. 

This, then, in brief, is the new interpretation and the new restoration of the pure Gospel of Jesus Christ. I call it new although it came a century ago and although hundreds of thousands have accepted it, because today, the great preponderance of all the populations of the earth have never heard of it and do not know that the glad tidings of great joy have been re-revealed in the last dispensation of the fulness of time for the exaltation and glory of man. 

In this new revelation, through God's chosen prophet, lies the hope of the world. When true intelligence shall banish error and superstition and the family of God shall be more than a theological conception; when men shall truly aspire to the highest heaven, and the duly constituted authority of God shall be recognized and esteemed, then,- — and not until then, — will the long-desired peace of Christ descend upon the nations. God grant the early coming of that day! Amen. ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 



ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Personally I can say that I have enjoyed very much the spirit and instruction, and the music of this Conference — all of which I can endorse most heartily. 

A FAITHFUL PEOPLE 

I have been made to feel thankful to be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which it is clear to my mind is in its ascendency in the earth today. I have thought of the faithfulness of this people, the like of which I doubt can be found anywhere else in the world. They have accepted the Gospel as one of sacrifice, of selfabnegation, and of service to God and to f ellowmen. They are working out their own salvation in fear and trembling. They pray for the Authorities of this Church, and the Lord answers their prayers. I do not know that we need consider the exceptions. 

The Authorities of the Church are praying for the people, and the Lord is blessing the members of his Church and those who are rendering service in the Church, assisting the Lord in the acomplishment of his work and purposes, looking to the saving of the souls of men, without monetary consideration, who are paying their tithes and their offerings, and answering calls of authority from the leaders of the Church to fill missions abroad, to labor in the Church at home. If these people are not well paid here upon the earth they have the assurance of a reward hereafter that will amply justify all the sacrifices which they may make here in the flesh. 

PURPOSE OF LIFE 

We are not here upon the earth, brethren and sisters, and friends, by chance, nor did we come to earth for the purpose of acquiring the wealth of this world or the praise and plaudits of men, or for our own personal aggrandizement, but we are here according to the plan of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which was instituted in the councils of heaven before the world was. It involves the acceptance of certain principles and the receiving of certain ordinances, the keeping of the commandments *of the Lord, the obeying of his laws, and the rendering of service to one another, to our fellowmen. 

It is pure religion and undefiled to keep ourselves free from the sins of the world and to visit the widows and the fatherless in their affliction. To those who feed the hungry, clothe the naked and minister unto the needs of their fellowmen in unselfishness, their hearts going out with their alms, to such will the Lord say in the day of reckoning: "Come ye blessed of the Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." 

But to those who have buttoned up their pockets, who have closed their hearts against the needs of their fellowmen, living entirely selfish 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

lives, they may expect the words of the Judge of all : "Depart from me, ye cursed." 

We should in very deed lose our lives in the service to our God and to our fellowmen. The greatest service that we can render, the most helpful, to our fellowmen and to ourselves and to our God is helping men and women to find out the way of life and salvation, to know what salvation is, of what it consists, and how it may be attained, and to encourage them by teaching them the word and will of the Lord, to accept of the same, and to walk in newness of life in the path which is straight and narrow, and leads unto life everlasting. 

THE GOSPEL THE LAW FOR ALL MANKIND 

Hence we preach the Gospel at great expense, it is true, to the Church, but the souls of men and women cannot be valued in dollars and cents in the cost of effort. The Gospel which we have received is the law by which all mankind are in the end to be judged, and either condemned or justified according to merit. The scriptures tell us that before the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where there is no law, and that where there is no law there is no judgment, and where there is no judgment there is no condemnation. That means that the law of the Gospel must be taught unto all men; they are to have opportunity to exercise their judgment and their agency in accepting or rejecting it, and inasmuch as many of our Father's children — many millions of them — have lived upon this earth and passed on without a knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and its saving power, the Gospel must be taught to them in the spirit world. 

That is not a new doctrine, for Christ himself, as the scriptures teach us, while his body lay in the tomb went and preached to the spirits in prison, and so we believe that the faithful men and women of this Church, when they go beyond, will be engaged in that kind of work. There is no nobler work in which men or women can be employed than that of helping the unfortunate, those who are in spiritual darkness, to find the way to life eternal and encouraging them to walk therein. 

On the other side this work of preaching is going on too, but there are saving ordinances of the Gospel that all mankind must receive if they will be saved, and they are administered here upon the earth by those having authority. Most of the higher ordinances are administered only^ in the Temples of our God. To find out these our kindred ancestors by genealogical research, and to go into the Temples of the Lord and receive for them vicariously those saving ordinances is another responsibility that rests upon us as a people, than which there is no greater, and the blessings that we receive will be according to our faithfulness in the discharging of this responsibility. 

This is true religion and undefiled before the Lord. 

I do not know that comparisons would help any. I have been letting this thought run through my mind : Where in all this wide world can we find a people, a working people in their religion, in their church organizations, as we have it in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 

Saints? Where can we find a people who are making the sacrifices that this people are doing, who are doing the good that this people are doing? 

OUR RELIGION A POSITIVE ONE 

Mormonism, I think we were told by Bishop Cannon this morning, is a positive religion, and I say that which is in opposition to it is negative. If it were possible that the Latter-day Saints could be mistaken in their attitude that this religion of ours is a positive religion, that there are things that must be done and accomplished in order to attain salvation, principles to be accepted and ordinances to be received, service to be rendered such as the Latter-day Saints are rendering, I say if it were possible that we could be mistaken in this thing — for we will all know at some future time with regard to salvation and its requirements, when every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, if not before — we would be as well off as those who take the negative attitude toward religion. But if it proves that we are right — as I am sure it will — in our claims of the things necessary in order to obtain salvation, how much better off we will be than those who have been on the negative side. So we are on the safe side, and I thank God that I have the assurance that we are on the safe side so far as understanding what salvation is and how it may be attained. 

I think so far as the practice of these things is concerned we are setting a worthy example to the world of mankind. I have no fear so far as that is concerned that that is the order of things. If only we could fulfil the law in an acceptable way as our Father's children, all will be well with us, there will be no disappointment, and that is the thing that we are here upon this earth to do, to make preparation for the life which is to come, which is eternal, so that when we go beyond there will be no reproach of having done things we ought not to have done, there will be no disappointment. We will enter into the rest and the glory that are prepared for the righteous of our Father's children. 

God bless this people for their faithfulness, their devotion to the work of the Lord, and may he reward all the members of this Church fully for every sacrifice that they make in this life, and if not in this life, in the life to come, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the suggestion of President Heber J. Grant, the Choir and congregation arose and sang "High on the Mountain Top." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

The way you people look around and feel around, I am wondering if you think that I am old. (Laughter.) I am very glad that I am not so old as I feel. I am thankful nearly every minute that I am well. I am better informed about life than death. I appreciate more than I can express President Grant's kindness towards me in permitting me to 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

stand in this pulpit and declare humbly and prayerfully before God that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, that Jesus is the Christ, that God is our Father. If you take that from me, you have taken my whole life. 

I have been in the First Council of the Seventy over forty years, drifting along in the Council and receiving their instructions; and I now happen to be the senior president of the First Council. These young brethren — I call them young because they are not so old as I am — have been wonderful, they have been so kind, so considerate, and so appreciative that I want to say to you good people, you Latter-day Saints, I have been rewarded. Right along I have received my reward and pension for every kind thing that I have done. 

I love God, and I love God because he is a God of love, because he is a God of kindness, a God of forgiveness, for he has provided an opportunity that with all our weaknesses we can repent. And if you take from me the joy, the happiness, the peace and forgiveness, for heaven's sake, what have I left ? I would not give you a nickle for the whole thing. I love this work. My brethren have been wonderfully good to me, and they have been patient. God knows that, or they never would have endured it, because I have said things that I was sorry I said, but I could not take them back. (Laughter). 

I have a book — I did not write it, thank the Lord — they call it /. Golden Kimball; it has been passed around. There are in it something over fifty talks, not long talks but short ones, that I have handed over to the stenographer, and they have been printed. I am saying to you in all candor that I have read it, (it is about the only book I have read through) to find out what is said about me. 

My brother Elias, before his death three years ago, read that book and he said : "Golden, there are things in that book that God must have given to you." That is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, in conclusion, that the Lord in his kindness and love has given me inspiration at times. I have been moved upon to prophesy, and my prophecies have come true. I am testifying to you that I have administered to a great many sick people; within a short time I have administered to three, four or five. 

A young married man who is not a Mormon took a fancy to me, and I went and administered to that young fellow. His stomach is punctured, he has been under the physicians' care — three, four or five physicians — in the Catholic hospital. That young man wanted me to administer to him. I blessed him. He sent for me again and I blessed him again. That young boy almost worships me; I hope he lives. 

I administered to a woman not so long ago who had a cancer. She said she was healed. Well, I have told all of them it is not I, it is God, it is God's faith. 

In conclusion: You good people learn to love God. But without faith what can you do? All of us can have faith, and without it we cannot accomplish a single thing. 

I pray the Lord to bless all you brethren, all you Authorities. My whole conclusion is God save the people, and God knows they do need salvation. 

My father, Heber C. Kimball, once was discouraged and he said: "I do not know whether any of you will be saved. If any of you are saved I will be more surprised than anybody else." 

The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TOBACCO 

Nearly a year ago the First Presidency authorized the Council of Twelve to organize a campaign throughout the Church against the use of alcoholic beverages and tobacco. This was to be a project for all Priesthood quorums, both Melchizedek and Aaronic, which should be charged with the responsibility of keeping their own members free from using alcoholic beverages and tobacco and of assisting all others to do likewise. Further, the Presidency called upon the auxiliary organizations of the Church to cooperate with the Priesthood quorums in giving help to the campaign. 

When the revised Priesthood plan went into operation last January, every quorum was advised to begin working on the liquor-tobacco project. From then until now the campaign has been in process of developing and continues so. 

Everyone recognizes that this is a work that cannot be finished in a season or a year. For it is expected to reach every home in every ward of the Church and secure a favorable response to the objective of the campaign — win our people away from the use of liquor and tobacco. 

This of course will be a campaign of education, a conversion of the intellect, a winning of the heart and securing action by the will. Of necessity time will be required to do these things. Another reason why the campaign must continue beyond the limits of a single year is that boys and girls are growing up and while at the moment they are innocent and clean, efforts must continually be made to keep them so. Hence it is believed that the campaign should go forward on all feasible fronts and utilize every available means of reaching all the members of the Church, especially those living within reach of Priesthood quorums. 

Methods of doing this work most certainly require careful consideration. The objective desired is clear and easily understood. But no two persons are exactly alike; their circumstances and environments differ and the ways of effectively reaching their hearts and wills must be determined by their individual condition and characteristics. Hence tact, resourcefulness, persistence, wisdom and good will must be factors of any and all successful methods. GENERAL CONFERENCE EFFORTS TO BE CHARACTERIZED BY LOVE 

It is highly important, of course, that workers avoid giving any offense to those with whom they labor. Love and good will must characterize our efforts. Presumably all members of the Church would like to be free from the habits of liquor and tobacco, free from any desire to use these narcotics. An eminent scientist, internationally known, once remarked to your speaker as they sat at the banquet table that he would give $10,000 if he could stop smoking. "I have tried," he said, but tobacco has got me and I know it is killing me." Undoubtedly there are many habitual users in the Church who could quit only by making the most determined efforts. Aside from these there are many dabblers, persons who partake more or less for one or more of a great many reasons. But be they habituates or dabblers, if they are Church members, is it not well to assume that they would rather be non-users than users ? Must not our campaign be based upon this assumption? 

Certainly many of the addicts are fine people, good neighbors, good citizens and worthy of the friendship of their fellow religionists. But they have a weakness that some of us, thank the Lord, do not have. (I say this humbly, not boastfully.) Hence they need help, not condemnation. But help will not be accepted by them if it is given offensively. And so I repeat, tact, good judgment and abundant love must characterize successful efforts to win our people away from the use of liquor and tobacco, and to keep them away. 

Why do I say that presumably all Church members would like to be free of liquor and tobacco desires? Because they have a feeling or a faith of the divinity of this work. Every grown-up member knows about the Word of Wisdom, a revelation from God. No reasonable person wishes to go deliberately contrary to the "will of God." Certainly he would prefer not to do so. But the cravings and the weaknesses of the flesh and the temptations of Satan are responsible for many slips that the individual in his better moments is sorry for making. Herein lies an opening, a justification, for helpful efforts of his brethren and sisters. These efforts, be it remembered, are motivated wholly by a desire to render a needed service, to give encouragement and strength to him willing to receive them. 

The objective sought and the nature of the problem indicate in a general way the method of work that should be employed. In the last analysis the individual is our concern. It is he that we wish to be free from the use of liquor and tobacco. Hence we wish to secure a favorable reaction from him. This means that we must reach him personally rather than in mass. When every individual is free and clean the mass will be free and clean. Our method of work must be based upon this fact. 

To win our people away from the use of liquor and tobacco is certainly a praiseworthy objective, but can it be reached ? Yes, in time. But we are not so optimistic as to believe the goal can be reached in a few months or a year. But we are sure that rapid progress can be made by wise, persistent, united and Church-wide efforts. Our faith is based upon the worthiness and the righteousness of our cause. The good of  souls and the happiness of human lives are the stakes for which we strive. God being our helper we shall win the fight of all those who have a living faith in the divinity of this great latter-day work. And so far as they are concerned and in respect to these narcotics Satan will be bound. 

COST OF BREAKING WORD OF WISDOM 

If our people in the stakes and wards of the Church wei e now entirely non-users of the things prescribed in the Word of Wisdom — tea, coffee, liquor and tobacco — their economic condition would be vastly more favorable than it is, just as President Grant from this pulpit has many times pointed out. Were we not astonished to see the great size of official figures recently published of the cost during 1937 to the small State of Utah of alcoholic beverages and cigarettes? Somewhat more than $11,278,000 was paid by the relatively few people in this State. This was an average of more than $20.00 per capita for every soul that lives here. (We do not know how much of the total was paid by tourists. Certainly entirely too much was paid by our people.) Let it be remembered these figures do not include amounts paid for cigars and other forms of tobacco outside of commercial cigarettes, nor for bootleg liquors, which amounts are in no wise inconsiderable. 

If to all of these amounts we add those paid for tea and coffee we will get a still clearer realization of the great impoverishment Utah is continually suffering by sending out amounts to buy these worse than needless things. For we all know none of these poisonous articles are produced by us. They constitute a continuous drain upon our economic resources. We complain of our high taxes, of the great cost of our educational system, of the heavy burden of our relief load, and of the crushing weight of our farm mortgages. But do we know that Utah pays for tea, coffee, liquor and tobacco more than half the amount she pays for all her taxes — school, city, county and state? That she pays more for these poisons than she does for our public schools, including the colleges and the University, and that they cost more than twice the amount of the relief load ? And that Utah's farm mortgages could be paid in about three years by the savings if all of us kept the Word of Wisdom? Then are we not ready to admit that President Grant was absolutely right when he declared that our people could be economically independent by observing the Word of Wisdom ? 

HEALTH AND WISDOM PROMISED 

But even so, would economic independence be our greatest gain, big as this would be? Listen. Experience teaches the practical truth of the declaration of Satan as recorded in Job, "All that a man hath will he give for his life." Is not health more to be prized than money ? The great promise the Lord has given the Saints for keeping the Word of Wisdom is stated in these words : 

And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 3 First Day 

and marrow to their bones; and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures. . . . And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. 

Health, wisdom, knowledge, freedom from the destroyer! Are not these of far greater value than money? But a beautiful thing is that when these come by reason of observing the commandments we also keep our money. 

A LIGHT UNTO THE WORLD 

But these values are not all. Still other wonderful blessings would follow observance. What could they be, do you ask? The answer is simple. In fact and very deed Zion would be as a light set upon a hill; and all the world would see its glorious gleam. Has the Church Security program set the Church upon a hill ? Yes, but the light of this program has not shone and cannot shine with the effulgent brilliance that would flow from Zion if all her people were strict observers of the Word of Wisdom. God would then fulfill his wonderful promises and the results would make the people stand out so prominently and so favorably that the sinful world would be forced to respect and admire them. By this means the Church would preach its doctrines with a speed and a success not yet dreamed of in its history. And who is there that can doubt it? 

Even bad and corrupt people admire virtue, honor, integrity and all the other qualities that lift men up on high planes of moral excellence. Suppose that all the world could see that here are a people that sincerely practice all the God-like virtues they preach. What would the wondrous result be ? Certainly the redemption of Zion would not long be delayed. 

Brethren and sisters, have we yet really come to know that there is everything to gain by keeping God's commandments? Why do we not keep them? Do not correct observation, reason and experience all teach us the value of keeping them? Why certainly, answers every member of the Church qualified to speak. 

EFFORT REQUIRED TO OVERCOME 

But in this connection let us remember that it takes a continual, determined effort to live the Gospel. Wherever the Saints are Satan is likely to be also. It is his purpose to handicap and, if possible, overcome the Saints. He and his helpers are not asleep on their jobs. They do not get weary as many of us appear to do. And so we are tempted all the time and, obviously, tempted in our most vulnerable spots, in our weakest places. We all know this. Further, we have short memories, sometimes very short, and frequently slip before we are aware that we are in danger of slipping. These are facts. I recall them to our memories not by way of excusing us for our slips and failures, but to remind us of the need of being ever on our guard. 

To live the Gospel requires positive action. Restful repose is a temptation of the Evil One. There is no excellence without labor, no reward without achievement, no blessing without fulfilling the conditions upon which the blessing is predicated. Granted, you say. Yes, and my urge is that we remember these sayings and continually apply them in our efforts to live the Gospel. 

And may I remind ourselves that it is not easy fully to observe the Word of Wisdom? Our lack of courage to stand against social customs, our vitiated and pampered appetities, our ignorance of all that the Word of Wisdom teaches and our lack of faith in the true word of the living God are one or more of the reasons why but few, if any, of us fully observe this divinely-given law of health. 

BOOK BY BROTHER AND SISTER WIDTSOE 

May I say this document contains "thou shalt" as well as "thou shalt not." Have many of us overlooked this important fact? To bring these things vividly to our attention was one reason why Brother and Sister Widtsoe wrote the valuable little book entitled, "The Word of Wisdom — A Modern Interpretation." To become acquainted with the "shalts" I urge a careful study of the second half of this book. There is now a general recognition of the fact by the experts on the subject that food is the chief factor in the maintenance of health. But the Lord has known this all the time. So early in the history of the Church he gave us his great law of health — the Word of Wisdom. In recent years scientific methods in the hands of able experts have confirmed in great detail the truth of the teachings of this divine law. 

Since it is our unquestioned duty to maintain our health, using the means the Lord has placed in our hands to this end, we should be greatly interested and profited by making careful study of the positive aspects of the Word of Wisdom as they are set forth in this new book by Brother and Sister Widtsoe. The negative aspects have very properly heretofore claimed most of our attention. Let us now study the positive also. If we practice the teachings of this book — the shalls as well as the shall nots — the general health of our people will be greatly improved and, as indicated above, the fame of our people will become world-wide. The values involved are therefore so great that, as reasonable, responsible beings, is not our duty as clear as transparent crystal? When we fail, due to unavoidable ignorance, we may in a sense be in the position of those who have no law and therefore may not be judged by the law. But in this day and time no normal adult person need be without at least a fair knowledge of the fundamental facts of nutrition and of what to eat and what not to eat. These facts are clearly set forth in the little book of which I have spoken. These facts are also briefly indicated in the positive aspects of the Word of Wisdom, but they largely escaped our attention, at least we did not seem to appreciate their values until modern science emphasized them to us. 

And as matters now stand Latter-day Saints see clearly that Joseph Smith in the Word of Wisdom gave many facts to the world that even 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day  of science at the time knew but little or nothing about. How could he do this? Because the Lord revealed these things to him. He was in very deed a prophet of the living God. 

Brethren and sisters, let us sincerely turn unto the Lord and strive continually to live in harmony with his will in so far as we can learn what it is. In no other way can we fulfill the conditions necessary to insure his blessings upon this people and upon this land. The Lord himself has thus plainly spoken to us. 

Let us seek him for a desire and for strength to keep our ears open to hear and our hearts ready to respond to his teachings. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Elders George Albert Smith and Rufus K. Hardy have sent us a number of fine telegrams since they left. They are both in the enjoyment of splendid health and are being received with enthusiasm by the good people of the Pacific islands. They send their love and very best wishes not only to us but to all the people. 

Elder Richard R. Lyman is thoroughly enjoying his mission. He is doing a great work in Europe and sends his best wishes also. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "Worthy Is the Lamb." Elder Vernal C. Webb, President of the West Jordan Stake, offered the closing prayer 


