3
Morning
05 04 1935
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
15-19

None

None

As I listened to the inspirational address delivered by President Heber J. Grant, and the excellent music that thrilled our hearts, the thought came to me that we are not far from heaven. I am wondering whether the late President Charles W. Penrose was listening when that fine old hymn which he composed, "O Ye Mountains High," was sung this morning. I believe that the leaders of the Church who have passed on, are not far from us. A poet said: 

'Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore, 
And coming events cast their shadows before. 

MOVING TOWARD A GLORIOUS IDEAL 

The times are out of joint. The forces of evil are stirring up agencies, which if left to go unchecked, will destroy civilization and the hopes of humanity. I believe that despite all the troubles that are in the earth the world is moving toward a glorious ideal, for we believe "that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory." God is displaying "his rainbow fair against the swarthy clouds." 

The glorious second coming of Jesus Christ has been foretold since Adam went out of the Garden of Eden. This bright luminary is eternally shining in the heavens; it is sustaining world-weary hearts. By the vision of faith true followers of the Redeemer behold God watching over his own. "Behind a frowning providence He hides a smiling face." 

Colonel Lawrence of Arabian fame tells of an Arab sheik, who after hearing the western scholar recount the wonders revealed by the telescope, said: "You foreigners see millions of stars and nothing beyond. We Arabs see only a few stars — and God." Better a little learning with God than much learning without him. To be learned is good, the Book of Mormon admonishes us, if we obey the counsels of God. 

The second advent of the Savior is part of the plan of salvation by which men may become the sons of God. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established and dedicated by the power of God for the sublime mission of preaching the everlasting Gospel to prepare the world for the glorious second coming of the Son of God in judgment. 

GOD’S PURPOSES WILL BE ACCOMPLISHED 

Conditions in the world today resemble a huge seething caldron. The perplexities and distress of nations are causing men's hearts to fail them for fear. What is going to be done? Are God's purposes going to fall to the ground unfulfilled? No! I believe with all my heart that there is much work to be done in the world before the coming of the Lord. Using the marvelous discoveries of science, such as the radio and improved and faster means of travel, the Lord will grant to all his children the opportunity of hearing the Gospel for he wills that none of his children shall perish in ignorance of the plan of life and salvation. And he will give the world a season of peace and rest in order that the Gospel shall be universally proclaimed. 

The world is an armed camp. It seems to be the time when kings desire to go forth to war. Their words, as the Bible says "are as smooth as butter" but deep down in their hearts there is war. Only the grace of God can save the world from a cataclysm that threatens to destroy civilization and bring despair to humanity. God grant that the statesmen in the nations who are pleading and working for peace shall have the power of God to be with them so that by their labors distress, agitation, disrespect for law and desire for war shall fade out of the minds of men. 

IN THE PROMOTION OF PEACE 

An able editorial in our morning paper yesterday set forth that the cost of crime in its social aspects and in its disregard for law is a more tremendous problem than this depression and the high taxation under which the people are groaning. The Latter-day Saints should always be first and foremost in promoting peace not only in the hearts of their neighbors but also in their own hearts. The peace and good will we have for all men will go out of our communities and be a mighty factor in inclining warlike men to the paths of peace. 

EVENTS PRECEDING CHRIST'S SECOND ADVENT 

Two great and awful events are foreshadowed in St. Matthew, Chapter 24, and also in the 21st Chapter of St. Luke, namely the destruction of Jerusalem and the end of the world, which is the destruction of the wicked. Jesus wept over the people who perished in the flood, as he wept over Jerusalem, for he loves mercy more than judgment. The events which preceded the destruction of Jerusalem came with terrible suddenness. 

The prophecies in the chapters cited came by the will of God. The Savior said to the people of his day: "Ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?" There are many who say that the Lord delays his coming. A certain writer, in a skeptical spirit, said that the Apostle Paul was "obsessed" with the idea of the imminence of Christ's second coming, because Paul said to the Saints of his day: "Let your moderation," that is meekness and a forgiving spirit, "be known before all men: the Lord is at hand." The skeptic ridicules this prophetical declaration and derisively says that nearly two thousand years have elapsed and the Lord is not yet at hand. But this fateful prophecy was fulfilled to the very letter, for ten years later the Lord was at hand to execute judgment on the Jewish nation. The sufferings of the Jews as detailed by Josephus, an eye witness, are certainly without parallel in human history. One million Jews perished in the siege of Jerusalem; uncounted multitudes were destroyed in other cities. It was a day of the Lord to that unfortunate people. The Jewish nation was destroyed. 

A DAY OF THE LORD 

A day of the Lord is a period fixed by him to execute judgment upon the nations of the earth. There have been many such days. Such days are a foretaste of the coming great and dreadful day of the Lord. Before the destruction of Babylon, Isaiah thus prophesied to the people of that wicked city: "Howl ye: for the day of the Lord is at hand." Babylon's pride was humbled in utter desolation. It was a day of the Lord unto that corrupt city: his judgments were executed upon her. When the Savior was crucified the Western Hemisphere was visited by terrible tempests, thunder, earthquakes, whirlwinds and fire, resulting in a great and terrible destruction. This awful disaster killed many people. The survivors in one place cried: "Oh, that we had repented before this great and terrible day." It was a day of the Lord unto the Nephite people. 

I believe that the Civil War was a day of the Lord; so also was the World War and the epidemic of influenza. This worldwide depression is a day of the Lord, but no one of these days is that great and dreadful day of the Lord which is to come at the end of the world.

WAR A PENALTY FOR CRIMES 

A regiment of Northern soldiers stormed a Confederate fort. The young Federal commander fell mortally wounded outside the breast works. He was carried to a Southern hospital. His dying wish was that his sword be girded on his body and that his coffin be covered with his country's flag. He asked the fair Southern nurse to sing a verse of the Star Spangled Banner. Southern chivalry and Southern beauty gratified the requests of the Union officer. Then the dying soldier said: "War seems an awful thing. I suppose it isn't half so much a crime as it is a penalty for the crimes that bring it on." 

Why will not the people of the world engage in national and international repentance and humiliation? God is not responsible for our calamities. He has pointed out the means of escape. If we will turn our faces towards him and repent this depression will vanish like magic. Let the spirit of the Prince of Peace be firmly fixed in the councils of the nations and observed; then all talk about war will cease, and nations shall no longer learn war for their "swords shall be beaten into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks." 

WHEN THE GREAT DAY OF THE LORD COMES 

 Now brethren and sisters, the great day of the Lord is coming. It is going to be a terrible day. The wicked are going to be destroyed, and when I say the wicked I do not mean everybody outside the Mormon Church. There will be countless millions of people not of this Church spared because they are not ripe in iniquity and to them we will preach the everlasting Gospel and bring them unto Christ. When Jesus Christ comes there is going to be a glorious resurrection of the dead. The Millennium will be inaugurated and men in every land and every clime shall live in peace. 

THE MONSTER WE CREATE 

We ourselves are the creators, in a large measure, of our troubles. Once, so the old story goes, a medical student determined to build a monster out of the cemetery and dissecting rooms. He did so, and the thing assumed life. This horrible monster killed the student's bride and strangled his best friend. Is there a lesson in this for us? This disrespect for law, this encouraging the liquor traffic, this disregard for the Sabbath Day, indifference to business obligations, neglect of duty to God and country (we believe that no man can be a true Latter-day Saint unless he is a loyal citizen of the splendid republic in which we live and of which we are proud)— this monster which I fear we are building out of these grievous ills, will if not eliminated, strangle the youth of the land and destroy the flower of our manhood. May God help us all to work to sustain law and order and to protect our young men and young women. 

You fathers and mothers are not living for yourselves any longer; you are living for your children. Then express in good deeds, in the making of good laws your desire to have your children protected by every safeguard, and ere long the Millennium, whose sun is already brightening the hills of coming time, will dawn upon us and peace and joy shall be in every heart, and the Redeemer shall reign from the rivers to the ends of the earth. War shall be abolished. God hasten that day, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
