11
Afternoon
05 04 1935
Elder Rufus K. Hardy
185
49-51

None

None 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I have had the feeling today, somewhat, that I had many years ago; in fact, when I was a child I stood here in this building; then the experience of childish humility which comes from having made mistakes, overwhelmed me. 

Brother Evan Stephens had four boys who he thought could sing, and so he made a quartet. Those four boys were Heber Aldous, Horace Ensign, Zeb Jacobs and myself. He had told the other three that they should repeat the chorus, but he didn't tell me. So when the chorus was sung once I turned around and took my seat, and the other three were left standing. I felt so humiliated that that finished my aspirations in the line of vocal music. 

I am grateful and indeed happy for the privilege of being here and partaking of the spirit of this conference and the splendid influence which is here with us. I know that some of you have traveled many miles and made sacrifice to reach this place, and there keeps coming into my mind the thought of the old Jewish pilgrims who anciently went to their synagogues, a people who were beset with privations, misfortune, torment, all manner of humiliation, and as they went to their temples, they tried to divest themselves of those thoughts which tended to take their minds from the worship which they intended to perform. It is claimed that on the soles of their sandals, the soles of their shoes, these old Jews wrote the name of their enemy and in walking to their synagogue left the name and also the memory of that which had perplexed them, in the dust, and so sat and worshiped with a clean heart and a free, untrammeled mind. 

We may do the same here. We may leave behind us those little besetting, annoying things that would take our minds from the important issues of this blessed conference and this great gathering, that we may do that which we have set out to do, worship God and his Son Jesus Christ; that we may worship that Christ who came from glory, came from the realms above, from the celestial courts, to be born here on earth in a manger amid humble, meek and lowly circumstances; that Christ who went forth and in his power and in his majesty healed the sick, protected the weak, befriended the helpless; that Christ who with just a word accomplished what no physician has yet accomplished. 

You recall the leper who came to him and said "If thou wilt thou canst make me clean." Christ said: "I will; be thou clean." Instantly the leper was healed, and went his way rejoicing. Thousands of institutions have been established in the world for the purpose of taking care of incurables; but one word from Christ, and there were no incurables— the Christ who left his message in word of mouth and in action; the Christ who, on that hill, the mount, has declared that unto us which shall ever live and ever ring in our ears, his Sermon on the Mount; the Christ who took the ordinary things of life, and around them wove truth, such wonderful, glorious truths that today they live. 

You think of the foxes and you think of Christ. You think even of the bird, a little gray sparrow, and you think of Christ. There comes to your mind this statement: "Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing?" Then, too, the lilies of the field, when we see them as we may be carelessly going our way, instinctively we think: "They toil not, neither do they spin." The Christ with whom even his enemies could find no fault, and having tried him, washed well their hands of him. Then through that great Jewish mob, there came one rushing to Pilate with a message. That message said: "Have thou nothing to do with that just man, for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him"— a message from Pilate's wife. 

And when, as he hung upon the cross, the one who ordered the nails driven into his feet and his hands, the one who gave his order to pierce his side with the sword, said: "Truly this man was the son of God." 

That is why we have come here today to worship Jesus Christ and his Father, our God. But beyond that there is just this that makes us a peculiar people: You will recall the angel's voice to the shepherds, and the encouraging words: "Fear not, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord. How even the angels of God spoke concerning this man, Jesus Christ. 

You will remember the testimony of God at his baptism, as he arose from the water, the voice from heaven: "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." The whole world believes this, and the world accepts it gladly, and yet hesitates only when we boldly go the one step farther and say that in 1820 the same voice from God the Father rang in the ears of the boy Joseph Smith, and the Father said: "This is my beloved Son. Hear Him." From the messages which he received there has arisen this great institution, this mighty work which has spread into every corner of the world. The word has gone forth that over and beyond the Christian belief m God and his Son Jesus Christ, the Mormons believe that again God has appeared and Jesus Christ has spoken. Therein lies the strength of our faith. 

Let us continuously bear this message to all the world, in humility, in meekness, and in faith, relying upon the Lord, that he may bless us, that this work may grow, and spread, and increase; that the missionary effort which is being put forth in every nook and corner of this earth shall be prospered abundantly, even as I know it is being blessed in that far-away land of New Zealand, among that splendid race of men and women, those noble people, the Maoris, who are working daily and hourly as messengers of this restored Gospel of Jesus Christ, and also their brothers and sisters from Hawaii, these splendid souls whom Brother Smith has referred to, who not only faced the dangers of the sea but also of the land, that they might be here with us to worship God the Father and Jesus Christ, the Son, and to bear testimony of the divine mission of the prophet Joseph Smith. God bless them all. 

May God bless you, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
