19
Afternoon
06 04 1935
Elder David A. Smith 
95
76-79

None

None

Soon after I entered upon my ministry as one of the Presiding Bishopric, I was requested to tear down a monument erected by the first pioneers. It did not appear to many of us, at that time, that that work being destroyed was a monument. Many of you, no doubt, remember the rock wall that surrounded part of the block east of us. I played around it as a boy and grew up under its shadows; but the full significance of it did not come to me until the task of tearing it down was assigned to me. 

As I witnessed the heavy sledge hammers break out the stones from the mortar, and saw the rock wall crumble, there came to me a picture of conditions that caused it to be erected. I saw groups of men unemployed other than the employment provided to keep them active and to help them feel they were doing their part to build a city. In this day we would call it work relief. I saw in my mind men gathering stones from the face of the earth, some burning rock for lime, others hauling sand, mixing mortar, and laying the rock and mortar into the wall. 

I pleaded with Bishop Nibley to let me move one of the buttresses, to stand it as a pillar for future generations to look upon. His answer was: "We have the temple wall, and I hope the time will never come when we tear that down. This wall has served its purpose." 

For the last two years it has been my duty to help pass upon the expenditure of government funds, and I could not help but think, while Brother Smoot was talking, of some of the accomplishments — if they can be called accomplishments — of some of the sons of those sturdy pioneers, who have been employed on relief work. 

I have made a few notes from which I shall call attention to a few things which have happened during the last year. 

In the State of Utah 26,000 families have been on relief, numbering 112,000 people, almost the population of Salt Lake City; 22 percent of the families of the State. They received $27 per family per month approximately; $10,000,000 of government money during the last twelve months, and about $2,000,000 from the sales tax of the State of Utah. 

Idaho has 17,000 families on relief, numbering 62,000 individuals, 14 per cent of her population, and they have received $24 per family per month, or nearly $2,000,000 for the third quarter. I haven't the record for the year. 

Arizona had 26,000 families on relief, numbering approximately 103,000 individuals, 24 per cent of the population, and they have received $20 per month per family, nearly $8,000,000 a year. 

The State of Utah furnished 8 percent; the State of Idaho 1/10 of 1 per cent; the State of Arizona 13.7 per cent. 

The counties in the State of Utah, 7 percent; the counties of Idaho 7 percent, and the counties of Arizona nothing. 

Besides this we have had surplus commodities which were distributed, beef, pork, butter, lard, rice, beans, cereals, cotton in all forms, ready for clothing, for ticking; and mattresses have been made and distributed to the poor. 

One hundred twenty-six thousand of our cattle in the State of Utah have been slaughtered, and approximately 35,000 of them were destroyed as being unfit for food. The balance were canned and distributed for food as fresh meat. 

A week ago I asked one of the engineers inspecting the work we have been doing on this work relief what the actual value of the work accomplished was. I suggested it would possibly reach about 40 percent. His answer was: "I think 25 percent, and certainly not more than 30 percent, is a fair actual value." 

Then I looked back upon that wall which years ago I helped tear down. That wall, when built, had in it the souls of men who were living, not for today but tomorrow, and for generations yet to come. And when I have seen, during the past year, requests come in for two thousand, three thousand, four thousand dollars to pay men to go out on the ditch banks and clean weeds that our pride should naturally suggest we do without being employed to do it; and requests for funds to pay men to tear down trees that our fathers had planted and nourished, I have wondered sometimes if there are not some among us who have forgotten the spirit of our fathers, for I find few places where trees have, as yet, replaced those that have been torn down. 

When I think of these things, I recall the statement made in the Book of Mormon, recorded in Ether, 9th chapter, 26th verse: 

And the people had spread again over all the face of the land, and there began again to be an exceeding great wickedness upon the face of the land. . . . And there came prophets in the land again, crying repentance unto them — that they must prepare the way of the Lord, or there should come a curse upon the face of the land; yea, even there should be a great famine, in which they should be destroyed if they did not repent. 

But the people believed not the words of the prophets, but they cast them out; . . . 

Now, when the people saw that they must perish, they began to repent of their iniquities, and cry unto the Lord. 

And it came to pass that when they had humbled themselves sufficiently before the Lord he did send rain upon the face of the earth; and the people began to revive again, and there began to be fruit in the north countries, and in all the countries round about. And the Lord did show forth his power unto them in preserving them from famine. 

As I stand here and look through the windows of this building, I see a monument. We know it as the seagull monument. Oh, how many times have I heard my father tell that story. I would like to repeat it, but time will not permit. He was a part of it as a boy in his tenth year, and I have never known him to speak of it without wiping the tears from his eyes as he mentioned that great miracle which prepared the way for increased faith and renewed determination. 

When I think of the troubles, the hardships, the trials endured by those who made it possible for us to live in this land, I wonder if we, their children and grandchildren, are growing up to believe, as they believed, that God will hear and answer prayers; that he will grant unto us every choice blessing; that to receive these blessings it is absolutely necessary that we live close to him and are obedient to his commandments, for his blessings will not come to those who turn from him and make light of his work. 

Encouragement comes to me in the fact that I can visit with you, my brethren, who have learned that the factor of safety in this Church is activity in the Church. The man upon whom the priesthood has been conferred who fails to magnify his priesthood is in danger of losing it and its blessings. He has not learned to know, or forgets, the spirit that comes with active work under the influence of the Spirit of God and he drifts under evil influences; and because we permit him to drift, and to fall away, and make light of the power which has been promised to him, and which perhaps he has exercised, we must pay also for neglecting our responsibility. 

 To me it seems at times that we are deprived of blessings which rightfully belong to us, because we have failed in our duty to keep constantly in touch with those of our brethren upon whom the priesthood has been conferred, and who, because of evil influences, are being drawn away.  

During this depression we made a survey and found that those who have been tithepayers were not suffering as those who were not tithepayers were not suffering as those who were not tithepayers. A survey of three stakes, with a total of twenty-one wards, showed 332 men over the age of 65 — and the average age was 75 plus. But we found of that number only 26 were dependent. The balance were independent; as compared with the insurance table, from which we learn that of 100 men who start life at the age of 25, 1 is very wealthy, 4 are independent, 3 are spending all they have, 36 have died, 54 are dependent at the age of 65. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that the greatest insurance that can come to man or woman in this earth is that assurance which God gives, the promise that to those who are faithful and keep his commandments shall come eternal life and happiness. 

God help us to understand his purposes. May we look back upon the work of our ancestors and remember that the actuating influence was faith. May we recall the blessings that came to them, and which have been passed on to us. Let us develop in our own soul a spirit of pride, that it may not be said of us that we must turn to charity, forgetting God and his promises. May we keep the commandments of God and magnify his work and humble ourselves before the Lord. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that he will look upon us in mercy, help us to understand his purposes fully and to labor in faith and diligence to accomplish them, that we may enjoy the blessings he has promised, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
