15
Morning
06 04 1935
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
58-64

None

None

I think the music we have heard by our Hawaiian brethren and sisters has been very beautiful. It came from the heart, and indicates how these people respond to the truth as expressed in our sacred hymns. You realize, my brethren and sisters, that these people of the Hawaiian Islands are of the blood of Israel. These islands were discovered in 1778 by Captain James Cook, who has left a remarkable description of them in his Journal which has been printed in seven volumes. Although the old British sea-captain, one of the greatest explorers of all history, was killed by the natives of the islands, he ascribes to them, nevertheless, fine qualities and noble beliefs. He writes on one occasion: 

I have never met with a behaviour so free from reserve and suspicion in my intercourse with any tribes of savages, as we experienced in the people of this island. It was very common for them to send up into the ship several articles they brought off for barter; afterward they would come in themselves, and make their bargains on the quarter-deck. 

In the early part of the nineteenth century, Christian missionaries went among the Hawaiians, and it was not long before the old pagan religions were overthrown, and the people readily embraced Christianity. Their ancient folk-lore and traditions suggest deep and fundamental beliefs of the Israelites of ages ago. One tradition tells of a young chief who was taken to the land of his fathers, but one day coming back from the clouds, he warned his people to wage war no longer, but to live in peace and to cleanse their thoughts and bodies by going into the river. Then they should know if they are clean. After giving the message, the young chief floated off "to the land of departed souls." 

It does our hearts good to see you, our good brothers and sisters from far-off Hawaii, and I believe that you will do a great work among your native people in having them see the restored Gospel of our Savior. 

The Prophet Jeremiah wrote on one occasion: 

Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. 

We are all agreed, from what we have heard in the conference, that what we need today are simpler manners and purer ways of living. The only salvation for this nation is the putting away of idolatry, and the bringing about of the revival of faith in the true and living God. 

It is written in the 19th Chapter of I Kings: 

And, behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the Lord; but the Lord was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake: 

And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice. 

We are losing, in the world, the still small voice that every child of God is naturally blessed with. Today in the world's chaotic condition we are confronted with many problems, the greatest of which is how to teach the youth. The crying need of the hour is that youth be taught that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good. Life is nothing without the supreme faith in goodness and truth, inspired with a faith in Almighty God. 

The three institutions of civilization that are responsible for the education of the youth are the home, the school and the Church. The home must always be the main source of education for the youth. Count Tolstoi, the Russian writer, once wrote, "Where love is, God is also." In every home, love must abound, and the obtaining of the Spirit of God must be the first aim of parents and children. We sneer at times gone by. We speak unkindly of the good old Puritans and Quakers who came to America centuries ago to find religious freedom. There may have been much iron in the Puritan temper, but their homes had a foundation, and the virile virtues were in those homes. As for the schools, colleges, and universities of our land, I sometimes think that too much attention is given to facts and formulas at the expense of the greater fundamentals of truth. It was Henry Van Dyke who once said that we often learn facts, but miss the truth. After all, the fundamental of all knowledge is expressed in the Book of Moses, of the Pearl of Great Price. The prophet of old is led to say: 

And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words. 

For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. 

The Prophet Jeremiah must have referred to some very fundamental truths of life when he wrote: "Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths." He may have been speaking to the youth of his day and calling their attention to the moral and spiritual values that are to be first sought after in life. One thing is certain, he would emphasize the teachings of the divine leader Moses as found in the immortal Ten Commandments, which truths are as important today as they have ever been in human history. Think of the divine injunction: "Thou shalt have no other Gods before me." Are we as teachers substituting for the Father of us all, and his Only Begotten Son, teachings that are not leading us to God? I ask this question in all candor. Is the world coming to worship the god of ambition, the god of war, the god of gold? Children and youth today, as they have always been, are precious in the sight of God. Can they be led to anything of richer spiritual value than the proper observance of the Sabbath day, to keep it holy and sacred? The laws of ancient Israel taught that it is wrong to steal, wrong to bear false witness against our neighbor. Are not these truths the deep and underlying principles of living? They are. The youth of today needs them as much as any other time in all history. Such truths lie at the root of all good government — both religiously and politically. 

Then there are the ethical teachings of Jesus Christ our Lord, as embodied in the Sermon on the Mount. The sayings of the Master rise to the greatest heights of all teachings: 

And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain; and when he was set, his disciples came unto him: 

And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying, 

Blessed are the poor in spirit: for their's is the kingdom of heaven. 

Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. 

Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. 

Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled. 

Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. 

Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. 

Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. 

Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for their's is the kingdom of heaven. 

Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. 

Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. 

The greatest sermon ever given is the Sermon on the Mount, and among the many things Jesus tells us is that we are to be pure in heart, then shall we see God; and not only see God, but we shall live and understand life in its beauty and in its true meaning. 

What the world needs is the purifying thought that we lay deeper foundations for learning than we have ever done before. I remember at Harvard College in one of the classes in philosophy the old philosopher, William James, said one morning: 

Neither laurels nor monuments, neither battleships nor public libraries, nor great newspapers nor universities can save us from degeneration if the inner mystery be lost. 

Are we losing the inner mystery, the inner mystery that tells the boy and girl that there are things belonging to the creations of God that they can only understand by faith in him? Paul gave us this admonition in his words when he said to the Philippians: 

Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely . . . think on these things. 

In that lovely story of Tom Brown's school days, which possibly you have read, you remember what old Squire Brown said when his son went up to college at Rugby: 

I do not care a straw for Greek particles, or the diagamma. If he will only turn out a brave, helpful, truth-telling Englishman, and a Christian, that's all I want. 

On the old library at Columbia University are these words chiselled above the main entrance: "Maintained and cherished from generation to generation for the advancement of the public good, and the glory of Almighty God." 

These words reminded me that years ago there were in the University of Utah and in the Brigham Young University some great educators, just as there are noble educators today in the same institutions, and the same may be said of the Agricultural College at Logan. I come to this question of teaching because we have had great men in this state as educators who understood the youth, and who taught that knowledge should be conducive to a knowledge of God and an understanding of greater faith in him and in life. John R. Park, who was, in a sense, the father of the University of Utah and Karl G. Maeser of the Brigham Young University directed the lives of the youth for years, and no greater teachers ever lived. It was Dr. Maeser who once said: "You can teach the multiplication table with the Spirit of God." There was William M. Stewart who understood the little child, and knew above all things his nature, and the beauty of his character and soul. There was George H. Brimhall, an ideal teacher. I could name many other men who knew the dreams of youth and who understood them. 

There have been great educators in all America. I think no greater educator ever lived than William James of Harvard, who used to say to us that after all knowledge is but opening up the great mystery of life, that we may know that something still greater lies beyond. 

There is a story told that a small company of boys had infringed the rules of the University when Dr. John R. Park was president. Realizing their misdemeanor they went to the office of the president and told him all about it. The face of the old gentleman and the scholar filled with an expression of deep pleasure at their honesty. The smile went from his mouth and his eyes filled with tears as he thanked the boys for their courtesy in coming to him. So all great teachers— and we are all teachers — every brother and sister in this congregation is a teacher — direct their students first to religious and moral principles, secondly to gentlemanly conduct, and the intellectual ability. The chief end of all teaching is to make the youth love the truth for truth's sake, and the principle of right because it is right. 

"We the truthful," was a noble saying of the Greek aristocracy, which remains to this day. As teachers we must go forth to teach. The Priesthood of God is a great band of teachers. You missionaries are teachers. We must bring the students to the ideal that there is such a thing as moral health "as beautiful and desirable as health of body; and that a sign of it is perfect truthfulness, sincerity, kindness, helpfulness, self-control, courage, and the fulfilment of duty." Then life's meaning will be clear and their days will be spent in joy and in peace. 

The good old days remain with us, for what was right once always remains right; what was the truth once always remains truth. We learn about Abraham Lincoln, of the battles that were fought during the Civil War, the things that were done in a political and social way; but let us direct our boys and girls in our history courses — in all of our work — to the great fundamental ideal of life and the men who exemplify it in our time. 

Abraham Lincoln issued a Thanksgiving Day proclamation, and in this he stressed his sublime faith in God. I read a part of this proclamation: 

Proclamation of a National Fast-Day, August 12, 1861 ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

. . . Whereas it is fit and becoming in all people at all times, to acknowledge and revere the supreme government of God; to bow in humble submission to his chastisements, to confess and deplore their sins and transgressions, in the full conviction that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; and to pray with all fervency and contrition for the pardon of their past offenses, and for a blessing upon their present and prospective action: 

And whereas when our own beloved country, once, by the blessing of God, united, prosperous, and happy, is now afflicted with faction and civil war, it is peculiarly fit for us to recognize the hand of God in this terrible visitation, and in sorrowful remembrance of our own faults and crimes as a nation and as individuals, to humble ourselves before him and to pray for his mercy — to pray that we be spared further punishment, though most justly deserved; that our arms may be blessed and made effectual for the reestablishment of law, order, and peace throughout the wide extent of our country; and that the inestimable boon of civil and religious liberty, earned under his guidance and blessing by the labors and blessings of our fathers may be restored in all its original excellence, 

I do earnestly recommend to all people, and especially to all ministers and teachers of religion, and all heads of families, to observe and keep that day . . . in all humility and with all religious solemnity, to the end that the united prayer of the nation may ascend to the Throne of Grace, and bring down plentiful blessings upon our country. 

Signed: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. 

America needs today a youth that is disciplined, who has self-respect and powers for productive service. The world needs a youth possessed of the highest standards of intellectual morality. We need teachers who are learned, and in whom there is a balance of faculties and a deep sympathy: men and women full of power and warm and true of heart, men of deep devotion and self-forgetfulness. Jesus emphasized the blessed truth that the pure in heart should see God. They shall comprehend all truth. The Ten Commandments, the Sermon on the Mount, with the underlying faith in his gift of salvation, are the greatest precepts for the youth of today to learn. And now for us all, let us be comforted in the beautiful words from Leviticus: 

If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;

Then will I give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. 

And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time: and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely. 

And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: and I will rid evil beasts out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land. 

May the Lord help us to understand these lovely and divine truths. May he give us the, light and power to help the youth to see them, this glorious youth, whose problems are many and whose questions are deep. May the spirit of the love of Christ abound in our hearts for all mankind, I ask in his name. Amen.
