22
Afternoon
06 04 1935
Elder Joseph Quinney, Jr. 
181
86-88

None

None

I am grateful beyond my power to say for the privilege that I have in lifting my voice in the defense of truth in the Northwestern States Mission. 

We have sixty-one missionaries in our mission. They desire that I express to their parents and those who are supporting them, their gratitude for the sacrifices that are being made to keep them in the ministry of the Lord, this in order that they can represent the Church to the best of their ability, and unfold the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the people who are living in that land. 

They are doing well. They are responding most nobly to the responsibilities that are resting upon them. They are growing in the work. They are growing m testimony and in a knowledge of the Gospel as it; has been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. They are well, happy, and strong. It is a joy and satisfaction to labor with them, to feel of their spirit and attitude toward this great and noble work. 

Those who have preceded me in presiding over the Northwestern States Mission have done outstanding work. I refer particularly to the work that has been done by Apostle Melvin J. Ballard. The people of that land refer to him in terms of affection; as also to those who succeeded him in the presidency, Bishop Iverson, President B. S. Young and my immediate predecessor, William R. Sloan. These men are beloved by the people of that country and they have done a noble and outstanding service for the Church. 

I am happy to say that the people of the Northwest, as a rule, are generous in their feelings, and respond to the Gospel message when it is presented to them. As a result, many are coming into the Church. The newspapers also are generous. They solicit news items from day to day and give space in their papers that does credit to our Church. I am grateful to report these items for I feel that God's work is increasing and growing stronger and stronger; also that the testimony of these young men and women is being felt and understood by many people who are receptive to the truth. 

One of the happiest and most important things of life is to tell and live the truth. Never have I appreciated so much the significance of this thought as I do at the present time. I believe that one of the finest things that you and I can have is a testimony concerning the divinity of this work, and living the truth brings into life this testimony. I do not mean a testimony that comes to one upon the impulse of the moment, but I mean a living and vital testimony that gives us a feeling and the assurance that God lives and that he answers prayers. I also think that the greatest thought that one can have is a thought of God. It develops within us a spiritual power that brings us in close touch with the Unseen. It provides creative character which, of course, comes from the deep fountains of spiritual life, and we find our deepest service in ministering to the spiritual sources of life. 

To me one of the finest heritages that has come to us is that quality of faith and testimony exercised by our pioneer fathers and mothers. I firmly believe had it not been for this abiding testimony, they never would have reached their destination, built their homes and established this western civilization. Many of them, as we know, were driven out into the cold, bleak wintry storms and vast wilderness with a hope and a belief and a testimony that God would protect and lead them on. They read the right, thought the right, and lived the right. They knew and felt this great work. They consciously and unconsciously reflected the very highest in spiritual life, and knew the power in the statement, "By their fruits ye shall know them." 

I wonder sometimes if we are maintaining the reputation that these pioneers established. I remember going into the great Bank of Montreal in the city of Montreal, Canada, with a check to be cashed. The usher of the bank, seeing me in the lobby, came to me. I handed him the check with the request that it be cashed. He looked at it and saw the name, "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," printed upon the face of that check. He motioned to the paying teller of the bank to come into the lobby and said to him, "Give Mr. Quinney the amount of money that this check calls for because it is all right." It carried the name of the Church and the reputation of the Church was known and felt by this gentleman. There was no question in the mind of this man as to the validity of the reputation of the Church or concerning my representation of the Church in that country. As a consequence of this fact, I was given the money I needed. 

"By their fruits ye shall know them" and the fruits of this great Church are known everywhere and are becoming better known. Prejudices of the people are lifting. We are able to approach many in this day that I am sure a few years ago we would have been unable to interest in our work. So I really feel that it is an honor to be called into the ministry and unfold to the best of my ability the saving graces of this Church. 

Our pioneers built well. There is no question in my mind as to whom they worshiped. I feel that their conception of God was definite and fixed in their souls. It is said "that poets worship beauty, scientists worship truth, every man of honor worships right. That is, the good, true, and beautiful stand above us calling out our adoration, and all the best in us springs from our worshipful response to their appeal. But the impulse to adore is never fulfilled until we gather up all life into spiritual unity and bow down in awe and joy before God. That is adoration glorified, worship crowned and consummated. And the only God man can adore with awe and joy is personal. No impersonal thing is worshipful, however great a thing may be it still lies beneath our soul. No abstract idea is worshipful, we are still greater than any idea that we can hold. Only God, thought of in personal terms but known to be greater than any terms which human life can use, is adorable. Men have believed in him because worship is man's holiest impulse." So the impulse to worship the true and the living God permitted these worthy pioneers to come into this land where they could give vent to their feelings and glorify God. As a result, and as above stated, they have left for us, it seems to me, our finest heritage, that of a testimony of the divinity and truth of this work. 

I want to leave with you my humble testimony, that I, too, know that God lives, that he answers prayers, that he used Joseph Smith as an instrumentality through which to restore the saving graces of his Gospel. I pray God to bless us with an increased and abiding testimony, with a full appreciation that we are engaged in his work, that it is fine, that it is good, that it is satisfying, and that it is true, and may we be thankful that we are privileged to bear this message of testimony from time to time to the convincing of many souls to a knowledge of God and his truth, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
