17
Morning
06 04 1935
Elder Don B. Colton 
115
68-70

None

None

While it is sometimes difficult, it is always an honor to represent one of the great missions of the Church. I carry that feeling this morning in speaking in behalf of the Eastern States Mission. You know it is one of the most populous missions in the Church and we have all kinds and classes of people living within that great mission. We see the rich and the poor and all grades — I was going to say — of humanity. It is therefore an inspiring thought that the Gospel of Jesus Christ does answer the problems of life for all classes of people. 

I have rejoiced in the words of this conference. I have rejoiced in the fine teachings and especially in the spirit of the conference, and feel as you I am sure feel that those who come with a spirit and desire to worship are greatly inspired and impressed. 

Not long ago in one of the cities of the East a well informed and well educated man attended our services. At the close of the service he said: "You need not speak to me of your religion from the standpoint of the scriptures, I have been studying it long and I am sure it agrees with the teachings of the Savior as recorded in the Bible. I believe in the principles of the Gospel as you teach them, but I want to know, and I am seeking to find a religion that will answer some of the practical problems of life. I want to know how we can meet this great inequality that exists in the economic world, where some are rich and some are poor Does the religion you teach answer that question?" 

I was glad to answer "yes." Though it may sound presumptuous, God has revealed in this day the answer to the problems of life that are so distressing in this world today. I have thought somewhat to gather accurate statistics, and have found it somewhat difficult. But one government statistician wrote me a letter not long ago and said it was a safe estimate to say that a billion and a quarter dollars are spent in this country every year for tobacco, that that is the cost to the ultimate consumer. He said it was perhaps safe to say that an equal amount is spent for liquor. He would not venture an estimate on the cost of tea and coffee, but he did say to me that if all of the cost of the things that are forbidden in our Word of Wisdom could be accurately ascertained he was sure that it would exceed more than four billion dollars a year. That is the amount estimated now by the government as necessary to place on the payrolls 3,500,000 men. 

If we could save to the people of the United States and to this Church the amount of money that is expended for the things that are forbidden by the word of God we would go a long way toward solving the question of unemployment. Moreover, we hear a good deal said of the "share the wealth" programs of the world. Do you know that that is basic in the financial policy of this Church? Our financial laws are made upon ability to pay, and if we honestly paid even our tithing we would have more than sufficient to take care of the wants of the people, and there would not be great inequality in the wealth of the world. God has revealed a just and workable plan that would distribute properly, if the laws are lived, the wealth of the world. Indeed he has asked us to consecrate even the surplus of our property unto the work of the Lord. 

When I had explained these laws together with the law of Fast offerings, this man said: "Why don't you preach that to us? Human hearts are yearning today for a message that you say is inherent in your Gospel." 

Then he said: "What of the crime, and the sin and misery in the world?" 

To that also we give an answer. It has been referred to here this morning. We believe that the basic unit of civilization is the home; that it should be commenced in the most sacred places in the world— homes of prayer, homes of love, homes of unity, homes that are united and cemented under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and the children coming into the world under influences of that kind have a much better opportunity and better start in life. 

Our parents teach their children to live honorable and upright lives, for "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men.... If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

In a home life of that kind children are started properly. Sometimes it is true they depart therefrom, but the law of averages teaches us that children brought up under the influence of a Latter-day Saint home are much more apt to walk in the paths of righteousness throughout life than otherwise. And then as soon as they are old enough they attend our auxiliary organizations, our Sunday Schools, Primaries, Seminaries, Religion Classes and Mutual Improvement Associations— all these are helps in government, to save the souls of the children of men, to bring them to a higher and deeper appreciation of the religion of our Master, Jesus Christ. Therein we have a solution and answer to the question, How shall we improve the morals and avoid the sins of the world? 

The answer is, by starting the home life properly, by giving attention to the ideals of the home, and living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, with all these other helps in government, to bring us nearer to the ideals of a perfect life.  

Again my friend said: "Why don't you teach us that?" 

I said: I wish I could. I could picture to you the life of a Latter-day Saint. I could picture to you the life of a mother in this Church, and I could give to you the hopes and ideals and ambitions that are implanted in the hearts of the boys and girls of this Church by reason of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, by pointing toward the great ideal of all — the life, and the light, and the way, even Jesus Christ."  

.And last of all we teach them faith in a living God, faith in a just and merciful Father, that this life is but a preparation for the great life that is yet to come, and that under the inspiration of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father we shall go on to perfection. 

Blind unbelief is sure to err 
And scan his works in vain; 
God is his own interpreter, 
And he will make it plain.  

Though it does sound presumptuous, in the Gospel of Jesus Cnnst ln lts philosophy, is the answer to the problems of life, and when understood will lead our people back again to the paths of prosperity peace, love, and unity and a recognition of the great eternal Fatherhood of God. In their humble way the missionaries in the Eastern States Mission are trying to take that message to the world, and in humility I add this morning my humble testimony that I know this is the work of God, and the philosophy of Jesus Christ answers well the problems of life. May he give us all that testimony and lead us ever to his praise I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
