33
Afternoon
07 04 1935
Elder John Wells 
108
123-125

None

None

Ever since the Manti choir sang the beautiful hymn, "Lord We Come Before Thee Now," this verse has been in my mind: 

Send some message from Thy Word,
 That may joy and peace afford; 
Comfort those who weep and mourn, 
Let "the time of love" return. 

I have repeated these words many times as my brethren have spoken and they have left comfort, understanding, and faith in my heart and an added appreciation for my membership in the Church and for this great latter-day work. 

I desire to call attention to an incident in the life of the Master, which is recorded in the 17th chapter of Luke. The Master was traveling towards Jerusalem. He passed through Galilee and Samaria and entered a certain village where he was met by ten lepers. A leper could not enter nor live in a village or town. Hence these unfortunate creatures accosted the Master while he was still outside the village. Misery had broken down all race prejudice, for we find the Samaritan and the Jew among these ten unfortunates. No doubt they had heard of the wonderful works of the Master. They stood afar off and cried, "Jesus, Master, have mercy on us." 

The Master, full of sympathy and love for suffering humanity, sent hope into the hearts of these ten men in these words, "Go, show yourselves to the priests," and as they went they discovered that they were healed. 

The scriptures say, "And one of them, when he saw he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face at the Master's feet, giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan." 

The Master said, "Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine?" None returned to give glory to God and thank their benefactor for a deliverance from worse than death, save this Samaritan. 

Brother George Teasdale on one occasion said, "Ingratitude is such a heinous offense that nobody ever admitted being guilty of it." I have always remembered his comment on ingratitude. On the other hand, gratitude is a state of being grateful, having a feeling of thankfulness for benefits or kindnesses received and grateful sentiments toward a benefactor. 

Great changes are taking place in our civilization. We are passing through serious situations. Unemployment and drouth have become serious problems and have affected many of our people. Some have become dissatisfied. It is not easy for a man to keep happy when his family is in need. The Church has done much to relieve the suffering and distress of its members. 

My brethren and sisters, in spite of all these trying conditions, there is reason to be thankful to our Father in heaven for the many blessings which we still enjoy. While many of the things which I shall mention have already been referred to during this conference, I think it not amiss to reiterate them in this closing session that we may cherish a deep sense of appreciation for our blessings. 

We are living in the most important age of the world's history — the dispensation of the fulness of times — a day of the restitution of all things spoken by the mouths of holy prophets since the world began. Prophets of old have looked forward to this day and have longed to see it. Is it not a privilege to live in this day when great world movements preparatory to the coming of the Son of God are in progress? 

We are living in a choice land, a land choice above all other lands, which is reserved for the people of God. As long as we keep his commandments, the Lord has said we shall prosper in this land. It is a land of freedom. Liberty and democracy still prevail. The Latter-day Saints were directed to these valleys of the mountains by living prophets of God. In vision, President Brigham Young beheld this place, and when with his natural eyes he saw the valley, he said, "This is the place." Here in these mountain valleys we have been gathered to develop the highest type of civilization the world has ever known, in preparation for the coming of the Savior. 

God has again spoken from the heavens. True knowledge of the personality of the Godhead has been revealed. A great prophet has arisen. The Prophet Joseph Smith stands at the head of this dispensation. The Gospel, the science of salvation, has been restored. It is the source of all man's spiritual and temporal guidance. The Book of Mormon, a new witness for God, which contains the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, has been translated by the gift and power of God. The priesthood, the power to legitimately act in the name of God, together with all necessary gifts, powers and blessings, has been restored. Thousands upon thousands have received this priesthood. It was an inspiring sight on Saturday evening to see more than six thousand brethren gathered in this building at the General Priesthood meeting. 

We are here to accomplish God's purposes, to become a great and mighty people, not in wealth, but in faith and power to do good. We are engaged in the most important work in the world's history! It is our privilege to assist in the establishment of God's work upon the earth.  

It is our privilege to listen to the voice of prophets, apostles and leaders of this Church and hear from them the living word of God, for they speak to us under the power and influence of the Holy Spirit. 

Have we not much for which to be thankful? Our hearts should be filled with gratitude for the privilege of living in this time, in this place, with the Gospel of Jesus Christ as our heritage, and for prophets of God to lead us, and that we are permitted to assist in bringing about the purposes of the Lord. 

No matter what our surroundings and circumstances may be, let us hold fast to our living faith. Let not our ideals be wrested from us. Let us contemplate often our blessings and hold fast to the enduring things of life, that which will bring us riches of soul — the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

May we cultivate gratitude. The spirit of gratitude always brings happiness. If we have this virtue we are more God-like. May we cultivate a thankful attitude towards God and our fellowmen. We will express our thankfulness for our blessings to our Father in heaven in daily prayer and show our love for him by keeping his commandments, in giving service in his cause, in contributing of our means for furthering his work, and in praise and song. The spirit of gratitude will grow in our hearts as we express it, and it will be germinated and grow in the hearts of those about us. Let us teach it in our homes to our children, that they may grow up with thankful hearts, that the spirit of discontent and unrest which is in the world may not affect their lives. Let us follow the advice given in our song, "Count Your Many Blessings": 

When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed, 
When you are discouraged, thinking all is lost, 
Count your many blessings, name them one by one, 
And it will surprise you, what the Lord hath done. 

May we, like the Samaritan, have grateful hearts and glorify God for our blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
