26
Morning
07 04 1935
Elder John V. Bluth 
128
104-105

None

None

I wish, my brethren and sisters, that I could express in words the joy and happiness I have had in this conference, in listening to the inspirational addresses that have, been given, and the wonderful melody, music and song, that have been rendered. I rejoice that we have means by which these things can be transmitted to such distances, that not only the thousands that are gathered in this building, but hundreds of thousands in this nation are able to hear these proceedings. 

I visualized a scene this very morning, while the program was going on. Four hundred miles north of Portland, Maine, in the depths of the Maine woods, on the headwaters of the "Rhine" of America, the majestic St. Johns River, and near the southern boundary of Quebec, at a lone Forest Ranger Station, a forest ranger was listening to this particular musical program. If that broadcast carries also the services of this conference, he is "listening in" to the instructions that are given here. He contacted our Elders same two years ago, but because of the distance and the shortage of missionaries, we have not been able to make contact again. He believes the Gospel but has not accepted it; he rejoices in the beauties of that which he gets from these broadcasts. 

I am grateful for the privilege of laboring in the Canadian Mission during the years that we have been there, for the knowledge and understanding that have come to us, for the testimony that God has given us, the testimony that has been strengthened while we have been there. Sister Bluth and I have been nearer unto the Lord than at any other period in our lives. We have taken joy in our labors, loved by the people there; and we love them, because we see alike in the things that pertain to eternal life. 

We have been advised that about June of this year we will be released from our missionary labors. We thank the brethren and praise God our Heavenly Father for the opportunity given us, for the joy that is in our hearts, for the little heaven that we have enjoyed while we have been away, for the knowledge and understanding that have come to us.  

I desire to bear my testimony to you that I know that God lives; I know that this is his work; that he is at the helm; that we need fear nothing, under those conditions, except our own failure to live up to what we have received. The keynote of this conference has been to live the Gospel, and as an undercurrent of all our preaching in the four years that we have been there, there has been the same theme. 

Brethren and sisters, if you wish to realize all the joy and power of the Gospel of salvation m your lives, live all of its teachings or it will be worthless unto you. 

May God bless us and help us to serve him, to be true unto the covenants we have made with him, to live the principles of the Gospel, and realize in our lives the glories and the beauties that are foretold in the scriptures. May we have faith, understanding and joy while we live here, and everlasting joy in the life to come, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
