29
Morning
07 04 1935
Elder James M. Kirkham 
179
107-109

None

None

I pray that the Lord will bless me while I stand before you. I am very pleased today to represent the five states from which many of your parents, grandparents, and great grandparents came — Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia, and Virginia. 

It is just one hundred years ago since Wilford Woodruff went into Memphis, Tennessee, and then up into Kentucky, preaching the Gospel. Two — three — generations have grown up since that time. We are preaching today to a new generation. Some of the parents of the boys and girls that we have in the Mission were preaching there twenty or thirty years ago. 

I would like to add my testimony in regard to the Tabernacle Choir. As your sons and daughters go to the door of many a home, entrance is given to them by the people because of their acquaintance with the broadcasts from this wonderful building. These broadcasts are doing a great work. 

I would like to emphasize to you the pleasure and the satisfaction that come to these young men and women in the mission field, and I would like to stress to you the pleasure that I know comes to the homes also of these good young men and women. If I had the time I could tell you many a testimony of the great and wonderful work that is being accomplished at this end of the mission in the way of converting, if you please, members of the family to greater activity, and some even to membership in the Church; also the blessings that are coming to these good homes which provide the means for these young people. 

I recall that only a short time ago two young men within two weeks came to me, both with a similar story, a sort of coincidence, and told me their fathers had lost their jobs and perhaps they would have to return home. 

I said: "Have faith. This is the Lord's work." 

Both of these young men, within less than thirty days, came back to me and said their parents had other jobs at increased salaries. I know that the Lord is blessing us. 

Another man, only yesterday, told me that he had paid off more debts since his son had been on a mission than he had done for years. The Lord blesses those who have faith in him and send their boys and girls into the world. I pray that he will stimulate greater action and greater faith in this missionary work. We are trying to preach the Gospel, and to preach love, for the greatest commandment is to love the Lord and our fellow men. We are also trying to preach to those good people and teach them the Gospel, that through, obedience to the Gospel they can obtain the blessings they desire, and in no other way. 

The Savior says, "If ye love me ye will keep my commandments.” And so I think this might apply here at home. The greater love we show, the nearer will we live to our Heavenly father. 

I have a testimony of the divinity of this work. I have been active in this Church for many years, but at no other time in my life have I had such great satisfaction and pleasure as I am having today, and I believe that one of the reasons for it is that I am putting more into it. If you will give the Gospel away, so to speak, to your friends and your neighbors you will be blessed. 

I shall never forget the words of President Grant; I don't know whether he remembers them. As I bade him good-bye at our last conference he said to me, "President Kirkham, go down there and put the people to work." He referred to the members of the Church. I can tell him that we have followed his advice and benefits are accruing in a number of our branches. It is really an inspiration because of the satisfaction that is coming to them. They are working, they are holding meetings with their neighbors and their friends; not only are the missionaries preaching the Gospel, but we are trying to get the members to preach the Gospel by their lives, by their actions, and by their words, so that they can face their Redeemer and their Judge, and not feel guilty because of not having done their part. 

May the Lord bless us in the missionary work, in warning the world of the coming judgments upon those who do not serve him. Oh, my brethren and sisters, pray for us in this great work, that we may do our duty well, and that we shall be successful in performing the part that we have been called upon to perform, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
