27
Morning
07 04 1935
Elder Miles L. Jones
101
105-106

None

None 

This is rather unexpected to me, to be called upon to speak to you this morning. However, I rejoice in an opportunity to raise my voice in defense of this great latter-day work. For a little over five and a half years I had the pleasure and the honor of laboring in the East Central States Mission, and I rejoiced in the wonderful growth of the work in that part of the Lord's vineyard and in the change of sentiment, through the press and through coming in contact with those with whom we had the opportunity of conversing or corresponding. It gave me a great deal of pleasure to see the change in attitude toward our people. 

When I returned from attending conference last April there was a letter awaiting me, extending an invitation to attend a convention of the Associated Council of Churches of America, at Louisville. The letter was signed by the president of the association, and also by the president of the Ministerial Association of the City of Louisville, both joining in a large convention of ministers from all parts of the United States and Canada. 

I took the opportunity of attending that convention and mingling with those good men, ministers who had gathered from all parts of the land, and I want to say that they treated me with the utmost courtesy. In our private conversations, whenever they learned that I was a Latter-day Saint and from Utah, they had questions to ask in regard to our people, and they made many complimentary remarks in regard to what they had already known and learned of the Latter-day Saints. So the teachings of the Latter-day Saints are reaching to all parts of the land today, and we count those men as our friends. I was indeed happy to have the privilege and the opportunity of meeting and conversing with them. 

This morning I was talking with President S. O. Bennion, who has charge of the Deseret News. I desired to have him send me three copies of the articles that have been published, or rather, the radio talks given by Brother Morris in regard to the restoration of the Gospel, because there are three different individuals in the East to whom I desire to send those copies, as they have asked questions along that particular line. 

Not only these three, but there are many others whose curiosity is aroused, and they desire to know more of the teachings of the Latter-day Saints. 

So, my brethren and sisters, it is your duty and my duty, wherever the opportunity presents itself, to get this message to the people of the world, because they are hungering and thirsting after truth. They have been in darkness for many, many years, but the light is just coming to them. 

I say again I rejoice in the opportunity that I have of raising my voice and assisting, in a weak way, in still furthering this cause, although I am not actively engaged in the ministry at this particular time. I am thankful to President Grant and his counselors and the members of the Council of the Twelve, for the opportunity that I have had of laboring in the ministry, and for the support that they gave me while actively engaged. I pray that the Lord will bless them with every needful blessing, that they may have the strength and the power to carry on this work and magnify their callings in a way that will be pleasing to our Heavenly Father. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, in all of your righteous undertakings here upon the earth. I rejoice in the testimony that I have of the divinity of this work, the experience that has come to me in my life, that has borne testimony to me that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Savior and the Redeemer of the world, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument, in the hands of the Almighty, in establishing his work upon the earth for the last time. It will never more be thrown down, nor will it be given to another people. You and I may fall by the wayside, but God will raise up those who will carry on this work, until finally his purposes will be consummated in all the earth. 

May his blessings rest upon all of you, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
