28
Morning
07 04 1935
Elder Gustave W. Forsberg 
191
106-107

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am very much surprised and overwhelmed at being called to speak on this occasion. It is eight months since I returned from the Swedish Mission. President Grant called for me at the last conference, which was held in October, but I was not able to attend at that time. 

I am thankful for this privilege to bear my testimony concerning the truthfulness of this work. I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, that I had the privilege and the honor of going into the mission field again, and especially for my association with the young men that it was my privilege to work with in the mission field. 

There was progress being made in Sweden when we left there eight months ago, and I am sure that the work is going forward under the direction of Brother Hugo D. E. Peterson, who is now presiding over the Swedish Mission. 

When President John A. Widtsoe visited us in Sweden in September, 1933, we were given a lot of publicity by the daily papers. They said many good things about the Latter-day Saints, and a great change in attitude was noticeable, as compared with thirty years earlier when I labored there as a missionary. 

Then again, when President Joseph F. Merrill visited us in May, 1934, the press was just as liberal in making comments on our meetings and saying good things about us. So the attitude in Sweden has changed a great deal in regard to the Mormons. 

When John H. Taylor was speaking last night in the priesthood meeting, relating some of the sacrifices that are made by those who fulfil missions, I was reminded of a lady missionary who is now in Sweden, fulfilling her third mission. When not engaged in missionary work abroad she has been doing temple work at home. We learned that she had spent upwards of $1,000.00 in gathering her genealogy, and all her money has been earned through housework. This is a testimony to me that there are people even today who are willing to make sacrifices in order to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is an example to many of us, my brethren and sisters, that should encourage us to make sacrifices in order to preach the Gospel, which has come to us and which has been such a blessing in our lives. 

I am thankful that my father listened to the testimony of the Elders who came to his home and brought this message to him. All that I am and all that I have I owe to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

The work in Sweden is progressing fairly well. We are making no phenomenal progress, but gradual and slow, and each year adds new members to the Church. The work of the auxiliary organizations has been stressed in the mission, in line with instruction from the president of the European mission, and we find that through the work of the auxiliary organizations the work of the Church as a whole is progressing and making headway. 

I am thankful for the testimony of the Gospel which I have gained through my experience in the Church, and I pray that I may ever be faithful, that we may all work willingly to advance God's purposes. I bear you my testimony that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the men who stand at the head of the Church today are servants of God. May we as workers in the Church uphold and sustain them, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
