32
Afternoon
07 04 1935
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
121-123

None

None

One of the outstanding events of recent occurrence, if not an epochal experience in history, was the radio service held a few nights ago in which the President of the Church and the Prophet of the Lord greeted members of the Church and all others who were listening in in all the world where radio connections are made. 

I am sure that no one can accuse the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints of neglecting its duty. For years the word of the Lord has gone forth from this country into all parts of the world. A solid history has been written for a hundred years. Sermons have been delivered, tracts have been distributed, books have been placed in the homes and in the hands of the people, that all men might receive a testimony of Jesus Christ. 

Now, in the present day, with the wonderful achievements of modern discoveries, we are able to reach the hearts of the children of men in nearly all parts of the world in just a few moments of time. Truly it is a marvelous age in which we live, and the Church marches on. 

The promise made by the Savior is still in effect. He said: 

My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 

I know of no authority having been given to any man to make any change in the doctrines of our Eternal Father's Son. He preached the Gospel while he ministered in the earth, he established a Church with prophets and apostles, and gave unto the world a true order of worship. Paul the apostle explains the necessity and purpose of the Church organization: 

And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; 

For the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: 

Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God. 

In my experience in life I have not been able to find that anyone has had the right to change the plan established by the Savior during his ministry, and restored in our day. 

I have often asked men and women to review the history of the Church as well as the doctrines, and see if they do not comply with the principles that our Eternal Father taught through his Son. If men and women would lay aside personal prejudices and seek for the things that the Lord has revealed they could not but be convinced of the truth! I appeal to people to listen in fairness to the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They do not belong to us — they belong to our Eternal Father and his Son, whom he sent into the world. 

As I stated before, this Church has distributed for a hundred years millions of pages of literature setting forth our views and our beliefs, without asking men to do anything except to repent, to change their lives if they are doing wrong, to investigate the Gospel as we see it, to ascertain if there is a need for prophets and apostles, and to learn if any revelation ever came from God to man to do away with the plan that he ordained. If I were a non-member looking for the Church that would give me an inheritance in the kingdom of God, I would most certainly look for one that offered me every opportunity to know the truth, to know what it means to live in the earth, and what it means to accept a plan which would take me back into the presence of God if I kept his commandments. 

I have never found anything in all history that fills these requirements as does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It gives to every man and woman who enters it the same opportunity regardless of where they live or where they come from. It is for all and no one has any right over the other. It teaches us the plan of our great Redeemer; it acquaints us with the history of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and those who have followed him. 

To men and women who may hear my voice, who are not members of the Church, again I plead with you to investigate, while you are in this life, the workings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; lay aside prejudices of every kind; get acquainted with the doctrines, and read the word of God. It has brought joy and satisfaction to thousands of souls. It will do it to you. It will bring to you a happiness that you have never known before. It will bring to you eternal life in the kingdom of our Father. 

This is my testimony to you and I bear it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
