24
Morning
07 04 1935
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 
37
96-100

None

None

We know that there is a God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them; 

And that he created man, male and female, after his own image and in his own likeness, created he them; 

And gave unto them commandments that they should love and serve him the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being whom they should worship. 

But by the transgression of these holy laws man became sensual and devilish and became fallen man— (Doc. and Cov. 20:17-20.) 

MEANING OF CIVILIZATION 

A few weeks past a distinguished author and lecturer spoke in this city, before a certain group, on the question whether or not our civilization is to endure. This is a question today troubling the wise men in the nations. Perhaps I do not know just what this term means. I know what the dictionary says; that civilization is a state of social and religious culture characterized by relative progress in the arts, science and statecraft, and also in spiritual advancement. 

There can be no true, perfect civilization where there is not faithful obedience to the commandments of God. When the dictionary says that civilization is relative progress, it may mean— I do not know— that there has been a gradual progression in matters of civilization from the beginning of time until now. If that is the meaning, then I cannot accept it as an historical truth. 

I sincerely believe, and for that reason I have read these words from the revelation given at the organization of the Church, that in the beginning God established a perfect civilization, for he gave to man his laws and called upon him to obey his commandments. But as we know and as the Lord declares in what I have read, man transgressed these divine laws, refused to hearken unto these commandments, departed from the ways of the Lord, and became sensual, devilish and fallen man. That is the condition in which this world finds itself today, and the condition in which it has found itself since the fall of man. 

Civilizations, so-called, have risen and have fallen again, and strange to say, without exception it has been at the time of their greatest culture, their greatest progress in arts, in science and statecraft, when the crumbling began. We have before us the history of Egypt, of Assyria, Babylon, Greece, Rome, and other nations of the past, the glory of which has departed, each in turn. We cannot say that their civilization was not great, as civilization is usually measured by fallen man, for these nations have left their stamp upon the modern world, and especially so is this true of the great nation of Greece, when it comes to the arts and some of the sciences, and yet the glory and the grandeur of that nation, like others, through the transgression of divine laws, have passed away. 

FUNDAMENTAL THINGS ENDURING 

Now, I would not for a moment have it understood that anything that I have in mind to say will be in conflict with anything that we have heard at this conference. I have no such intention, no such thought, nor do I believe that to be the case, for I believe that the fundamental things in our government, in the Constitution of the United States, are here to endure. Moreover, I believe that it is the business and responsibility of Latter-day Saints to uphold and sustain these sacred principles which bear the stamp of approval of God himself, and we should be loyal unto them. I am, however, going to say this, boldly— The present world civilization shall not endure, for God has said it: It is bound to pass away. May I also say I care not how soon that comes. 

THE DECREE OF THE LORD CONCERNING THE WICKED 

When I say this, do not misunderstand me. I do not say nor believe that things which are good will pass away, but because man has become sensual, devilish and fallen man, and because he will not hearken to the voice of inspiration and revelation from God, and walk in righteousness, keeping his commandments, the decree has gone forth that all man-made covenants, obligations and governments shall be changed and come to an end. Of course, I can only treat this theme briefly, but I desire to read to you a few of the words the Lord has given for our guidance in the dispensation in which we live. Let me read, beginning in the revelation where Elder Wilford W. Richards left off yesterday: 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I, the Lord, have commanded them. . . . 

Wherefore, fear and tremble O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled. 

And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure — Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: 

Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; 

And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth. 

And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people. 

I was asked, not long ago, if I could tell when the Lord would come. I answered "Yes," and I answer "Yes" now. I know when he will come. He will come tomorrow. We have his word for it. Let me read it: 

Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming. 

Now, there is a discourse sufficient on tithing. 

For after today cometh the burning— this is speaking after the manner of the Lord— for verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of Hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon. 

THE GREAT DAY OF THE LORD NIGH 

So the Lord is coming, I say, tomorrow. Then let us be prepared. Elder Orson F. Whitney used to write about the "Saturday Evening of Time." We are living in the "Saturday Evening of Time." This is the sixth day now drawing to its close. When the Lord says it is today until his coming, that, I think, is what he has in mind, for he shall come in the morning of the Sabbath, or seventh day of the earth's temporal existence, to inaugurate the millennial reign and to take his rightful place as King of kings and Lord of lords, to rule and reign upon the earth, as it is his right. 

Satan has usurped power and authority from the beginning, and men have followed him, as the Lord declares in that which I have read to you; but his day is drawing to its close, and the day, as we frequently sing, is dawning for Israel, for Zion, for the universal establishment of truth, when the earth shall be cleansed of all impurity, all wickedness, for when Christ comes that which is wicked cannot remain. 

Again I read: 

Hearken ye, for, behold, the great day of the Lord is nigh at hand. 

For the day cometh that the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven; the heavens shall shake and the earth shall tremble, and the trump of God shall sound both long and loud, and shall say to the sleeping nations: Ye saints arise and live; ye sinners stay and sleep until I shall call again. 

Wherefore gird up your loins lest ye be found among the wicked. 

Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord; 

For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, and ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying — Repent and prepare for the great day of the Lord? 

Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words— Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come? 

And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying: Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you. 

O ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not! 

How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory and honor and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an everlasting salvation, but ye would not! 

Behold, the day has come, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation is full. 

Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God. 

In that great revelation on war, (section 87) the Lord has told us that beginning with the rebellion of South Carolina great destructions would come, and they would continue to be poured out upon the earth until the time should come when the decrees of God would be fully consummated, finished, and he would make an end of all nations. I look for that to be fulfilled and Christ will come to reign; his kingdom will be established on earth as in heaven, as he has taught us to pray: "Our Father who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name: Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." I pray for that time to come. 

I plead with the Latter-day Saints to stand firm and faithful in the discharge of every duty, keeping the commandments of the Lord, honoring the priesthood, that we may stand when the Lord comes, — whether we be living or dead, it matters not, — to be partakers of this glory. Remember, when this time comes this earth is to be cleansed of its unrighteousness, and the wicked shall be as stubble and shall pass away. 

TRUE CIVILIZATION 

Just one more thought: Do you think that if we were truly civilized, which means to be governed and guided as the Lord would have us guided, by his commandments, and as he has called upon us to conduct ourselves, do you think it would be possible or necessary for the legislature of this State to meet for sixty days and more, wrangling and contending over methods how and by whom liquor should be dispensed within the State? I want to tell you there would be no need for such legislation, no need for such laws, for every man would love to obey the law of God; would keep his commandments, and we would not need to place upon the statutes measures of this kind endeavoring to control and direct us because we haven't sense enough to act wisely and justly through our agency in and of ourselves. 

May the Lord bless and guide us in truth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
