35
Afternoon
07 04 1935
Elder Nicholas G. Smith 
197
126-127

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am orthodox. I believe in Jesus Christ. I believe in Joseph Smith, and I know that I understand the Savior's life better because of that which has come to me through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I believe just as sincerely and truly in Heber J. Grant. I have known him personally for years, and I know that Joseph Smith was no greater in doing his work than President Grant is in doing his. I have been inspired by his utterances. I have marveled at his strength, at his kindness, and at the manner in which he has stood as our prophet, seer and revelator. 

I believe in being obedient to this Church and to this doctrine, for I know that as was said of old by Isaiah, "If ye be willing and obedient ye shall eat the good of the land." Therefore, I know that those who are faithful and true in the performance of their duties in this Church shall not be crushed by this depression. They shall be happy and in their families love shall abide. 

For the past sixty months I have been sending out into the world approximately $50.00 a month to my two sons as they have performed missionary labors in far-off lands — $3000.00. A tremendous sum it seems to me and far more, I think, than any man should send to his son to maintain him while performing missionary labors, but it was the custom — so much was necessary in certain missions. I have thought of the words of our Savior when he sent forth his apostles to preach without purse or scrip, and I find as I read in the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants that in our day God gave the same counsel and advice to his servants through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that we should go to the nations of the earth and preach the Gospel without purse or scrip. I am reminded that a few days ago in a missionary report meeting in the California Mission, after each of the missionaries had expressed himself and told what it had cost him to live during the past months, one of them said: "Since I have been here I have had five pairs of garments given to me by my own people. My father and mother are dead, but I love this Church and I knew that inasmuch as the Christ had said that we were to preach the Gospel without purse or scrip it could be done. I have marveled as the months have passed by that my shirts have outlasted the shirts of my companions, my suit has outlasted the suits of my companions; and during the two years that I have been serving in this mission I have not received a cent from any of my people. I have preached the Gospel without purse or scrip, President Smith, and I want to stay here as long as you want me to stay here and continue to serve because I have been blessed." 

I noted his appearance — the best dressed man we had in the room. 

Then his district president arose and said, "I want to bear testimony to what Elder Rolfe has just said. I want to tell you that I have had four suits while he has had the one which he is now wearing. I spend $25.00 a month and he has spent nothing. Now I have been notified that my money is finished, but I want to volunteer now, President Smith, to stay another six months and be permitted to serve as this loyal man has served, without purse or scrip, in this great cause." 

Brethren and sisters, where do you think these men got such ideas? They have lived in that mission under the inspiration of the man who formerly presided there, Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley. They believed what he taught them — they believed in God, and they knew that God would sustain and support them, and so they have gone forth. The missionaries now are getting along on $10 a month and less. Some are spending $25.00, but we are encouraging them to stay within $10.00. The lady missionaries naturally need more. The Lord has blessed them and been with them, and the spirit of Alonzo A. Hinckley shall never die so long as there is a California Mission. God bless that mission. I thank the brethren for honoring me and permitting me to go there. I am grateful to you for your faith and prayers. Your boys and girls are doing a wonderful work. The Lord is with them. May his spirit ever be with his Church, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
