30
Afternoon
07 04 1935
President David O. McKay
18
110-116

None

None 

As I stand before you this afternoon, my brothers and sisters, my heart is humble indeed. This great conference, itself, with all that it connotes, makes me feel so. The lofty and thrilling messages in sermon and song, the crowded sessions, the largely attended priesthood meeting last evening, the very fact that from these Tabernacle grounds this morning there radiated messages which touched the hearts of hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen— these and other outstanding features all combine to heighten in my soul the realization of the worldwide significance of the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ. I sense, therefore, more keenly than ever before the need of divine inspiration and guidance for all who carry responsibility, that each of us may discharge his duty acceptably. 

THE HOME AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN STABLE GOVERNMENT 

I was particularly pleased with President Clark's message this morning regarding the fundamentals of our government. In keeping therewith I desire to call attention to the fact that the united, well-ordered American home is one of the greatest contributing factors to the preservation of the Constitution of the United States. It has been aptly said that “Out of the homes of America will come the future citizens of America, and only as those homes are what they should be will this nation be what it should be." Of the importance of home and of dangers that threaten the sanctity of marriage, I feel impressed to say a few words this afternoon. 

MARRIAGE A DIVINE INSTITUTION 

The exalted view of marriage as held by this Church is given expressively in five words found in the 49th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. “Marriage is ordained of God." That revelation was given in 1831 when Joseph Smith was only twenty-five years of age. Considering the circumstances under which it was given, we find in it another example among hundreds of others corroborative of the fact that he was inspired of the Lord. "Watchmen of Zion, I am trusting you” was a message given in song at the opening of this session. Before me are assembled thousands of watchmen in Zion. Presiding officers in stakes, wards, quorums, and auxiliaries, it is your duty and mine to uphold the lofty conception of marriage as given in this revelation and to guard against encroaching dangers that threaten to lower the standard of the ideal home. 

INSPIRATION OF HIGH IDEALS 

It is said that the best and noblest of lives are those which are set toward high ideals. Truly no higher ideal regarding marriage can he cherished by young people than to look upon it as a divine institution. In the minds of the young such a standard is a protection to them in courtship, an ever present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the Temple to have their love consummated in an enduring and eternal union. It will lead them to seek divine guidance in the selecting of their companions, upon the wise choice of whom their life's happiness here and hereafter is largely dependent. "Our home joys," says Pestalozzi, "are the most delightful earth affords, and the joy of parents in their children is the most holy joy of humanity. It makes their hearts pure and good; it lifts them up to their Father in Heaven." Such joys are within the reach of most men and women if high ideals of marriage and home be properly fostered and cherished. 

ENCROACHING DANGERS 

And yet, if I mistake not the signs of the times, the sacredness of the marriage covenant is dangerously threatened. There are some who question whether family life is permanent as a social organization. They claim that marriage ties will be and should be but temporary, that children will be born not in families, but in the life of the state. Recently in a trip east I observed to my dismay an increasing number of "Gretna Greens," places where the marriage ceremony may be performed at any hour of the day or night without any previous arrangement. The license is issued and the ceremony performed while the couple wait; already I know of at least two couples that have been entrapped by such enticements and both cases have ended in disappointment and sorrow. In some instances these places are nothing more than opportunities for legalized immorality. Oh how far they fall below the true ideal! As far as lies within our power, we must warn young couples against secret and hasty marriages. 

It is vital also to counteract the insidious influences of printed literature that speaks of the "bankruptcy of marriage," that advocates trial marriages, and that places "extra-marital relations" on a par with "extra-marital friendships." 

I need say little about the growing evil of divorce and the resultant broken homes. You know that it is almost as easy to get a divorce as it is to get married. Today, one out of five marriages in the United States ends in divorce or annulment. One of the peace officers in Salt Lake reported recently that eighty-six per cent of the delinquent cases come from such broken homes. America seems to be drifting toward a low level as regards the law of family and home, with the result that sin and crime are increasing to an alarming extent among the youth of our fair land. 

I mention these things not in the spirit of pessimism nor as a crier of impending calamity, but with the desire to call attention to the necessity of our maintaining the high standard of marriage set forth in the revelations of the Lord. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTHOOD 

Equal in importance to the high conception of the marriage covenant is the teaching of the Church in regard to the responsibility of parenthood: 

Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. (D. & C. 69:25.) 

Parenthood and particularly motherhood should be held as a sacred obligation. There is something in the depths of the human soul which revolts against neglectful parenthood. Recently an incident occurred in one of the European countries which illustrates how the sense of humanity is injured when a mother selfishly and wilfully fails to take care of her children. When I read that capital punishment had been meted out to such a woman I thought that the state was almost barbarous, but really it was not the execution of the law that was so terrible but the woman herself who by cruel neglect of her children committed the crime against humanity. How deep-seated is this soul condemnation of one who will sacrifice a child for her own indulgence or even to save her own life is impressively set forth by Robert Browning in his dramatic idyll, descriptive of a mother who had to pay the extreme penalty for having lived to tell the story of her children's death. 

A mother bears a child: perfection is complete 
So far in such a birth. Enabled to repeat 
The miracle of life, — herself was born so just 
A type of womankind, that God sees fit to trust 
Her with the holy task of giving life in turn. 
****** 
How say you, should the hand of God trusted with life's torch 
Kindled to light the world aware of sparks that scorch, 
Let fall the same? Forsooth, her flesh a fireflake stings: 
The mother drops the child! Among what monstrous things 
Shall she be classed?
****** 
The fox-dam, hunger-pined, will slay the felon sire 
Who dares assault her whelp: the beaver, stretched on fire 
Will die without a groan; no pang avails to wrest 
Her young from where they hide — her sanctuary breast. 
What’s here then? Answer me, thou dead one, as I trow, 
Standing at God's bar, he bids thee answer now! 

It is an extreme dramatic presentation, but it illustrates that something which God has implanted deep in every human breast that parents cannot with impunity shirk the responsibility to protect childhood and youth.

There seems to be a growing tendency to shift this responsibility from the home to outside influences such as the school and the church. Important as these outward influences are, they never can take the place of the influence of the mother and the father — constant training, constant vigilance, companionship, being watchmen of our own children, are necessary in order to keep our homes intact. 

The fact cannot be too strongly emphasized that the real source of security of our nation rests in the well-ordered and properly conducted home. The character of the child is formed largely during the first 12 years of his life. It is estimated that in that period the child spends 16 times as many waking hours in the home as in school, and more than 100 times as many hours in the home as in the church. Every child is to a great degree, what he is because of the ever constant influence of home environment and the careful or neglectful training of parents. 

"Teach the child self-respect," says Luther Burbank, the great plant-wizard. "Train it in self-respect, just as you train a plant in better ways. No self-respecting man is ever a grafter. Above all, bear in mind repetition, the use of an influence over and over again, keeping everlastingly at it. This is what fixes traits in plants, the constant repetition of an influence, until at last it is irrevocably fixed and will not change. You cannot afford to get discouraged. You are dealing with something far more precious than a plant — the precious soul of a child." 

THREE THINGS TO WHICH EVERY CHILD IS ENTITLED 

There are three fundamental things to which every child is entitled. First, a respected name; second, a sense of security; third, opportunities for development. 

The family gives to the child his name and standing in the community. A child wants his family to be as good as those of his friends. He wants to be able to point with pride to his father and feel an inspiration every time he looks at his mother. It is a mother's duty so to live that her children will associate with her everything that is beautiful, sweet and pure. And fathers, even the poorest of us, from a financial standpoint, may so conduct our lives as to be able to say to our sons in the words of a poet: 

I have no wealth to leave you, and no fame. 
This must be your inheritance: my name. . . . 
(In interest of brevity not read but now added) 
I have tried to make my name synonymous 
In all mens' minds, with things the most worthwhile; 
With strength to do the right, though none might see me; 
With grit to meet disaster with a smile; 
With loyalty to those with claims upon me; 
With justice equally toward foe and friend; 
With honor, truth, integrity, square dealing — 
"My word my bond." 
Now, as I reach the end, 
Too well I know that I have failed in efforts 
Where I have wanted greatly to succeed; 
Too oft I've seen my dreams, bright in the forming, 
Prove naught but vain imaginings, indeed. 
But this I do believe: when I have traveled 
Life's twisting road, and worked out 
Life's great plan, —
When I have gone beyond life's praise or blaming — 
It will be said of me, "He was a man." 
And so, because of this, I feel no shame 
When I bequeath to you, my son, my name. 

SENSE OF SECURITY 

In regard to the sense of security, every child is entitled to food, shelter and raiment, and he should feel in his home a safe and comfortable protection from the outside world. "He needs parents who are happy in their adustment to each other, who are working hopefully toward the fulfilment of an ideal of living, who love their children with a sincere and unselfish love." Regarding economic security the report of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection says: 

Fundamental to the very existence of family is its economic status— its ability to provide an adequate income and to expend it wisely. A basic income should be within the attainment of each family to insure the minimum standard for survival and security. This is an economic problem of national scope. A nation that values its future development will take steps to see that this basic income at least is available to all its people. Only then can we demand of all families the observance of those methods of child care upon which child health and protection depend. 

In this phase of family life the Church can render excellent service. No other organization in the world is so well prepared to know the physical and economic condition of each person as is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now is an opportune time for the Church to demonstrate its efficiency not only in knowing the needs of the destitute but in supplying their needs. 

SUPPLEMENTING THE HOME 

In teaching children, it should ever be kept in mind that "Behavior is caught, not taught." Example is more potent than precept. Parents have the duty to be what they would have their children become in regard to courtesy, sincerity, temperance, and courage to do right at all times. 

While it is true that "we need not power or splendor, wide hall or lordly dome, the good, the true, the tender— these form the wealth of home,” yet the fact remains that there are certain material and cultural needs which are indispensable to successful home life. During the present crisis, to prevent the breaking up of homes, these material needs must be furnished by the group, either through the Church or the state. Here is where the complete organization of the Church should function most adequately. The material as well as the spiritual needs of every family in the Church should not only be known as I have already stated, but supplied by the bishopric of the ward either directly or indirectly. In a superior and effective manner the Church can also and does supply cultural needs such as education, social intercourse, music, etc These may be obtained by every child, every youth, every person in the Church who will avail himself or herself of the opportunities offered. I wonder if parents generally are doing all they can to see to it that their boys and girls are members of quorums and auxiliaries, organized for the express purpose of supplementing the home in the training of youth. Fifty thousand men and women are offering their services free of charge to give social and moral instruction and above all religious instruction to our toys and girls free. It is our duty to cooperate with them for the protection of our own children. 

With the divinity of our marriage covenant, and the responsibility of parenthood ever in our minds, with temple marriage as an ideal for every worthy couple in the Church, we associate with courtship and marriage the most sublime ideals that influence human relations. 

LISTS SAFEGUARDS 

That youth may experience in anticipation and realization all the joy that can be found in a congenial and heaven-blessed home life, they and we should be guided by the following safeguards: 

First, substitute the present tendency toward a low view of marriage by the high ideal which God has given it. Choose your mate not alone for physical attraction, but for congenial and spiritual companionship. 

Second, let us teach the young of both sexes in the sacredness of the ideals of marriage, so that they may realize that marriage involves obligations and is not an arrangement to be terminated at pleasure. In this regard, it is the duty of parents to set an example in the home that children may see and absorb as it were the sacredness of family and the responsibility associated therewith. 

Third, instruct young girls in the fundamental arts of housekeeping so that when the responsibilities of wifehood come, they may be free from the difficulties and perplexities which arise from ignorance and inexperience. 

Fourth, let the marriage be so solemnized, as far as possible, at the place of residence, which will minimize the evils that follow runaway marriages. For members of the Church the Temple should be the chosen place in which this sacred obligation is assumed. 

Fifth, foster the spirit of true religion from the very beginning of home life. 

Sixth, teach the young that the foundation of a happy marriage is laid before the bride and bridegroom kneel at the altar. Keep the spring of life pure and the stream will more likely flow on unpolluted. 

HOME BUILDING PARAMOUNT 

Would you have a strong and virile nation, keep your homes pure — would you reduce delinquency and crime, lessen the number of broken homes. It is time that civilized peoples realized that prevention is more profitable than punishment, and that the home is the incubator either of children of high character or of criminals. Home building, therefore, should be the paramount purpose of parents and of the nation. In "Home, The Savior of Civilization," we read: 

When one puts business or pleasure above his home, he that moment starts on the down grade to soul ruin. The loss of fortune is nothing compared with the loss of home. When the club becomes more attractive to any man than his home, it is time for him to confess in bitter shame that he has failed to measure up to the supreme opportunity of his life and has flunked in the final test of true manhood. No other success can compensate for failure in the home. This is the one thing of limitless potentialities on earth. The poorest shack of a home in which love prevails over a united family is of greater value to God and future humanity than the richest bank on earth. In such a home God can work miracles and will work miracles. The greatest miracle that King Herod ever saw was John the Baptist. The religious, home, though poor, produced John the Baptist. The most dazzling miracle of all history is Jesus of Nazareth. His education was that of a united religious home. Pure hearts in a pure home are always in whispering distance of heaven. In such a home there is always a key which one may use in opening the reservoirs of the infinite and start a Pentecost. The great, good God who made this world ordained man and woman for the home and He is seeing to it that they may search the whole world over, but will never find the sweetest joys of life anywhere but in the home. In obedience to God's law for human life, one should make it his highest ambition to build an ideal home. Make home your hobby, for, if anyone makes a loving home with all his heart, he can never miss heaven. 

MARRIAGE ORDAINED OF GOD 

Verily I say unto you that whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man. Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, and all this that the earth might answer the end of its creation. 

I repeat, "It is lawful that he should have one wife," and that harmony, unity and blessed confidence should pervade the home. I emphasize this part of the revelation so that you watchmen of the priesthood will see to it that a group of misguided men and women now hiding behind a sanctimonious claim to possess superior knowledge regarding the marriage covenant, do not betray innocent young men and women into unlawful and unholy alliances. 

God guide and inspire us to keep intact the true Latter-day Saint home, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
