13
Afternoon
07 04 1917
Elder J. C. Bentley. 
123
55-57

None

None

(Of the Juarez Stake, Mexico.) 

Brethren and Sisters: The few moments that I shall occupy this afternoon, I earnestly pray that I may be inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, that I may say something that will be instructive and may perhaps be an incentive to our devotion to our heavenly Father.  
  
The testimonies of this conference, and in fact everything connected with it, the hymns that have been sung, and the sweet music that we have heard this afternoon, have had a peculiar sweetness to me, something that has been divinely sweet, and yet with it all, it has impressed me with a feeling of sweet sadness, an impression that in our history as a people we are perhaps commencing upon a new chapter. The impression to my mind is almost like we were starting out upon a journey. The end is not so certain, and yet we know that the end will bring us victory and peace and happiness. The impressive testimonies that have been borne, it seems to me should inspire us to start upon this journey with a faith in our heavenly Father that will bear us triumphantly through this journey to the end.  
  
The few Latter-day Saints, who have been located in the republic of Meixco, have had now over five years of experience in war, and I want to bear you my testimony that there is no pleasure in war. It has always been my prayer to the Lord that this people may be kept out from war, that we may not be mixed up with the war of the nations of the earth. I have always hoped for peace, and in my own country, the country of Mexico, to which I belong, I have always prayed that the Lord would bring us peace. After our exodus from the Juarez stake of Zion, the Lord inspired a few of his children — not because of their goodness nor their extreme faith — but he inspired a few to return to those colonies. What his purpose was I do not know. It was not our business to know. But I want to bear my testimony to you that the few Latter-day Saints who returned to those colonies were inspired of the Lord to return, without arms, without protection, so far as this world was concerned, absolutely helpless, and we returned, few in number, and our conditions were such that the Lord was the only source in which we could put our trust. I want to bear testimony to you, to the youth of Zion, to the young men who shall embark upon this journey which we seem to be inevitably forced upon, that I know, as I know I have an existence here this afternoon, that the Lord has preserved that handful of people. When men have come into our midst with the determination in their hearts to commit murder, to ravish families, and to destroy the homes and the property of that little handful of people, our escape has been marvelous to us, and I want to bear my testimony to the youth of Zion that God has preserved his people by his power. It has been thought foolishness, and we have been called foolish — the world, even our neighbors, our Mexican friends, have felt that we were very foolish indeed, and yet, my brethren and sisters, the Lord has preserved his people.  
  
I want to bear my testimony to the youth of Zion today that we are living in perilous times, so far as the things of this world are concerned, those things that will detract us from the service of the Lord. We must come to the parting of the ways. If we expect to maintain ourselves during the coming period of our existence, we must have faith in God; we must put our trust in him; and we cannot do it unless we live conscientiously the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Men and women and families who do not pray to the Lord, who do not keep the Word of Wisdom and observe the Sabbath day, cannot have faith in God, the eternal Father. It requires the observance of these things in order to have faith in the Lord.  
  
I want to bear testimony to the good work that has been done by the American army coming into that country. It has been thought by some to have been a failure, and many have branded it as a failure and a mistake, that the American army was ever sent into our country; but through the splendid course of the men who stood at the head of that army, they have won the hearts of the Mexican people. Instead of destroying life and property, instead of trampling down the rights of the Mexican people, a spirit of kindness, a spirit of humanity was extended, and today the Mexican people feel much more friendly to the people of the United States; that is, the peaceable Mexicans, feel far better today, than they ever have felt before. I don't know what shall be the result of this contention, it may be that our boys, the boys of this country, the young men of this Church, may have to go into Mexico. I don't know what the result will be, but if they can go with the spirit of this conference, if they can go with the instructions that have been given to us by those who have spoken here during this conference, I know that victory will be with the people of God, if we can maintain the spirit and the teachings of this conference. I hope the time will come, if we shall ever go into the army of the United States, that we can plant there the seeds of the everlasting gospel, and that we can establish the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and a reputation for honesty, for clean lives, for virtue, and peace, and for the kingdom of God, that will bring honor and credit to the Latter-day Saints.  
  
My brethren and sisters, the few people who are still remaining in Mexico have enjoyed a period of peace. After the coming out of the American army there was considerable concern as to what would be our condition when the forces of General Villa should reach us. It was well understood that they were only waiting to occupy the territory that was vacated by the American army, and there were rumors that they had been instructed to kill all foreigners, all Americans especially, and to come to the colonies as soon as the army should retire. They came and visited us, and we are grateful to say that they left us feeling better than they did when they came. They were awful hungry when they came, and when they went away they were somewhat filled up, because we had given them a part of our substance. When they reached our colony General Salazar was somewhat ugly and gave us to understand that they did not want any "Pacificos" in Mexico, they only wanted fighting men, and we could either fight or leave the country. But after a short conference with them and explaining the purpose of our being there and our mission among them, they felt better, and General Salazar gave me his word that so far as he was concerned our people were welcome to remain in Mexico. We have continued, up to the present time, to maintain in friendly relation with that people, simply by carrying out, as near as we could, the instructions that had been given to us, and as they have been given to us here during this conference.  
  
May the blessings of the Lord rest upon us and help us as a people to magnify our calling wherever we shall go, carrying with us the spirit of the everlasting gospel; that we may be worshipers of the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity, and carry into the army, or wherever we shall go, the teachings of the gospel of our Lord and Savior, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
