22
Overflow
08 04 1917
Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 
79
85-88

None

None

(President of the California Mission.) 

With you, my brethren and sisters, I have rejoiced in the testimonies borne by our brethren this day, and I know that your souls have been uplifted by the praise and melody of song, that your hearts have been centered upon the things of the eternal world. One of our brethren, President Austin, remarked that never on the earth in our history has there been so much concern manifest relative to the future. We all appreciate the fact that we are confronted with a crisis, yet the feeling of equanimity manifested among our people is most admirable and praiseworthy. From whence does it come? From the conviction that we are the very children of God, that we have not descended from any anthropoidal ancestors — ourang outang, chimpanzee or any kind of monkey, but our spirits were born of eternal parents before the world was, and by adoption we come into his family and kingdom in this age and generation. There is no thought nor care manifested upon the part of any other creature of our Father. He shapes our destiny. They follow out the impress of a superior will; their wants are provided for; they are suited to their habitat and time of living. They have their companions and their natural affection for them, but aside from this there is nothing in them, or within them, that is devout, that looks to God, that has a yearning after immortality and eternal life. Aside from man there is no comprehension of abstract truth, not even in the most intelligent of all our Father's creatures. It remains for his children alone to have the capacity and possibility of worship, the desire to worship. It remains for his children, let them be ever so humble, the barbarian of our country, the Hottentot of Africa, or the so-called heathen of all foreign lands, with the Christian, to entertain the hope of eternal life and seek after it. These impressions come not alone from the emotions nor from earthly things, but they come from above. The soul finds expression in praise and song and prayer, seeking unto the Father for life eternal, seeking to know how to live and how to do that we may reap the crown of eternal lives. The wondrous hymn so beautifully rendered by this splendid choir, betokening the resurrection of the dead, the "first dawn of the day" when Christ took up his body from the tomb and the angels bearing witness that he had risen, must give joy unto you. The learned savants of the day, who have sent their boys to the front "somewhere in France," have been giving time and attention to this fact, "Does the dead soldier live, and does he return to earth?" Sir Oliver Lodge, Crookes, Lombrozo, Stead, and many others of the rank and file of England's nobility, engaged in deadly conflict, have each in turn given their testimony to this end, that the spirit of man does not die, but is made alive for ever more; that the soldier dead live, and return again to their former friends as well as the places that they have frequented. This is the testimony of the scientists in face of the dread things that have come to them in the world's war today. I want to bear witness that the same spirit of trust, the same spirit of hope that is within the true Christian, permeates those who are here today. So it was with the Latter-day Saints when earthquake and fire destroyed the great city of the Pacific coast. There was a peace that came into the souls of the Latter-day Saints there that "passed the understanding of men." There was no hysteria; there was no fear manifest by trembling or excitement, but a confident trust in the providences of Almighty God that, living or dying, all was well with them. I saw the same spirit manifest when four thousand people were driven out of the republic of Mexico. I heard their songs on the plains of Hachita and Columbus, and in the city of El Paso:  
  
"Though deepening trials throng your way, Press on, press on, ye Saints of God,  
 
Ere long the Resurrection day Will spread its light and truth abroad."  
  
"I will go where you want me to go, dear Lord, Over mountain or plain or sea,  
 
I will say what you want me to say, dear Lord, I will be what you want me to be."  
  
Those songs were sung by our good people under strenuous and pathetic circumstances with the same spirit that actuated the Prophet Joseph when he returned to his friends and his enemies after he had set his face to the west, — hoping, perchance, to find a respite from persecution and from the trial and a haven of refuge long denied him in the east, — that spirit that enabled him to say, "I go like a lamb to the slaughter, yet am calm as a summer's morning, and my conscience is void of offense towards God and all men." Men and women who hold these sentiments have found the precious pearl of great price, and they are not upset nor filled with doubts and fears and misgivings by the things that try the hearts of the men of the world who know not the Christ nor have kept his commandments.  
  
I want to speak briefly of the lives of two men of ancient times. Solomon, the great king of the chosen people of Israel, seated upon his throne at Jerusalem, then upon the highway of the commerce of the world, between Damascus in the east and Alexandria in the west, or the Valley of the Nile; whose ships went forth to all marts of trade, who gathered the precious things, the dye-stuffs, the rugs, the spices, the silver and gold, and the precious stones of all sections of the world, who said that he had acquired more wisdom and knowledge than any of his predecessors, added, "It is all vanity, all vanity and vexation of spirit." He had wandered in his old age after false gods and strange women, and the spirit of truth, the precious "pearl of great price," had departed from him, and left him standing in his own strength alone; and shorn of his hope as was Sampson of his locks, — there was nothing worth living for, and in his bitterness he wrote that "it is all vexation of spirit." There was another prince, the greatest amongst his fellows, whose riches were greater than any others of his time, to whom God had been gracious and kind until the enmity of the adversary was aroused, and he criticized God for the care he had bestowed upon Job. And the Lord gave Job into satan's hands. He took from him all of his possessions, all the things that men prize in worldly affairs; he destroyed his brave sons and fair daughters, and he was left sitting in the ashes of a once happy home clothed upon with the most humiliating of diseases. The only comfort given him was that he might scrape his diseased flesh with a potsherd. His comforters upbraided him, that he had been unmindful of his obligations to God; and his own wife, who had been given to him to comfort and cheer, turned upon him and said, "Why do you not curse God and die?". Did Job feel like Solomon, that life was vain and evil, that it was vexation of spirit, and that "all was vanity of vanities?" No, because of him having taken hold of the plan of life and salvation, and having in his heart the testimony of Jesus, he said: "Though he slay me, yet will I trust him," * * * "for I know that my Redeemer lives, and in the latter day he shall stand upon the earth, and though, after my skin, worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, and mine eyes shall behold him for mine own self and not another, though my reins be consumed within me." Have you the faith of Job? Have you the faith of the Prophet Joseph Smith? Can you meet every condition without fear, without asking favor, with a conscience void of offense towards God and all men? If so, all is well with you, and you will come off victorious. And though we may die for our country, our flag and religion, God, out of the maelstrom of war shall bring the millennium of peace, when Christ shall rule and reign, and the dead shall be brought forth; for just as surely as Isaiah prophesied of ancient Israel, "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead," — just so truly has the Psalmist David, poet and king, declared that his soul should not be left in hell, — so surely shall the dead arise, clothed upon with immortality and eternal lives, and then shall be brought to pass the fulfilment of the scripture, "O grave, where is thy victory, O death, where is thy sting?" All swallowed up in the newness of life, and the fact that we are God's, and shall be his forever to rule and reign throughout the endless ages of eternity with Christ, our God and King. With him we shall arise and inherit kingdoms and powers, principalities and dominions. This is the ultimate condition that will be attained to by those who love the Lord and keep his commandments. No wonder that he who entertains such thoughts strikes hands with the Infinite, and does not fret over the mundane things of this earthly life.  
  
May the Lord keep us in his love, and finally place upon our heads crowns of eternal righteousness, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
