27
Outdoor
08 04 1917
Elder Lars P. Oveson. 
148
97-98

None

None

(President of the Emery Stake.) 

My beloved Brethren and Sisters and Friends: I rejoice exceedingly this morning in having the privilege of meeting with you in this open air meeting, not that I covet the place that I occupy at the present time, for I can assure you, like one of the former speakers, that I tremble in every part of my being, but I do rejoice in the testimony of the gospel of the Son of God, in having membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in being associated with the people of God.  
  
When I look upon this vast congregation, realizing that that Tabernacle is full to overflowing, that the Assembly Hall likewise is crowded, it tells me that the Church of Christ is growing, that we are increasing in numbers. When I first set foot in Salt Lake valley as a little boy, Salt Lake City was then as one of our villages is now out in the country. In the few years that have passed, it has grown to be a mighty city that is envied by people in all parts of the world. Our desert country has been made to blossom as a rose. Towns, villages, and cities have sprung up in the various parts of this intermountain region.  
  
When I look upon this picture, my brethren and sisters, and realize that it is the outgrowth of the work of the Lord, and that magnificent organization which was effected eighty-seven years ago last Friday, with only six members, the Prophet Joseph Smith an instrument in the hands of God in organizing this great and mighty work, which has grown and increased until it has become one of the great commonwealths of the world, it gives me joy to realize what the Lord is doing for his people!  
  
It is not only the people gathered here in the valleys of the mountains, from Canada to Mexico, from California on the west to Colorado on the east, but in the foreign mission fields scattered abroad in the earth. When we realize that there are more than 75,000 members of the Church scattered in the foreign mission fields of the world, and when we see the records that come to us of the work that is being accomplished in the mission fields, the faithful Saints scattered abroad in the world, it sometimes makes me wonder if we, the Church assembled here in the valleys of the mountains, could not take a lesson from the scattered Saints in the nations of the earth.  
  
I observed recently, in a bulletin sent from the Presiding Bishop's office to the various stakes of Zion, stating to some extent the work being accomplished in the mission field and the faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints, that the tithing being paid by the Saints in the mission fields sets a pattern for some of us here in the valleys of the mountains. When I realize that in one of the mission fields more than $9 per capita had been paid by the people in that condition, I could not help but realize that it set an example for the Saints in my stake of Zion, and I believe in many others.  
  
My brethren and sisters, the gospel has been revealed for the salvation of the human family. The Lord has been merciful and kind to his children, has offered unto us a plan whereby we may eventually return into his presence, may prepare ourselves to go back and enjoy that glory and exaltation which he has in store for his children. He has gathered this people from the nations of the earth, has taken us one of a city and two of a family, and we have been gathered here in this goodly land. Today, when we look at the conditions surrounding us in the European nations and in the countries of the world, we must acknowledge that we are in the most favored spot upon all the face of the earth, here in the tops of these mountains, a place of safety, of refuge, where we enjoy peace and happiness, where we can enjoy prosperity.  
  
This has all come to us, my brethren and sisters, through the blessings of the gospel. What manner of people should we be? How should we appreciate these favors that the Lord has so abundantly given us? Does it not behoove us to be faithful and true to every covenant that we have made with our Heavenly Father? to observe to the best of our ability every law and requirement that has been made of us? We must acknowledge that they have all been given not for the Lord's benefit, but for us his children, for our development, advancement, growth, that we may prepare and qualify ourselves here in this school of experience, in this mortal state, in this probation, to go back and enjoy his glory, his presence, and the happiness that will come to those who are faithful and true.  
  
I do not desire, my brethren and sisters, to take up your time any further this morning, but I have a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, and I thank God for it, and I desire to lift my voice whenever an opportunity is given to me, to bear that testimony to mankind, for I know that the Lord lives, I know that Jesus is the Christ, that he is the Redeemer of the world. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet, and that we see before us every day of our lives the fruits of his great mission and ministry upon the earth. I know that the servants of the Lord who have the control and who direct the Church at the present time are men of God, and I can testify to you of the truthfulness of the statements that were made yesterday in our meetings, that they are men of honor, of integrity, men of faith; and if we will hearken unto their counsels and admonitions from time to time, we will prosper and increase both spiritually and temporally.  
  
That the blessings of the Lord will continue to be over us, and that the spirit of peace and of love and of harmony may grow and increase in the midst of the Latter-day Saints, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
