28
Outdoor
08 04 1917
Elder Andrew Jenson.
83
98-101

None

None 

(Assistant Church Historian.) 

This is perhaps the first time in the history of the Church that a president of the Eastern States mission has presided over a general meeting at the headquarters of the Church. It brings to our remembrance the infancy of the Church and the thought that in the Eastern State? was the cradle of "Mormonism," and that we have presiding over this meeting, today, a man who in the presidency of a mission succeeds such distinguished personages as Brigham Young, Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor, Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, Samuel Brannan and a number of other prominent men, who at one time or another have presided over the Eastern States mission.  
  
We will remember that it is within the present boundaries of that mission that the so-called "Mormon" hill, the Hill Cumorah, is located, and that the Church was organized in that region of country eighty-seven years ago; it was also in these eastern lands that John the Baptist, and Peter, James and John appeared and gave to us the holy priesthood.  
  
It may be proper for me to call your attention to what the Eastern states did for the Church at an early date. When I mention the state of Vermont, you will, of course, remember that Joseph Smith the prophet and his brothers Hyrum Smith and Samuel H. Smith were born there, and so also were the late Presidents Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball. There were many natives of Vermont who became very prominent factors in this Church and helped indirectly to lay the foundation of this great commonwealth in the valleys of the mountains. Did you ever think of such men as Newel K. Whitney (one of the first bishops of the Church), Apostles Luke S. Johnson, Wm. Smith, Lyman E. Johnson, Albert Carrington, Erastus Snow, Hyrum Page (one of the eight witnesses to the Book of Mormon), and others who first saw daylight, so far as life in mortality is concerned, in the Green Mountain State?  
  
Then, when you think of the state of Massachusetts you can remember such men as Thos. B. Marsh, Willard Richards, Chas. C. Rich, Ezra T. Benson, John F. Boynton, and Franklin D. Richards, all of whom are prominently known in Church history. You can also think of the first patriarch of the Church, Joseph Smith, Sen., and Bishop Edward Partridge, who were natives of the state of Massachusetts.  
  
Next you can think of the state of Connecticut for Wilford Woodruff and Orson Hyde, and you think of New Hampshire in connection with Amasa M. Lyman and Patriarch John Smith who were born in that state.  
  
Let me next draw your attention to the state of New York, where such men as Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Jun., and Martin Harris (all witnesses to the Book of Mormon) were born. You can then call to mind Apostles Lyman Wight, John E. Page, David W. Patten (the first prominent martyr in the Church in this dispensation), Parley P. Pratt, Geo. A. Smith, Orson Pratt, Jedediah M. Grant and Daniel H. Wells, who were all born in the great Empire state.  
  
If you cross over the boundary line into Pennsylvania, you are led to think of Sidney Rigdon, Bishop Edward Hunter, and such witnesses to the Book of Mormon as David Whitmer, Christian Whitmer, Jacob Whitmer, and others who were born in that state.  
  
I desire to attract your attention to the fact, also, that from the City of New York, in 1837, went forth the first Latter-day Saint missionaries to Great Britain. Furthermore, I desire to remind you that it was in the City of New York that Parley P. Pratt first published his famous Voice of Warning, one of the first books printed in the early clays of the Church — a book that perhaps has done more good and made more converts to "Mormonism" than any other single book written in the early days of the Church. It was also in the City of New York that Parley P. Pratt, in 1837, first introduced the fulness of the gospel; and, twenty years later, in the year 1857, he left that city to go to his martyrdom in the distant state of Arkansas.  
  
We may also remember that the port of New York was the place where the first Latter-day Saints immigrants from Great Britain landed. Heber C. Kimball and the other missionaries who went to England, in 1837, commenced to preach the restored gospel in Preston, and thence went into the regions round about. They preached several years, however, before the emigration of Saints to America commenced; but when it did commence it is recorded in Church history that on the 6th day of June, 1840, forty-one souls (members of the Church) landed in the City of New York, having crossed the Atlantic Ocean in the sailing vessel Britannia, in charge of Elder John Moon. This marked the first emigration of Saints from the old world to America in an organized capacity. In that same year (1840) the ship North America brought about two hundred Saints from Great Britain. The next year (1841) eight or nine ships arrived from Europe with Saints hound for Nauvoo, 111. The emigration continuing, eight ships sailed in 1842, five in 1843, five in 1844, three in 1845, and one in 1846; all these vessels landed immigrating Saints at New York and New Orleans hailing from Great Britain. After that the immigration was temporarily suspended because of the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo to these mountains, and when it was reopened, in 1848, New Orleans was chosen as the landing place for the immigrants from Europe. This continued until 1855, when the route was changed again, and since that time nearly all our immigrants from Europe have landed in the City of New York,except a few who landed at Philadelphia and Boston; of late years a number of ships with Saints on hoard have also ended the voyage at Montreal, Canada.  
  
We should not forget that it was from New York also that the ship Brooklyn in the year 1846, set sail and on her long voyage, doubling Cape Horn, and in due course of time arrived at San Francisco, Cal. — no, there was no such place at that early day; it was the small village of Yerba Buena. Among many other things which the Brooklyn company of Saints brought with them to California was a printing press which had been used by Samuel Brannan (one of the presidents of the Eastern States mission, and one of the predecessors of Brother Monson here) for publishing a paper in New York called the New York Messenger. On this printing press, which was taken around on the ship Brooklyn to Yerba Buena (afterwards San Francisco), was printed the first real newspaper in California, the so-called California Star. From among the immigrants who made the voyage mentioned in the ship Brooklyn came also some of the first founders of Utah.  
  
I will here add that several years after the presidency of Samuel Brannan in New York, Apostle John Taylor, who presided over the Eastern States mission, published a noteworthy periodical called The Mormon in the interest of the Church. For about three years The Mormon was the distributor of light and truth in the Eastern states so far as the fulness of the gospel was concerned. Its motto was: "It is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others."  
  
I have felt impressed, my brethren and sisters, to draw your attention to these historical facts this morning, in connection with this outdoor meeting. Perhaps it is because I am more historically inclined than most people in the Church that I cannot overlook the fact that on this occasion the memories of events connected with the earliest days of the Church are brought to our very doors, and that we have the eastern country, the New England States, the states of New York and Pennsylvania, to thank for a great many things which we at the present time enjoy. In the providences of Almighty God it so happened that many prominent men, prophets and apostles and others, who have figured conspicuously in this Latter-day dispensation, were born in those states of our great and glorious republic which border on the Atlantic Ocean. It contradicts the assertion frequently made that Palestine has produced all the prophets that ever lived and that to Palestine has come all the angels that ever brought a message from heaven to the inhabitants of the earth. That assertion is not true. In the Eastern states of our own country and elsewhere the Lord has raised up prophets and apostles in our own day, and in the great state of New York God our Father and his Son Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, appeared in a glorious vision to the Prophet Joseph Smith; angels also came and visited America, just as literally as they ever visited Palestine in olden times.  
  
May God help us, my brothers and sisters, to appreciate the gospel and its accompanying gifts and blessings, as restored in our day to the earth, which gospel must ultimately be preached in all the world. Long ago our elders would have preached it in all the countries on the earth, if the inhabitants had been willing to receive their testimonies.  
  
I trust that the time is not far distant when the pure gospel of Christ, first proclaimed by divine messengers on the Hill Cumorah, in the village of Fayette and on the banks of the Susquehanna River, may be heard in every land and clime, and that all nations, kindreds, tongues and people may have an opportunity to listen to that gospel as it has been restored to the earth in these latter days. Amen. 