29
Outdoor
08 04 1917
Elder Walter P. Monson. 
94
101-104

None

None

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

I deem it a great pleasure to have this opportunity of standing before you a few minutes in this open air meeting. I rejoice in the spirit under which the remarks have been given. My heart has been thrilled by the precious truths which have been uttered.  
  
When I think of the great responsibility resting upon one who occupies this position, I tremble in my own weakness, and yet the Lord has said that he will support those who are in his service. For upward of eight years I have served in the ministry, and I know that the Lord will not desert those who will place their entire dependence upon him. I wonder if we as Latter-day Saints realize how precious the truth which we have received is. To me there is nothing so precious and true as the gospel of Jesus Christ and the testimony which seems to have been horn into my nature. Knowing full well that it has been bequeathed unto me by my noble parentage. I thank God always that my father and my mother had the courage of their convictions to turn their backs on the old world and come as pioneers to this western land and help make these valleys the pleasant abode which they now are to the Latter-day Saints.  
  
The gospel is not merely a code of ethics resulting from the fervent thought of man, neither is the organization of the Church a mere congregating together of a few who would like to proclaim those ethics to the world, but the organization of the Church was divinely inspired and men were commissioned to go forth into all the world to preach the gospel to every creature, and to baptize those who will be baptized, and to save the meek and the lowly of the earth. It is not the wise — those who are proud and puffed up in their own conceits, — that will listen to the testimony of our humble missionaries, but it is the meek and the humble and those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. They are they who are being filled. I want to enjoin upon the Latter-day Saints that you turn not away from the spirit and power of this great work, for I want to bear testimony to you that no greater blessing has ever come to this earth and been bestowed upon the heads of men and shared in blessing by the women, than the priesthood and authority of Almighty God. We sang, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet" — I believe every true Latter-day Saint is thrilled with that beautiful hymn, but I thought while we were singing the third verse, there may be some who have sung it time and time again without getting its full meaning:  
  
"We'll sing of his goodness and mercy; We'll praise him by day and by night,  
 
Rejoice in his glorious gospel, And bask in its life-giving light;  
  
Thus on to eternal perfection The honest and faithful will go;  
  
While they who reject this glad message Shall never such happiness know."  
  
The Lord revealed to the prophet Joseph Smith, as is recorded in the eighty-eighth Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that the gospel is his celestial law revealed to terrestrial beings, which, when applied to our lives uplifts us from the degradation of the world and plants us on a higher level and in closer relationship with God our eternal Father.  
  
"And bask in its life-giving light." Perhaps the author of the hymn had in mind what Paul said in the 15th chapter of his first letter to the Corinthians, "There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars: for as one star differeth from another star in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead." I would not have you believe that the gospel brings blessings only in the future life, or rather in the world to come, but that the blessings of the gospel are to be realized this very minute and this very hour, and will purify your lives, that when you shall have laid off this mortality, you will rise to greater heights than would have been possible for you had you not obeyed the truth as it has been revealed. 
  
Now to the illustration of Paul: if the gospel is the celestial law, and the celestial kingdom is likened unto the glory of the sun, let us not think only of the light which the sun diffuses, but think of the power and influence of light without which nothing can grow. We might liken the light of the sun to the intelligence of man. There is something else besides the light of the sun. There is the warmth which coaxes the tender plant from the cold earth, raises it in the teeth of gravitation, makes the earth lovely, gives greenness to the vegetation. We might liken the warmth of the sun unto love, and where there is no intelligence and love, there the law of the celestial world does not reign. Is there anything can grow, even the attributes of God in the heart of man, without love? The very glory of God is intelligence and his nature is love.  
  
The glory of the sun is the light thereof typifying the celestial glory the place where God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ dwell. The glory of the moon, which gives light by night, though not so illuminating as the sun, and possessing no warmth — typifies the terrestrial world. We are told those who inherit this glory are those who are the honorable men of the earth. You will find that terrestrial law working among the children of men today. They have a smattering of intellectual light, and are classed as specialists, who are not interested in anything that they are not familiar with. Take the purely scientific mind — it loves nothing except science. It is like the moon, cold, inducing nothing to growth. But it does give light to many a weary terrestrial traveler!  
  
The law of the telestial glory, which is typified by the glory of the stars, gives not sufficient light to cast a shadow, yet there is that star of hope held out for all of God's children, that sometime, somewhere, they will come into the love of their heavenly parent, and enjoy his munificent blessings prepared from before the foundations of the world.  
  
Looking at vegetable life, we see plants that grow in darkness. They are pale; they possess not the beauty of those that grow in open sunlight. When I was a youth, I remember being sent into the cellar late in the spring to sprout some potatoes. Every sprout was reaching out for that ray of sunlight that came through a little aperture! And yet we go through life and see God's highest creation, man, turning his back on the light, and not as the potato sprout struggling therefor. I wonder if we are magnifying our calling and are growing toward the light in a desire to be warmed by Christ's love? I wonder if we know just who we are? If we do, let us be obedient unto every commandment of the Lord our Father.  
  
I want to say one word with respect to what President Hinckley said touching the Word of Wisdom. If a call were made of this audience to know how many of you drank tea or coffee for breakfast, how many of you would be forced to hang you heads in shame! I receive letters from those whom I have been instrumental in bringing into the Church in the old world when I labored as a missionary in London, who are traveling from place to place, and who say there is tea and coffee drunk in the homes of some of the prominent people of this land. What is the use of sending your missionaries out into the world if you are not going to live the gospel here? Why neutralize all the efforts that they put forth in a desire to satisfy your appetite? You say, "It is a little thing, it does not hurt me." It hurts you and it hurts everybody who sees you do it, and I want to tell you that the judgments of Almighty God will overtake you, if you do not quit it.  
  
In New York City last year the scourge of infantile paralysis brought sorrow into many a loving home. The doctors do not know the cause of it. But I am willing to take the Lord at his word as given in the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. I have often wished that I were a germinologist, and with faith and confidence in the Lord I would start my investigation with the tea and coffee drinker, to find out if there does not lie the cause of the burning out of the tender nerve cells in the children. There were over 10,000 children stricken with this dreadful disease, in 1916, in New York City, and as many more in the State of New York outside of the city. Twenty-five per cent of those afflicted succumbed to this dreadful disease. You can scarcely go along the streets of New York for one day that you do not see some poor child with limbs shriveled, hobbling along on a crutch.  
  
The Lord has warned us, and I am willing to take his warning. He says,  
  
And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones,  
  
And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures;  
  
And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint;  
  
And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them.  
  
One instance where a family of saints were located, three children were carried out of the apartment with infantile paralysis. They thought it contagious, but praise God, not one saint was afflicted. I have faith and confidence that God will preserve the lives of the Latter-day Saints in so far as they will yield obedience unto his laws and commandments.  
  
May God bless and help us to see these things, and give us strength above all things, to overcome the weaknesses of the flesh, that we may grow more like him each day of our lives, that while we are children in the workshop of Divinity, we may learn to build clean and holy temples for the indwelling of His holy spirit.  
  
May God bless us to this end, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
