30
Second Overflow
08 04 1917
Elder S. Norman Lee. 
163
105-106

None

None

(Recently appointed President of Box Elder Stake.) 

I am greatly pleased, my brethren and sisters, to be numbered among the people of God, and I am highly gratified that the Lord, through his chosen servants, has seen fit to place this honor upon me. I feel insignificant and inadequate, but I have an abiding faith that the Lord will fit and prepare his servants, if they show a willingness to work in his service.  
  
For something more than twenty years I have been engaged in the work of the Lord in connection with this Church; and in that time, though it may seem short in comparison with the experience of some of my brethren and sisters, I have learned that one of the greatest of all requisites is that of willingness. When I answered a call to go into the world to preach the gospel, when I was a mere boy, I made a resolution with myself that I would go where the servants of the Lord wished me to go, and perform such work as they desired at my hands, and I have found that that resolution has stood me in good stead in every department in which I have been engaged. When I reached Copenhagen, and met my good friend and mission president, Christian M. Lund, of Mount Pleasant, the first question he asked me was, "Where would you rather go?" I said, "Brother Lund, I should like to go where I am most needed, and I leave that matter to you." I found later on that many of the brethren were in the habit of expressing a preference for a certain mission field, and I understood then how it was that President Lund seemed to be a little surprised that I had no preference, and that he singled me out for special attention all the time during that mission. I was sent to a place that was not very popular with missionaries, and after laboring there for six or seven months, a call came to send elders into the Baltic provinces of Russia and away into the country of Finland, and President Lund chose me for that mission. I traveled through Finland and in the country round about Pertograd during three months of the summer just twenty years ago, hunting up Saints who had wandered away from the fold or who had been left without a shepherd when the change in government in Finland took place; and in that experience, more than anything that had fallen to my lot up to that time, I learned a little of what it is to engage in the labor of love among those Saints who had been without a shepherd for a number of years, who were so delighted to see the servants of the Lord that they wept with joy. We also wept with them, my brethren and sisters, because we received thus our recompense for anything like the sacrifice that we had made. And little by little I learned that the great power in this work is the power of love. It is, a feeling that urges us onto labor for the general uplift of mankind, and when I had performed my mission in that country, and been honorably released, I made the resolution with myself, on leaving that land, that when I returned home, I would not slacken my energies, but that I would try and keep the harness on. I am very pleased to say that I kept that resolution, more or less, and that I have always been employed wherever I have been located, and have been identified with the work of the Lord. I think that that willingness to go where I was sent had a great deal to do with my having received a call to go to Liverpool, in 1899, and to assist President Charles W. Penrose in the publication of the Millennial Star. And when I went upon that mission, I renewed that covenant that I had made with the Lord and myself, that I would not choose to have my way, but that I would try to find pleasure in doing things that the servant sof the Lord wished me to do, and I have been very gratified with the experience on this second mission. I was associated one year with President Penrose, and one year with President Clawson, and I have learned many things that have stood me in good stead in my labors since that time. On my return home, or almost before I reached home, in 1911, I was asked to become a member of the high council of the Box Elder Stake of Zion, and I labored there for two or three years, and then was asked to become a counselor in the bishopric of the third ward, Brigham City. Some of my brethren looked upon that as a sort of a demotion, and asked me if I did not feel that way, and I do not know but that my beloved President, Oleen N. Stohl, thought that I might feel that way. He therefore gave me my choice as to whether I should work in the high council or accept this position in the bishopric in our ward. It is a source of satisfaction to me that I answered that if I thought I could do more for the general welfare of the community in the bishopric, that that was the place in which I should like to labor, and I went into the bishopric. As I look over those recent experiences and consider my recent appointment to the highly honorable position of president of one of the greatest stakes of Zion, I have thought that that had something to do with bringing about this appointment, that I have never had any hesitation to serve where it was thought I could serve best. I have never had occasion to regret it, and I am inclined to follow that resolution more than ever, and it is my constant prayer and desire to do something, to work in the Church, and that I may so conduct my work in the Church that my brethren who preside over me should know exactly where I stand. I do not find it necessary to consult my feelings as to whether it would be agreeable with me or not, but they could place their hand on my shoulder with assurance of knowing that I was there; and whatever requirements may be made for me, I hope that I may always feel as I do today, that I will do the will of the Lord without respect to my own convenience and feelings. May we all be blessed with that feeling, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
