35
Second Overflow
08 04 1917
Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 
1
120-123

None

None

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters: In conclusion, I desire to add my testimony to that of my brethren. My heart has rejoiced through this conference that the Latter-day Saints have the opportunity, the wonderful privilege, to be guided by the word of the Lord; for, go where you will in the world, unrest is there, uncertainty, men are wondering what is coming; their hearts are filled with anxiety, they are asking the question, "Watchman, what of the hour?" and none seems able to answer. Our watchmen have answered us in this conference, from the chief watchman to those who stand with him. They have told us of the hour. They have advised us what is coming and what shall be, and have pointed out to us our duty as members of the Church.  
  
I rejoice in the comfort, the consolation, the safety and security with which we are surrounded, with wise counselors inspired of the Lord to direct Israel in these momentous and wonderful times; and I feel that it is a time of all times in the history of this Church for Latter-day Saints to live their religion, to stand in holy places, and "watch the salvation of God," as it shall be worked out in the midst of the nations of the earth, and fear not for the future, so long as we keep the commandments of the Lord.  
  
I doubt not that God lives. His providence is over his Church and over the world, and a good time is coming. I can see behind the dark clouds present, the silver lining of a better day, the glorious consummation of those precious promises that have inspired the utterances of the prophets of God from the beginning until this day, that this is but preparation for the coming of the great Son of God to live upon the earth.  
  
I am loyal to my country. I want my young brethren and sisters to feel that the institutions founded and established in America are God-given; the constitution of the United States is a revelation from the Lord, for all the earth, and not only for America; and that the Lord has committed unto this land the mission of lifting up an ensign to the nations of the earth. And if the nations of the earth had heeded the warning, the invitation and the message, no such trouble and mistrust as we now see would have been among men. But they would not heed; those who had for ages believed that by divine right they ruled and governed would not yield to God's plan wherein he advised when this great instrument was established, the constitution of the United States, that into the hands of the people shall be given the right to the people to change the rulers and to govern themselves. And this is only a short cut to the glorious end to establish equity and justice in the earth. I cannot help but feel that there has been a wonderful providence of the Lord over America. The Book of Mormon is full of promises and predictions concerning the future of America. It is a land of liberty, and the people shall be preserved against all other peoples as long as the people of this land serve God and keep his commandments. I feel that it is also essential and important that we shall not lose sight of this latter injunction, namely, that if we are to hold our place as a nation and be ourselves preserved from disruption and disintegration, it shall be upon the basis that we, not only the Latter-day Saints but all the people of this land, observe the law of the Lord, and believe in God and keep his commandments, or chastisement shall come also to the peoples of this land. I do not fear but that even yet, notwithstanding the wickedness that now abounds, the Lord loves this nation, and that he still labors with us, and that he will bring us into our right place and position. And my heart goes out now in a feeling that the present trouble into which we are coming is only, perhaps, to call us also to repentance. I have witnessed in the British Columbia section of the Northwestern states mission, from where so many have gone to the war, scarcely a home from which a relative has not gone, or has had a willingness to turn his hand to the defense of the right. I feel that that spirit of stopping and looking and listening to the word of the Lord will come when from the American homes the feeling shall come that is entertained for loved ones that have gone to the front. I feel that it is right and proper that we should take part in this trouble, that we will be more organized and more brought back to the ideals of the establishers of this great government.  
  
Some have interpreted Nebuchadnezzar's dream so as to make it apply to the establishment of the kingdom of God in the latter-days; have interpreted its fulfilment as meaning the establishment of America. Others have given other interpretations. But I can feel in my heart a growing love the more I know of the gospel of the Son of God, the more I appreciate America, and the more I love the institutions of this land. If there is anything that inspires me with the glorious mission of America, it is the knowledge of the Son of God and the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I can see no competition between the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ and America among the nations of the earth. We have largely felt, and we were right when we felt, that when the Lord spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith, he cut a stone out of the mountains without hands, so to speak, the stone that would roll forth and fill the whole earth. This is indeed the work that is to grow and to roll forth to fill the whole earth, and I am coming to feel in my soul that only a part, perhaps, of that great vision has reference to us; and yet I am conscious of the fact, or feel in my soul, that a part of the miraculous work, the kingdom of God, unlike the kingdoms of this world, which are political, the kingdom of God is spiritual, it is religious, and it gives to man the consolation that in it is found the solution of all the problems of life; and I feel that in the two important matters, the establishment of the United States of America among the nations of the earth and the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ again in the earth, is the fulfilment of that wonderful prophecy. These two shall go forth as twin images, and not as competitors, one helping and sustaining the other. For I believe that the most patriotic thing that the Latter-day Saints can do is to save America and the Americans from sin and from violating the law of the Lord, and if they will do this, this nation will prevail and shall not come to trouble. So that I feel that there can be no competition to come from the conditions we now see being brought about. America has lent her powerful influence, making it possible in this free country for the truth to be established and to go unto the nations of the earth, for the Church of Jesus Christ to be organized and grow and develop; protected with her tremendous power to protect the elders of this Church, and so it will be in the future. These two will go forward in the future fulfiling their mission, and holding up to the nations the ensign of freedom and of truth. And other nations like Russia will shake off their shackles and come forth unto their own, to the enjoyment of liberty and freedom and truth, and right. There shall be an emancipation of the people, and they shall look up to America, and thus these two shall go along, equally, and more especially working for the principles of law and of righteousness in politics and in the affairs of men, and bringing peace and good will to men, which cannot come to mankind outside of the adoption and the acceptance of the gospel of the Son of God. So the greater mission rests upon our nation, to go where the elders of this Church shall go, to extend the message of this gospel, and to wipe aside the prejudice and the darkne ss that rest upon the minds of the children of men; and they shall be taught that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the principles of the gospel of the Son of God are true, and will emancipate men and bring them into the true knowledge of his wisdom and his love. That is my hope, and I would not put a straw in the way of a patriotic young man who wants to enlist in the service of his country; but .do not forget the other, let him carry with him the principles and the love of the truth. This country can take part in the establishment of righteousness politically, but only a few have yet carried the mighty responsibility of holding the power that bears the world's destinies in its hands; for we have been called here, not to be isolated from the peoples of the world, but to train and teach them to go forth as teachers to all the world, and it is our mission to go and lift up the ensign of this gospel to the nations of the earth, and only "Mormon" elders can do it.  
  
So, as one calling now for recruits, for soldiers of Christ, I am calling for those who do not hesitate to come, and to those who have not yet entered into the ministry of the Lord Jesus, and I testify there is coming an awakening of our brethren and sisters such as we have never witnessed before. Thousands will heed the call where hundreds go today into the field and bear off the great and responsible work that the Lord has placed upon our shoulders. So this, too, is patriotic for America and for the whole world. Do not forget it in the midst of the enthusiasm of the moment. I feel that we should remember our obligations to the Lord and to the world.  
  
I know as I live that this gospel is the simple truth, and that no possibility ever shall come, now, henceforth nor forever, for men to find peace on earth and salvation in the kingdom of God without this gospel. I know it is true. I know that the Latter-day Saint boys and girls who will stand faithful will win the laurels and plaudits of the world. I heard a man of national note say to a group of our "Mormon" missionaries, lately, in the city of Portland, this: He turned to them, and asked them, "Do you desire to stand in meekness before the world? If you do, stick to the faith of your fathers, follow their example, for what they did is what the world wants, and do not follow the failancy, the false philosophy and the vanity of the world. Stay by the standard of your fathers, and you will win the highest place of honor and distinction in the world." I know that is true, and O, after you have fought the battle and kept the faith, the joy, the consolation and the glory of those who win is beyond any power of tongue to describe, for you cannot conceive it. I know that my Redeemer lives. Men may doubt, men may be filled with the spirit of uncertainty with reference to these troubles; but we know, not by reason so much, but by the power that touches and controls us, that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, — know it just as I know when I strike your hand I feel its pressure upon mine. When I put my arm around you, do you not feel that I live? Yes. Equally sure am I that my Redeemer lives, and that he will come again to live upon the earth, and that he is with this Church.  
  
God help us as we go now from this house to keep the faith, and to heed the warning voice of the watchmen and servants of the Lord, that we may stand blameless and secure in safety as we see the plans of God working out in the midst of the nations of the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 