38
Second Outdoor
08 04 1917
Elder Stephen L. Chipman. 
72
131-132

None

None

(President of the Alpine Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, and friends: I appreciate having been present this afternoon, in listening to the testimony and the exhortation that has been given by the brethren who have preceded me. I am here in response to the call of the President to say a few words, and I trust that I can enjoy the same sweet influence that has actuated the brethren who have preceded me.  
  
I was particularly impressed with the strong testimony that was borne by President Wood, of the power of God in behalf of this young man, and also with the story that was related of the brother in the North; and I was led in my mind to the scriptural passage concerning Nicodemus, who came to the Savior and wanted to know from him what he should do. The Savior told him, and Nicodemus marveled at what was told him, and could not understand it, and the Savior made this remark, "The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit." I thought of the power of God that was manifest in behalf of our brother, that Brother Wood could not understand how it was brought about, could not comprehend it. We do not understand it any more than we understand where this breeze that is blowing this afternoon comes from and where it goes, but we do know that it is so, and he said that he knew that God raised him up by his power.  
  
And yet, sometimes our young people are skeptical and want to reason out everything by the reason of man before they believe it is true. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints present, and especially our young men and young women, that the things of God are not understood by the reasoning of man, but they are understood by the Spirit of. God, and "the wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth." We see this power and, as Brother Wood said, we know of a surety that it is of God. When we testify that we know these things, we know it because we feel it, and while we may not always be able to explain to the comprehension of our young people just how we know it, we know it just as well as we know that we live. We want to live by this power and testimony, so that we will cling to the iron rod, and will not be led astray by the wisdom and by the cunning craftiness of men. For this reason God has established in the Church men to lead and guide and direct us, and it is up to us to have faith and confidence in these men.  
  
I will say, my brethren and sisters, that I represent the Alpine stake of Zion, comprised of seventeen wards, in the north end of Utah county, a part of the old Utah stake. Our stake has been organized since the year 1901, and we have been presiding in that locality at the base of the noble Timpanogos mountain and by the beautiful Utah lake of fresh water. We have a garden spot, a most beautiful place to live, and have in that locality a gathering of God's people, who are industrious, who are serving the Lord, building up the country, and developing and growing in righteousness and good works, and we are raising up a class of young people in our communities who are faithful and true.  
  
However, some of our young men and young women are careless and neglectful, with all our schools, our churches, priesthood quorums, improvement associations, and the other organizations which God has inspired his servants to organize in our midst. We have much carelessness, indifference, and forgetfulness, and some who lack respect for the priesthood of God, and for their parents and those who preside over them in the Church. We are laboring with them and trying to impress them with faith in God, with good works, that they may grow up to be useful men and women in the Kingdom of God.  
  
I will say, my brethren and sisters, that I do not desire to talk long. My voice is weak. I am just recovering now from an operation, and I am afraid that I will injure my voice. But I know as I stand here that this is the work of God. I have seen his power, I have seen the fulfilment of his promises, and my desire is that I may so live that I may enjoy that spirit and be able to impress others unto good works, that they may take mind to themselves, and grow up to be useful men and women in the Church of God and in this great Government of which we form a part. And may we have this loyalty and testimony and spirit burning in our hearts forever, I humply pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
