39
Second Outdoor
08 04 1917
Elder Mark Austin. 
68
132-133

None

None

(President of the Fremont Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters and friends, I was especially interested in the story that was told us by Brother Wood. Sometime before Brother Warner went on this mission, as he lives in the section of the country from whence I have come recently, I was on the train with him, and he said to me, "Brother Austin, I feel strongly impressed that I should say to the president of this stake, 'President Miller, I should have a mission to go unto my people.' " And I learned later that he had gone, and now we have learned in regard to that mission. Therefore I am specially interested, because I said to him, "You should see your president, and notify your brethren of your feelings in regard to this matter. You are impressed, no doubt, with the proper spirit in behalf of your kindred." Brother Warner is a very scholarly, talented gentleman, a very excellent man, a splendid type among us, and he has performed a very wonderful mission according to the report and testimony of President Wood.  
  
My brethren and sisters, it is about twenty years since I spoke in the open air in the land of my fathers, to which I was called about twenty years ago — upon the streets of old England, carrying the message which had been revealed to the Prophet Joseph for the salvation of the children of men, and I rejoice in that work. I rejoice today, I am glad that I am identified with this people who have settled in these magnificent valleys. The testimony of their worth is on every hand, and the words that have been spoken by the brethren certainly must have found lodgment in our hearts, and will bear fruit if we desire to serve God and keep his commandments, and we have in our hearts to do good unto the children of men.  
  
I do not desire to take further time. I want to hear from Brother Callis, a man who is capable and who is on the firing line and who is laboring for the establishment of the truth in the hearts of the children of men, that the peace that men are looking for may come. There is no possible peace without truth. God bless you. Amen. 
