41
Afternoon
08 04 1917
Elder Stephen L. Richards
96
136-142

None

Our religion not a thing apart from life — The laws of the gospel provide for physical health, temporal success, educational development, ethical culture, social purity, music, art, and all that therein is true and beautiful — The laws of the Church teach loyalty and the true relation of Church and State — They encourage the acceptable home life, proper marriage relations, and define the true relationship of man to God and man to man — The brotherhood in the Priesthood of God the most satisfactory known to men — It is the true fraternity of God and brotherhood of man — All worth having in life may be obtained within the pale of the gospel which completes the full circle of requirements of a human life — May we all learn to live to be worthy of its truths.  
  
I cannot tell you with what difficulty I have approached this undertaking. When I realize that the body of the Church has come up to Zion for counsel and guidance, to hear the word of the Lord, and that in a measure a portion of that responsibility of giving the word of the Lord to the people of the Church, rests even but slightly upon me, I am almost overwhelmed. I have prayed to our Father for the guidance of his Spirit, and I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, for your sympathetic co-operation, in the hope that I may be able to say something that will be of profit to the Latter-day Saints. I recognize the fact that but a comparatively small portion of the total number of the Church members are here present, but I also recognize the fact that the whole of the Church is here represented and that the priesthood of the Church, which presides over it in its various departments, is here present in a very large number, and that there are present a sufficiently large number of the people of the Church to touch the lives of all those who claim membership therein.  
  
I, with you, have received great joy and satisfaction in the words that have been spoken to us in the sessions of our general conference. It seems to me that all queries that were within our minds as we came from up and down the land to this central place of meeting for advice and counsel have been answered, and that all of the questions which have troubled us in these momentous times have received such treatment and discussion as to satisfy our souls and direct us in our course of action. I have been intensely impressed with the practicality, the beneficient practicality, of the teachings of our religion.  
  
We came together two days ago with our hearts and thoughts bent upon discovery of a true course of action for us to follow as individuals, as a people, in the great problems that present themselves to us, and I feel sure that each person who has listened to the counsel of our brethren, and has heard the principles of the gospel expounded by divine inspiration has received guidance and direction for himself personally, as well as for the great body of the people. President Smith, in his opening remarks, suggested that the brethren who might follow him would see fit to touch upon and emphasize some of the cardinal principles of the gospel, which were mentioned by him so forcefully in his opening address, and in conformity to that suggestion most of the important principles of the gospel, which affect us at this time and are calculated to determine our course of conduct, have been dwelt upon in such manner as to make plain to us our duties.  
  
Our religion is not a thing apart from our life. It is incorporated in it, and forms a part of the very tissue and sinews of our being. It provides a rule of conduct and of action for us, not only in our occasional worship but in our lives, in our work, in our play, in all that we do in the whole course of our conduct. It is this intense practicality of it that appeals to me as its greatest strength, constituting its greatest salvation for the human family. There has been in times past, to my thinking, too much of Sunday religion. There is comparatively too much of that notion that our religious views are to be considered separate and apart from the lives we live, and that has led to a devitalization of the religion which has been professed by Christianity; for modern man, if he is anything, is practical, — he desires to see the end of that which he begins, — the application of the truth which he considers, and if it cannot be demonstrated to him that religion, as a profession of belief, will work out in his every day life an influence, that will develop for him success, happiness and joy, he cannot be made to be interested in religion. Within the purview of the gospel, there has been given to us, as I view it, a remedy for every ill, a precaution for every evil into which we might fall, and a safeguard against all harm.  
  
To those who would have health and enjoy the blessings that come from healthful bodies, there is the Word of Wisdom given to the Church in its earliest days as a guiding principle in the conduct of their lives. How much the world needs that principle today! How much benefit and good would come to humanity at large if they could but understand and adopt in their lives those simple and comprehensive principles and truths taught in that which we denominate the Word of Wisdom.  
  
There are those who seek after temporal success, who seek to bring to themselves wealth, renown, and power. The gospel provides a plan whereby that success, in righteousness, may be attained. The law of tithing, as laid down in the Church and as practiced by the Church, to my thinking is the surest guide to follow in the accomplishment of success in our temporal affairs, and I bear you my testimony, as you have heard it from thousands of men and women in the Church, that those who will obey the Lord's law of tithing and contribute of their substance that which is demanded of them, for the Lord and his work, will prosper in their temporal affairs. The gospel teaches frugality, thrift, industry, — all of those componant qualities that go to make the successful, happy, prosperous citizen of our land.  
  
There are those who seek after culture of the mind, who see in the development of the intellectual processes the great height of ambition for which they strive. There is no religion, there is no philosophy, so far as I know, which accentuates human intelligence as does the gospel of Jesus Chirst. "The glory of God is intelligence," and to one who holds that view the culture of his mind assumes a broader, a bigger, a finer view point than can possibly be had by anyone who does not so regard it.  
  
The Church has promulgated and stands for the most complete system of ethics and morals that the world has ever known. It was highly gratifying to learn not long ago that a company engaged in disseminating news, in looking for one to write for the newspapers which they published, an article devoted to "social purity," had selected our own beloved president, believing that he, representing the people of the Latter-day Saints, could write a better article upon the subject of social purity than could be obtained from any other source. We believe and know that to be true, because we profess what we practice in that regard.  
  
To those who look for the beautiful in art and in music, and who would dedicate and consecrate their lives, as many have done, to development along these lines, our religion offers encouragement of the highest type and order. I think that it can be safely said that there are no communities to be found anywhere in which the love of music is developed to a higher degree than among the communities of the Latter-day Saints. I doubt if there can be found any people upon the face of the globe who love to sing, to praise God in song, whose songs come from the heart more than do the Latter-day Saints. Our love of art in its true sense is exemplified in our temples and majestic edifices that have been erected for the worship of God, and to all who love that which is beautiful and true in the arts, and in the sciences as well, our Church, our religion, offers encouragement and provides a broad plan of understanding whereby all may be comprehended in its true light.  
  
We have been favored at this conference with more than one exposition of the attitude of our people and our Church toward the government in which we live. I feel safe in making the statement that there can be found in no place in this great republic men and women more devotedly consecrated to the principles of liberty and freedom for which our nation stands than our own Latter-day Saints. Why should it not be? Do we, perhaps, not owe more to the protecting care oi the government than any other people? Have we not more reason to be greatful for liberty and for freedom than the people of any other section of our great republic? Brother Ivins said, in eloquent language, that this government has been the guardian of the Church. Certain it is that it has afforded us opportunity to develop the great truths which have been revealed in the gospel, and certain it is that we love it and that we are willing as a people to protect it in every way that is necessary. I was also much impressed by a further statement made upon this subject in that our religion teaches us the true relation of Church and State, and affords us a solution to that much agitated problem that has concerned our people at many times. It teaches us that we live under a constitution which was wrought out at the hands of divinely inspired men and that that constitution is our safeguard against encroachments upon principles of justice, of truth, and of liberty, and so I say there can be no more loyal, no more patriotic men and women, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, than can be found in these few small states that harbor the Latter-day Saints.  
  
If you would build a home filled with love and charity and divine affection, you can go to no place that will give you a more adequate conception of the proper way to rear and maintain a family, of the proper way to lay the foundations of a home than among the Latter-day Saints. The gospel has revealed to us higher and loftier principles in connection with the marital status, in relation to parents' relationship to their children, than has ever come to man in all the history of the world from the time of the Savior down to the time when the restored gospel came to earth, never to be taken away again. And how fundamentally important it is that, we should have revealed to us, made known a plan to us, by which to make good homes, for I tell you a great nation can no more exist without good homes than it can exist without the loyalty and patriotism of a devoted citizenship. It is impossible that we should have a great country, fulfiling the lofty purposes of its destiny, unless we have good homes throughout the land. It is my humble belief that there are to be found among our people more good, true, honorable, simple homes than can be found among any other people in this great, wide world. I believe there are more fathers who are fathers in very deed, who honor their wives, the mothers of their children, as they should honor them, there are more good women consecrating and devoting their lives to their children and their husbands and their homes. I think there are more true children loving their fathers and loving their mothers and their homes with a great unselfish love, to be found among our own people than can be found upon the face of this globe; and I thank God that this is true. God bless our homes. Our homes are the foundation of the nation. They are the corner stone of society itself. If the good old-fashioned American home, as we have it, should vanish from the earth nothing could take its place and there would come faster than there is now coming in many sections of the country, decay by reason of its absence.  
  
But I think the one great thing in the gospel for which I am most grateful is that it broadens and enlarges the scope of our vision, that it enables us to see more clearly the true relationship, not only of man to God, but of man to man. There are so many people in the world so engrossed with their own little undertakings, so devoted to the accomplishment of the purposes that they set about to do, that they fail to grasp the great significance of all life, and they fail to understand and comprehend their true place in God's world. I have seen men engaged in the various professions who lived and breathed and slept their professions to such an extent that nothing without the pale of their work received any attention or any consideration from them. I have seen, as have you, men so entirely engrossed and absorbed in the pursuit after wealth or in the pursuit after renown and praise and glory that come from men that they could not give, or would not give, any consideration, any attention to things other than those which immediately concerned themselves and the vocation or pursuit in which they were engaged. It is a great blessing to be able to stand up higher than the mere foot stool upon which these men stand, and to see life in its true aspect. It is a great thing to be able to see the relative value, or the relative values, of the things which enter into and constitute our lives, our lives' work, and I regard it as a most unfortunate thing that many of the men most gifted with talent, men whose brains have comprehended great designs and schemes, for the progress of civilization, and the race, should be so narrow and contracted in their views that they are not able to see the relationship of themselves and their work to the work of God, and to the ultimate destiny which he has in store for his people. That to me is one of the greatest blessings which comes to Latter-day Saints, for no matter how engrossed we may be in our life's work, no matter how intensely interesting it may become to us, we still see above the petty things of life, with which we are so engaged from time to time, and we see the eternal purposes of God being worked out in all our workaday world, and it gives us hope and encouragement and faith and strength to go forth and to .devote and consecrate our lives, by doing whatever little duty we may, to God and the accomplishment of his purposes.  
  
There are those among us who maintain that the highest gratification that can come to them comes from their association with men and women in fraternities, in clubs, in social organization of one kind and another. I have heard men of my own profession say that the most intense joy that they ever had in their lives came from their association with the brethren of their own fraternity. I have heard men who have been engaged in college work, in universities and colleges of the land, say that no higher pleasure has ever come to them than the close associations and comradeship which they formed and maintained at their schools. Why you, my brethren of the priesthood, know that their associations and their comradeship dwarf into insignificance compared to brotherhood in the priesthood of God. You know that the warm clasp of the hand given by one who holds the priesthood to another, pledging, as it does, fidelity, loyalty, trust, confidence, is worth more, a thousand times, than all that so-called social pleasure and fraternity that may be outside the pale of the gospel, for with those true feelings of affection there is interwoven the Spirit of God which permeates the heart and opens up our mutual understandings and brings a closer confidence and a greater love than can come from any other source in this world. And so, my brethren and sisters, if there be any among you or among your friends who seek for true fraternalism, let them come into the quorums of the priesthood and the organizations of the Church, there to receive the true fraternity of God and the brotherhood of man.  
  
Every one seeks after happiness. It is said to be the goal of our life and our life's work. You who have labored in the service of the Lord know that no happiness can compare with the joy of service in God's work. You know that no real joy is comparable to that which comes from having done a helpful thing to a neighbor, and demonstrated your love for him, and so having kept the second great commandment.  
  
So that, as I view it in my humble way, all of those things that are worth having in this life may be had within the pale of the gospel. So far as I know there is nothing worth striving for, there is nothing of truth, there is nothing of true beauty, of refinement, of culture, that may not be had within our own Church, within the principles and ordinances of the gospel itself. It completes the full circle of requirements of a human life. It provides a never failing rule of action for life and life's conduct. Someone has said, "what is there about 'Mormonism,' what one thing is there about it, which more than anything else demonstrates its truth?" And someone answered, "everything." And so my brethren and my sitsers, to my thinking those who have spoken to you in this great conference have in outline and in many instances in detail offered to you a plan of conduct for your lives that will insure your success while on earth and what is greater still, will bring to you salvation in the eternal kingdom of our Father in the life to come.  
  
I want to bear my humble testimony to you that I know we are engaged in the work of God and the work of truth. I would that the same testimony should come to all my brothers among mankind and to all my sisters. I wish I knew some way, as President Smith said, to so build a beautiful mansion that all the world would be attracted to it and would come to it and dwell within it and partake of the holy Spirit which is given so abundantly for the help of mankind, and in such merciful fashion to those even who do not obey the teachings of the Lord. I think our Father is abundantly merciful in the way that he has dealt with us, and in the way that he has dealt with the world. I have no doubt his judgment will be brought to pass upon the wicked, but I have no doubt that he is filled with mercy and compassion for all of those who have within them a spark of repentance and a spark of love for him and his work. May the Lord help each one of us to so live that we ourselves may be exemplars of the truth, that our lives may be shining monuments of the great truths which have been given to us and which we profess, and that we may show ourselves worthy of the great blessings of the gospel which have been given to us in such multiplicity for our well being, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
