43
Afternoon
08 04 1917
Elder Hyrum W. Valentine 
117
145-151

None

None

(Late President of the Swiss-German Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters: I appreciate very greatly the privilege that has been accorded me to make some little report concerning the work and the conditions in the Swiss-German mission. I would not forget to thank you, my brethern and sisters, and I rejoice that I have this splendid opportunity of thanking you for the sympathy, for the love, for the interest that was felt for the Saints in that mission, in 1914, and more particularly in April, 1915, when we received from your bounteous hands the sum of ten thousand francs to be distributed among the poor and oppressed of that land who were engaged in that mighty conflict. That sum was afterwards repeated, once again in full, and once again by half; and that was more than anything perhaps that might have been done by the Saints at home for those Saints abroad in that land who had been deprived of their shepherds, and it did our hearts good. We felt that you were with us, that you were sustaining and supporting us. I doubt not that a repetition of that very kind act would be thankfully received by our brethren and sisters who are located in that war stricken country today. I speak now of Europe in general, and not any part of our mission.  
  
One of the last priesthood meetings that we were permitted to hold with the elders of our mission was held on August 29, 1914. And I think upon that occasion the Spirit of the Lord directed us most marvelously and we were filled with the spirit of testimony, concerning the subject of obedience. I don't believe that the spirit of obedience ever rested so mightily upon our elders or upon our priesthood meeting as it did upon that occasion.  
  
We returned to our headquarters at Basel, after the priesthood meeting was over, and Sunday morning, August 30, 1914, before we were out of bed, we received a telegram from President Hyrum M. Smith, then presiding over the European mission, to release every elder who was in the Swiss-German mission and take steps at once to have them reach Liverpool by Sept. 16 and 30. The tears rolled down my cheeks, my brethren and sisters, and I said to my wife: "I don't see how we can do it, how are we going to get along?" I thought a moment and I said: "Oh, yesterday when we enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord in such abundance, and the spirit of obedience was so impressed upon our souls, little did we think that before the sun should rise we would be called upon to exercise that obedience;" and I said: "We will do it."  
  
Well, I think almost every trial that comes to us in life, almost every commandment that comes to us, the sense of doubt that beats within our own bosom will vanish like this difficulty vanished before our eyes, the very moment that we make up our minds we will do it. I went to the bank on Monday morning, I told the cashier of the bank what had happened. It was necessary for us to have about twenty-five thousand marks. We had no available money. We had some resources but they were tied up, and I said: "Will you be willing to pry that money loose and give it to us that we may comply with this request?" He sent me up to the directors. I had a most beautiful opportunity to bear my testimony and to talk to those directors and tell them what had occurred, and they said: "Why certainly, certainly. It is unusual, but we will be glad to do it." They gave me the money and we started on our journey. I never made a more successful journey through the mission in my life. Within the time of twelve days we visited every conference and organized almost every branch throughout the mission, returned to our home in Basel in safety, and provided every elder with sufficient money to pay his bills and carry him to Liverpool. More than this, we returned to our homes feeling that the Lord had spoken, and that the word of the Lord was being carried out in that work.  
  
On September 27, the first Sunday after all our elders had left that mission, we went to the branch of St. Gallen, in Switzerland, in order to complete the organization that had been effected there. Our branch in Basel was placed in the hands of Brother Spoerri. Many of you may know him. He was not the most qualified man, according to the eyes of men, for that responsible position, but we felt certain, through the inspiration of the Lord, that he was the man for the place. Upon our return on Tuesday, from St. Gallen, our good Sister Closios, who is known to some of you — and a more faithful Latter-day Saint it would be hard to find — met us at the door, and I said: "How did you get along Sunday?" She threw up both her hands and said: "Why the Lord blessed and magnified that man, Brother Spoerri, in our eyes, and we had such a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord that we all knew of a surety that the word of the Lord had been given to us, and that we were not going backwards but forwards." This is my testimony to you, not only in the branch of Basel but throughout the entire mission.  
  
We have about sixty branches in the Swiss-German mission. We have about seven thousand souls belonging to that mission, and not one branch among those sixty branches has been closed by reason of the elders having been taken out of that mission. The work has gone on most beautifully. In 1915, we had the banner year in the history of that mission on the subject of tithing. We had one of the banner years in the history of that mission, in the matter of fast offering, and we had the banner year in that mission in the sum total of the charity that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was able to distribute among the people of that mission. In 1916, the year that has just closed, — and the figures and the remarks that are made are based on the nine months' experience that we had, the reports for the last three months not being in our possession — we baptized over three hundred souls in that mission. There was paid, according to the best estimation that I am able to furnish, twenty-two thousand dollars in tithing, one hundred ten thousand francs. Now that is an enormous sum of money for those seven thousand Saints to pay, and a more honest tithing was never paid in all the history of the mission. Why, there were five hundred of our men from that mission who were taken into the war immediately, and of that five hundred we had lost thirty-four up until the time I left. Notwithstanding the fact that these men were taken, who were in the prime of life and were the most vigorous, the most stalwart men that we had in the Church, we surpassed all previous records in our finances; we gave out over two hundred thousand tracts and pamphlets, in the year 1915, and I am satisfied that in 1916 we will have given out three hundred thousand.  
  
The work of the Lord is progressing; it is the Lord's work. The people are sympathetic with us, and I regret at times to find here a spirit of antagonism toward our people over there. Let me tell you how I feel. I feel there is a conflict between these two governments, but I do not feel that there is a conflict between the people, not between the people but between the governments. We have had sorrowing times.  
  
I want to say a word about Brother Kessler, one of your citizens of this city. He was sent over there to edit the mission paper. A more faithful man was never sent to us to perform missionary work, and he found himself in a most difficult position. On August 1, 1914, President Hyrum M. Smith and I were out in the mission traveling through Germany. The war came like a thunderbolt. We never had a word of warning of it at all. Brother Kessler said: "I carry in my pocket a sworn statement, an oath that I will be ready at the moment they call for my help." He said: "I could not look my countrymen in the face and stand here when they call for me to render assistance." He said, "It is true I have been sent here to do missionary work, and I have enjoyed my work most exceedingly, but I can't edit the paper any longer, there is nothing here but turmoil. We will not be able to cross the boundary; I can't cross the boundary; if I do, I will be taken as a deserter and cast into prison and possibly shot. I don't know but that tomorrow the French will rush over the boundary here into Basel; they will discover that I am a German citizen, and I will be taken a prisoner of war and interned. I don't know but tomorrow the Germans themselves will cross over the boundary here and come riding in a street car. They could come in a street car and ride into the city of Basel, and they could come here and take me as a traitor to my country. I may be cast into prison, I may be executed. It matters not," he said, "but I feel I must go!" In the anguish of his soul, he went to serve his country, and there is no criticism. Oh, I know the anguish of his soul, many days after he had gone into the war, how he felt what a burden he had taken upon himself. He might have waited. I have often said he might have waited eight days and President Smith would have been there and he might have counseled with him. I don't think the result would have been any different, but he would not have had the burden resting on his shoulders. I want to say to you, he was just as true a servant and a soldier in his country's army as he was a servant of God in our midst. We know of his example from the letters we received from the officers in the army, in the regiment, in the division where he served, and he is a credit to our people. My brethren and sisters, he died as he lived, — a faithful Latter-day Saint, a soldier of the Cross, though enlisted for the time being with his country's army.  
  
Another beautiful illustration of the fruits of the gospel is found in the man who today is writing for our mission paper. I regret that our mission paper does not come through. Many of our people at home have felt that the mission paper was not being published. It is not true. The paper is being published, but it has been unable to pass the censor since about the first of September, 1916. Brother Hofmann is a man who, before he came into the Church, was a Social Democrat who did not believe in anything. Brother William Wright of Ogden was delivering a lecture, one night, and this man was passing the door. He heard him and stepped in. He was susceptible to the teachings of the gospel, he joined the Church. He is a very fine architect and a supervisor of buildings. He was almost ready to pack his trunk and his grip and come to America, come to Zion, that he might serve the Lord more faithfully. We felt impressed to call him on a mission in March, 1914. We called him on a mission and he gave up his plans gladly and went out into the mission field. On August 7, it became necessary for him to join his regiment. He said: "Oh! as they buckled on to me that tournister and gave me that shining gun in my hands, do you know what my prayer was?" He said: "I prayed to the Lord every night in secret that it might not be my lot to shoot one of my fellow men. I did not want to shoot anybody; and oh, how I rejoiced when, after seven days in the army, I was assigned to the hospital corps, and I was relieved of the responsibility of shedding the blood of any of my brethren." He said: "I saw an answer to my prayer there; and when I was in that Good Samaritan work, my fellow comrade and I, binding the wounds of a fallen comrade, a grenade fell in between us and tore from him his arm and from me a leg. I thanked God," he said, "today, that I escaped from that terrible war with the loss of a foot and a leg."  
  
Do you know how our hearts bled when we saw that big man, after having been released from the hospital, returning to us to enter into the missionary work, he came with an artificial limb, a poorly equipped artificial limb, and two heavy canes, bearing about two hundred pounds' weight largely on his hands. The tears rolled down our cheeks, and I wept. Oh, I wept; and then I saw what many a father and many a mother and many a wife and child has had to pass through in this cruel war. But he laughed and said: "I am thankful to the Lord that I escaped with the loss of a foot and a leg." He is doing valiant service, and has done now for nearly two years, as the editor of our mission paper. I have thought today, as often before, what would we do there today, were it not for this man? He is almost our only support there; because now that we have gotten into turmoil and war the animosity and the hatred that grow up with war will make itself manifest there.  
  
I want to admonish you, my brethren and sisters; let us deal kindly with our fellow men. We are not responsible that we were born in this country of freedom and liberty. Our fathers before us fought the fight and bled and oh, how their hearts were torn and their paths marked by the blood of their feet while they struggled for the freedom that we enjoy. I feel that such is the struggle that is going on in Europe today. I feel that the struggle over there is a struggle for freedom and for liberty of human rights and human thoughts. Of these great United States our Father in heaven has said: "This is a choice land, choice above all other lands, reserved for my own purposes." I wonder what his purposes were? Here the gospel of Jesus Christ was cradled, and it could not have been restored elsewhere. It has gone out from here to all the nations of the earth, and the messages of freedom and liberty have gone out from here. I do not feel to be sorry that this war has come as it has. I just hope that these United States will not fall from that lofty place where our Father in heaven has placed them — the guardians of human rights and human liberty and freedom in every land, in every clime. If we stand for that, no harm can come to any nation by reason of our having entered into this war, when the foe has fallen, as fall he must! I want to tell you there will be a time when this country needs the assistance of every patriotic citizen, to see that we do not make usury out of the situation that has been placed in our hands. Those people feel kindly toward us, and I feel kindly toward them. I have found out, through my little experience in life, that when I have not loved a brother, or a sister, it has always been because I did not understand them; and coming to understand them, I have learned to love them.  
  
Now let me illustrate exactly what I mean. On my first mission, seventeen years ago, I labored with a number of men, all of different characters. We had our differences, but I learned to love those men, and I love them today just as much as I love my own brothers. In my last missionary experience, I had the privilege of laboring with three hundred fifty-six elders. They were not all alike; indeed, they were all different, and yet I loved those three hundred fifty-six men, and I am delighted, every Opportunity I have, to see them, to shake their hands, and to speak to them.  
  
I have enjoyed the hospitality of those seven thousand Saints in that land. I have eaten their food, and so have your boys and your fathers — when they had none themselves. I have slept in their beds, when they sat down in chairs, and the Lord has blessed them, and I love them for that charity, because I have learned to know them. I think we can do a great work here. There is going to be trouble, no doubt of it, and there will be misunderstandings. A man is likely to say something in defense of his country, and saying something in defense of his country, in times of war, is likely to bring some trouble; but let us be full of compassion. Let us be full of love, let us be full of the spirit of the gospel, that we may lead those who are in our midst, who have been placed in this trying position, and not antagonize them, because I want to tell you their hearts are right. They are here because they love the gospel; they love this country; and the fact that they cannot divorce themselves entirely from the country that gave them birth and livelihood is to their credit and not to their shame.  
  
The Lord bless us and help us to be faithful and true and to take this spirit of frugality, that has been so emphasized in this conference, into every nook and every clime.  
  
When we were returning home, coal was selling in Paris for two hundred francs a ton, forty dollars a ton for coal in Paris. You who have been in Europe know what that means — forty dollars a ton, and they could not get it. Why? Why there was coal piled up on the wharf at Havre, hundreds and thousands of ship loads, but it was not reaching the people because they did not have the rolling stock to move it to them. Haven't ye got mountains and mountains of coal in this great state? And how many of us have not been on the verge of freezing because they could not get the coal to us?  
  
As I have traveled to and fro, in the little time that I have been at home, I have seen the cattle standing huddled up behind a cedar post, growing smaller every day, and at the same time consuming a good real of feed. Wouldn't it be a good deal better for us to take care of these we have, instead of reaching out and trying to get a lot more, that might stand around and freeze to death and turn out to be only hides! Frugality is what we want. "Why, we have got the money to pay for it," says one, but what good will it do that we have the money to pay for it if we can't get what we want? The same with potatoes, the same with wheat, the same with trimmings of the orchards, and the same with these waste places that have been spoken of that we should cultivate, not only for the crop that we get, not so much for the prize, but what a valuable lesson to our boys and girls and to our men and women, if we can instil in their hearts the spirit of thrift and frugality, and curb this spirit of extravagance and extremity; because, some day, as sure as the Lord lives, we will be brought to acocunt. If I can interpret the spirit of the gospel, it is one great round of frugality. The law of God is the law of nature. Who ever saw nature wasting anything? Who ever saw the elements wasting anything? Why, they conserve everything. The law of nature is the law of God, and the gospel of Jesus Christ is the law of God to man, and it is frugality from beginning to end. Let us remember it and husband our resources. 
  
The Lord bless you all, my brethren and sisters. I am talking too long, but I appreciate the opportunity of giving you this little report, and bearing my testimony to you with respect to the integrity of the people who comprise the Saints of the Swiss-German mission. Let us be charitable with them, and with those who are in our midst who are placed in a most trying situation by reason of the war that has been projected. The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
