44
Afternoon
08 04 1917
Auditor'S Report. 
31
151-152

None

Elder George Albert Smith read the following report of the auditing committee:  
  
Salt Lake City, April 6th, 1917. Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Dear Brethren: We, the undersigned members of the Auditing Committee of the Church, beg leave to report, that we have made an examination of the books and accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust as well as those of the Presiding Bishopric, for the year 1916, and, incidentally, also of the various organizations of the Church, in relation to their financial affairs. We have found everything in a very satisfactory condition. The method of accounting is intelligently and skilfully done.  
  
It is gratifying to the committee to say that the disbursements of the funds of the Church have been made along beneficent lines and for the general good of the whole body of the Church. We desire to make special mention of the very useful work done by the Latter-day Saints Hospital, and the Dee Hospital of Ogden, and the Deseret Gymnasium, and it is pleasing also to note the erection of the new Church Office building. It reflects the advancement of the Church. The appropriations made for the support of the poor, and for the cause of education, and for the erection and enlargement of stake houses and meeting houses, both at home and abroad, is a matter of gratification. In a word, we have found everything satisfactory, and we so certify.  
  
You will observe that this report is signed by only three members out of a committee of five. It has been a cause of regret to us that, through the demise of Joseph S. Wells, we lost the assistance of a very valuable and intelligent man. Judge H. H. Rolapp has been absent from the city during our audit, and we lost the benefit of his intelligent services.  
  
Hoping that God may continue to bless you and give you strength and wisdom for the great responsibility resting upon you, we subscribe ourselves,  
  
Your brethren in the gospel,  
 
(Signed)  
 
W. W. Riter, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft,  
 
Church Auditing Committee.  
