45
Afternoon
08 04 1917
Authorities Sustained.
33
152-153

None

Elder Hyrum M. Smith presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, which were voted upon by the assembly, as follows:  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Heber J. Grant, as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As Members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., James E. Talmage, and Stephen L. Richards.  
  
Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church.  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young.  
  
Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his First and Second Counselors.  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder.  
  
Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, Assistant Historians.  
  
As Members of the General Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, and Orson F. Whitney.  
  
Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education.  
  
Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools.  
  
Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen, and Guy C. Wilson.  
  
Auditing Committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, and Peter G. Johnston.  
  
Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign and B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductors; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; and all the Members.  
  
Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of the Conference.  
  
Each and all of those named were sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the people.  
  
The choir sang: "Hail bright abode."  
  
Benediction was pronounced by Elder Seymour B. Young.  
  
Conference adjourned for six months.  
  
Prof. Anthon C. Lund conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the conference meetings in the Tabernacle. Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon.  
  
The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken in the Tabernacle by Elder Franklin W. Otterstrom, and in the Assembly Hall and at the Bureau of Information, by Elders Frederick E. Barker and Fred G. Barker.  
  
Edward H. Anderson,  
  
Clerk of Conference.  

