Morning
06 04 1921


ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Our attention has been called repeatedly, by various of the brethren, during this most excellent conference, to the purposes of the Lord in gathering the Latter-day Saints in one place, and particularly the advantages which he had in view for our settlement in this particular place; and I have been thrilled in my contemplation of this glorious prospect, and should like to read a few passages from the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith on this subject. 

PURPOSE OF THE GATHERING. 

First, 1 direct your attention to the Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 29 :7 and following, referring to the elders of the Church and the Saints : 

''And y>e are called to bring to pass the gathering" of mine elect, for mine elect hear my voice and harden not their hearts; 

"Wherefore the decree hath gone forth from the Father, that they shall he gathered in unto one place upon the face of this land, to prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked; 

"For the hour is nigh, and the day soon at hand, when the earth is ripe: and all the proud, and they that do wickedly, shall be as stubble, and I wall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth; 

"For the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass; 

"For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand." 

I now ask you to consider this passage from Section 101, reading at the 39th paragraph : 

"When men are called unto mine everlasting gospel, and covenant with an everlasting covenant, they are accounted as the salt of the earth, and the savor of men; 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 163 

"They are called to be the savor of men. Therefore, if that salt of the earth lose its savor, behold, it is thenceforth good for nothing, only to be cast out, and trodden under the feet of men." 

Still another passage in Section 103, seventh verse: 

"And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms ,of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is given unto the saints, to possess it for ever and ever. 

"But inasmuch as they keep not my commandments, and hearken not to observe all my words, the kingdoms of the world shall prevail against them. 

"And inasmuch as they are not the saviors of men, they are as salt that has lost its savor, and is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men." 

And still another passage from Section 86, reading at the eighth paragraph : 

"Therefoi e, thus saith the Lord unto you, with whom the Priesthood hath continued through the lineage of your fathers, 

"For ye are lawful heirs, according to the flesh, and have been hid from the world with Christ in God; 

"For they were set to be >a light unto the world, and to be the saviors of men; 

"Therefore your life and the Priesthood hath remained and must needs remain through you and your lineage, until the restoration of all things spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began. 

"Therefore, blessed are ye if ye continue in my goodness, a light unto the Gentiles, and through this Priesthood, a savior unto my people Israel. The Lord hath said it. Amen." 

These inspired utterances, full of great promise, and yet guarded with caution and warning from the Lord, are blessings that shall be ours through faithfulness — these things, I say, are an incentive and an inspiration to all Latter-day Saints. When I think of their import, what the prospects of the future are, as one of the brethren remarked yesterday, great as have been the achievements of the past, they are but the beginning of glorious things that shall be sung of Zion. Notwithstanding the glory of the past, the future is more splendid than the past possibly could have been, because this work, the work of God, is to roll forth until its power, its glory, its influence, shall fill the whole earth, and not be confined to a few valleys up in the tops of the mountains. 

THE WORLD'S OPPOSITION TO THE GATHERING. 

Brethren and sisters, I am; sure as we read the history of the various movements on the part of the Church to assemble, to establish themselves in one place, we have discovered that surely the enemy of this work, who is the devil, has been opposed to the gathering of the Latter-day Saints. We were not permitted to remain in the place where, ninety-one years ago this very day, the Church was organized. The powers of evil were arrayed upon all hands, and the result was 

164 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the Church had to move. Their gathering at Kirtland again was opposed, and the powers of evil were arrayed against the movement to gather in the Saints from the various parts of the world. Again a move was made under pressure and force. Their gathering at Independence, Missouri, was fraught with the same kind of danger and difficulty, mob violence, people fleeing before their enemies, their homes consigned to the, flames. Their other effort to establish themselves in another section of Missouri met with the same kind of opposition. Do you recall the individual who harangued the Saints during the time that the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were prisoners incarcerated in one of the foulest dungeons that has disgraced the footstool of God? They were told never to expect their prophet to return; that "his die was cast, and his doom was sealed," and the voluntary advice given was that if they wanted to live at peace and be| happy, never to gather any more, but to scatter and not to organize wards and stakes but to be like other people. That is what the devil has desired from the beginning — that we should be like other people; but the Lord has decreed that this people should be a peculiar people unlike other people. The answer of President Young and his associates, to this advice, was that they would not desert one another but would enter into covenant to stay by one another until the poorest Saint was brought out of Missouri. Again they had a similar experience in their gathering at Nauvoo. Though they grew here to larger proportions and established themselves on a more firm basis, nevertheless, it was the same spirit of opposition to scatter this people, to divide them, to send them forth, and not to permit them to gather and to organize. The great movement into the west was undoubtedly for the purpose of giving this people the chance to be gathered and established in peace, in security, until they should become strong enough, their works understood well enough, to find favor in the sight of good men who would no longer lend their influence and power to the breaking up of this people and their being scattered any more. And transplanted here in this place, we had the opportunity to take root and to grow, and still in the time of our thriving, behold the enemy was again alert. Through the tongue of lying individuals, misrepresentations were made that brought upon this people an army. No matter what the purpose and motive was, on the part of those who sent them, in their hearts, many of those who came here in what was known as Johnston's Army came for the avowed purpose of again breaking up the foundation of this work. Thanks be to God that they did not succeed, and that the Lord used them as a means to further establish his work, and that the day of animosity that would seek to disturb us and drive us hence has passed and gone, and at last we have earned, in the estimation of the leaders of our country and a great majority of our fellow-citizens, the righc to exist as organized bodies. Thank the Lord for that day of triumph. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 165 

But do not suppose, my brethren and sisters, that the enemy is satisfied or that he is content to leave us alone, for he still is opposed to the gathering of this people, and if he cannot break them up, root and branch, and drive them forth, he will lay siege against us in devious ways, with cunning craftiness. He will seek by all of his power to nullify, as far as possible, the great blessings the Lord had in view in the gathering of the Latter-day Saints, and to wean away Our sons and daughters, to make paths here and there that shall divert them: away from the gathering place and away from the purpose of the Lord in! bringing this people together. 

OUR SONS AND DAUGHTERS A HERITAGE OF REAL WORTH. 

We heard some excellent advice yesterday from Brother Stephen L, Richards, on the question of the financial salvation of this people, all of which is important, of course, and I desire to speak of another phase of this work wherein we must exercise conservation to the accomplishment of the great purposes of the Lord in our assembling here. Valuable as are the material things of this world, nevertheless, more valuable are the sons and daughters of God. Our boys and our girls, as Doctor Holden said yesterday, arq our heritage that is of real worth. They are worth more to us than the land, and all the wealth of the hills and the valleys, and it is to the conservation of these sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints that I desire to direct the attention of my brethren and sisters this morning. One of the means which the adversary has employed to nullify the blessings of the gathering may be noted in our several communities in the disposition that many of our daughters have, particularly, and some of our sons, to consider their birthright lightly, to treat it as a thing of small consequence, and to jeopardize it by forming alliances in marriage with those who do not belong to our faith. My brethren and sisters, when I think of the value of these precious boys and girls, I see also the future of Zion in them. Our baptisms! in the mission fields, last year, were the largest in the history of many years, if not in the history of the Church, and from that source, of course, in years that are past, we have drawn great strength to the Church, but while these baptisms shall undoubtedly continue to bring into the fold countless thousands of the honest in heart from the various nations of the earth, nevertheless the source from which we shall draw our greatest strength shall be in the conversion and salvation of our own sons and daughters, because last year, for example, there were more than three times as many children born to Latter-day Saint parents as all the baptisms that were accomplished in the world. 

WE MAY LOSE OUR HERITAGE BY WRONG MARRIAGE. 

So that, the future growth of this work depends upon saving these boys and girls, that is, so far as numerical strength is concerned; 

166 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

and one of the most fruitful means of losing them, of causing loss to the community purpose and interest, and weakening the organization of the Church, dissipating our forces, is the movement that would have us enter into marriage with those of unbelieving faith. Then I know, because I have had the opportunity, and not many men have had a better opportunity, to study this situation as I have observed it while presiding over the Northwestern States Mission, for I saw hundreds of our Latter-day Saint girls and many boys living in Montana, Idaho, Oregon, Washington, and on visits to California, and President McMurrin could also testify to this thing, for he has seen it in that section — hundreds, I say, of these Latter-day Saint boys and girls who have, married out of their faith who have drifted away — this movement does not look to the concentration and building up of our communities nor the establishmient of this work, but it works to" the very opposite. It is scattering, it is dividing, it is dissipating our forces. 

THE EVILS OF BEING UNEQUALLY YOKED TOGETHER. 

I have no quarrel, nor shall I engage in any quarrel, with those who do not belong to us, who have sought our daughters or our sons in marriage. I do not blame a non-"Mormon" for trying to get a "Mormon" girl, because he would not find anybody better if he went all over the world; but 1 do seriously question the wisdom of that boy or girl who jeopardizes the glorious purposes and privileges the Lord had for them, who, through much tribulation, brought their parents to this place, where they might provide the .opportunity for believing sons and daughters to marry believing sons and daughters; where the opportunity might be provided for them to grow up, like calves in the stall, as the ancient prophet said, to inherit these blessings. I believe there was wisdom in Paul's statement, indeed I know it, for I have heard tales of sorrow and distress too long for me to repeat here, that would make a volume, that have come from those disobedient sons and daughters who have disregarded the desires and wishes of their parents and who have made an alliance wherein they are not evenly yoked together, and Paul's advice was good, that you should not be unevenly yoked together. I recognize that we are not the only Church which believes in this doctrine. We accord to all men the same privilege, to preach this doctrine and to hold their own within their own circle. This is not selfish. We are asking only that which we accord to others, and that which others, many of them, claim for their own; but in asking this we are asking it for the peace and the blessing of our boys, and girls first of all. Is there happiness in the home of those who are unevenly yoked together? My experience is that it is utterly impossible for a Latter-day Saint girl, trained and reared in a "Mormon" home, with "Mormon" ideals of the right relationship of husband and wife, parents and children, the very family institution itself, the care of children, their education, 

ELDER MELVIN /. BALLARD 167 

their training, their care in times of sickness and in death — there is no possibility for that boy or girl to enjoy to the highest and the fullest extent peace on earth, joy and happiness in this present time, &&d salvation and glory in the celestial kingdom of God, under this arrangement; it is not possible. 

AN ILLUSTRATION. 

I remember receiving a letter recently from a young man on a mission, who disregarded the advice I gave him, not to take this step. He said ten me that he now regretted it, because, he said, "We do not pull together, my wife and I do not have the same kind of ideals nor ambitions for our children, and when I ,would go ahead she holds back." He said it reminded him of an experience he had on the farm. They had a team 1 of mules, and one day one of the mules took sick, and in order to let the work go forward, they 1 substituted a blooded horse. When the blooded horse was ( hitched up with the mule, the horse being faster and more willing to go forward, every time he would get a little ahead of the mule, the mule would stop, and so, he said, it was nothing but a seesaw; they did not get anywhere. He said, "Now, that mule would have been a very good mule hitched up with another mule, but it wasn't a good thing to hitch it up with a blooded horse." The implication is again ,that you canjnot work successfully unequally yoked together. I do not mean to imply, of course, that the Latter-day Saints are the only ones that are blooded horses, and all the rest are mules, not at all, but I do mean tot say that you do not work successfully under that combination, and I have received from more than one girl the plea to please convey to the daughters of Israel their experience and their advice not to take the step they took. Now, so much for the individual blessing. 

UNEQUAL MARRIAGE IS A LOSS TO THE CHURCH. 

Then again, let me say that there is a loss to the Church. How many of those born under these circumstances remain within the fold ? Not many. There is a loss that we cannot afford to have constantly dissipating our forces and running away from us. 

THE APPROVED AND APPOINTED WAY OF MARRIAGE. 

My brethren ,and sisters, again, not only do we desire that our sons and daughters shall marry within the fold, but we desire that they shall come into the house of the Lord and enter into the sacred and holy obligations of matrimony in the Lord's approved and appointed way. We desire it again for their peace, for their salvation. Our records show that the divorce rate amiong those who enter into marriage in this holy, approved way is very much lower in the Church among that g'roup than among the group who marry for time only. And why? Of course it is significant to all of us that 

168 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

those who enter into these holy bonds of matrimony for time and eternity do not begin to' plan to separate and to part, but they begin to plan to live together not only in time but in eternity, for we are not building for time, we are building for eternity also. And there are connected with these blessings certain privileges, of course, that except men shall enter into them in this life, or they are performed in this life for men and women, those who fail to receive these blessings cannot come into the celestial kingdom of God where God and Christ dwell. It is a "Mormon" truism! that is current among us and we all accept it, that as man is) God once was and a(£ God is man may become. That does not signify that man will become God. I am sorry to say, and yet it is a truth, that not many men will become what God is, simply because they will not pay the price, because they are not willing to live up to the requirements; and still all men may, if they will, become what God is, but only those who are heirs of the celestial glory shall ever be possible candidates, to become what God is. We desire, therefore, that these boys and girls shall have the safety and protection of this kind of marriage. 

TEMPLE MARRIAGE A PROTECTION TO WOMEN 

There are some states that have regulations providing for the physical examination of men and in some instances women before certificates of marriage are issued. I lived for a long time in a state where that practice was in vogue and still is in vogue, and I have wished that this were true everywhere. But even if it should be extended to all the states of the Union, still I say to the daughters of Israel there is a better protection for you than this, and a better protection than ever will be provided by any law of the land, in that you have the privilege of requiring the man who proposes marriage to you to put himself in condition so that he can pass muster before his bishop to ascertain and to know — that that man is not only physically clean but he is morally clean and that he has faith in God, that he has honored the holy Priesthood and that he is worthy to go into the house of God. That protection is the best that possibly can be provided for the daughters of Israel, and it is yours. Will you not embrace it? Do not jeopardize your happiness, your future success in time and in eternity, by! ignoring this great and wonderful privilege that has been given to the daughters of Israel. Then many a boy who has entered into that solemn and holy obligation in this, the Lord's appointed way, has kept pure and clean by the covenants which he makes that he will be true to his wife, and he has stood in the hour of temptation many a time and resisted it because of the obligation which is upon him. Is that not a strength to the boy as well as a protection to the woman? For I want to tell you that no happiness can come to men or women where confidence is gone, and where there is not absolute trust in one's companion. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 169 

NO DOUBLE STANDARD WITH THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 

Oh, thank the Lord that in this Church we have no double standard. We have heard it, I have, from my childhood. I received from my mother and from, the organizations of the Church this admonition. She taught me to live as clean and as chaste anck, as pure as the girl I married and asked to be my wife, the mother of my children. She taught me that she would rather hear of my death than that I had been immoral and, had debauched myself. Thank God for thai advice, and that I had the courage and the strength to keep it and to live up to it. 

So, by reason of this provision, there is safety and protection and happiness to the sons and daughters of Zion that cannot come when they go out of their faith and mingle and associate in these relations with those who have entered into no such covenant and have lived no such life as this. And yet I do not wish to imply for a moment that there are not those who are clean, who are chaste and who are pure, who live in the world; I do not imply that at all, but I do say that here are the institutions and organizations that require such a iife of Latter-day Saint boys and girls. 

THE EVILS OF DIVORCE AND CHILDLESS MARRIAGES. 

One of the great sources which brings sorrow and trouble in the marriage state and that is distressing this country is the divorce evil. I notice that at a great gathering of women recently, in Washington, this problem was discussed and it was suggested that the women's vote must come forward to save America or else we shall be on the highway to moral degeneracy, because the divorce rate in this country has been mounting until it is announced that we now excel Japan in the number of divorces in this country and Japan has been leading the world. What is the answer to it? I thought, as I heard Dr. Holden yesterday, there is no problem that now distresses the world, of a moral character, of a financial character, of a social nature, except the key to solve it is in the hands of the Latter-day Saints, even as the Lord said he would make his people a light unto the world. We Lave just begun to solve these problems; we are going to go forward, and w,e will solve that problem also. The great contributing cause to divorces in this country are childless marriages, wherein men and women live to themselves the selfish life and pander to make these glorious bodies, with their divine endowment, mere harps of pleasure, and they will reap disgust, discomfiture, and condemnation, when they come to stand in the presence of Him who gave to man as his first great commandment, "Multiply and replenish the earth." 

My brethren and sisters, boys and girls who enter into marriage in the Latter-day Saints Church, in the Lord's approved way, enter in properly instructed, and if they live up to their obligations to one 

170 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

another they will keep, by all the power God has given them, that great and holy commandment, and reap for themselves joy, peace, happiness and blessings, in this life, and blessings of an eternal character in the world to come. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS ARE NOT TO BE ABSORBED. 

Brethren and sisters, we are not to be absorbed. The Lord has decreed it. He knows how to keep us where we ought to be, and when we get straying off the track he knows how to bring us back, for he will not desert this people. His promise was that this work should never be overcome nor given to another people. He may chastise us, he may correct us, but he will not let us go astray. If we, therefore, keep his commandments, we not only shall escape chastisement, but we shall come into our glorious heritage, and the light of Zion shall continue to rise, for behold, her day has come, her light shall shine, the glory of it shall be reflected to the uttermost ends of the earth, and the men of all nations shall come and say, "Let us go up to the mountain of the house of the God of Jacob, so that we may learn to walk in his; paths," and the attention of the angels of heaven shall be called to the earth, and unto this people; and behold, the King shall come and he shall receive his people and reign with them a thousand years. 

God speed that day, for Zion's future is as sure as the sun shines, if we will only keep the commandments of the Lord, ajnd all these glorious things shall come to pass. May the Lord find us. and our children, and children's children, identified with this glorious work in the day of its triumph, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo entitled, "O Lord, remember me," was sung by Mrs. Ruth Brewerton. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

My brethren and sisters: I have been very greatly impressed with what has been said from this stand during the sessions of this conference, and I believe, with all my heart, that youi and I will go to our homes with a resolution in our hearts to live nearer to God than we have ever done before. This is the desire of my heart, and I trust that we will be able to retain, to a very marked extent, the greac spiritual feast that we have enjoyed during the last three or four days. 

Yesterday afternoon when some of the brethren were speaking of the pioneers to this state, certain thoughts came to me, and I too 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 171 

was impressed with a greater realization of the fact that the Latterday Saints have always placed their faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. With the faith in God, in Christ Jesus and in the Holy Ghost, they have approached their daily lives, and their lives through all the years, and they have retained that implicit faith to this day. If there is anything in the world that is needed at this hour the world over, it is the simple faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ. 

Not long ago I walked into a school room in southern Utah, and while sitting listening to a recitation in western history, the school teacher of that grade made this remark to the boys and girls of the sixth grade: "The 'Mormon' pioneers who came to these valleys before the railroad were a good people, but they were uncultured and unprogressive; we are thankful that the generation of today is becoming cultured and realizing the day of progress." 

"The 'Mormon' pioneers were a good people but uncultured and unprogressive" — that to come from a person who posed before those children as one who knew something about the history of America and the western part of this continent. I want to go on record here, holding, as I do, the Chair of Western History, at the University of Utah, and say that a finer type of people never lived than the "Mormon" pioneers who settled these valleys of Utah, and they were a cultured and progressive people; I sometimes think they were more cultured and progressive than we. are today, but this is not true, if the generation of today is realizing the great power and light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. ' 

The "Mormon" people were brought from different nations of the earth. They became convinced in those very early days of the truthfulness of the gospel by the revelation of God to them individually. They became an inspired people. God never called upon cowards to do work for him, but he has given the work invariably to high types of people, high minded people, a highly spiritual people. You Scandinavians that have come from the Scandinavian countries, you English, you Germans, and all who have come from the different nations of Europe, did not accept the gospel of Jesus Christ because of your ignorance. You accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ because of your intelligence, your high mindedness; and though you were poor in worldly goods in your native lands, you were rich in spiritual endowments. The peoples of the world that have been gathered to these valleys from the nations of Europe are the highest types of those nations, because of the fact it takes a high type of man or woman to understand this gospel of Jesus Christ and to obtain a testimony of its truth. 

The Latter-day Saints came to these valleys but a few years after the organization of the Church by a few men who were not educated in the sense that they had been to the great schools of America, but they were educated in the greater laws of righteousness, men who 

172 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

had communed with God, men who had opened their souls to the light of heaven. Those men assembled, and by the gift and the power of God, organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Then began their historic march from the Atlantic seaboard to the far West, to these mountains, and wherever they went, the Latter-day Saints were first imbued with the wonderful testimony that they had to bear to the world, namely, that God had spoken from the heavens. Could there be any greater ideal for; which to work? With that ideal they came into the far west, they developed the lands; they were a progressive people. In 1840,, at the time of the invention of the modern farming implements, the modern plow, the modem threshing machine, mowing machine and sewing machine, they took those machines, and adapted them to their work, to their daily lives; they brought those inventions to the valleys of Utah, and used them in developing the soil. But not only were they progressive from an economic viewpoint, but those " Mormon" t pioneers thought tfirst and foremost of the intellectual and spiritual development. In a study of seventy-two towns in the history of the Great Basin, we have found that invariably the "Mormon" pioneers, wherever they went, not only built their cabins but they built their school and meeting houses; they had their teachers, and the first school in Utah was opened less than three months after the advent of the pioneers to this valley. In 1850, by an act of the first legislative assembly of the State of Deseret, the first university west of the Missouri river was inaugurated; the faculty in the year 1850 was organized, and that university still lives on the hill that in 1850 was picked out by Governor Brigham Young and the legislature for a higher institution of learning. I know the criticism has been given that it was not a real university. It was a real university for that day, for we recall the fact that in 1845 to 1850. Harvard, Columbia and Yale universities were only high schools; in fact their curricula would not equal the curricula of the high schools of America today. The ideal of university training was indelibly stamped on the hearts of those pioneers. They developed the schools. They had their different educational organizations, their philosophical societies — Wilford Woodruff was the president of the Scientific Society, here in Salt Lake City. They held meetings, and had their various meetings of the priesthood for intellectual training. Finally the different auxiliary organizations were formed, and the youth of the Latter-day Saints invited to attend the meetings of those organizations. 

When you come to study this great educational movement in the Great Basin, you will find that the "Mormon" people fostered every factor possible for the development of the youth. They built a theatre in the wilderness, and the sole purpose was that the people might have amusements of the proper kind. After they built this theatre in the wilderness, the master of the English language, Shakespeare, was studied, his plays were produced, and I remember not long ago of 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 173 

having the opportunity of taking Sir Johnston Forbes Robertson into the old Social Hall here, now called the "Little Theatre;" we walked in there three or four years ago during a very stormy day, and as we went down the aisle, that greatest actor of all English speaking people looked above the stage and saw the bust of Shakespeare. He took off his hat and said, "That tells the story as to whether or not your pioneers appreciated art and the finer things of life." 

True, those pioneers did not have what we have today, and I know that Professor Holden, when he stood on this stand yesterday and spoke to us, realized the fact they were essentially agriculturists. They had to get down to the soil and conquer it to lay the foundation for the institutions of today; but in conquering the soil, they loved it and realized more than any other people that agriculture is the basis of our whole civilized life. Many were the times when the farmer plowed, planted his seed, and went forth to water the dry land, some weeks later, but there was no water. Many were the times that the pioneer farmer saw his wheat field dry up. Many' were the times he went forth to harvest but 'there was no< harvest. And yet he did not move to another clime. His prophet had said, "This is the place," and in those words he had faith and his faith sustained him. There was an altruism developed among those pioneers that we do not find today — a right altruism, a real spirit of co-operation. The altruism, the love of neighbor, which is fundamental to the love of God, has never been surpassed since that day, if it has been equaled. 

Each town of early-day Utah was an ecclesiastical unit, with social and political tendencies. The ecclesiastical unit was based on the idea, of individual power and self-development through religious principles. Each individual was responsible in this religious scheme to his God; each was independent to grow intellectually and morally in the sense that man is in the image of God. It is necessary to say this in order that we may understand the democracy of the town government of early-day Utah. Politically and socially, all rights were inherent in the people. 

The power that held the people together was the religious feeling; and with this the economic interests common to all. In these social groups, the desire was to live and let live. The people were intensely practical; the physical conditions of he country made them so. They were compelled to apply their 1 religious idealism to the immediate problems in hand. 

The two ideals fundamental in traditional American thought are the ideal of individual freedom to compete unrestrictedly for the resources of the country, and the ideal of democracy, where the government is for all the people and by all the people. American democracy has always been based on free lands. Such ideals were always present in the colonizing of the valleys of Utah. But we must not 

174 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

forget that the "Mormon" colonists were always religious in their organization in form as well as in purpose. 

I am glad to say that Dr. Turner of Harvard University has recently said in a lecture before the students there : "The 'Mormon' people, in the far west, developed the finest type of New England town government that was ever developed outside of New England." That alone stamps the "Mormon" people as fine types of Americans, and when they came here they plunged into the wilderness with the Constitution of the United States as their fundamental organic law. 

Were they cultured? Yes; because they were men and women of ideals, because they had implicit faith in God; the faith that is needed in the world today. Where they cultured ? Yes; because those "Mormon" pioneers planted here, I believe as no other people planted in the history of America, the five great institutions of all civilization; namely, agriculture, the home, the church, the state, and the school; and in a study of these five institutions of civilization will you find the splendid history of the "Mormon" pioneers who settled here in those early days. The teacher who spoke as she did, spoke in ignorance. 

I pray God that we may retain that old-fashioned, implicit faith in God that our fathers and mothers had. 

This is what has been writtern about those pioneers and has gone from this state to some of the universities, not only of America but the world, and it was the paragraph that closed a recent lecture at the University of California : 

"Side by side with the development of the natural resources of Utah," [our temporal history] "Utah has constantly cultivated those things that make for culture. The growth of the Church has been brought about by the virility and vision of its leaders, and it has been a'ble to solve the new problems of civilization. In the process of expansion the 'Mormon' people have won distinction not alone in industrial enterprise, but in the fine arts as well; in fact, more than in the fine arts, more than in industry, the 'Mormon' people have won distinction as the finest type of religionists living today. The bond of sympathy between the practical and the esthetic, between reality and vision, between the temporal and the spiritual, the Latter-day Saints from the beginning have ever regarded as the secret of present strength and the measure of enduring achievement." 

The late Judge C. C. Goodwin once paid the following tribute to the "Mormon" pioneers in the columns of the Salt Lake Tribune : 

"It is good to see the Saints bring their children in to conference. We wonder if many of them stop to tell their children the beautiful story of the evolution that, the full history pictures, since the day that the first weary company came down the eastern mountains and halted there. 

"That was Salt Lake's first moving picture; there has been none like it since. Contemplating it, the temple, the hotels, theaters, churches, hospitals, great business houses and stately homes, the temples to religion, to learning, to industry, to justice and mercy, all vanish away; the roar of business becomes still; the silence which the desert broods comes back; gardens vanish, the flowers all fade; there is nothing as now seen save the surrounding mountains, the 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 175 

lake shimmering in the distance, the sun shining from above and the desolation that wrapped all this region round like a burial robe. Even the branches on the few stunted trees hung drooping like funeral plumes, while the sough of the breeze coming down from the hills, or up from the lake, was as mournful as is the requiem chanted on the shores of the Styx. 

"The way a state is carved out of a wilderness and rounded into form is always an interesting theme. The way the first stakes of civilization were driven in Utah was drarnatic enough to be set to words for the stage. In their penury and distress the first act of the Utah pioneers was to sink upon the earth; not in prayer for help, not in lamentation and despair, but in glad praise service in thanks to the power that had led them through the wastes and over the transfixed billions of the everlasting hills to a place of rest. 

"Then their work began. They were not dreaming of fortunes. 

"The struggle before them was to live and that struggle continued almost without abatement to the end. Often only the barest necessities were vouchsafed; few comforts, no luxuries. In that rough friction their youth was worn away; the men surrendered their ambitions, the women folded fond dreams and a thousand innocent longings in their hearts and drew the silence of self-sacrifice over them forever. 

"But then the miracle commenced. The desert began to transfer the wrinkles and sadness from its somber face to theirs, while in turn it began to absorb the splendor of their youth, and to cause it to be reflected in flowers and fruits and golden grain and vines in which the birds made their nests and filled all the soft air with their songs. 

"Later still, as though touched with pity, the irresponsive mountains began to swing back their adamantine doors, revealing the treasures within, where they had remained secreted, waiting until the time should be ripe for the coming of progress and enlightenment. The overwearied eyes of those pioneers have mostly all closed : their hands, gnarled by labor, are nearly all folded, but the miracle is still being performed. More and more fields are annually rescued from the desert; more and more flowers are blooming; more and more birds are singing; wider and wider fields grow golden under the harvest sun, recalling the old legend, that artist angels, in the long ago, came here from Summerland and with divine pencils, dipped in the dyes where light is brewed, left it all as a frame for a city beautiful which man was to build; we may believe that the building of that city has been begun and is progressing toward perfection. 

"This is the story that should be told the children when they are brought in to conference, and then they should be told to listen and note if they cannot still hear the echoes of that first praise service, with which the fathers dedicated this soil to the enlightenment which comes through devotion to duty, through the omnipotence of patient labor, and through faith in God." 

God grand that we may see these great things in our history, and that the truth of the faith and the development of the Latter-day Saints and their great message may yet become known to the honest in heart and to all the world. T ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

To one not accustomed to occupying this position and one whose mission is to labor in helping to care for the temporal affairs of the Church, this is indeed a task. However, I rejoice in this opportunity that I have to address you, for I have discovered in my 

176 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

short ministry that, through service we grow best and develop most. Never in my life have I felt the responsibility that rests upon me more than I feel it at this time, and never in all my life have I had in my heart a greater desire to "keep the commandments" than I have now. 

I could not help but think yesterday, while Bishop Nibley was addressing us, of the contrast in his life and my life. The seventh son, thirteenth child in order of birth, a comfortable home, a mother whose every thought was for the welfare of her children, a father whose life stands out as a shining example in service, a grandfather whose life was given in an attempt to help establish this work upon earth. 

It has-been my privilege to know intimately (if it can be said that a boy through having the opportunity of being in the presence of such men almost constantly, can be intimate), four presidents of this Church, with their counselors; I have seen one complete change in the quorum of the Twelve, and have known personally all of these men. Under such influences and conditions, I have grown to manhood, and when called to the Presiding Bishopric, if I had been asked what my equipment was, I perhaps would have answered that it had been my privilege to hold every office in the priesthood, from that of deacon to high priest; that under the direction of good men, faithful and true, I have been encouraged to function in each office. It has been my privilege to labor in the Sabbath school, as a student, as a teacher in the class, and as an aid in the stake organization. In the Mutual, as a student, as a class leader, as an officer in the ward, and as an officer in the stake. What a wonderful blessing has come to me. And yet, well do I remember, soon after having been called to this position, being sent to one of our stakes with a message to deliver to the bishops of that stake, upon going into the room where they had assembled, and seeing before me men whose hair was gray, or turning gray, there came upon me the feeling of fear. It seemed to me absurd, for me, a youth, to stand there before those men tried in the service, and attempt to instruct them in their duties. My first thought was to retire; how could I get away from this responsibility? And oh, how I prayed that God would bless me and give me strength equal to that responsibility. It came, but not with words of logic, not with the power of oratory to convince them, but, as I attempted to form my thoughts in words, I found, as I uttered them, that they fell upon ears_ long trained to patience, upon hearts that breathed forth the spirit of charity, upon souls that had faith in God and honored his Priesthood. I went from that meeting with a new vision, a new sight. I saw the bigness of the work in an entirely new light. I found that this equipment which I thought I had was only the foundation upon which I must build, and I made a survey of myself. Where must I start to improve? T found that it was much easier 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 177 

for me to tear down, much easier for me to find fault and to criticize, than it was to build up, than it was to construct. I found that it took no effort whatever to tear down, but it took strength, it took courage, it took the power of will to build up. And from that day to this, I have tried; God knows I have tried. I have been encouraged very much fromi time to time in reading the scripture. One passage that I have had on my mind, since the opening remarks of this conference, I will read, and perhaps comment upon. And let me say that this was uttered by one of the apostles of old, and I think applies in this day with the same force that it did at thac time : 

"Wherefore, laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings." 

And I hope I will be permitted to add to that the remarks of President Penrose, in which he says avoid speculations, for in this Church there is no need for speculations, no room for lying, or for the man who indulges in it; there is no place for malice or for him who has malice in his heart. He who has guile cannot live properly his religion, and be a true servant of God. Hypocrites are undesirable and cannot become useful in the sight of God. To envy is to take a step downward and lessen our power to do good. Evil speaking of our brethren, of our neighbors, of those who are in authority, is the first step to apostasy. 

"As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk ,of the word, that ye may j;row thereby: 

"If so be ye have tasted that the Low is gracious. "To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God, and precious, 

"Ye also, as lively ston.es, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. 

"Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall no) be confounded. 

"Unto you therefore which believe he is precious; but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, 

"And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient : whereunto also they were appointed. 

"But ye arc a chosen generation a royal priesthood, an holy nation, i peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the prais.es of him who hatfc called you out of darkness into his marvelous light: 

I repeat: 

"Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. 

"Ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light." 

I stand before you at this time, my brethren and sisters, with Joseph Fielding Smith and Hyrum G. Smith, a living testimony to the fulfilment of the promise of God to his servant, Hyrum Smith. 

178 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

My greatest desire, and my fondest hope are that, I shall prove faithful to the Priesthood which has been conferred upon me through God's servants, that I shall prove to these men who hold the fulness of that Priesthood, that I shall prove worthy of you, my brethren, and my sisters, from, whom I gain so much strength, that I shall prove true to my God, to whom I owe all that I have and my very existence. God grant that when I shall have finished my work here upon earth, he can say of me, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant," and I ask it through his Son Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am delighted to have Elder Golden Kimball here; he has been in poor health, but we are glad that he is able to be with us at this conference, and I am very much pleased to have him talk to us. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

My brethren and sisters, 1 have been hanging on the hook so long during this conference that 1 am nearly exhausted. I have had some wonderful thoughts, but you waited so long they have nearly all oozed out of me. 

When I came in the Tabernacle yesterday afternoon, I was met by one of my old missionary friends. He said, "Hello, Golden, I thought you were dead." Now, I want to notify my friends, and 1 have some good friends — I have tested them out, 1 know — not to worry about me; that when I am dead — and it is an awful job to get there, I have found that out, when I die, I have made arrangements for a brass band. I like the idea of lots of noise and confusion, people inquiring, "Who is that?" "Why, Kimball's dead." Then the people won't worry any more about me. 

My brethren and sisters, I attribute my partial recovery, and I hope I will continue to improve, very largely to the kindness and sympathy of my brethren, the presidency of the Church, the council of the Twelve, and to the First Council of the Seventy and other friends. 1 came home last October to attend conference and was taken sick, and remained at my home nearly two months. When I got around and thought of my brethren and their kindness and sympathy for me, I want to tell you, brethren, T felt this was a mighty good world. 1 have repeated hundreds and hundreds of times, while I was sick, the words of Frohman when he went down to his death. He said, "Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure of life." I want to tell Frohman I have not got that in me yet. T think this is a pretty good world. I think I am safer here among my brethren who know 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 179 

me, although we have had an awfully hard time getting acquainted. Brethren, I have learned a number of lessons. I have had several, to me, quite serious experiences. I remember thirty-seven years ago I was secretary for Brother Roberts who presided over the Southern States Mission. After I had traveled for a year without purse or scrip and had tested God thoroughly, I found the Lord's word good. He never failed me. I traveled in the state of Virginia. I went on one trip with a young elder, and I say it with a good deal of pride, six hundred miles, without purse and without scrip and without friends. No man had ever heard the voice of a "Mormon" elder where we traveled. We left a trail behind us, a trail that other elders have traveled, and at no time during that three months did I sleep outdoors, but I came mighty near it a lot of times. I thought the Lord surely had forsaken us, at times, but when it came to the last test, someone's heart was softened, and they fed us and they gave us a bed so we had no use for money. 

During my labors in Chattanooga with Brother Roberts, as it was in the early history of that city, I was thoroughly poisoned with malaria. I was drunken, but not with strong drink, but with malaria. 1 was as yellow as a parchment. As I went along the streets one day in Chattanooga, a stranger met me. He happened to be a physician. He said, "Young man, I don't know who you are, but if you don't do something for yourself you will die." "Well," I said, "I will not, as I'm a 'Mormon,' you can't kill them." When Brother Morgan came down and relieved Brother Roberts, I was still in the office, looking worse than ever. Brother Morgan looked me over carefully. He said, "Brother Kimball, you better! go home. The mission is very hard run for money. It will only cost twenty-four dollars to send you home alive, but it will cost three hundred to send you home dead." It was' a matter of business in that office; they had no money. I think maybe that was all I was worth. "No," I said, "Brother Morgan, I don't want to go home. I believe I was called on this mission by revelation; at least they told me so in my blessing. Now God has been good to me and he has been faithful and true,"and I want to test him out, and if he can't take care of me, when T have been as faithful and true as I have, and made the sacrifices I have, then he is not the God of my fathers." So Brother Morgan let me stay, and I filled my mission. I have my release. It is the only release I have ever had, and I prize it very much. When I was released he said, "Brother Kimball, now you'd better go right straight home." I said, "Brother Morgan, I can't. My mother suffered the pain of death to give me life. She has watched over me from my childhood to manhood, and she loves her people. She heard Brother Jedediah M. Grant, President Grant's father, preach in Philadelphia, when she was a girl twenty years old. She heard only the one discourse, and she embraced the gospel, and she took the Church works and 'went (o her people, a good people, an honest people, a wonderful people 

180 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

she had, but they all rejected it, and she had to leave, and it broke her mother's heart. She went back to Philadelphia, and in company with President Jedediah M. Grant and his wife traveled by teami to Nauvoo and married my father, and that is how I happen to be here today. My mother watched me grow to manhood. You know the one great vision and dream she had? It was that her son, her eldest son, should grow to manhood and go back to her people and let them see what 'Mormonism' had done." And I went, and God kept me alive, and I visited them for five weeks, and I preached in their church, and my mother's relatives told their old minister, who had preached there for thirty years, that unless he let Christine Golden's son preach, they would leave his church. So I got to preach. He was a clever old fellow, too. I thought I would ease up on him a little and get another chance. So I preached in his splendid church building, and when I got through he said to his people, "This man has told the truth. I have preached it to you for thirty years." Well, I said, "I'll fix you the next time," but I never got another chance. At any rate, while I was there I secured the names of over one hundred and fifty of my mother's people, and I brought them back to her, and her dream was fulfilled; and in the winter of 1834 my brother Elias and I accompanied our mother, and we did the temple work for the Golden family, and I am still alive. 

Brethren, I have had a pretty lonely time. I have had a pretty hard struggle. I haven't suffered much pain. I have got a pretty good brain, but it has not been big enough to handle my body; I have tried to direct and control my body, but it wouldn't obey. I have been administered to by some of the best men in this Church; no better men ever lived than the men who have administered to me, but I am sorry to say, and ashamed to say, I did not have the faith to be healed. There is not a man in this Church who knows any better than I do that God the Father and Jesus Christ the Redeemer are the great physicians. I have unfaltering, unwavering faith in God the Father and in his Son Jesus Christ, but you cannot be healed without faith; you have got to have the faith. I have got the gift to heal others. I have seen wonderful healings. Few men have seen more, unless they were better men. I have witnessed all kinds of diseases healed, but I could not get the faith, I failed. I just had enough faith to keep alive, that is all. I talked with President Grant, and I thought climate would help me; I was a little short on faith, so I tried climate for nine months. As I told you, I came back last October sick, and I went back again and tried climate again. Now I am on my feet. I went to a specialist; I have had an X-ray taken of my lungs; I was scared to death he would find something, but I thought I would test him out. My family wanted v to know what was the matter. Well, I found one of my batteries somewhat damaged, that is, they told me so. Then he shot me full of serumi and full of iron and strychnia, at five dollars a shot. That pretty near broke my 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 181 

heart when I got through with that specialist. I did not want to go to him, but to please my family I went. They are very anxious for me to live, for some reason. I hardly know what it is. I have been awfully neglectful of them. My family has been secondary in my work. I hope the brethren will be awfully careful what they Fay about families. I hope they will be very tender of men's feelings, when they talk about our children and about parents being responsiHe for their children — that their sins will rest upon them. God knows, I have got all I can carry without packing anyone else. Now you want to be awfully careful and awfully tender of those things, because in the wisdom of God he will gather our children together. They are God's children. My children are God's children. God is just as much responsible for my children as I am. 

 Now, brethren, I want to say to you — I do not know whether you know it or not — there is a lot of things you do not know that, you ought to be told — if there are any people who are neglected in the Church of Jesus Christ, it is the families of the leaders of the Church. They go out and tell, you how to take care of your families, and they are away from home and their families take; care of themselves. You want to be careful. 

Brethren and sisters, when I am satisfied, everybody is satisfied. I can see a hole in a doughnut. I have- always grieved over a doughnut. My mother was a doughnut maker. When she showed me those doughnuts, I grieved over the hole. Some of the people say there is no hole in a doughnut, but I never could agree with them. I always see the hole and forget about the doughnut. I think we have some faults and some failings. I have been worried a little. While I have been absent I was afraid that we might get too material. I have been a little afraid for God's people and myself, afraid that we would trust too much in money and forget God, and I came to this conference hungry, hungry for the word of God. While in San Francisco I attended the Latter-day Saint Church on Sundays, I took part in the worship of the people. I have watched those young elders carefully, for over a year, off and on, and have seen them develop and grow and become men. But I was hungry for the word of God, and I have come back to my people. I think of the words of Ruth. I never quoted them before; maybe I cannot now, but she said : 

"Whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God: 

"Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried." 

That expresses my feelings. God save the people. 

I never felt better, I never felt surer, in all of my ministry for over twenty-eight years in this Church, that we are God's people, that God is sustaining President Grant as prophet, seer and revelator. He is sustaining his counselors and the twelve apostles. 

182 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

By the way, in conclusion, I would like to admonish you people not to pray only for the Presidency and, the Twelve, but once in a while pray for the First Council. I don't know of any other council that needs it worse. We need your help, we need your assistance, we need your faith to prepare that great body of priesthood to fulfil their appointment in this Church. I know as well as I know that is my right hand, if you will call that body of priesthood to the foreign ministry they will go, but we have advised them not to go until you call them, and I have told them hundreds of times, not to go until they were sent. If you will call them and get behind' them, I promise you in the name of the Lord they will go. I know. God bless you. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." The closing prayer was offered by Elder Thomas E. McKay, President of the Ogden stake of Zion. 


