Morning
05 04 1921

President Heber J. Grant announced the opening of the service. 

The congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." 

Elder Andrew Kimball, President of the St. Joseph stake of Zion, offered the opening prayer. 

The congregation sang, "O, say what is truth?" the favorite hymn of the late President Anthon H. Lund, as announced by President Heber J. Grant. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

"Sweet are the uses of adversity, Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, Wears yet a precious jewel in his head." 

For a good many months w.e have been laboring as a people under distressing circumstances. 

THE FINANCIAL CONDITION. 

The financial conditions which have prevailed have brought many of us a keener appreciation of our reliance upon the Lord. Everywhere, so far as I know, throughout the communities that go to make up the body of the Church', the situation has been fraught with financial difficulty. Men have discovered that they could not continue as they had been wont to do, for the last several years, in high living, in more or less of extravagance, and sustain their financial positions. I have wondered if this lesson has not been brought to us for the purpose, in large measure, of vindicating the counsel and advice and the policies of the Church, extending over many, many years. 

OUR TEMPORAL AFFAIRS TAKE ON RELIGIOUS SIGNIFICANCE. 

It is sometimes said that we have a great economic mission. I think perhaps the use of that phrase is not calculated to define quite the exact situation, because I take it, the Church has no economic mission as such. The function that it plays in the economies of our people and of the world is a function that is merely coincident with its great purpose, which is to establish the kingdom of God and to provide, through the facilities which it offers, opportunities for the development of men and women in conformity to the principles and the truths of the everlasting Gospel. Our temporal affairs take on a religious significance and importance, not merely because they are 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

temporal affairs, but because we interpret our religion in terms of life and living. There can be no salvation; hereafter, in our conception of things, unless there be salvation here. We hope for the everlasting rewards which are to come to those who are faithful^ by the devocion of our lives to the service of our Master here on earth. It is because we so inextricably interweave our temporal lives with our 1 spiritual ones that we regard our temporal affairs as being elemental in our spiritual salvation. 

THE ECONOMIC MISSION OF THE CHURCH. 

Having in mind this conception, the Church does have a great economic mission in the world and particularly among its people. I have had some opportunity in the assignments made to rme by the presidency of the Church in the last several years, to make some observations with reference to the place and function of the Church in the temporal or financial affairs of the people, and I desire to take this opportunity to give to my fellow members of the Church the benefit of my own observations and my testimony upon this important subject — I say important because I recognize the fact that throughout the Church, among all men and women, their temporal or financial affairs constitute a very important part and feature of their lives. 

The Church has always assumed a position of helpfulness. In order to render the service which it considers it ought to render, it has undertaken to give support to various commercial and economic enterprises in order to promote the general welfare of the people. No little criticism has been directed, both on the part of the membership of the Church, or at least a limited portion of the membership of the Church, and from outside sources, toward this engagement in economic affairs. 

When we are confronted with adverse conditions we come to learn the advantage which accrues from the association of the Church in the business affairs of the people. I believe that aside from the great mission that the Church has performed in stimulating legitimate industry and enterprises among the people, the Church does now perform (and it is brought forcibly to our attention in these strenuous times), a great mission in stabilizing business of our communities. I give it to you as my deliberate judgment that had it not been for the influence which the Church has exercised in the fundamental busmess affairs of our part of the country during these strenuous times we would have seen catastrophes that would have made us tremble. It is my belief that were it not for the fact that the president of our own Church stands at the head of some of the commercial institutions of our intermountain country, they could scarcely have stood under the conditions which these hard times have laid upon us. 

I regard the whole situation as a vindication of the inspiration that has come to the leadership of our Church. For my own part, I 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 127 

here and now repent of any thought or criticism: that has ever been in my heart for the participation of the Church in the temporal affairs of the people, and I believe that the present situation warrants a similar attitude on the part of any man or woman in this Church who may have entertained the notion that it is wrong for our leaders to concern themselves with these temporalities that offer employment, and in a measure regulate and ,serve to provide our business opportunities. 

THE ADVICE TO KEEP OUT OF DEBT, NOT GENERALLY LIVED UP TO. 

The advice that has come to the people throughout these many years has been to keep free from the obligations of debt. A few have accepted the advice. Thousands have not. They find themselves in distressing condition at the present time. The vindication of that advice lies in the fact that, as a people, we would today be in a position of great advantage, we would be table to extend your economic advantage all over our intermountain country, we would be in a position to initiate new enterprises, we could reclaim and! put to use many of our resources, if we had only accepted the advice. But we have not in the main accepted and lived up to> that advice. In consequence we find that as a people, as a community, we are indebted, in sums of money that are almost staggering in their contemplation. At the present moment there is, owing to the Federal Reserve Bank, which is located in this district, and which serves the territory in< which our people mainly reside, between thirty and forty millions of dollars, a large portion of which represents obligations of our people. We will have to pay that great debt. 

WE MUST BE SAVING AND ECONOMICAL. 

We will have to square ourselves with our creditors, and I know of only one way in which we can do it, and that is by adopting and putting into practice the counsel and the advice that has been' given by the leadership of the Church for these many years. We must save, we must be economical in our living. We must patronize our home industries and institutions. I believe that it will be possible for us not only to pay off all the obligations that we owe, if we live according to the standards that have been set for us, but that it will be possible for us to continue the development of our resources and it will be possible for us to go forward and to initiate and maintain such enterprises as shall make for the general welfare of all the people. I propose that we take into our living some of the fundamental conceptions of our faith, and so enable us the better to follow this advice and counsel which has come to us from time to time. 

OUR SUBSTANCE NOT TO BE DEVOTED TO SELFISH ENDS AND PURPOSES. 

I am indebted to Brother Rulon S. Wells for a thought that I 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

wish to give to you at this time. I remember upon one occasion his presentation of this conception of our faith; not only is a man obligated to give one-tenth of his increase to the Church as a tithing, but that in the proper conception of his relationship to the Lord and his work, he is obligated to devote and to consecrate all of his wealth and substance to the work of the Lord. I grant you that upon the first consideration that doctrine would seem to entail a responsibility to which we could not live, but does it? Is not everything that we enjoy a gift of God? Is not all the wealth that comes into our hands to he used by us for the furtherance of his purposes? What man is entitled to say to himself, even if he has paid his tithing, "All of the remainder of this substance belongs to me? It is at my disposal to bp used for the furtherance of my own selfish ends and purposes." Is it not by far the nobler, the finer conception to say : "All of this substance is mine, as a steward, to be used by me for the establishment of our Father's work? I don't need it all just for myself, but I do need it for the maintenance of the institutions that are necessary to the establishment of the Church and society." The man who maintains a good home is devoting his substance to the purposes of the Lord. The man contributes to the proper environment to his fellows and who uses his means for the maintenance of institutions which tend to build up the country, is not devoting his substance to ,'selfish ends and purposes. Some increment may come to him but he is really building up the kingdom of God, he is helping to establish the people, he is making of this the Land of Zion which it was intended to be and is intended to be, and so in that larger sense, is it not a proper conception of our relationship to our Father and to his work to say that all that we have, that every grain of substance that comes to us is to be devoted and consecrated to the establishment of our Father's work? Furthermore, will not that conception bring to us a greater measure of happiness and devotion and contentment? Will we not all feel that in so using our means we are in very deed serving our Master? I know of no greater contentment and happiness and satisfaction that can come to a human soul than to feel that to the extent of his capacity aind ability he is indeed serving our Father who is in heaven. 

THE CALL TO THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN THESE DEPRESSING TIMES. 

My brethren and sisters, I cannot but think that if we obey the counsel that has come to us, if we act in the light of the great truth that has been revealed to us, and devote ourselves to the establishment of our Father's work with all our mind, might, strength and substance, that our Father will bless us to the accomplishment of the great ends and purposes that we have in view. I have always believed that the Lord intended that we should enjoy the material comforts that can be afforded to us in this life. I have never felt that he intended us to be in poverty. I have believed that he has 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 129 

planned that the earth should yield of her substance and her riches to those who are righteous and who keep the commandments. I believe that the call to us at this time, in these distressing financial conditions, is to keep the commandments of the Lord, to establish ourselves in the various lines of industry that are open to us; to develop the resources of our country, to live economically; to put into practice the great lessons of thrift that have been given to us, and to devote our all to the establishment of this great work. I know that if we so do, it will bring to us the blessings of heaven and that the Lord will give us a greater measure of his Spirit and that in the attempt that we make to be self-sacrificing and to be careful and economical there will come among our people more of the spirit of love and unison and harmony. I believe that there will be less desire to build up one's self at the expense of others. 

SATISFACTION COMES THROUGH ALTRUISTIC MOTIVES. 

Indeed I think that the time is upon us when we must consider our whole economic situation. It is not a time for anyone to prosper at the disadvantage or expense of another. This must be in order to have a general economic balance. All men must share in the burdens as well as in the advantages. There must be more or less of an even distribution of these advantages and these burdens. One class of people allied in any common industry cannot hope to acquire for themselves wages and conditions that are not consonant with the conditions that prevail with other classes of people. 

What we really need is the application of the religious principle to all of our living. There is nothing more needed in all this world today than the application of the principles announced by the Savior of the world. Our great economic problems can never be solved with selfishnes dominant in the hearts of men. Men will never be satisfied with bigger wages and with bigger properties and bigger holdings. The only way that real satisfaction can come to people is that they shall be actuated by altruistic motives that give them a regard for and an interest in the welfare of their neighbors. That is the purpose of true religion. Never was it more needed in the history of the world than today. We must set an example to the world. My judgment is that all of our preaching, all of our books, will never be comparable with the examples that we set in our living here at home. The sermon of our own lives will do more to convert the people of the world to the principles of truth, than any other single force or factor that we possess. 

My humble prayer is that the Lord will help us to conform to the advice and counsel that come from the leadership of our Church; that he will establish us in the faith; that he will give us vision and conception of the great mission and destiny of this work; that we will indeed be led to consecrate all that we have, all that God gives us, for the establishment of his kingdom and for the carrying for130 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ward of his mighty work, for the salvation of the children of men. I pray for this blessing upon the Latter-day Saints in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My heart is full of gratitude unto my heavenly Father for the name and standing which I hold in this Church. I thank him for the restoration of his glorious gospel, through the instrumentality of his prophet, Joseph Smith. My heart is full of appreciation of that gospel, for all of its gifts and blessings that we are today in the enjoyment of. There are many of these blessings to which we have become so accustomed that we sometimes fail to appreciate them, and yet if we were deprived of them by being separated from the Church, we would then feel what a loss it was indeed. The blessings of the gospel are felt in the homes of all faithful Latter-day Saints. The power of God is manifest in the intercourse which we hold in our family circles and in our associations with one another, in our coming together in meetings, in offering up prayers and feeling the presence of his Holy Spirit, in the healing of the sick, and in untold many ways arc we in the enjoyment of these splendid blessings which come by reason of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. But there is one blessing that exceeds all the others and embodies within it all the blessings of the gospel. It is God's greatest gift unto his children — eternal life. And to obtain this blessing all members of the Church should be zealously, energetically striving with all their might. It is indeed far more valuable to us than all other things that we can possibly conceive of, for it means all that the name implies, eternal life. And we must not think that this is limited to the usual conception of a never ending life, for we have a much broader meaning to that term than merely that we shall continue to live after we have "shuffled off this mortal coil." No indeed, it means coming forth in the resurrection from the dead, crowned with immortality and eternal life, and in that term we mean an exalted life in the presence of God, for he is indeed the very Eternal One and eternal life means his life, to live with him forevermore, to receive from him, as has been promised, "all that the Father hath" — all this is embodied in that great and wonderful blessing which we call eternal life. 

How then are we to obtain eternal life, to secure to ourselves and to our families that wonderful blessing that is beyond compare? By keeping the commandments. We all remember reading in the New Testament of the young man who came to the Savior and said: "Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may obtain eternal life?" And the answer was : "Keep the commandments. - ' And when he asked which, a few of these were enumerated : "All these things have 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 131 

I kept from my youth up; what lack I yet?" Then the word of the Lord came to him: "If thou wilt be perfect, sell that which thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have a treasure in heaven; and come and follow me." And let it be known that eternal life applies to those who are made perfect and not to any others, for no unclean thing can dwell in the presence of God forever. We are living in this world and passing through a probationary period. These are the days of our probation, the days when we are to be tried to find out whether or not we will serve God or Mammon. 

What did it mean to him, when the Savior said that he should sell that which he had, for he was a wealthy young man, and had great possessions, and should give to the poor and come and follow the Master? If he followed that injunction he would cease to worship Mammon, he would serve God, would cease to be selfish and greedy in his nature, and, casting all that aside, give proof that; he loved God more than he loved Mammon. 

"Come and follow me." What does that mean? Was not the Savior tempted just as you and I are tempted, when he had fasted in the wilderness and Satan came unto him and offered him all the kingdoms of the world and wealth and fortune and all that he could get if he would only bow down and worship Satan. We must have the strength and power to resist temptations. What was the Savior's reply : "It is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve." Likewise we must declare our allegiance to God and resist the power of Satan. 

It means this, that if we are to inherit eternal life, or obtain that greatest of all blessings that is within the gift of God we must sanctify and purify our souls. "The spirit and the body are the soul of man, and the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." Then this soul of thine "must needs be cleansed or sanctified from all unrighteousness." Why? "That it may be prepared for the celestial glory." Does not that mean the same thing? Eternal life, to our way of thinking, means the obtaining of celestial glory, and if we attain to that glory it will be. because we live according to the law of the celestial kingdom, and that means that we shall sanctify and purify our souls from all unrighteousness. It means that we are to follow Christ. His was a life of devotion, a blameless life, a life without sin, without corruption, without yielding to the power of the adversary. It therefore behooves us that we shall practice in our lives that great and fundamental principle, that saving principle of repentance from sin; for, unlike the Savior, we are sinners, and have need of repentance. It means that we shall give of our substance, and help those that are in need. It means that we are to place the kingdom of God before all other things. It means more than merely taking the initial steps of faith, repentance, and baptism, at the time of our admission into the Church. This, of course, is a good start — the right beginning, and 

132 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

through it we obtain the remission of sins and, by the laying on of hands, the companionship of God's Holy Spirit. But it also means that we must continue to have faith in God, and have faith unto repentance, as long as we are not perfect in our lives, for the principle of repentance has been given to us that we might sanctify our hearts and purify our souls, and prepare ourselves to dwell in the presence of God, for that celestial glory, for that eternal life that has been promised to the faithful. But this we cannot do, unless we shall engage in the good fight of faith, resisting temptation in whatever form it may come, and not permitting ourselves to be led away by the allurements of wealth and its uses for greedy and selfish purposes. 

All that we have and all that we are should be devoted to the service of God, and that doesn't prevent us from engaging in laudable enterprises. It doesn't preclude us from the enjoyment of the proper pleasures of life, it doesn't hinder us from supporting and sustaining our families and educating our children, for all this and everything that we do that is right is truly a service to God; but when we forget God and worship at the shrine of the god of this world, even Mammon, seeking riches for the gratifying of selfish lusts, securing it by questionable methods — by cheating, fraud, deception, misrepresentation, no matter how, but getting it by fair means or foul; or, in other words, when the devil taketh us up into an exceeding high mountain and showeth us all the kingdoms of this world and their glory and splendor, and wealth, and sayeth unto us as he is wont to say : "All these things will I give you, if you will fall down and worship me," then, O Latter-day Saints, "follow Christ," and set yourselves as steel against the fiery darts of the adversary and say as the Savior said : "Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve." 

What good thing shall we do that we may have eternal life ? Follow the admonition of the Apostle Paul to Timothy : "Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life," for unto this we have been called through our acceptance of the gospel of Jesus Christ which is the gospel of repentance, and it enjoins upon all a life of repentance from sin, and promises salvation only to him "that endureth to the end." We live in a world of sin and are subjected to its temptations. The good fight is one of resistance to the arch enemy of God. "Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him." 

Then let us follow Christ, resist temptation, cleave unto his word and eternal life will be our sure reward. God grant that it may be so. Amen. 

Elder John Robinson sang a solo entitled, "Joseph," violin accompaniment by W. C. Give. ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the California ' 

Mission. ) 

Tt is certainly a very great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to attend a General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, to have the privilege to listen to the splendid counsels that are imparted by the presiding authorities of the Church, and to partake of that good spirit that prompts the presiding authorities as they undertake to expound the doctrines of the gospel and to counsel the people to walk in those paths that will be for their best advantage. It is also a very great privilege to have the opportunity of standing up in one of these great! conferences to bear testimony to the truth that has been revealed for the salvation of the children of men in this great dispensation of the fulness of times. And with this privilege there is also a very great responsibility which causes men to have more or less anxiety at the thought of attempting to discharge the duty that is placed upon them, when' they are called to stand up in the midst of the people for a few moments as spokesmen. 

My labors, my brethren and sisters, as many of you no doubt know, are at present in the California mission. When I left Los Angeles a few days ago, the appearance of things in that part of the land were about as contrary to what we see around the outside in this stormy weather as one could well imagine. Southern California, at this particular period of the year, is probably as beautiful a country, in many parts of it, as could be found anywhere upon the face of the earth. I had the pleasure, just a few days ago, of being in the company of Elder Richard R. Lyman, of the Council of the Twelve, and the Presiding Bishop of the Church, in attending services in San Bernardino and also in Los Angeles, and as we were traveling from the city of San Bernardino these brethren burst out again and again with exlamations of surprise and joy at the beauty of the scenery through which we passed, for we traveled through vast sections of great orange groves; and along the roadway, continuously, I might say, there were great clusters of blooming roses and geraniums and other flowers that were indeed beautiful to lock upon. 

I am very happy to report in this conference that the California mission is making fair advancement. I suppose men who are engaged in the missionary work in every part of the world would be glad if they could make better headway than they do. California, as you know, is a land that is given much to pleasure. Thousands, I suppose hundreds of thousands, of people come to California every year to escape cold weather in other sections, and to enjoy and spend the means that they have been blessed with, and people who come for such purposes are not very willing to listen to the teachings of the servants of God, as 

134 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

they undertake to bring to the attention of men the message that has been committed into their care. And yet I am happy to say that we continually find a few people who become pricked in their hearts, and who do investigate the message of the gospel, and who are brought to the waters of baptism and become numbered with the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We have been very greatly blessed in the California Mission in having occasional visits from the President of the Church, and from other prominent brethren, and they have always manifested a very ready willingness to go into the branches of the Church and to meet people face to face and bear testimony to them in relation to the truth. We have been blessed in this regard to a very great extent. President H'eber J. Grant, during the past year, I suppose has visited the branches in Oakland, California, and in San Francisco, and at San Jose, in Ocean Park, Los Angeles, Long Beach, Santa Anna, San Diego, and San Bernardino; and a little further back, we had him also at Gridley, in the Sacramento Valley, where we have a large number of people who are engaged in agricultural pursuits. 

The California Mission has a membership of about six thousand two hundred souls. These people, to a very great extent, are not converts that have been made in the mission field, but they are men and women who have been born and reared in the Church, with their families. We have a great many men in the California Mission who have had splendid experiences in the Church, who have been abroad in the world as preachers of the gospel of Jesus Christ, who have been in stake presidencies_ and in high councils and in bishoprics, and who have occupied other prominent positions in the Church; men and women who are still established in the faith of the gospel, who love the truth, who have come for various reasons from their former homes to make homes in the state of California. We have had, during the past year, a very remarkable experience, in that a very large number of our people have come from the wards and stakes of Zion to make homes in California. There has been received during the year, something over twelve hundred souls, who have come with recommends, and have united with the branches in the California Mission, and then there are a great many others who have come into the mission who have not brought transfers, and a great many that wc haven't met. We have been .trying to extend the missionary labors, going into communities where the gospel has not been preached, that we know of. to any extent in that section. We have never been able to send the missionaries into any locality in the state where they have not discovered men and women who claim membership in the Church. In every little community wherever the missionaries have resided for any length of time, they have come in contact with these Church members who have practically been lost for a considerable period of time and haven't had recognition in the mission. This has resulted in quite a large number of additions in the organizations that have been effected in the California mission. It might not 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 135 

be out of place in this conference to call attention to some of these increased organizations. In .1918, there were eighty-five Church organizations in the California mission. In 1919, they were increased to one hundred and fifteen organizations. In 1920 and 1921, they have been increased to one hundred sixty-two organizations, which means that .there have been seventy-seven additional Church organizations. They cover conferences, branches, Relief Societies, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, Primaries, Sunday Schools, and one Religion Class. You will reach]}'' discern, my brethren and sisters, that with this increased number of organizations, a very large number of men and women, between two and three hundred, who have heretofore not had any direct responsibility resting upon them as officers in the Church have now been brought to feel that they are under an increased obligation to render service in the building up of the kingdom of God. Of course, this has increased the spiritual strength of the people in these various localities, and men and women have been aroused to a better performance of the duties' that rest upon them as members of the Church of Christ. I am very happy to be able to report that the California mission has played its full part in contributing, in a material way, to the tithes that have been paid for the advancement and upbuilding of the Church of Christ; and, notwithstanding the financial depression that has been mentioned by some of the speakers during this conference, there has been more tithe paying during 1920 than has ever been paid in the mission before; I think about twenty-six per cent more tithing during the past year than was paid during the previous year, and I am also glad to be able to report that the California mission, in the amount of tithing that is paid per capita throughout the entire mission, stands above the general average of the Church, which I think is a very splendid thing to be able to report. 

We are feeling some anxiety in that mission in relation to missionaries, and I suppose the same feeling is with all of the mission presidents. There seems to be disposition to a greater extent than ever before, it seems to me, for fathers and mothers and others who have representatives in the mission field, to feel that it is a proper thing to suggest the release of missionaries, long before the time that the mission president would release them. I desire to ask bishops and presidents and fathers and mothers that they give attention to this matter, and that they be not too ready to recommend the release of the men and the women who have been called to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you will open the Doctrine and Covenants, you will discover again and again in the revelations of the Lord that there can be no greater service rendered than the preaching of the gospel. Many of the brethren, at an early period in the Church, went to the Prophet Joseph Smith and inquired what they could do that would be of the greatest advantage to themselves, and the Lord answered again and again that the thing that would be of greatest worth to those men 

136 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

who thus sought counsel at the hands of God, through the prophet of the Lord, would be to lift up their voices in the preaching of the gospel. I do not know that this has ever been revoked. If the greatest thing that men could engage in, at the introduction of the gospel, was to cry repentance among the inhabitants of the earth and to expound the doctrines that have been revealed for the salvation of the children of men, that service is just as great today, as it has ever been in the history of the Church, and I think it would be well for fathers and mothers, and for men who occupy presiding positions in the organizations of the Church here in Zion, to counsel that missionaries be permitted to remain in the mission field until those who preside over them feel prompted by the Spirit of the Lord to say that the time has come when they should lay down their missionary work and return again to their various homes. I realize, my brethren and sisters, when I make this statement, that always there can be conditions that cannot be controlled by fathers and mothers, and that cannot be controlled by others, however interested they may be, that may make it necessary for missionaries to return, but it is an injustice to any young elder in the mission field, who has been there for sixteen or eighteen months, and who has made the discovery, perhaps, that God is his Father, that God has called him to be his servant, has called him with divine authority, and has made him a preacher of righteousness, just when he is being baptized by the power of God, and when ability is being developed within him to expound the doctrines of the gospel — not in the enticing words of man's wisdom, but in the power and demonstration of the Holy Spirit — then to have somebody make a recommendation that he be released and be taken away from his missionary work and be brought home, disappointed, knowing in his own soul that he had not accomplished the work that he had desired to accomplish. And the preaching of this gospel is to be continued as it is written in the very first revelation : "And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the months of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I, the Lord, have commanded them." You may read further, I shall not take the time — of the marvelous promises that have been made by the Lord God of heaven in relation to the preaching of the gospel, and that all men can come to an understanding of the truth as it has been revealed, if they will hearken to the counsels that are given of God through his servants. 

I desire to say to you, fathers and mothers, and I know whereof I speak, for I have been in the very period of missionary work in the past that the missionaries who are in California, very largely, are in today, and I would rather have had taken from me anything that I possessed in the world than to have been robbed in the days of my boyhood of filling, to the full satisfaction of those who presided over me, the first mission in which God, in his bountiful kindness, gave me opportunity to labor. I plead with the fathers and the mothers, and with bishops and presidents, as far as possible, to encourage men and 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART\ 137 

women to remain in the fields, and let them understand that there is, as a general thing, but one opportunity given to a man in a lifetime — that is the history of missionary work, just one opportunity in a life time, — to preach the gospel; and do not interfere and bring home from the mission field men who are filled with the Holy Ghost, who are anxious to cry repentance, who have had a wonderful love come into their souls for the gospel of the Redeemer, and who have been made to know, just as their fathers and mothers know, that the things that they are teaching are true — the power of God unto salvation. I thank God that I have that assurance and knowledge in my soul, and I praise God that he has given me this assurance, and bear testimony to its truth with all my soul, in the name of Jesus Christ, my King. Am en. ., , — ^ J 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I take it as a compliment to my father, James H. Hart, rather than any slight to myself, that I should be invited to the stand under my father's name. 1 recall an incident in his life, suggested to me during this conference, of his being lost with a companion in a fog or storm. They wandered for hours without reaching any known landmark, until night settled upon them and the situation became serious. They knelt in prayer for their deliverance, and shortly after arising from their knees in the snow of that cold country, the clouds broke away for a few minutes, they beheld the North Star and received their bearings. So in this conference there have been presented guiding gospel principles, foundation stones upon which.' we may safely anchor, and to which we may look for guidance. In the constitution of this commonwealth, framed under the presidency of the late President John Henry Smith, it is declared that "frequent recurrence to general principles is essential to the security of individual rights and the perpetuity of free government." By parity of reasoning, a frequent recurrence to the fundamentals of religion are essential for individual guidance, and for the well-being of the Church. I rejoice in the fundamental instructions and the solid satisfaction of the spiritual feeding, given us during this conference. The injunction of the opening speech was to keep the commandments of the Lord. I am reminded in this connection that the Ten Commandments form the very foundation of the laws of all civilized nations. One of our most learned jurists in the civil law, that is, the Roman law as distinguished from the common law, said of the civil law, (and it is in keeping with the Book of Mormon quotation made by Elder Whitney in this conference) that "the spirit of man, divinely inspired, has wrought from the beginning. The roots of the tree of life strike down into the remotest past"; that a system had been developed which reigns by reason after the authority which pro138 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

mulgated it ceased to reign. If it be true that inspiration to the law-giver, can produce a system of such strength and reasoning that it prevails long centuries after the authority which promulgated ithas passed away; how peculiarly true it is of the gospel that these divine principles, these foundation stones, lower than which we may not be able to go, will be a stay to us and a strength and a guide to us. 

I always enjoy that hymn that we sang yesterday, Ex-President Roosevelt's favorite symn, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in his excellent word." We have been reminded of this firm foundation by the teachings of this conference. When in the tribulation, turmoil and temptations of life, there is danger of losing our bearings, if we can keep sight of these guiding principles, these foundation truths of our religion, we are more secure. I did not refer to the incident of prayer followed by a view of the polar star as an argument for prayer, although I am sure as I live, as sure as I desire to be, that God can and does hear the prayers of faith of his children. 

I Rejoice greatly in looking in the faces of these my faithful brethren, into whose stakes it has been my great privilege to go during the past fifteen years, and to see them working with love for the good of their fellow men, giving loving service to the point of great sacrifice in many instances; and, by the way, that covers three of the cardinal principles that our Reedeemer stood for and taught — love, service and sacrifice. I have seen that manifested so abundantly in the lives of my brethren, that in being in their presence I have felt reassured, reinforced, and renewed in strength and determination. 

I think perhaps no more important principle was given to us during this conference than the reference which our president made to some matters in the 43rd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"And this ye shall know assuredly, that there is none other appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me" . . . referring to the Prophet Joseph. 

"And this shall be a law unto you, that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments," other than the president of the Church, because there is "none other appointed" to receive revelations for the Church except the president of the Church. 

"And this I give unto you that you may not be deceived, that you may know they are not of me." And if that principle were known and understood in the Church, some individuals would stand upon safer ground than they now stand, upon. Their compass would work and it would point to the North Star, to the source from which the Church is entitled to receive guidance. 

In listening to the remarks of Elder Richards on the necessity of 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 139 

example, and teaching the gospel by example, I thought of the reverse condition of those who may cast reflection and bring disgrace, not only upon themselves but upon the Church, by not setting an example that is worthy of emulation; by failure to adhere to fundamental principles, by listening, perchance, to some lying voice, some lying spirit of evil that may direct them away from foundation principles and truths, persuade them to violate the commandments of God, and lead them off on a tangent of evil. 

This is a time in the history of the world when a new resolve should be made in favor of obedience to law. The proclamation has been made throughout this conference of the reign of law in the universe. The general principles which apply, as we read in the 130th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants are: 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated," compliance with the conditions upon which it is predicated. That is fair and safe to everyone, that we are governed not by caprice nor by whim, nor by changing laws, but upon principles irrevocably established from the foundations of the earth. 

President Lincoln in his day had some sound advice for the people, which should be reiterated throughout- the earth. I suppose there has never been such a lawless period in all the history of the world as we are passing through in the United States today, never a time when life has been held at so low an estimate, nor a time when greed and the ambition for unjust gain, have been more rampant. He said: "Let every American, every lover of liberty, every wellwisher of his posterity, swear by the .blood of the Revolution, never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap; let it be taught in schools, in seminaries and in colleges; let it be written in primers, in spelling books and in almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpits, proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice. And, in short, let it become the political religion of the nation; and let the old and the young, the rich and the poor, the grave and the gay of all sexes and tongues and colors and conditions, sacrifice unceasingly upon its altars." 

The fact that one may not like a law does not justify him in disobeying it. Will elders of Israel be unmindful of the rule prevailing in the United States against the manufacture or distilling of liquor. Will they feel at liberty to violate the law because, perchance, they may think it can be done in safety? If they do so, there is a harvest of sorrow for them to reap. By the violation of law they reap the whirlwind they sow in disobedience to law. We have had some pathetic cries from individuals in this nation who have taken 

140 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

false steps and have cried out as a warning voice to their sisters to avoid the evils that have come upon them. On their death bed they have sobbed: "It was wine, wine that did it. Tell girls to heed me, for I know. Tell them that in the wine cup lies death." Others attribute failure in life to a lack of appreciation of the value of a home and a loving companion and the establishment of a home under lawful wedlock and the companionship of a husband who would be true. There may be other laws than that for the enforcement of temperance throughout the United States that an individual here and there may not fancy, but let all support the law; let all be guided by the general principles that are established for the guidance, not only of citizens of the United States, but citizens in this great Church of ours. 

I copied from some author words of advice and warning to our girls in reference to modesty. The thought was expressed more beautifully than I could express it myself and therefore I desired to read the exact language, but I do not seem to have the words with me. In substance it was that cultivated communities have come to make modesty the supreme grace of woman. That it is to her a garment of strength and beauty and a witness to her womanhood. That she has no need to assert what all concede or to demand rights which no one question. That the costume or the action which suggests immodesty is a voluntary descent from the position which the com ( munity gladly assigns to a woman. That it is an accepted degradation and choice of unloveliness and a challenge to impurity; and that it is well to remember that the only protection is in oneself and the only safety in resisting the beginning of evil 

May the Lord bless and help the efforts of those who are striving to establish the youth of Zion, to keep in the paths of righteousness, rectitude and right, young people in the Church who are growing up and who will take the places in a few years of these their older brethren and sisters. There has been many testimonies of the truth of the Gospel presented during this Conference. The few statistics given by President Grant was an eloquent witness to the divinity of this work. A deathrate of nine, a birthrate of thirty-eight, and a marriage rate of fifteen and one-half. Those things could not flow from an evil tree. The tree may be judged by its fruit, and "the poisonous tree, though watered by nectar, can produce only the fruit of death;" and likewise, the good tree will bring forth good fruit. 

I have rejoiced in the testimonies of my brethren, in the instructions which they have given, and I desire to continue with them to be faithful in promulgating this great cause, which confers honor upon any man who has any part or work therein. May the Lord bless us and give us glimpses from time to time of the grandeur and the magnitude and majesty and worth of this great work and of its value to the children of our Father, whose souls are very precious in his sight, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 141 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

APPRECIATION OE STEPHENS' "THE MARTYRS." 

I want to express my unbounded approbation and delight with the very splendid cantata that we had here of "The Martyrs" last night. I am sure all who were here were very much delighted and pleased, and that all feel grateful to the Lord for the inspiration to our beloved brother, Evan Stephens, in furnishing us such a wonderful piece of music, and such a splendid tribute in poetry to our beloved dead. 

THE SCHOOL OF ART AND MUSIC. 

Perhaps you have noticed in the papers that the magnificent McCune residence, which would probably cost over half a million dollars, and which was presented to the Church at our last Conference, has been set aside by the Presidency for the use of a School of Art and Music. And I am pleased to say that this disposition of the property has met with the very hearty approval of A. W. McCune and his wife, the donors of the property; in addition to having given this imposing structure, when they learned it was to be used as a School of Music and Art, they presented to us the two magnificent pieces of statuary that are now in that home, which would probably cost something over twenty thousand dollars, as a beginning for art collections that may go there. I trust that the people will call and partake of the hospitality of the School of Music. Of course, as to this designation for the use of the place, I do not know exactly that it will always be permanent, but we are inclined to think it will be. i I 

There have been a great many people, of course, who have urged me to move there and use that magnificent house as the official residence of the President of the Church. I appreciate the compliment and the many expressions of good will and desire for me to occupy such a magnificent structure; but I consider it would be a vast waste of the money of the good people to maintain me in any such an elegant place, for the reason that if I went there I would want everything to be in keeping with the house, and it would be in direct opposition to what Brother Stephen L. Richards has said here today, all of which I endorse with all my heart. For the time being I shall be perfectly satisfied to live in my little bungalow, one story and a half high in about the nicest spot in all Salt Lake City. During the first six months of my residence there, I don't believe I missed a half dozen times sitting up in bed every morning and taking a view of the whole valley and singing President Charles W. Penrose's hymn, "O ye mountains high." 

I endorse with all my heart the excellent remarks that have 

142 .GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

been made here this morning, and if time would permit, would like to add a few comments, but we aim to start on time and to close on time, barring the musical selection after twelve o'clock. May the Lord bless us, and may we have a time of rejoicing this afternoon and on the morrow in our conference, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." The closing prayer was offered by Elder George T. Hyde, of the 1'ortneuf stake of Zion. 


