Afternoon
05 04 1921


Conference meeting was opened at 2 o'clock by President Heber J. Grant, who presided. 

The congregation sang, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Joseph Reece, of the Nebo stake of Zion. 

The congregation sang, "Come, thou glorious day of promise," by Alexander Neibaur, a Jew. The hymn was read in full by President Heber J. Grant, and is found on page 246, of the Latter-day Saints' Hymn Book. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

I trust that the inspiration of our Heavenly Father that has rested upon those who have spoken before, may be with me while ] stand before you. 

I wonder if the early pioneers of Utah, the founders of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith and others, in! their fondest dreams and hopes, comprehended the rapidity with which this Church would grow. With some friends of mine, relatives in fact, daughters of the late Patriarch John Brown who, with Orson Pratt, was first of the Pioneers to look into Salt Lake Valley, I say, with his daughters, I drove over the boulevard above Salt Lake City a few nights ago. There were clouds in the heavens so that the stars could not be seen. The whole valley seemed to be thickly dotted with electric lights. And as we gazed we wondered what the pioneers would have thought if in their dreams they could have seen the valley under similar conditions. 

ARE WE WORTHY SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS? 

As I have looked into the faces of the people assembled at this Conference, I have thought with admiration and wonder of this great structure in which we are assembled! Of its magniture, and 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 143 

of the unusual factor of safety that has been used in its construction. I, have thought also of the great Temple cast of us, with its tremendous foundations and massive walls. There is an edifice like the rock of ages. What rare inspiration rested upon that great Pioneer and Prophet, Brigham Young, when, under his direction, the Lord laid the foundations for this great commonwealth! 

Are we, sons and daughters of these great Pioneers, playing our part in this great work as well as they played theirs? In this house last night a tremendous multitude listened to the music of a product of the Church and were thrilled with the stirring; strains of song and music in honor and praise of our martyrs. At the same time in the Salt Lake Theatre, another building erected under the direction of that great Pioneer, President Brighami Young, his granddaughter was the leading performer in a grand opera production. Are we, I ask, even under these conditions, worthy sons and worthy daughters of these great Pioneers? 

.THE ANTI-CIGARETTE CAMPAIGN RATIONAL, NOT HYSTERICAL. 

Since the last Conference, six months ago, Mutual Improvement workers and others, in and out of the Church, have waged a rather intense campaign against the use of the cigarette in the State of Utah, and wherever else the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has members. 

In conducting this campaign I regret that we have met with some opposition. I am sorry that in these efforts we have come into rather vigorous conflict with some of the leading business men of our State. If in this undertaking, we have been in error, we have not been alone in our mistaken judgment. Doctors and educators generally encourage such undertakings. Were Andrew D. White, a great president, and an important factor in founding Cornell Lniversity, still living, I would write to him and say: "In the summer of 1902 you gave me a mission. You asked me, as I sat in Cornell University, in company with teachers from various other sections of the country, to go home and to carry to the young people I came in contact with a message from Andrew White, to call the attention of young people to the fact that the use of the cigarette is one of the most positive means of taking from people their chances of success." I would say: "President Andrew D. White. I am proud to have helped to secure the following- result : The State of Utah has passed a law prohibiting the sale or the giving away of cigarettes or cigarette paper. The State of Idaho has also, by law, provided strict regulations intended to decrease the use of these two objectionable articles." 

This work has not been a matter of hysteria. With us it is not a mania. We have proceeded deliberately. We feel as if with mathematical certainty we have done something for the lasting benefit of the young people of our communities. 

144 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

WHY THE ANTI-CIGARETTE QUESTION? 

Since my life has been devoted to the study and teaching and practice of mathematics and of engineering, I think I have stamina enough not to be wafted about by mania, or hysteria. I belong to the fifth generation of members of the Church. I desire while I speak, that I may do so as a worthy son of the grand old pioneers. Have we been unreasonable, have we worked too hard in this anticigarette campaign? We are determined, in fact it is our mission and duty, to produce a generation of young men and women better than the world has ever known. And this is why we fight to keep .the cigarette from our young men and our young women. 

I have here a copy of an article that appeared in the Denver Post. March 21, 1921. I wonder if in this state, where we have the gospel of Jesus Christ, where we have the Priesthood and the power and the authority to speak in his name; in this community where we are putting forth effort to rear young men and young women who are worthy, do the conditions: described as prevailing in Denver exist here? I will read a part of the article: 

"Almost any night you may see the downtown streets crowded with boys and flashily dressed, scarlet-lipped, loose-mannered girls — moths fluttering around the searing candle of 'pleasure.' You may see them in automobiles, riding up and down the main thoroughfares of the city. You may see unescorted girls — children who should have been tucked into bed by their mothers. They appear to be without shame. They do not hesitate to trade modesty and virtue for what they think is pleasure. 

"All Denver is aroused, and rightly, too. Who is to blame for this appalling condition? Who is responsible for the absolute lack of morals in these boys and girls who are to be the men and women and parents of tomorrow? Why are boys and girls permitted to gad about the streets at ail hours of the night, allowed to joy-ride in their parents' automobiles until the wee small hours of the morning, suffered to go where they will, and however they choose, to satiate a perverted appetite for pleasure? 

"Juvenile Judge Lindsey, clergy, school authorities, welfare workers —  all say the blame for this deplorable state of affairs rests upon the parents." 

It is against conditions like these that we are fighting. If we have been too intense in this anti-cigarette campaign, may we be forgiven. But I say to Mutual Improvement workers, to the Governor of the State of Idaho, and the Governor of the State of Utah, to the legislators and tol all who are responsible for this anti-cigarette legislation, God bless you. I predict that thousands, yea, tens of thousands among the generation to come will rise and call you blessed. 

LIVE WITHIN YOUR l MEANS AND SO KEEP OUT OF DEBT AND TROUBLE. 

I was very greatly interested in what Stephen L. Richards said this morning on the subject of economy. No man has the right to live! beyond his means. It is the duty of every man to keep accounts. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 145 

He who does it will have the reins in his hands, he will be master of the situation, he will not be driven into bankruptcy. 

I visited the home of a prosperous farmer a few weeks ago. His is an unusually comfortable home. I noticed hanging on the wall a beautifully framed motto. As I looked at it he said: "Probably that motto is not quite so appropriate hanging on this wall as it was on the wall of the little log cabin in which my wife and I lived during the early part of our married life. The words were words of the late President John R. Winder: "Live within your means, keep out of debt, and you will keep out of trouble." 

NOTHING SHOULD INTERFERE WITH SACRAMENT MEETINGS. 

President Grant referred yesterday to a slogan of the Mutual Improvement Associations adopted about two years ago : "We stand for spiritual growth through attendance at sacrament meetings." It is our desire to avoid the conditions that have been described as existing among the young people in tne City of Denver. One 01 tne means of avoiding conditions of this sort is the partaking of the sacrament of the Lord's supper. A man in the Priesthood meeting, yesterday, said to the President of the Church : "President Grant, may we hold a meeting in our stake, once a month, at two o'clock on the Sabbath day. It will be interfering with our sacrament meeting but once each month?" The President very promptly replied: "We desire to have nothing interfere with our sacrament meetings." It is when partaking of the sacrament sincerely and worthily that we come into unusually close communion with our Father in heaven. It is then our hearts are filled with a prayerful spirit and we acknowledge before our iheavenly Father our weaknesses. It is then and there we desire to be forgiven and firmly we resolve to be stronger and better. Oh, that I had the power to say something to induce all the people to put forth their best efforts all the time. We will not be judged by the sermons we preach or the sermons we hear. We will not be judged by the number of meetings we attend. Nor will we be judged by the prayers we utter or those we hear. Tf we are satisfied with these things only, we are like the tree that is satisfied with being cultivated and irrigated and with putting forth leaves but bearing no fruit. Partake of the sacrament, or in the language of Tsaiah : "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found; call ye upon him while lie is near." Brother B. H. Roberts said yesterday he has seen men whose hands were scarlet with sin, appeal in anguish for forgiveness, and for the days of their youth to return thus giving them another opportunity to make their lives better. Among us are thousands of young men and young women whose lives are pure, whose hearts are clean. To these I appeal, "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found; call ye upon him; while he is near. 

Wherever here or elsewhere there is anything virtuous, lovely, 

146 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

or of good report, or praiseworthy, these are virtues for which we seek. 

SPECIFICATIONS FOR A MAN. 

I have before me a copy of the prayer of an engineer. Shall I call it a prayer? This man was a product of my owh Alma Mater, Cornell University. The principal business of his life was to write specifications, specifications for bridges, specifications for buildings, for trestles, for railroads, etc. For preparing such specifications he was well paid. Here is his prayer or specifications he wrote for himself. For so doing he received no money. They were not prepared for publication, but simply for his own private use. They were found among his papers, after his death, and were entitled : "Specifications for a Man." 

"To respect my country," [and this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, this is the thing for which we stand] "to respect my country, my profession and myself. To be honest and fair with my fellow men as I expect them to be honest and to be fair with me. To be a loyal citizen of the United States, to speak of the United States with praise and to act alwa}'s as a trustworthy custodian of the good name .of my country. To be a man whose name carries prestige wherever it goes. To base my expectation of reward on a solid foundation of service rendered. To be willing to pay the price of success and to pay this price in honest effort, To look upon my work as an .opportunity, to be seized with joy and to be made the most of, and not as painful drudgery to be painfully endured. To remember that success lies within my own self. To expect difficulties and to force my way through these difficulties. To turn hard experience into capital to be used in future struggles. To believe in my profession both heart and soul. To carry a ray of optimism in the presence of all whom I meet. To dispel all temper with cheerfulness. To kill doubts with strong convictions and to reduce action with an agreeable personality. To make a study of my business, to know my profession in every detail. To mix brains with efforts and with system in my work. To find time to do every needful thing by not letting time find me doing nothing. To hoard days as a miser hoards dollars. To make every hour produce me dividends, either in increased knowledge or in helpful recreation. To keep my future unencumbered with debt. To save as well as to earn. To cut out expensive amusements until I can afford them. To steer clear of dissipation and to guard my health of body and peace of mind as a most precious stock of trade. Finally, to take a firm grip on the jars of life, to play the game and to play it like a man. To fight against nothing so hard as I fight against my own weaknesses. To be a gentleman and a Christian so I may be courteous to men, faithful to friends, and true to God." 

Let us, I pray, make our lives conform with these exalted specifications, and all the glorious principles of the perfect . gospel of Jesus Christ, I humbly pray, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

THE NECESSITY OF THE CIGARETTE LAW. 

I believe that Brother Joseph W. McMurrin first called my attention to an article published in the Scientific American and reproPROFESSOR PERRY G. HOLDEN 147 

duced in the Literary Digest, announcing that for fifty long years no young man in Harvard University had ever graduated at the head of his class, as the principal student, who was a user of tobacco, nothwithstanding the fact that eighty-one or two per cent used tobacco and only nineteen or eighteen didn't use it — so that, taking it man for man, for those many years, the tobacco users had not become the head students of that great institution. I don't think anybody, with an ordinary, common, every-day head on him, needs any greater evidence than that of the necessity of passing anti-cigarette and other laws of this kind. 

INTRODUCING PROF. PERRY G. HOLDEN. 

We have with us today Professor Perry G. Plolden of Chicago, a man with a national and international reputation as an extension worker. I have been handed one or two statements made by Professor Holden that I will read before we have the pleasure of hearing from him : 

"Every American ought to have his own home, and every family ought to have an acre of ground. Men don't fight for their boarding houses — they usually fight in them." And we might add, with their tongues, mostly. 

"Men who own their own homes don't go out on riotous strikes." That reminds me of a man who was a socialist, over in France, working for a very wealthy man. He went out two or three nights a week to his socialistic meetings, advocating the dividing up of all the property. Finally he quit going, and the wealthy man for whom he worked asked him why he hadn't gone. "Why," he said, "at the last meeting which I attended some months ago, there was a calculation which had been made, and they read how much each family would have after we got all the property divided up, and lo and behold, I have more in the savings bank already than would be my share." 

"If the community will take care of its boys today, its boys will take care of the community tomorrow." 

To his son leaving for the army : "My son, keep your standard." On his return: "Have you kept your standard?" "Yes, father." 

"Money spent on education is not a tax. It is an investment." 

"Ami I a better man today than I was yesterday?" 

I have very great pleasure in introducing Professor Perry G. Holden. 

PROFESSOR PERRY G. HOLDEN. 

I am not a "Mormon," but I am a good friend of the "Mormons." Perhaps only one other man in these United States has said more things outside of Utah, in behalf of the "Mormons," and the Q'reat 

148 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

work which they have accomplished, than I, and that is Doctor A. E. Winship, whom many of you know. 

I am reminded at this time of a little incident. Some years ago it was my pleasure to be at a great Sunday School convention at Waterloo. They had had a great meeting and had listened to some marvelous addresses, and as the boys thought they were about through they ran for their hats, but the presiding officer said: "I have a friend here, boys, and I want him to say a few words to you." And they settled back with some discomfiture, and he stepped before them and he said: "Boys, I don't know just what to say to you this afternoon." And a boy way back in the back part of the room didn't want to take any chances. He stood up atad flung his hand a little and said: "Say, Mr., I can tell you what to say. Say, 'Amen,' and sit down." 

Now, good people, for the few moments that it is my privilege and supreme pleasure to be before you, I hope that you will have the Spirit of God in your souls, and that you will listen to what I say in the same spirit that I present the few things that I may be able to present at this time; and I am sure you will, because I have met you people everywhere throughout this and other states, and it is a pleasure and a privilege that I cannot describe to- you at this time to have this opportunity of talking for a few moments with you. 

I want to say Amen, from the bottom of my soul, to the addresses which I have heard today, and this last address is such a wonderful thing that I wish that in some way it could be heard throughout the length and breadth of this land, as something that helps to dedicate and consecrate us to the great things which we can accomplish, if we but will. 

I want to refer to a little poem to illustrate a great principle upon which all progress depends. Samuel Walter Foss wrote many beautiful things. You know he wrote the wonderful little poem entitled : "Let me live in my house by the side of the road, where the race of men go by, men who are good and men who are bad, as good and bad as I." And then he wrote another wonderful little poem with a very common name, entitled : "The Calf Path." He tells the story of this calf that went out to pasture one morning from Boston, when it was a little shack of a town. At night the caif came home as all good calves do, but it made a very crooked trail, all bent askew, winding in and out and round about through the brush. The next day the old bell wether sheep took up this same trail and all the other good sheep followed, and a path was miade through those primeval woods. Then the people followed this little path, winding in and out and round about through the brush over to a neighboring settlement, and then they built little homes by the side of this path, and they cleared off the land and it became a road, and then they built houses and stores and it became a street. Then thev built great manufacturing plants by the side of it. and it became the avenue 

PROFESSOR PERRY G. HOLDEN 149 

over which the commerce of a continent has passed. Samuel Walter Foss then falters, and says : "But you know that was three centuries ago, and I infer that the calf is now dead." The good people of Boston cannot straighten that calf path today. You people are building, have been building and are building a great empire. The religion, the calf paths of home-making, and the calf paths of humanity-making — those calf paths that you have been making and will make for the next twenty or thirty years will be the calf paths that our children's children's children must tread for the thousands and the tens of thousands of years to come. Building so, putting the very best that we have into our lives at this time, that we may help to make those calf paths straight, that it may be said a thousand and ten thousand years from today: O, they builded better than they knew. I wonder if we begin to realize the, tremendous responsibilities that rest upon us at this hour and' this clay. People, I am wondering if you will lose your great birth-right; and what a birth-right you have! Men and women like these who came here, came over this great continent, years ago and suffered as they suffered, lost their dear ones, as they did, and endured that they might come here and build up an empire that should represent their principles! They sacrificed much. 

And now, you know, people, I am wondering if you and I are willing to cross a continent today, as they crossed a continent in those days that have gone by. If we are not willing to suffer as they suffered, if we are not willing to go through what they went through, then we are losing our birth-right. I fear there are many of us younger people that would not endure, would not think of going through all that they have gone through; and don't you think for a moment that there isn't just as much need of suffering today for principles, for rights, for our boys and girls, for our homes, and for America as there was in those days. The question is whether we are consecrated, whether we are dedicated, whether we have a vision! In my estimation your Church illustrates better than anything I have ever known in all America, the great principle of vision. Where there is no vision the people perish, and today you are blessed, because the people before you had a vision, and not only had a vision, but were willing to live and die for it if necessary. That is what made you great. I admire your great buildings, I admire your temple, I admire your fine buildings and schools that I find everywhere, all over this land of yours; but, people, more than all, do you know what I admire most? It is your people whom you have reared under this religion of yours. When I said to you I was a friend of the "Mormons," I meant all that could be said in those words. It was not to please you. It was because I believe in it. A religion that will do what your religion has done, not only for the temporal things, but for human beings, for God, is certainly a great religion, and you 

150 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ought to be proud of it. I want to say to you that the time is coming when your religion is going to be understood as it should be understood, in this world, and I want to say that through some of the things that you have been doing, you have come into more favorable attention over the United States, within the last two or three years, than in all the time put together before. 

You have thought of your boys, of your girls, of your homes, and it is the outgrowth of religion that made it possible to put through your legislatures that wonderful bill that prevents the use of cigarettes in this state, and I say it should go out to all of the states of this Union. It is wonderful what your religion has done. Let me say to you, that I fear sometimes that the people who enjoy it, who live here and have not been out, as some of us have, over all this great world, do not appreciate the greatness of what you have. I wish that, some way, I could say it to you. 

I wonder if you will pardon me for saying one or two little things? They may seem entirely out of place, but I couldn't help but think of it as those words were uttered here by the! former speaker. Last year, as I was in your state, I went out over it with the hope of holding a large meeting with the one motto in mind that a state is made of men and women, and not of houses and factories and wealth. So, I went out. I was telling them of your schools and your education, and as I was leaving Provo for a trip through to Ogden, where I was to speak, some of the people from the east with me on that commission, said: "Mr. Holden, these people look very much like other people." And I said : "Why, yes," but I said that there is a good deal of difference in some respects, and I want to tell you of one or two of the things I have noticed, as I have been out here working among these people. I will demonstrate it to you — and I said, do you know anywhere through Colorado or Illinois or Iowa, or everywhere you stop at a depot, that there you find young men about the depot, leaning up against the wall or railing, smoking and chewing and passing remarks about the people that get on and off the train? Now, I have gone up and down this state, and it has been peculiar to me that I haven't observed that anywhere. And they said nothing, and we got through to Ogden, and one of them turned to the other, and then they turned to me, and said: "Mr. Holden, we thought we would take you up on that statement," and they said, "We have made a good many stops" — I don't know how many, twenty or thirty stops — "and we have yet to see the first young man standing by the side of the depot smoking, on our trip through." Now, I was glad that it didn't happen that there were any boys smoking while they were in my company. 

The other night, at Rexburg, at that wonderful little city — and I want to say to you that you have a little city up there that is setting an example to the rest of the world — throughout the year, every year, all the program: which you are putting over there, and 

PROFESSOR PERRY G. HOLDEN 151 

which you have been putting over there, is wonderful. It is helpful. It must go through all the United States, and you people are setting the example to us. As Mr. Ryan came down the street he was telling this little incident: By the front of the town hail, there were a bunch of young people gathered, and he went away first, then came back and walked back and forth two or three times, that he might observe. During the time that he was there not a cigarette was in evidence, not a cigar; neither was there any profane language, or any language that wouldn't be proper before the father and the mother, and he told that incident there; and that has been my observation. Now people, your principles are right, but are we realizing, are we living up to them fully, or are we drifting away just a little bit? 

Now, I want to say, as I said to some people over at Payson the other day. "There are two kinds of audiences I like to speak to. One is a penitentiary audience and another is a 'Mormon' audience; for," I said, "you know that no matter what happens or how late it is you know they will all be there until you get through." And you know, good people, that one of the things that impressed so much those eastern people, as they came here last year, was that when you open your meetings you open with a prayer, and ask that the people might have open hearts and willing souls to gather from what the speaker may say something to take home; and then they closed with prayer that we shall take home some of these things and put them into our lives and into our practices. I hope you will never give up those little customp, because they are wonderful. Another thing that you are different in, the little courtesies, which you always have, that of your seeking to put respect and dignity into all things. I must compliment you upon those things because they belong to you. And there are a good many things that stand for education; and you stand for the boys and the girls, as was said in these words by the President, that if you will take care of the young men of the Church today, and the young women, the young men and the young women will take care of the Church tomorrow. 

Now we must do our duty in our homes. If the spirit of the Lord is in your souls to such an extent, I may tell you of an experience and not be misunderstood, for it is not egotism. It is just my wish to help to put into your souls and hearts those things that you can take back with you to make better homes, better education and a better Church, and so I want to tell of this little thing. When growing up in our own home we had to work. It was so new, we were one hundred and fifty miles from the end of the railroad, and we grubbed the stumps and worked; and they had a ball game, and we wanted to go to the ball game on Saturday afternoon. Father didn't seem to think that was worth while, and we got a notion into our heads that we were going to the ball game, and we would run away from home. We were passing from the barbarian stage, I 

152 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

think, at that time. But that was, nevertheless, the situation. So, we decided we were going down to the house and tell father we wouldn't work like this all the while, unless we had a chance to play a little bit. So, finally, it was decided to do it, and then the question came as to who should go; and that was different! But finally, my brother gave a suggestion, that may be, if all went down he wouldn't lick all of us. So we all started and went pretty fast for a ways. Finally, we got to going a little slower, as the importance of the case dawned upon us; and, by the time we got pretty near to our house, we saw father go out towards the barn. We let him go, and went to the house and told mother instead of father. Father was one of those stern, New England people who always said: "Boys, I guess you had better do so and so, now," — he never guessed but once, and so you see how it was we told mother about it! I will never forget as we came into the house, and my brother began to tell how we wasn't going to work like this, she turned and looked at us and then she rubbed out the piece of dough in her hand, looked down the side once or twice, and when she was through she turned around and with a smile, she lined us up by the crack in the floor of the old log cabin — and then she stood back and looked us over and she said : "Boys, you're not working too hard," that is not what is ailing you, it is work that will make you. If you don't work you will be tramps, you will be beggars and will be in the penitentiary somewhere." She said : "No, I know what is the matter with you, you want to go down to that ball game on Saturday." She had just touched the spot. Now, I don't know how we got away from that place. I can't remember a thing about it. I think we just evaporated, but anyway on this next Monday morning the thing happened in our home that transformed it and transformed our lives. I think father and mother had had a consultation over our difficulties, over Sunday, and as Monday morning came and breakfast was over, father stood around a little and by and by — he didn't know what else to do — he went out and cut an armful of wood. 

While he was out, mother spoke up and said: "Boys, why don't you sit down and talk with your father a little while? May be you can arrange to go to that ball game Saturday." Father came in. He threw the wood in the box, and then he stood around again for a little while, and we all stood around. By and by mother saw the situation, and I sometimes think that mothers have a little longer vision than fathers, and she said : "Father, it's raining this morning a little, why don't you sit down and visit with the boys ? I guess they would like to talk to you." He sat out the chairs and mother started about the work, but he said : "No, mother, we want you to sit down with us for a few minutes." When we were seated he raised up his hand like this, two or three times, and he said : "Boys, your mother and I have been trying to get a little together so that you wouldn't have quite as hard a time getting started in the world as we had, 

PROFESSOR PERRY G. H OLDEN 153 

but it is all for you. We can't take it with us. Now," he said, "I want you to help plan the work for this farm for next year." 

I want to say to you, fathers and mothers, that that was the richest, and I think the best, thing ever said in our home. "I want you to help me plan the work for this farm for next year!" The sun was brighter, the grove was greener. My, I got through early that day, and came around the corner to get the mail, but really to tell the boys all about what we were going to do on v the farm next year. On next Monday morning, when breakfast was over, father said: "Boys don't you think it would be a good thing for us to sit down for a few minutes and plan the work for the week?" So from that 'lay until my father's death, we sat down for a few moments, about fifteen to thirty" minutes every Monday morning, and there we planned and talked over together the things we were to do. 

The idea of us boys helping father plan the work! I remember thi. Monday morning, when we were through, father said: "Well, boys, I have no criticism only this, you planned too much." He said, "it might rain, or perhaps you would like to go to the ball game Saturday afternoon." And now I want to say another little thing. He said : "Boys, remember that when we agree to do certain things we must do them, if it takes all night." And I have been glad a thousand times over what he said, and through all the years after, father never carried out anything else that wasn't agreed on, unless we had a meeting and settled it. 

And I want to say, folks, if we are to have great men and women, with richness in their souls, truth in their lives, and reliability and dependability, we must make them in the home primarily. It must not be turned over to the school alone, because it is a task that they can not handle alone, as much as they can do. And I have been thankful that through all these years, no matter how trivial a thing was promised, that thing was granted. 

One of your good citizens, you would know his name if I mentioned it, at Logan the other day came to 'me and said: "Mr. Holden, I am sorry that I cannot hear you in the tabernacle today, because I promised my pupils that I would go up the canyon and eat dinner with them, and I mustn't disappoint them." You know how proud I was of that citizen who was keeping faith with these dear boys and girls! That is one of the grandest things that could possibly be done. 

Now people, just one other thought, and I must close. I want to refer to a little thing that has had a great influence on me throughout my life, and that was a great teacher. I was a good deal of trouble to all of the teachers that came to me, and they troubled me a good deal. They seemed to think that, some way, they had to lick me in order to settle everything for the whole school, and I guess that was all right, as I think about it, though I didn't at that time; but the time came when we had a great teacher come into our midst, and that teacher wasn't looking for the bad that was in us. He was 

154 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

looking for the good that was in us. I want to say to you people if we go through this world looking for the bad, we find it everywhere, but if we go through this world looking for the good that is in it, we find it everywhere; and this teacher was looking for the good in it. One time as I leaped out of the door of the school house, at recess, I landed in his hands. I went out with a whoop and yell. You could hear me half a block away, and he got me, and I thought my time had come, but instead of that I felt him pulling away at my chin, and he was smiling, and that was an event in my life, because no teacher ever smiled on me before. And as he pulled, tugged away on it, he made a little remark. The great railroad had been built into Traverse city, and we had been down to see the great iron horse that pulled the train — he said: "My boy, you have lots of energy, haven't you?" and I agreed to that all right. He said: "Do you know, my boy, it is the same steam in an engine that makes it go ahead that makes it go backward. It all depends on which way you pull the lever." Further he said: "Do you know, my hoy, it is the same energy in you that will make you go ahead and do something worth while in this world or perhaps send you back into the penitentiary? It all depends on which way you pull the lever." And you know, good people, up at Rexburg, as we went over to that industrial school, that little saying of that great teacher came into/ my mind, and at other times, that they had pulled the wrong lever. Your Mutual Improvement association, nobody, or any thing, no father or great teacher had taken a hold of the very life of that very boy or girl at the right time, so they pulled in the wrong direction. You know over in Chicago that seventy-three per cent of the crimes and murders are committed by our young men, from the ages of 17 to 23 years — just the time when we lose so many of them, just the time when they are full of the ambition to do something in this world, and they simply pull that lever in the wrong direction. Well, this teacher didn't stop there. He said : "My boy, I would like if you will do a little thing for me for thirty days and then if you like it, follow it all of your life." And do you know what it was? It was a very simple little thing, but it has just made a wonderful difference in my life. He said : "When you get up in the morning, and look out in this great, great world again, instead of getting up dreamy like, with your hands in your pockets, with a grouch on ready for trouble, just swing those good arms of yours a little and look out and see what a great day it is, the best day of all creation, because you have back of you all that humanity has accomplished, you are heir to it all." And he said : "It is the greatest day of all creation* because you have ahead of you all of the things yet to be accomplished," and then he continued. "Stop just long enough to hold up your right hand and say: "This day I will beat my own record. I will put the best I have in this day's work." Why, Mr. President, there is power enough in this organizaPROFESSOR PERRY G. HOLDEN 155 

tion gathered here, to go back of certain fundamental things that you are to put over for this year's work and accomplish it, no matter what the obstacles are; and when you put it over, it means that it will go throughout the length and breadth of this land, and among the nations of the world. It is wonderful what you can accomplish when all have the spirit of co-operation, have the spirit of working together. 

I want to give just one little illustration, and that is this, to show what it means to co-operate and to aid at the same thing and at the same time. You have that opportunity in greater degree here than in any other organization thai I know of in these United States. One morning as I went down to my office, in Chicago, a great plate glass window had been broken in, and the furs stolen out, and I looked a little farther and. there I saw a gunny sack filled with about two pecks of sand. The burglar had gone across Michigan avenue and scooped up a little sand, and then come over and slung it through the window to break it. I couldn't help but think had he had a train full of sand, taking up a handful of sand at one time, he could have been throwing sand yet and he could not have broken the window; and yet, when he organized a peck of it, it went through easily. People, are we too much divided, a little there and here, and over yonder, throwing sand, little handsful of sand? Oh, if we can unite, then set out to work at it, like you have with the anti-cigarette law; after you accomplished what you did with your cigarette law, there is nothing that cannot be accomplished that is good. 

Now, people, it has been a pleasure to me to talk to you. I wish there was something I coidd say that would stimulate you, that would make you want every morning to put the best you have into the day's work, and into the years of your work. Let us remember that no matter what the troubles are that come to us, if we solve them they are for our own benefit, and remember that there is a worst place in every road, and we have struck it perhaps now, but that is no reason why we should lay down and give up. We must go through those worst places, we must measure up to it, and I have noticed them through all my work, throughout my life, that the people who have done things for this world are the people who have carried a burden, are the people who have crossed a continent for their principles and their religion. I thank you. 

The congregation sang, "Come, come, ve Saints, no toil nor labor fear." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I feel gratified for the very splendid compliments that have been paid to our people by the previous speaker, and on behalf of the Saints here we thank him, particularly for the words of praise that he has spoken regarding us, azvay from Salt Lake City. T feel, as he has 

156 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

said, that we are coming into our own. It was. like an oasis in the desert, a few years ago, to find anybody who was willing to say anything good about the "Mormons;" but some of the finest and most energetic and most faithful men in all America today, educationally and in other lines, are beginning to say good things of the Latter-day Saints. I want to say to Professor Hold'en that the Latter-day Saints sang "Come, come, ye Saints," as they crossed the plains, with all their hearts and with all their souls, feeling every word of the lines : 

"And should we die before our journey's through, 

Happy day! all is well! We then are free from toil, and sorrow too, With the just we shall dwell," 

The young men and the young women of the "Mormon" Church who live up; to the principles of their fathers, are as loyal and as determined and as willing to sacrifice today as were their fathers, their grandfathers, and their great grandfathers, for that which we know and proclaim to all the world to be, in very deed, the plan of life and salvation, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. 

A baritone solo entitled, "The Golden Pathway," was sung by August Glissmeyer. 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

{Presiding Bishop of the Church.) 

The responsibility of speaking to a congregation like this is a task from which I naturally shrink, but I feel honored, nevertheless, in being asked to occupy the short time that is left for our afternoon meetI am one of those who sang this hymn, "Come, come ye saints," often around the camp-fires as we journeyed across the plains with our ox-teams, in the year 1860. Many and many a night around our camp-fires did we sing it. I was eleven years at that time, so I remember the incidents and circumstances of that long journey very well, and of our early settlement here in these valleys. We outfitted at Florence, just above Omaha, on the Missouri River, and started from there in June, and arrived at Salt Lake City in September; so we were just about three months in making the journey. It was a wild, Indian, desert country in those days, and on the bluffs along the upper Platte River, the buffaloes covered the ranges in great abundance. 

Arriving here, we didn't know what to do nor where to go. Some friends or ours told us there was quite a colony of Scotch people who had gone up into Cache Valley that spring, and they thought that might be a good place for us to go. We didn't know in the least where that was — whether it was north or south or east or west. We 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 157 

didn't know anything about the elevation — whether it was too cold or too dry, or what it was. Indeed, we knew nothing about it. We simply went where there were some people whom my parents had known in the Old Country. There we settled. We lived in a dugout the first winter. A good many of you people, Latter-day Saints who are here today, hard y know what a dugout is, but we older ones know. I know very well about it, for we lived in the dugout, and lived there in extreme poverty. 

The first work I did there as a child was to help my mother glean heads of wheat from the wheat fields, which had been cut with the scythe or cradle, for there were no mowing machines or reapers and selfbinders in those days. After we had gleaned this wheat, the heads being tied in little bundles, we took a wash-board and rubbed the heads on it, and thus thrashed out the wheat. This was our thrashing machine. Of course, there was the chaff and some smut mixed in the heads of wheat, and I had to spread the wheat on a wagon cover and take a tin plate and throw it up in the air, and the little breeze that was blowing would blow the chaff from the wheat. This was our fan mill. We then ground this wheat between two millstones, for there was nothing to the grist mill at that time except two millstones; and being ground in that way, the flour was quite dark and it made a black bread, but a very wholesome bread, after all. We had that flour made into porridge for breakfast, baked into cakes or scones for dinner and supper. That, with baked or boiled potatoes, was pretty much all the food we had to eat. 

Soon I had to act as herd boy and was sent out to watch our two cows to see that they didn't stray off, and to bring them home at night to be milked, for one of the chief parts of our living was the milk from the two cows. My suit of clothes, which my mother had made for me after we arrived in the valley, consisted of a shirt and a pair of pants, both made out of the tent cover that we had used in crossing the plains. It was pretty stiff and hard cloth, t for it was weatherbeaten, but it was all that I had — that and a rope around my -waist to keep the suit together. That was the extent of my wardrobe. 

Everybody who has crossed the plains will recall that after we got to the valley and began to get potatoes and a slight variety of food different from what we had had on the plains, that naturally we were quite hungry. My mother used to put me up a little lunch as I went out to herd the cows, and generally I would have it eaten before I got half a mile from home. Then I didn't have a thing for dinner. I simply had to tighten my rope for dinner. Now, it is all very easy to laugh and joke about it; and, to tell you the truth, I didn't realize the hardships that we were passing through, because I was not yet old enough. But my parents did suffer and sacrificed and endured very much. My heart bleeds as I think of the sacrifices they made so that I might have it easier to get on and that the path might be made more easy for me and mine. But the extreme poverty that we lived in is fresh on my mind to this day, and I repeat with pleasure the words of 

158 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Shakespeare that Brother Stephen L. Richards quoted this morning, when I recall all those experiences, and I say, in truth, and with all my soul : "Sweet are the uses of adversity." The best lessons that I ever had, came through those hardships and through being compelled to practice the strictest economy and thrift, such as our children nowadays don't know anything about. In those days, it seems to me, we were more willing to render service and to sacrifice for the Church than we are today. Why, in those days, the people were called on to send their teams back to the Missouri river to help gather the poor — those who could not bring themselves to this country — and the people willingly responded and sent their oxen and wagons back to the Missouri river, year after year, without money and without price, to help gather the poor. My parents were of those who had saved enough, through Scotch thrift, so that they were able to buy two yoke of cattle and a couple of cows, and came in what we called' an independent company; but there were thousands and tens of thousands of people helped to immigrate to this country by the Saints here sending back their teams and their men to gather up the poor and bring those who couldn't help themselves. 

This work called "Mormonism" has been a great work of co-operation — a work of sacrifice and of helpfulness to others. We forget, sometimes, in our abundance and even super-abundance of means, about the conditions in which the early settlers existed when they were subduing the wilderness and making it "blossom as the rose." I know very well that we have our financial troubles today, and many of us, no doubt feel that they are about all we can stand; and yet, when we look around us and see our multitude of blessings and compare them with all the poverty and the sacrifices that our parents made for this work and for our blessing and salvation, we should be led rather to glorify our Father in heaven for his mercies to them and to us. 

I am glad to hear such testimonies as we have heard this afternoon from Professor Holden, with respect to the good work that has been accomplished by the Pioneers and by the people who now inhabit these valleys. We hear quite often now from thinking people, a good word spoken of the "Mormon" people and what they have accomplished; but what has been accomplished is nothing in comparison with what will be our achievements, if we will only continue in the same spirit that our parents exhibited in the founding of this country and in laying the foundations of this great institution called "Mormonism." We cannot conceive of what power, union and strength will give us and how glorious and mighty this work will become if only we continue willing to give it the service and sacrifice that it merits. 

On every hand we see evidences of disintegration, or disorder, of anarchy, and of the lack of the cohesive qualities that hold society together. The great moral principles, love of one another and obedience to law and order, are greatly lacking these days. One almost trembles for the condition one sees abroad in the world today. In GerBISHOP CHARLES W. NIB LEY 159 

many, in France, in Russia, and even in England itself, old England, the most glorious of the old countries, which I hope and pray will live as a nation and prosper for centuries to come, because of the great good she has done to all the world, in being the cradle of liberty, and in breaking down oppression and misrule and tyranny for hundreds of years; and yet in England today, it is just a question of whether the government can stand at all or not. Obedience to law and submission to the orderly procedure of civilized society are being broken down and there arises something above all that — the unions, the secret societies, the pledges that men make that they will abide by their unions and obey them, rather than obey the law of the land; and so, right at this very hour, it is a question as to whether the government of England shall stand or whether the unions shall rule, or whether society and civilization shall not be utterly broken down. The other great countries of Europe, we know, alas, too well, something of their condition. In a financial way, it seems, they are well nigh on the verge of ruin, when we see the German mark, which should be worth twenty-three cents, quoted, as you can read in the Dcseret News, tonight, at one and six-tenths cents, which means that it is not worth six cents on the dollar in the markets of the world. Imagine a man or corporation composed of business men issuing due bills or notes until the paper they issue becomes worth less than six cents on the dollar. You would hardly expect that man or firm to ever pay out. And so it seems that the elements of disintegration and disorder are abroad in the world to such an extent that the scripture, which hath foretold of the perplexity of nations, is now being fulfilled. Even our own beloved nation, this nation which the Lord himself has been the means of founding, as we believe, and as we read in our Doctrine and Covenants, the word of the Lord revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, wherein he says : "I, the Lord, raised up wise men for this very purpose;" that is, to found this Government — and even this nation today has its perplexities so that we hardly know where to turn. 

Now, in the midst of it all, notwithstanding our small perplexities here at home, we have peace, the peace of the gospel; a peace that no other people have; a peace that passeth understanding. Men cannot understand it, but it is here — the peace of God; the peace that comes only through the gospel of Jesus Christ. "My peace give I unto you." Although we may be in more or less distressed circumstances, yet that we have, and we know that the Lord is at the helm; we know that this is not man's organization. It is the Lord God Almighty who revealed himself to the Prophet Joseph Smith; and through those revelations, through those instructions, this organization has been founded, and the power of the Holy Ghost, the power of the Priesthood of the Son of God, has been given to this Church, and that is what holds it together and makes it great, and will continue to hold it together and make it great, and it is not the power of man, nor do we glory in man. We do not say, we do not allow it to be said, that Brigham Young has built 

160 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

up this Church. Brigham Young was the honored instrument, in the hands of God, who brought that scattered, mobbed, robbed, people to this land and declared that "This is the place; here we will stay," when it was a most desolate, desert-looking place; for this is indeed the place. He didn't know, at the time, the marvelous riches of this land, but you can draw a circle around Salt Lake City three hundred miles, making this city the center, and there is more of gold, of silver, of iron, of coal, of lead, of copper, and of all the precious metals; more variety of grains and vegetables and fruit and flowers; more of everything that is needful for the use of man within that circle than in any such area in all of the known globe. This is the place. The Lord God Almighty, through his prophet, spoke it. Here is peace; here is abundance, here is the power which the Lord gave, and which he alone has given, and which no other people in the world have. Read in the same Doctrine and Covenants, the book of revelations, that the prophet Joseph Smith gave, that the rights of this Priesthood are inseparably connected — connected so that they cannot be separated from the powers of heaven — then we are as nothing, and we, too, will disintegrate and break in pieces and go down and become as nothing. 

But it is true, and everlastingly true, that the rights of the Priesthood of the Son of God are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven. That being true, there is a power, there is a virility, there is a cohesive strength that holds this people together. I have seen the power and demonstration of the spirit manifested in the past few months down in the' California mission. I have wondered sometimes when I have heard brethren, and some who are not our brethren, say : "Well, you wait a little while; wait and see the third generation, the fourth generation, and so on. You will see this thing going to pieces." Why, I recall when I was a boy eighteen years of age, working in a little hotel at Brigham City, that Governor Stanford, and the great men with him who were building the Pacific Railroad at that time, stayed at this hotel. I was active around the place as a youngster and had my ears and eyes open, and I recall hearing them discuss in that hotel, one evening, what a wonderful man this Brigham Young was; how he had gotten the people together here, how he could guide them, order them, manipulate them, and do as he pleased with them, and so on. But Governor Stanford and the other wise men with him said : "Wait until Brigham Young dies, and they will be broken and go to pieces." They didn't know what they were talking about. I have seen, in the California mission within the last two months, where I have traveled with President McMurrin and President Grant, the same potency, the same virility, the same strength, the same power of the Holy Ghost that my father saw seventy-seven years ago when he joined the Church in Scotland. 

It is right here in the Church today, under the Presidency of Heber J. Grant, just as much as it ever was under the Presidency of Brigham Young, or Joseph F. Smith, or any other. Is it Heber J. Grant's power that is doing it? No. Is it man's power at all? No. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY 161 

It is the power of Almighty God; it is the power of the Holy Ghost; it is the power of the Priesthood of the Son of God, inseparably connected with the powers of heaven; and that is what is giving guidance, and that gives guidance and direction and cohesion and strength to this great organization, and not the power of man, nor do we honor man for it. No, not to men is the honor. Thine, O God, is the honor, and the power, and the glory forever, through Jesus Christ.  Amen. 

The congregation sang, "The time is far spent, there is little remaining." 

Benediction was offered by Elder Adolph Merz, President of the North Sanpete stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until Wednesday, 10 o'clock a. m., April 6, 1921. 
