Afternoon
08 04 1922


ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I am quite sure that we have all been impressed by the remarks of our brethren on the great increase of crime and sin in the world at large and the growing spirit of lawlessness — disregard for the laws of the land. This spirit is so prevalent that it even menaces the safety of our own great nation, say nothing about the other nations of the world. When I read in the newspapers that th4 lawless elements are gaining control of the offices, both executive and judicial, in our great cities, appointing police and judges friendly to their criminal enterprises, and contemplate the general disregard for law and order now threatening our municipal governments in the leading cities of our fair land, it occurs to me that we are living in perilous times, "when iniquity shall abound"^ — in the days that we read about in the 'scriptures, and concerning which the Savior of the world said, when He had been asked to give to His apostles the sign of His second coming and of the destruction of the world: "For then shall be great tribulations, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be. And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved; but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened." These impending evils, iniquity, and sin, that are so rampant in all the world cannot fail to have some effect upon us, for we are more or less in contact with that world of sin. The Latter-day Saints ought to> be in complete accord and harmony with every movement that is made to combat the progress of sin. We say to every organization and to every man who lifts up his voice and stretches forth his hand to stem the tide of evil : "You are engaged in a glorious work. God bless you in every such undertaking." But of all these agencies — and there are many of them — there is only one that is adequate to overcome the sin of the world, and that is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ administered by the Church of our Redeemer established in the earth for that express purpose, that we might overcome this world of sin. How may we then properly equip ourselves to meet the arch enemy of God and his legions that are abroad in the world, luring men and women away from the path of rectitude into the paths of sin and down to degredation and destruction? How can men and women be properly equipped in order that they may combat evil when the enemy shall make an attack upon them individually ? For even the elect are not safe, but it is comforting and pleasing to contemplate that we shall not have to endure the great trials and tribulations that shall come to the world for any great extended length] of time, because, we are told, "for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened." Were, it otherwise, no flesh would be saved. It matters not how strong we may feel ourselves to be. 

It matters not what position we may occupy in the Church or out of it. No man is so safe that he may boast of his own strength, but only GENERAL CONFERENCE.  God shall be our strength and come to our rescue, and then shorten the days, will we be able to overcome, and finally gain the victory; at least, that is the way I read the holy scripture. And what is the equipment? Can, you, then, or can I. or can any human sou' in all the world, combat and overcome the temptations of the present day in and of ourselves without being properly equipped for that great struggle? I answer "No, we cannot." We need the help of God. We need the companionship or His Holy Spirit. Without these we cannot succeed. And how shall we obtain that help; and how secure this holy companionship? Through obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ: Faith in God and in His only Begotten Son — faith in the efficacy of His redeeming blood that was shed for the sins of all mankind; through sincere repentance from sin : with a broken heart and contrite spirit exercise our own powers of resistance. Then be baptized by immersion for the remission of sins by a servant of God who has been endowed with power from on high, divinely authorized to perform that holy ordinance. Then, and not until then, may we receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, without which no man can overcome the sins of the world. The Spirit of God will not dwell in an unclean tabernacle. The gift of the Holy Ghost cannot be secured until our sins have been washed away by baptism, through the atoning blood of the Lamb of God. 

This is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the equipment that every soul must have, if he shall combat the sins of this world and overcome them. So we say to all the world : Repent and be baptized, every one of. you; believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and accept of Him as the very Son of God, who gave His life to overcome death and the grave and redeem mankind from their fallen condition. Do this that you may receive the Spirit of the Lord and thereby be prepared to fight the good fight of faith and overcome the power of the adversary. Let me say further, that "Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish." Oh, ye inhabitants of the earth, wherever you may be, turn to the Lord and repent of sin and accept of the atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me say to Latter-day Saints, repent of yuur sins, be they great or be they small, accept the counsels that are given to us. from the presiding authorities of the Church, and if we have committed sin, be it great or small, let us turn to the Lord. If we have failed in the payment of our tithes and our offerings, if we have failed in the observance of the Word of Wisdom, let us repent and turn away from nt gleet of duty. If we have in any way offended the Lord or done aught amiss, let us turn to Him throught repentance, and He will forgive and grant us His Holy Spirit that we may not lose its companionship, for we need that companionship every day of our lives that we may be prepared to meet the enemy wherever he may assail us. 

The only adequate means of combatting the sins of the world, then, is obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the only edequate agency is His Church which, on account of a universal apostasy, 143  withdrawn from the world, but, thanks be unto Him, has again been restored to the earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is the only Church endowed with power from on high authorized to administer the saving ordinances of His gospel, including the bestowal of the gift of the Holy Ghost without which not even the elect can hope to gain the victory. 

Then, beware of sin, oh, ye sons and daughters of Zion! Adhere to the faith of your fathers; secure for yourselves the companionship of the Holy Spirit; keep yourselves unspotted from the sins of the world, for the adversary is seeking your destruction. Art unvirtuous youth or maiden is like fruit without flavor, or the flower that hath no fragrance, or the salt that hath lost its savor, "thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden under foot of men." 

Through the laying on of hands by a duly authorized servant of God the Holy Spirit is conferred upon us as a gift from God. This entitles us to its constant companionship, but only so long as we retain the remission of our sins, and this we may retain by virtue of our baptism, just so long as we continue in the good fight of faith, and if we endure unto the end of our lives then shall 1 we gain the victory over sin, notwithstanding our many weaknesses and shortcomings. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints. May they grow in the knowledge of Him, and in good works. Good bless thei youth of Zion. Shield and protect them from the power of evil. May they not fall into by and forbidden ways. God bless His children everywhere, the honest in heart in every land, and lead them into His fold. May they, through obedience to His gospel, secure the remission of their sins and the glorious companionship of His Holy Spirit. And may we all, thus equipped for the battle of life, gain the victory over sin and secure unto ourselves the crown of eternal life and unto Thee, O Lord, we will give the honor and glory through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Heber J. Grant read the following report of the Church Auditing Committee: / 

AUDITING COMMITEE'S REPORT 

April 4, 1922 

President Heber J. Grant, Trustee-in-Trust. 

Dear Brother: We have pleasure in reporting to you that the books of the Trustee-in-Trust and the Presiding Bishop's Office have been audited in detail month by month for the year 1921. The compiled report for these two offices also has been carefully audited for the same period. 

We have pleasure also in certifying to you that the accounts for the year 1 1921 were accurately kept andi that the books are in good condition. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The compiled reports of the Trustee-in-Trust, covering the entire financial interests of the Church, are so arranged as to give a clear and comprehensive understanding of the present financial condition of the Church. 

Very respectfully submitted, 

Your brethren in the Gospel, 

Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston, Church Auditing Committee. 

On motion the report was unanimously approved by vote of the conference. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have, a long list of the general boards of the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, the Relief Society, and other auxiliary institutions, but inasmuch as these institutions hold their regular annual conferences, we will dispense with the reading of all the names in the future at our general conferences, and only read the names of the presiding officers and sustain the general boards with them, without reading all those names. The General Authorities of the Church and Auxiliary officers and boards were then presented, and by unanimous vote of the assembled multitude, were sustained in their various offices and callings as follows : 

general authorities of the church 

First Presidency : Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

President of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Rudger Clawson. 

Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard, John A. Widtsoe. 

Presiding Patriarch: Hyrum G. Smith. 

The counselors of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy : Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young. 

Presiding Bishopric: Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop; David A. Smith, First Counselor; John Wells, Second Counselor. 

Trustee-In-Trust : Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust, for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 145 

Church Historian and Recorder : Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

Church Board o f Education : Heber J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Anthony W. Ivins, Willard Young, Rudger Clawson, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph Fielding Smith, John A. Widtsoe, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman; Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Commissioners of Education : John A. Widtsoe, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman. 

Superintendent of Church Schools: Adam S. Bennion. 

'Auditing Committee : Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball, Assistant Organist; Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organist; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer. And all the members of the Choir. 

Clerk of General Conference : Edward H. Anderson. 

AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY 

Officers: Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, General President; Mrs. Jannie B. Knight, First Counselor; Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Second Counselor: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary and Treasurer. And the members of the board. 

DESERET, SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOARD 

Officers: David O. McKay, Superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, First Assistant general Superintendent; George D. Pyper, Second Assistant General Superintendent; John F. Bennett, Treasurer; Albert Hamer Reiser, Secretary. And the members of the general board. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Officers: George Albert Smith, Superintendent; Brigham H. Roberts, First Assistant; Richard R. Lyman, Second Assistant; Oscar A. Kirkham, Executive Director; Moroni Snow, Secretary. And the members of the board. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Officers: Martha H. Tingey, President; Ruth May Fox, First Counselor; Mae T. Nystrom, Second Counselor; Clarissa A. Beesley, Secretary and Treasurer; Maria Y. Dougall, Honorary Member; Margaret Summerhays, Music Director; Evangeline Thomas, Assistant Music Director. And the members of the board. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

Officers: Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, First CounGENERAL CONFERENCE.; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; Mary R. Jack, Secretary and Treasurer; Matilda W. Cahoon, Chorister; Jane R. Crawford, Organist; Genet Bingham Dee, Librarian; Isabell S. Ross, Ann Nebeker, Edna H. Thomas, Physical Directors. And the members of the general board. 

GENERAL BOARD OF RELIGION CLASSES RELEASED 

Inasmuch as the commissioners of education, under the direction of the General Board of Education, have taken over the work of the Religion Classes, it is moved and seconded that we honorably release with our blessing for their past splendid labors, the members of the General Board of Religion Classes. The motion was put and carried unanimously. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

( Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the; California Mission-) 

It is certainly a very great privilege, as well as a great responsibility, to stand before this great congregation. I sincerely hope that the 1 few moments I occupy this position I may be prompted by that good spirit which has been made manifest in the remarks that have been made by the presiding authorities of the Church during the meetings of this great conference. I have felt impressed, while listening to the valuable instructions imparted, with the testimony of the member of a stake presidency that I listened to several years ago when I was attending a stake conference. He had just returned from attending the general conference of the Church, and he stated that he had been in attendance at the general conference for fifty-two years. When he returned from this particular conference his people inquired as to the character of the conference and how he had enjoyed himself. He answered by saying that it was the greatest conference he had ever attended. Then the children laughed and said: "Why, father, we have heard you say that after every conference, as long as we can remember." I have been attending conferences myself forabout forty years, and I think I may go back to the people of the California mission and say, in all truth and sincerity, that this conference has been most enjoyable; that the instructions that have been imparted, from my point of view, have been as valuable, that the manifestations of the Spirit of the living God have been as great in the teachings imparted to the people, as any conference I have ever attended. I thank God for a religion of this character; that after long years of listening to the instructions and testimonies of the presiding authorities of the Church, there is such light, and' power in the gospel of the Redeemer of the world that the hearts of men and women are made just as glad in the work of God, after they have listened to these instructions for a lifetime, as when they first heard 147  glad tidings of great joy. I don't know that there is anything else in the world just like "Mormonism." It surely is the power of God. It is the fulfiling of the prophecies that have been given through ancient prophets in days gone by, and if any man can come into this great congregation and listen to the character of instructions imparted by the presiding men of the Church, and look into the faces of the hosts of Israel who have come up from the East, and the West, and the North and the South, that they may be more perfectly instructed in the ways of God, and not feel that this is a marvelous work and a wonder, and a fulfilment of the predictions of the prophets in relation to the latter-days, then I can only say that he would be in evei;y way contrary to my own view and contrary to the convictions of my own soul. 

I am glad, my brethren and sisters, to be a missionary, and glad to say to the fathers and mothers who have sons and daughters in the California mission, that those sons and daughters are doing honor to their parentage. It is really a wonderful thing to witness the development that takes place with these missionaries, and yet it is true that they are weak men and weak women and they feel very keenly their weakness. Still, through the blessing and power of God, they are convinced of the truth of the gospel and they are made to comprehend, by the unerring guide of the Holy Spirit, the truth of the religion revealed of the Lord in the dispensation in which we are living, just as fully and completely as their fathers and their mothers have been made to know that truth. 

I was thrilled in my soul, just a short time ago, in attending a priesthood meeting of the missionaries in the San Francisco conference, to hear a young sister say — and she said it in the fear of God and under the inspiration of the Spirit of God — "I never knew that 1 was alive until I came into this mission." I talked, not long ago, with a young man who has been and is a stock-raiser, and has been quite prominent in connection with this business, and he said to me, "President McMurrin, I have never taken as much pleasure in watching my flocks and my herds, and in witnessing the increase in their numbers, as I have taken here in striving to preach the doctrines of the everlasting gospel. I have never found any joy in connection with my personal affairs that could in any way equal the joy that I have experienced as I have tried, to the best of my ability, to communicate to men the message of the gospel that has been committed into my hands, and I have never been half as anxious over any of my wordly possessions; I have never prayed about them to the same extent that I have prayed about the responsibility that rests upon me as a preacher of righteousness." 

I am glad to say that the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints who are laboring in the California mission are laboring there under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. There may not be anything of a very remarkable character transpiring, and yet there GENERAL CONFERENCE.  something remarkable transpiring, for the message of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is being delivered to the people of that mission, and that message is the power of God unto salvation. The delivering of the message, bearing witness to the truth, will have its effect in due time, for the Lord God Himself has promised that the declaration of His word, as it is spoken by His servants, shall never fall to the ground without bearing fruit, and I am a believer in the promise that has been made in relation to these matters. 

We have recently had the pleasure, in California, of having with us President Heber J. Grant, Dr. John A. Widstoe and Bishop Charles W. Nibley, and' of having the President dedicate a chapel at San Bernardino. That name ought to have interest to the Latter-day Saints. President Brigham Young, in the early settlement of this great section of the country, sent pioneers into California. There is a story related that he said that when they found a mountain with a mark upon its side of an arrow-head they should pitch their tents. I don't know whether he ever said anything of the kind or not, but it is represented, at least in Railroad literature, and in other ways, that such a declaration was made. But be that as it may, those people pitched their tents in the section where San Bernardino now stands, and upon the mountain side there is the perfect picture of an arrow head, and it has been made as you know the emblem of the Salt Lake Route. Owing to the coming of the Johnston army, these early pioneers were called back home, and from that time, from that day up until the present time, we have had no real foot-hold in San Bernardino; and, of course, our hearts are glad and we praise the Lord God of heaven in the fact that we are now privileged, through the ministry that is being carried on in California, to establish a splendid little chapel that has been dedicated to the Lord our God by the President of the Church. We have come to believe that some of the things that possibly illumined the mind of President Brigham Young, long ago, may yet take place in that region of country, and we have recently thought it to the advantage of the work of God to establish a conference, with headquarters in San Bernardino. We have also been successful in establishing a conference with headquarters in the city of Fresno, where we have had but little opportunity in the past to proclaim these glad tidings of great joy. There is a great multitude of people, three hundred fifty thousand strong, in the Fresno conference, who know just about as much regarding the principles of the gospel of of Lord Jesus Christ as if they lived in some far-off, distant land; and the missionaries, who are operating at that point, have joy and gladness in their souls, because of the success that is attending their ministry. And so we might continue to speak of San Francisco, and to speak of Los Angeles, and to speak of San Diego, and to speak of sections of Nevada and Arizona where these young boys, in their weakness, and yet with joy in their hearts and with confidence in the call that they have received from the servants of God, are lifting up 149  voices according to their ability, calling men to repentance, and bearing witness, under the inspiration and power of the Holy Ghost, concerning the truth of the everlasting gospel? 

We had the privilege, while President Grant was visiting, to go out to Long Beach, where the civil authorities had given the "Mormon" choir of Los Angeles, Long beach, and Ocean P'ark the opportunity of singing The Martyrs in their great auditorium, and it was packed to its capacity. They say there were six thousand people present. 

Elder Axel A. Madsen, the conference president, delivered a concise and comprehensive story in relation to the martyrs, the character of men they were, and the causes that led up to their martyrdom. Under the inspiration and Spirit of God he was enabled to present things of very great importance, and I take it there are many men who heard what he had to say, as well as who heard the singing of the choir, who will remember favorably something concerning "Mormonism." President Grant had the opportunity, I am glad to say also, before that great congregation, of saying a few words in appreciation of the kindness and liberality of the authorities in Long Beach. Permission has now been granted us by the commissioners of Balboa Park to meet there. Balboa Park is the park that housed the buildings of the great fair during the International Fair that was held at San Francisco and San Diego, and they have there a great open air organ, and permission has been given to the choir of Southern California to go and sing The Martyrs to the people of San Diego, and the privilege also of using the great organ that was erected during the fair period. We had the privilege, some time ago, in Long Beach of singing The Vision to a great host of people, four thousand or five thousand strong, when Elder Everard McMurrin had the blessed privilege of bearing record to the truth of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and expounding in clearness and force the nature of that great first vision, and what was to come to the inhabitants of the world as a result of it. While we do not see great things transpiring, our hearts are made glad in what is taking place, and your sons and your daughters know that the Lord has spoken. They know that the gospel of the Redeemer of the world, as revealed to Joseph Smith, is the power of God unto salvation, and they have the courage to tell the people, according to their power and ability, the gospel message. God bless the sons and daughters of ZTon, and establish them for ever and for ever in that form of religion which is indeed and of a truth the Power of God, the only means of salvation to a perishing world. Amen. 

A sacred solo was sung by James H. Neilson, "Thus shall Thy light shine forth." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

We have been pleased and instructed by the sweet music, and thrilled by the testimonies of our brethren, and deeply, and I trust abidingly impressed by the timely instructions given during this conference. In the keynote speeches by the First Presidency we had presented to us the gospel of temporal salvation, scriptural philosophy, (concerning which not yet all of the elders of the Church are fully informed,) and then we had presented to us some of the great national problems. President Ivins, in speaking upon the latter topic, challenged our attention to the question as to whether or not it was sensationalism for him to say what he did, and while he spoke there went forth from the city of New York a press dispatch giving information that Police Commissioner Enright had advised the organization of, and was organizing, New York City as a sort of armed camp, with a dozen armed private citizens, upon each block, to come forward at the call of the officers, because there had been in ninety-three days as many spectacular murders committed in that great city. While President Ivins spoke, there came from Chicago an account of five murders in the past forty-eight hours, and an account of a letter received by Mr. Kickham Scanlan, whom Brother Ivins mentioned, the Chief Justice of the Criminal Courts of Chicago, who recently called upon the people of Chicago to know whether they were going to degenerate into a race of yellow men or not, or stand by the enforcement of the law. Justice Scanlan received a letter from some of those whom he had offended, because he had said that gun-men and thugs headed local labor unions. The letter received was to the effect that he would be "bumped off," to use the language of outlawry; that he might sing it, hum it, or whistle it, but an armed guard could not be with him always, and his life would be forfeited'. Time will tell whether the threat will be carried out. 

This same Chief Justice Scanlan, a few weeks before, had been called upon by a notable organization held in the city of Chicago, the officers of the N. E. A. which represented in a way some seven hundred thousand school teachers of the United States. They desired to know of the Chief Justice of the criminal court the cause for outlawry, and he assigned the passing of the old-fashioned home in which religion was taught, and a disbelief in God, lack of faith in God, as the reasons, and said that no finer institution existed than the old-fashioned homestead where religion was taught. There were others at the N. E. A. who discussed some of the problems that our nation is concerned with, and that we as a people, as a religious body, and as American citizens, are interested in. 

There was Professor Edward A. Ross, the sociologist of the Wisconsin University, who declared that the formula for making boys and girls worth living with was as well understood by sociologists as the 151  for the manufacture of soap, and after giving some of the elements he declared that the crowning formula of all was religion. He noted, by the way, and we will disagree with him on that point, that about the ages of seventeen or eighteen years of age was the time to begin to teach religion. We well know that we must start at an earlier age, but this same sociologist, while agreeing that religion was the crowning factor in his formula, said that the preachers or the clergy had greatly exaggerated what they had to offer; a charge, perhaps, growing out of his experience with such representatives of the clergy as he was acquainted w,ith. , 

And there was Professor Frank E. Spaulding, Dean of the Graduate School of Yale, who spoke also at that organization in reference to education, quoting Sir Aukland Geddes, the British representative, who had recently declared that the very end of education was to turn out pupils with minds which saw things in a certain color. And then Professor Spaulding asked : "What color ? What is the color of the education in the United States ?" And he said it was true that it contained certain pigments, had in it the pigments of patriotism, honesty, sincerity, truth, goodness, courage, cheer, generosity, humility, sympathy, love for humanity, for justice, law, and order. "But what of the color itself," he asked, "the deep absorbing, overwhelming color of our public education ?" And he declared that it was "individual success through individual effort, a desire, a determination, for individual achievement, and this desire, this determination, is overwhelmingly, almost universally focused upon ideals of material achievement and material prosperity." And then he asks the question if that sort of coloring is satisfactory, and declared that it was a problem for the deepest thought of our statesmen to answer whether that sort of coloring in our education is satisfactory. 

Mr. Tigert, the United States Commissioner of Education, also made a speech in which he said : "Unless along with these so-called high-t>row subjects, we can teach honesty, justice and decency, we'd better dismantle our finely equipped educational institutions and gO' back to the old log schoolhouse." And he quoted from a noted ecclesiast, who said : "I would rather have my boy in heaven learning his A, B, C's than I would have him in hell reading Latin and Greek." He declared that it was a great discovery in surgery, the sharp knife, but it was a still greater discovery, the clean knife, sterility; and he would rather have a dull knife, if clean, thp^n the sharp knife if foul. 

These are some of the problems that concern the American people. Such statesmen as William Jennings Bryan and others are not satisfied with the sort of education being given to our boys and girls. It was a source of satisfaction to me to hear the discussion at the Universitv of Utah the other day, and I would place along with the paner that has been mentioned as delivered by Dr. Carver, the paper delivered by Dr. Georse Thomas stating the policy of our chief educational institution. I think these companion documents should be in the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of our people, and for consideration of our boys and girls. It is of great importance, that sort of coloring that they have in their education. , 

One of our greatest scientists, Pascal, in speaking of belief in the immortality of the soul, declared that : 

"All our actions and thoughts follow paths so different, carrying according to the hope of gaining eternal blessings or not, that it is impossible to take any sensible or judicious step without regulating ft from thfis standpoint, which must be our final object." 

The great statistician, Babson, in a convention of business men at Pittsburgh a few years ago, speaking on this question of law and order, which is a problem now with our large centers of population, said this : 

"If you gentlemen are assuming that it is the police and government that preserve law and order in this nation,, and create the conditions of safety in which you live and do business, you are mistaken. It is the church which makes this nation safe." 

Many educators have been quoted during this conference on the question of religious training. Mr. Butler, the President of the largest University in our land, defines education as having to do with man's spiritual environment, and he uses the term spiritual in a very broad sense, having to do with man's art, man's science, his literature, his institutional life, and last, but not least, with religious training. 

But the problem is how to give this religious training. I rejoice that we are solving it so far as the Church is concerned, in our religious instruction at home, and in our Church schools, and in the seminaries for boys and girls who are pursuing studies in the high schools, colleges and universities. 

I appreciate the importance of our auxiliary associations. I would not detract from the impressive picture Brother Roberts gave of the importance of the Boy Scout movement; and yet, after all, it is but an' auxiliary of which there are many in the United States, such as Weed Craft League of America, headed by Mr. Ernest Thompson Seton, and the Father and Sons' League, and the Big Brother and the Big Sister Federations, the De Molay movement, and the Camp Fire Girls, Girl Scouts, our Bee Hive Girls; and just lately we heard of another organization of the girls connected with our Primary, the Seagull Girls. But all these, after all, are but auxiliary to the training which must be given in the home. Mr. Thomas Nixon Carver has been liberally quoted from in this conference, and it is indeed refreshing to hear stated some theological principles after being transmuted into the terms of the political economists. For instance, he defines truthfulness as a labor saving device, and proves it. Altruism for practical purposes he defines as being a good sport. We know altruism, however, in a higher form than that, as evidenced by our temple work, and also the vast amount of work being done for humanity, such as indicated by the reports of our mission presidents. 153 

There is just one extract I would' like to read from Dr. Carver's The Religion Worth Having, as to the sort of boys and girls he would have in a church that is able to hold its place in the nation and to comply best with the first great command to multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it. He says : 

"What attractions does the fellowship of the productive life offer? To young men it offers days of toil and nights of study. It offers frugal fare and plain clothes. It offers lean bodies, hard muscles, horny hands, or furrowed brows. It offers wholesome recreation to the extent necessary to maintain the highest efficiency. It offers the burdens of bringing us large families and training them in the productive life. It offers the obligation of using all wealth as tools and not as a means of self-gratification. It does not offer the insult of a life of ease or aesthetic enjoyment, or graceful consumption or emotional ecstasy. It offers instead the joy of productive achievement, of participating in the building of the Kingdom of God. 

"To the young woman also it offers toil, study, frugal fare and plain clothes such as befit those who are honored with a great and difficult task. It offers also the pains, the burdens and responsibilities of motherhood. It offers the obligation of perpetuating in succeeding generations, the principles of productive life made manifest in themselves. It does not offer the insult of a life of pride and vanity. It offers the joj of achievement, of self-expression, not alone on dead marble and canvas, but also in the plastic lives of children to be shaped and molded into those ideal form-; of mind and heart which their dreams have pictured. In these ways it offers to them also the joy of participating in the building of the Kingdom of God." 

In conclusion may I quote the prayer of parenthood which is just now being presented as a text for this year to the Parents' Classes : 

"I thank Thee. O God, for being, 

For WHAT, and for WHY I am; 

For wedded companionship without end; 

For a life blended with lives that through me come — 

Help me, O God, to know these lives as they are: 

To companion them each day and hour, 

To live before them that faith that carries on, and on — 

e3i|®. toward divinity. That mine may be that joy unutterable — A sweet, uplifting presence to each life through mine, And unto Thee be all praise forever. Amen." 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I have been helped spiritually by the testimonies that have been given at this conference. It is good to hear men tell of God's goodness to them : it is stimulating to listen to words that bear witness that God lives. The world needs the spirit of inspiration and testimony, and it is necessary that we as servants of the Lord be ever ready to explain the message of our Savior Jesus Christ in a broad and comprehensive manner. The other evening I was asked if "Mormonism" is to solve the problems of the world from an economic viewpoint. I was in conGENERAL CONFERENCE.  at the time with a prominent American educator who had spoken at the University Club on the conditions of civilization today. He had explained that the behavior of mankind is measured by economic principles and ideals. If these principles are high, then the solution of the world's problems will be correspondingly good. If they are wrong, then the world will go to pieces, and civilization will decay. He cited Russia as an example of where a people have tried to bring about reform in adopting economic ideals of a low standard. To the question as to whether or not the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to solve the problems of humanity from an economic viewpoint, I answer that the religion of the Master is a pure religion, and holds that the spiritual life of man is above all things, and that the suffering of humanity can only be eliminated as humanity humbly and courageously approaches the work and problems of life with a supreme faith in God. We must come back to a fundamental truth which I sometimes fear we are forgetting, and that is the fact that Vv-e are all naturally blessed with a consciousness of what is righl and what is wrong. We must cultivate this consciousness and choosing the right as God gives us the power to see the right, fearlessly live and preserve the better moral life of our natures both individually and socially. 

Nineteen centuries have passed since the Savior of the world uttered the ringing admonition, "Go ye into all the world," and yet the majority of mankind are unsaved. Almost a thousand million of the race perish in the life of each generation without the gospel, which is the only force after all that can re-generate mankind. In answer to the question, then, "Will 'Mormonism' solve life's problems from an economic viewpoint?" I reply YES. But only as the gospel of Christ in its purity affiliates itself through men of wisdom with the practical affairs of life. We have reached a crisis in the history of the race when but the universal spread and triumph of the gospel can save the world from dire disaster; for in the gospel is wrapped up the solution of all the industrial, financial, political, social, and moral problems of the age with which philosophers, statesmen, and philanthropists are hopelessly struggling. I ask : "Is not the call a clear one to us who have the gospel, and understanding its regenerating and transforming power, to teach mankind how to apply it in making over mankind, and transforming institutions by this divine agency?" 

Let me give you an example of how "Mormonism" has contributed to the solution of the social problem of mankind. No one will deny the fact that the idealism of Christianity is the highest known to humanity. And when it comes to government, the principles of the. Government of the United States are the most democratic and idealistic ever worked out by statesmen. The "Mormon" Church has brought people of twenty-seven different nationalities together and, uniting them in a common purpose, has caused them to look to the highest 155  religiously and politically. When a society is united on the same principles of life and are agreed to the same ideals, it is a demotic type, as the Socialists express it. The gospel of Jesus Christ tells us that every man must work out his own salvation, and develop the individuality which God has blessed him with. This is the greatest of all rights and privileges in life, and we should learn to appreciate it. The highest ideals can only be attained by our looking to God for divine guidance, and by our working every day with faith in ourselves and confidence in our fellow men. The fact that one morning, God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ spoke to the little boy Joseph Smith and gave him the divine message as to what he was to do to direct the children of men back to the Throne, is the lesson which teaches that mankind must come back to God and recognize His Godship over all. < 

We have in this congregation a delegation of Japanese who are passing through our city. They are welcome to these services, and I hope they will be able to understand much of what is said this afternoon. A great Japanese poet once explained in one of his poems that every man is a part of the "light of the Great Light," and the gleam of his soul will ever be the directing influence into the Great Light. In one sense, this is our philosophy, for Joseph Smith, recognizing the gleam of "Light" in his soul, went to the "Eternal light" and asked for more knowledge, and he was answered. It was as you state in your philosophy, the gleam that is in the soul of man, participating in the greater light that brought us into being, "but this light is embodied in God, and His Son, Jesus Christ, personages, beings, individuals as you and I are. 

I have been asked what compromises "Mormonism" will make with the world? I reply, no compromise when it comes to the fundamental principles of religion, for they are of God, and no one has a right to compromise the eternal truths of God. They belong to Him. We have no right to say we will compromise with man. So I pray that we may hold up these eternal truths. There is no compromise in God's principles and holy laws. There can't be, they are of God; and we have seen the "gleam," and we must follow the "gleam" according to the will of God for all His children. 

The Lord help us to see these things and to keep straight to the path, loving all men as individuals. I have hopes for the world, and while I agree with everything that has been said from this stand, I know you agree with me in the statement that there are great truths being established by men in the world, that there is goodness in the world, there is sweetness and light in the hearts of humanity. God help us that we may unite on all these powers for right, that the power of light may overcome the power of darkness. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric) 

While listening to the advice we have received during this conference. I thought of that passage of scripture : "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior," for I do rejoice that we are permitted to meet here in such pleasant surroundings and under such auspicious circumstances, blessed with the privilege of listening to instruction and advice given by our brethren, under the inspiration of the Lord. I realize what a blessing it is to have this privilege. What a glorious blessing it is to feel the power and influence of the Holy Spirit, under which we make new resolves and determinations to better serve the Lord. There is something in "Mormonism," commonly so-called, or the gospel of Jesus Christ, that forces every one of us, when under its influence, to think better, to act better and to make new resolves. 

We have been told to hold the gospel's standards high; to keep the commandments of the Lord; to pay our tithes and offerings; and to remember the poor. All of these instructions, if carried out, will develop in our hearts the spirit of unselfishness and devotion to our fellow men. No one can perform a good act or a service for the Lord but what he rids himself of some selfishness. I often meditate on the great commandment given by our Lord and Master: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." This commandment is practically the sum and substance of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and His great work will roll forward just in proportion to the measure that we grasp that fact and live it. We cannot possibly separate the love of God from the love of fellow men. The more we love God, and the more we try to serve Him, the more we shall love our fellow men; and the more we shall desire to labor for our Master. We cannot separate our religion into two parts, to be forgotten in wordly affairs and to be remembered on the Sabbath day only. Every Latterday Saint who has in his heart a desire to love God and to keep His commandments, must, at the same time, love his fellow men, and this great body of Latter-day Saints demonstrate, as no other people on this earth have done, the force and power behind the great commandment of our Lord and Master, and the sacrifice and labors of the Latterday Saints for the love of their fellow men. This is almost beyond comprehension. 

When I listened to the President give out the report of temple work, I thought to myself : "It would take a thousand years for one person to do all the work that has been done in the temples for the dead in one year." Then, when we remember the twenty-five thousand ward teachers who visit the homes of the Latter-day Saints every month, going in humility of heart with a message — not a scolding or 157 -finding — but a message of uplift, of love, of kindness and of helpfulness; we realize what service and love of our fellow man means. Then, there are the sisters of the Relief Society, acting as visiting teachers, going from home to home, laboring week in and week out, gathering small funds for the poor and for other social purposes, leaving their blessing, their sympathy, and the influence of the Spirit of the Lord in the homes they visit. Then, we must remember the seventy thousand brethren in the Church, holding offices in the Priesthood, from patriarch to deacon, who are trying to exercise the Priesthood given unto them to teach others by example and by precept the gospel of our Lord and Master. . Our critics are still groping about to find fault with the work of the Lord. They will not lift up their heads to see the good we are doing. They are very much like the picture I saw in my early days in an edition of John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, in which an angel stood over a man in poverty who was raking the gutters with a muck rake, trying to find something valuable there, while there stood over him the angel who had a crown for him if he would only look up for it. The world is in the same condition today in relation to the Latter-day Saints. They have not made up their minds that good can come from Nazareth, after all. 

My brethren and sisters, we must be prepared to give sweetness, kindness and helpfulness and to develop the highest type of community life among the Latter-day Saints. By this I do not mean the cooperative movement that prevails in the world, by which one great organization, under the name of cooperation, is developing this movement through stores, for the movement is nothing more than a protest against their competitors, and is still the competitive system of living. Such methods only aggravate the class distinction that is growing so pronounced. The cooperation the Latter-day Saints should have is that of sympathy and love, kindness and helpfulness, improvement of homes, farms, and all working with that ideal of the common good in mind, with that neighborly spirit that is so well understood among the Latter-day Saints. This spirit of helpfulness in community life will rid us of our selfishness, whether it be commercial or otherwise. 

My brethren and sisters, let us pay our tithes and offerings, and let us remember the poor; let us have sympathy for those less fortunate than ourselves, and let this sympathy be of a practical kind; let sweet neighborliness grow in our communities, for, after all, a sweet home life is the greatest help to the community. I was examining the United States census a few days ago. It shows that a majority of the people of the United States live in the great centers of population. The drift, all through the United States, is toward the cities. We are not growing in the cities, but we are growing in our semi-rural and farming communities. We are growing in our little towns and hamlets, where the sweetest home life and the finest development take place. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

May the Lord bless us that we may magnify our callings, honor our Priesthood, serve Him wi h full purpose of heart, and ail oth r things will be added to us. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric) 

I am sure that as good as President Grant is with figures, he would have a difficult problem in trying to- determine how much blood my heart has pumped during this day, and judging from the feeling that came over me when my name was mentioned, the first two seconds, my blood was pumped to a froth. 

I remember, a number of years ago while on the train, listening to a discussion between President Lorenzo Snow, President George Q. Cannon and President Joseph F. Smith. They were discussing their missionary experiences and trials that had come to them in their missionary work. To my surprise at that time, they agreed that the hardest thing they had to do was to occupy this position. Having listened to each of them, preach wonderful sermons, I could not understand how this could be, but I can now say that I have lived to appreciate, in a modest way, their feelings, and I believe I have learned that it is a virtue to be desired rather than avoided. For I have discovered that when a man acts in and of himself, in his own strength, he makes mistakes, but when God acts, he makes no mistakes, and He has promised His children that if they humble themselves before Him, His blessings will attend them, and I have found in my short experience nothing that will humble one so effectively as being called to this position. 

Merciful and gracious is the Lord, and marvelous is His work. Blessed, indeed, are those of us who have been permitted to take upon us His name, and covenant with Him through the waters of baptism that we are willing to serve Him, that we appreciate the opportunity He has given unto us of again returning into His presence, to enjoy the blessings promised the faithful. While I attended a convention in the East a few years ago, this statement was made: 

"Our experience in Europe with the army has taught us that today the people have no love for the old conventional religion. Instead there are selfishness and pettiness. We must do away with the false social distinctions and create a church ideal, fit for our present need, one with social aims worth fighting for, not a mere selfish gospel of safety. Let them lift up the center faiths of the Christian life, let them practice as well as preach fraternity, and draw together in one common cruse." 

I want to say to you that in God's Church we have a perfect fra159 . When men learn to live as God would have them live, then are selfishness and pettiness done away with; but as long as men continue to be selfish and petty, and jealous, then we cannot hope for the perfect Church which God would have. This is a most wonderful work in which we are engaged, and when we learn to obey, when we learn to depend upon God, to take Him at His word, and prepare to receive His blessings, then can we expect the promise. 1 learn a lesson from the stories we read in the Scriptures concerning the preparation of men who have been called to positions of responsibility in this Church and in the Church of God anciently. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Daniel and David, were trained in their youth. They were prepared in their youth, the foundation was laid for the work that would be required of them later in life. The Savior had that experience, and in this day Joseph Smith, in his youth, — having been born of goodly parents, having been taught to have faith in God, finding a difference of opinion in his home, his parents not agreeing as to which church was the church of God, went to the one place where he could reasonably be expected to go to receive the information "he needed. Believing in the Scriptures, having faith, not wavering, he went to God, and having complied with the condition the promise was fulfilled. God the Father and Jesus Christ, His only begotten Son, appeared to Him. God the Father, all-powerful, fulfilling His promise, appeared to the boy who, through faith and having complied with the condition, was worthy. But what was the reply when asked which of all the churches was true? "This is my beloved Son, hear Him." God might have answered in further detail but with Him there is order in all things and this was the mission of His Son. 

Later, the Angel Moroni, whose mission it was to bring forth the Book of Mormon, which was to open the gate to this, the last dispensation, was sent to counsel, to watch over, to help prepare the boy for the work that he was to do. Later, John the Baptist came to fulfil his mission, it being his right under the direction of Peterjames and John to restore the Aaronic Priesthood, which Priesthood holds the keys of the preparatory gospel, the gospel of faith, repentance and baptism by immersion for the .remission of sins. Then came Peter, James and John who held the right and the power to restore the holy Melchizedek Prieshood, and then the Prophet Elijah who came to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. 

Oh, I thank God that there are in this Church, as President Ivins said, young men who are willing to take upon them the burden of this work, who are willing to labor with all their might for the upbuilding of God's Kingdom on earth, and I know that there are thousands of them in the Church today who can say, as David of old said : "Who is this Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?" And then, when ridiculed because of- their youth, because of their GENERAL CONFERENCE. , they can answer as he answered : "Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear and took a lamb' out of the flock : and I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he arose against me, I caught him by his bearJ. and smote him, and slew him. Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear, and this Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God." 

Oh, my brethren and sisters, the burden that is resting upon us at this time is that we shall continue to impress upon the hearts of those young men that Spirit, that we shall find work for them to do, that they shall feel the glory and the joy of service, and when we are laboring, as it is expected that we shall labor, when we humble ourselves as it is expected we shall humble ourselves, then will the deacons in this Church be laboring as deacons, assisting the bishops in caring for the meetinghouses, and looking after the poor. Then will those who are ordained to the office of teacher watch over the Church always, and be with and strengthen them, and see that there is no iniquity in the Church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking; then will those who are ordained to the office of priest be prepared and be willing to preach, teach and expound the principles of the gospel. 

We are told that "the field is ripe and ready for harvest." "Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth,- that all that will hear may hear. Prepare ye, prepare ye, for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh, and the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth, and the arm of the Lord shall be revealed, and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of His servants; neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people." 

Oh ye that embarked in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. God so grant, I numbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

{Presiding Bishop of the Church) 

My heart and my soul are in entire sympathy and harmony with the doctrines and precepts and counsel and admonition and spirit of this great conference. I know that the men who stand at our head, the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles, the Patriarch, the Seventies, and the Bishopric — you may exclude me from God. There may have been, doubtless have been, in times past, one God. There may have been, doubtless have been, in times past, one here and there, more distinguished as a leader, more fitted, as 161 

President Ivins pointed out to us, for the work that they were called upon to do, than any others who preceded them or who have followed them; but in the history of this Church I don't believe there ever has been a band of brethren of general authorities who are more desirous of serving the Lord unselfishly than the brethren that we now have who preside over the Church. They are men of God, clean of life and unselfish, and most devoted in their labors. They are men to whom the Lord manifests Himself and to whom He' gives guidance and direction, in the conduct of the affairs of the Church. 

The same may be truly said with respect to the authorities in the stakes, in all the stakes of Zion. As far as I know, the presidencies, high councilors, the bishops and their counselors are, as a rule, unselfish workers, and in the missions also, as well as the auxiliary organizations and, in fact, in all the activities of the Church everywhere, there are more faithful workers today who labor unselfishly for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God than there ever were up to this time; so that the Church and kingdom of God is today stronger, more powerful, more potent than it ever has been in any hour of its history in the past. 

But notwithstanding all this, we are, Oh, so dreadfully weak in many things. We are not self-sustaining as we should be; far from it. We are most woefully in debt. I have been thinking in these meetings this thought : I wonder what Brother Brigham would say to us if he could happen along here now and ascertain that we do not produce in our state more than about one-half of the meat that we eat! We ship in tens of thausandp: of hogs from other states instead of raising them here at home! I wonder what he would say after all the years of his teaching, which I heard and others here heard, and which you can read, that this people should become self-sustaining, and then find out that today forty to fifty per cent of all the eggs consumed by the people of this state are shipped in from the East, and the fowls that you go down in the market and buy are shipped in by the carload! We do not produce them here where everybody, pretty much, who has a little piece of land could be producing a few chickens and eggs, and have, as Brother Brigham used to tell us, a pig or two, and thereby become self-sustaining. 

Then again, following the same thought, I wonder what President Smith wduld say to us if he found now that we are more in debt individually than we ever were before. We have not followed the wise counsels that have been given to us as we should have done. I plead guilty myself, and yet the Latterday Saints as a whole are a good people. I believe in them. They are my people. I want to be with them. 

I see men here and there going away from this camp-fire of ours, going off with people who are not of our faith. They seem to find' hapGENERAL CONFERENCE.  and enjoyment there, and I fear some of them have pleasures in unrighteousness. But for me, I like my own people best, for I believe they are the Lord's people, and yet those of our friends and neighbors at these different campfires around us, they, too, are good people. 

I have an abiding faith in this Nation, which the Lord, our God, brought into being, and has brought to this day and age, standing as it does, doing a great work, a leader among nations for good, for helpfulness, for righteousness, for peace. President Grant noticed in his opening remarks the wonderful work that had been done, and commended it, by the recent conference held in the city of Washington, looking to the partial disarmament of the nations; that has been a great work and a good work. We might say, if they had only done that one thing, the return of Shantung with its thirty millions or more of Chinese to their own land, to their own country, returned them to their own government, if that alone was the only thing that had been accomplished, that alone was worth while. But many other great things have been accomplished, and I am proud of what our Nation is trying to do. 

We need not fear as to this Nation from without. The Lord has said, "I will fortify this land against all other nations." The danger is not from without, but from within, as the Book of Mormon plainly points out from secret combinations of men giving their first allegiance to their secret combination. That is the danger for after awhile these combinations will be contending one against the other until anarchy is apt to prevail, crime becomes rampant and danger to the existence of our government with its glorious Constitution is great, unless the people turn unto the Lord and seek Him. 

Our attention was called by a distinguished educator here the other day. to the fact that the great curve, as he called it. of mechanical development, invention of every kind, patents' being issued by the millions on all these inventions, which go on multiplying by the thousands, the great mechanical development that makes this the most wonderful age in all the history of the world, that curve he said had gone way up almost out of sight, but he said the spiritual line or curve has not moved upward but rather downward, and he suggested that the people of this Nation should give more attention to the spiritual and less to the temporal. 

On the opening day of our conference, when I saw a larger congregation here than had ever met on a week day of any conferev:e before. T marveled at it. What is it? I thought, as this learned educator called attention to this lack in the spiritual growth, or development of spiritual matters, which is so sadly lacking in the wld, that here is this very thing that brings these thousands and tens of thousands together, this spiritual power which is lacking in the world. There isn't any use denying the lack of it in . the 163 . Indeed, it is not denied. It is confirmed. We heard it confirmed tare the other day on the best authority, and we see it; we see the lack of it; we have heard it repeated in these conferences, the lack, as these men testify, such men as Nicholas Murray Butler and others from him on down, all testify to that lack in the world, but here is that spiritual power which has brought these tens of thousands together to this conference on a week day to listen to the servants of the Lord. That is the very power which the people of the world lack. For these thousands who come, do not come here to grumble and complain at the Priesthood. As a rule, they are clean men, good men. They are tithepayers. They are men who, generally speaking, keep the Word of Wisdom. But those who do not pay tithes, and who do not keep the Word of Wisdom, you will not find them crowding into this tabernacle on a week day, or on a Sunday even, not as a rule. It is those who have this spiritual essence and power in their souls, which these distinguished educators say, and which we know, the world lacks. 'We have it here, and so we come to be refreshed and to learn of the ways of the Lord, and to partake of His spirit, and to grow in grace, and in the knowledge of the truth. 

 A distinguished and learned man, a ruler among the Jews, and an educator, called on the Savior in his day and stated that he knew that the Savior had power which they did not have because, he said, "No man could do the works you are doing unless God be with you." Now the Savior said to him, "Except a man be born again he cannot see the kingdom of God." At that the distinguished ruler, educator and teacher began to quibble and say : "Well now, how can a man be born again when he is old," etc., and the Savior replied, "Except a man be born of the water, and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.'" 

He can secure for himself, by conforming to the law, this spiritual essence and power which shall make him to know God. Read in the Doctrine and Covenants how the conferring of the Priesthood was brought about, and how the power of the Holy Ghost which gives the key of the knowledge of God, was given through holy angels, conferring this Priesthood upon the Prophet Joseph Smith and his fellow-servant Oliver Cowdery. They received this power, this authority. They were delegated to confer it upon others, and when they laid their hands upon them and said, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost," then, mystery of mysteries, miracle of miracles, thev received it. And you also have partaken of that Spirit, my brethren and sisters. You have received it just as the Savior told this great teacher that he could receive it. The Savior said, "The wind iblowefth where it listeth,, |and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth." We need not inquire further than to know that that power, that spiritual essence, is received when we comply with the condiGENERAL CONFERENCE. . The Savior said that no man could receive it without obeying. You know that is true. You have received, as T say, of this Spirit, and that is what brings you here. That is what gathers this great body of people every six months. That is what makes you to know that these brethren of the Presidency arc men of God, that these presiding officers are clean, good, upright men, competent by the purity of their lives alone, to be entitled to communion with that Spirit and power called the Holy Ghost, and to receive direction and guidance from that source, and give it -to this people, and this notwithstanding our many little failings and weaknesses which beset us in our lives. 

We can say, as Jesus said to this great teacher, Nicodemus, 'Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness." The Latter-day Saints teach that which they know, and they say with the power of Almighty God, the power of the Holy Ghost, this spiritual existence, this spiritula missing force which the world is now finding out that it lacks, oh, so greatly, too, which they have not got and neither can they find it only in the Lord's way, "Except ye be born of the water, and of the Spirit ye cannot enter into the kingdom of God," neither con you know and feel assured of this spiritual essence and power which we possess, and which we know is the power of God unto salvation, without complying with this requirement. God Bless you. Amen. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

PRAYERS ANSWERED 

My attention has been called to the fact that a resolution was passed here some time ago, recommending that a day be set apart for a general fast and prayer meeting among the Saints, to ask for the success of the great International Conference on the Limitation of Armaments. We thank the Lord that our prayers and those, undoubtedly, of the great majority of all the people in the United States, for the success of that conference, have been answered. 

AIM AND DESIRE OF THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

I believe that I am in a position to know, better than any other living man, the heart, the aspiration, the desire and the ambition of each of the twenty-six men who constitute the General authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Starting with myself and ending with Brother John Wells, and without any mental reservation whatever, I announce to you that I believe — I not only believe, but I know, that each and every one of these men has his heart set upon the accomplishment of the purposes of God. While we all have our faults, 165  failings, our imperfections, our weaknesses, nevertheless there is no mental reservation in saying to you that these brethren, one and all, desire the advancement of God's Kingdom, and that it is first and foremost in their affections. When we become perfect we may not be able to stay here. 

AN APPEAL TO FATHERS AND MOTHERS 

Once I was able to quote the following stanza correctly, but I am not quite sure of it now : 

"Vice is a monster of such frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; But seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace." 

I can remember when a young lady walked the streets of Salt Lake with her dress high enough to show the tops of her shoes, and an inch or two more, that we were shocked; but I have seen many a knee on the Temple grounds today, because the dresses were too short. Fathers and mothers, use your influence with your modest, pure, sweet girls who, in their anxiety to follow fashion, are causing men to blush with shame! 

USE NO DRUG THAT CREATES AN APPETITE FOR ITSELF 

The head of the health department, Dr. Beatty, has requested me to say to the Latter-day Saints that, there are more injurious ingredients in coca-cola than there are in coffee, and particularly when some of the good people say : "Give me the double shot." I say to the Latterday Saints, and it is my right to say it — because you have sung, since this conference started (whether you meant it or not, T am not saying)— 

"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet, 

To guide us in these 'atter days; We thank Thee for sending the gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing 

Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, 

And love to obey Thy command." 

Now, if you mean it — I am not going to give any command, but I will ask it as a personal, individual favor to me, to let coca-cola alone. There are plenty of other things you can get at the soda fountains without drinking that* which is injurious. The Lord does not want you to use any drug that creates an appetite for itself. 

A WORD TO FARMERS AND POULTRYMEN 

Fifteen years ago, yes longer than that, when I was presiding over the European mission, I remember reading an article on the. poultry GENERAL CONFERENCE. , and I was dumb-founded to learn that the products of the poultry industry — eggs, chickens, ducks, etc., were greater than all the products of any other industry in the United States of America. Cotton was not "in it." Corn was not "in it." I would not be positive as to the figures, but my recollection is that in the state of Utah there were not two hundred thousand chickens, and in the state of Iowa there were over ten millions; and yet, I believe we have as good feed for chickens here as they have in Iowa. I ate butter all the way from Denmark, when I went to Japan. We ought to export butter, but never import it. We ought to export eggs and chickens, but never import them. I have known of poultry coming in here by the car-load, which ought never to come. It is really almost a moral obligation on us to provide these things here at home. 

THE TESTIMONY OF THE GOSPEL FAR-REACHING 

We had at our Priesthood meeting here, two thousand three hundred ninety-eight men — lacked only two of two thousand four hundred men — the largest Priesthood meeting that has ever been held within my recollection, and in another six months it will be forty years since I first had the privilege of occupying this stand to proclaim, the gospel to the Latter-day Saints. I thank the Lord for that power and that inspiration of His Spirit which abides in the hearts of the Latter-day Sain f s, men, women and children. No other people like them; no other people have the absolute knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that God has spoken, and that He did reveal Himself to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The testimony of the divinity of that man's mission has been given to people from the country of the mid-night sun, Scandinavia, clear away to South Africa. It has been given to men and women all over Europe, from Canada to South America, and in the islands of tne sea. The Japanese and Chinamen, and men all over the world have been blessed by Almighty God through His giving to them a knowledge that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God. 

THE ABSENT BRETHREN OF THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

Brother J. Golden Kimball is not with us today on account of poor health. He is in San Francisco, or in the neighborhood of San Francisco. Our prayers and faith go out for his recovery. With the exception of Brother Kimball, the only members absent from this conference, of the twenty-six men standing as the general authorities of the Church are: Elder Reed Smoot, who is in Washington, and Brother Orson F. Whitney who is presiding over the European mission. Brother Whitney is accomplishing a wonderful work. I have read with the keenest interest some of his splendid editorials in the Millennial Star. T believe that it is needless, now, for me to say anything in praise of Elder Peed Smoot. From the President of the United States down, he is being commended for his splendid labors as a senator. 167 

A MEETING OF STAKE PRESIDENCIES WITH THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

Now, I agreed to quit in thirty-five minutes, and I am through in ten, with one single exception, two exceptions; maybe I will find three before I get through. I have found three. The Presidency and the general authorities desire to meet tomorrow morning at 9:30 in the Temple — en' race from the west door — all the presidents of stakes who are here at this conference, and their counselors. We will not promise to close that meeting till we get through. You know if you were at a picture show you could stand it for three hours without getting tired, but when you are in a meeting somewhere, you know it nearly kills you to sit a little over the regular time. 

PRAYER IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND IN THE FAMILIES 

I have here a note from Elder Stephen L. Richards, who is an attorney, and he says: "A notion seems to' be prevalent among educational people that the offering of prayer in our public schools contravenes the law of the State. I believe a reputable legal opinion will not support this view; since provision is made for prayer in the Federal Congress, the State Legislatures, and other public assemblies, why prohibit prayer for the children?" 

President Brigham Young said: "Prayer keeps a man from sin, and sin keeps a man from prayer." We ought to have enough interest in our children to have prayers. I will thank the Lord when the public sentiment of America shall say that a man who c'oes not believe in prayer cannot teach our children, at the expense of the public. Why should my money be used to employ a man to teach my children infidelity and a lack of faith in God? I remember as a boy, when we had our small common schools, that they hired a non-"Mormon," to teach in the Twelfth Ward school. He got up and said : "I understand that in the past you have prayed in this school. We will not have any more prayers, because we do not know whether or not there is anybody to pray to." I consider it an outrage that the money of people who believe in the Lord God Almighty can be spent to teach our children that kind of ''rot." I endorse Nicholas Murray Butler's words, "The fool who says in his heart: 'There is no God,' finds his god when he is looking in a mirror." 

Mr. Babson, the greatest statistician in America, and be knows what he is talking about, says : "Much, of the prosperity of the nation is due to the family prayers which were once held in the homes of our fathers. To a very large extent, this custom has gone by. Whatever the argument pro and con may be, the fact remains that such family prayers nurtured and developed the spiritual resources to which the prosperity of the nation is due. The custom of family prayers should be revived, along with many other good New England customs which some radicals may ridicule, but to which they owe all they possess." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

HAPPINESS CONSISTS IN GIVING AND SERVING 

Those are the two things I nearly forgot. Here is the other. Henry Drummond has written some of the best essays, and has delivered some of the finest speeches that I have ever read. In one of his books entitled, The Greatest Thing in the Word, he says: "Half the world is on the wrong scent in its pursuit of happiness. They think it consists in having and getting and in being served by other.s. It consists in giving and in serving others." The happiest men in the world are the missionaries who are giving the gospel free of charge to the people of the world. 

May the Lord sanctify all that has been said and done in this great conference. May He bless our organizations. I thank the Lord for that wonderful oratorio, "The Restoration," that came from the brain of the daughter, Susa Young Gates, and partly from the voice of the granddaughter, Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, and from the inspired pen in writing the music of the grandson, B. Cecil Gates — of the great man, Brigham Young, under whose direction was erected this building, and our great organ. May the Lord inspire us one and all who have a knowledge of the gospel to live it. May we obey the Word of Wisdom, because God tells us to, to say nothing about the advantages to ourselves by so doing. May we pay our tithing so that we will be on the right road to happiness, is my prayer. May we pray to God, so that we will have His Spirit; may we live the gospel, so that we may inspire our children to do the same, I ask it, with my blessing upon you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. 

A selection from the Oratorio, "The Restoration," was given by John W. Summerhays, Melvin Peterson, Evangeline Thomas, and Martha Smith lensen, of the choir. 
