Morning
08 04 1922


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 


ANNOUNCING A MEETING OF TWO AND ONE HALF HOURS 

This is certainly a very wonderful audience for such a stormy day. We feel grateful because of the desire on the part of the Latterday Saints to attend their meetings — that we have this wonderful audience. If a person has a journey of two hundred miles to travel, and, at the end of that time, finds that he must go another fifty, it makes him very tired indeed, but if he starts out for two hundred fifty miles to begin with, he is not weary or worn out when he arrives at the end. Usually, we are here two hours but we are going to make it two and a-half today.' T thought if I gave you fair notice, you would not be so fidgety as you otherwise would. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I wish to read from the 52nd chapter of Isaiah beginning with the 7th verse : 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bnngeth good tidings, that publisbeth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that pubhsheth salvation; thii, saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth. 

"Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion. 

"Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted His people, He hath redeemed Jerusalem. 

'1 he Lord hath made bare His holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends ot the earth shall see the salvation of our God." 

WHAT OF THE DAY AND HOUR IN WHICH WE LIVE? 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to belong to a Church that has watchmen, who sing together in unison, who indeed have the vision, the light, and the inspiration of the living God, to direct this people. 

When the people come together, as we do on these great occasions, there may be in the hearts of many, the cry, "Watchman, what of the night, and what of the hour, and what of the day in which we live?" 

But that cry is not made in vain. The hour, the times, and the seasons in which we live, are known and have been revealed during the sessions of this conference, to the Latter-day Saints. We are not groping in the dark, and we live in the day that Isaiah was talking about when, upon tbe mountains of Ephraim, where we stand, the watchmen shall sing together in unity; the day when the waste places shall be redeemed; and Jerusalem, as we heard at this conference, stands on the threshold of her redemption, for the Lord hath decreed it. 

A PEOPLE WITH A GREAT MISSION 

I rejoice, I say, to live and to be identified and associated with a people who have the great mission that has been committed to the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice, with my brethren, in the thoughts expressed by the distinguished gentlemen, who spoke to us following the remarkable address of the chief watchman upon the towers of Zion, our president. I thought that Professor Carver might have referred to what he has written with reference to the Latter-day Saints. He s'ated, in our hearing, that he thought this was one of the most fruitful fields in the world to study those who were dealing with great empire building questions. He wrote, two years ago, in a preface to a book published by Professor Warren H. Wilson of Harvard, entitled Evolution of the Country Community, deploring the tendency on the part of the majority of the people of this country to move from the rural communities and the small towrts into the larger cities. He commented upon the exceptions to this general rule, and he found the exceptions among the "Mormon" people. He has been here; he has studied us. It is not only considered a fruitful field by him upon the occasion of this visit, his attention has been upon it a long time, or he would not have said what I now quote from his introductory chapter : 

"The elements of permanent cultivation of the soil are found in greater niimber among the 'Mormons' " — [You will note he mentions them first] — "Scotch, Irish. Presbyterians, and Pennsylvania Germans, who are the best American agriculturists." 

A PEOPLE WHO MAINTAIN SELF-CONTROL 

Professor Wilson said in his book, in a later chapter, "The 'Mormons' represent in the highest degree, these exceptional farm communities in the United States. Perhaps no other so large or powerful a body of united farmers is found in the whole country." Then I thought of something Professor Carver said in that very excellent work he has published, entitled, The Religion Worth Having. He asks the question: "What is the best religion," and answers it in these words : "The best religion is, first, that which acts most powerfully as a spur to energy; and second, directs that energy most productively." I was thinking upon these utterances of the distinguished gentleman, who was a visitor and a speaker at this conference, and in connection with his very remarkable address which I was privileged to hear at the University the other day, in which he summed up his whole answer to the question, "How much civilization can we stand?" He said: "The answer is found in our ability to maintain self-control." When I think of these questions, and; khe suggestion in his message, I ask: "Where in all the earth, could he or any other man go to find a people who maintain more self-control than the Latter-day Saints? 

RULES OF CONDUCT BROAD AND COMPREHENSIVE 

I tell you when God laid the foundation of this Church, He gave us the principles and rule of conduct for the membership of this Church, so broad, so complete and comprehensive, that upon that foundation we can build to attain heights that men never have attained in the history of this world. We are here for that purpose; we are here to produce the highest civilization that has ever graced the foot-stool of God. 

THE DESTINY OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS THEIR DUTY 

IN REACHING IT 

If this people will listen to the voice of the watchmen, who, in the days that are past, have successfully piloted this people to their present state of efficiency, on the farm, in their commercial relations, in the family institutions, and in the morals of the people, I testify to you there will be no disappointment. Every principle by which these problems may be solved has been delivered to this people. We did not come here to be imitators. If there is anything good or praiseworthy, we seek after these things, but we are not here to be lured from the great goal and end, which is to build up the most perfect race of people that have lived, and they will not be perfected by talking about it. We will attain that end when we can maintain full self-control. When I listened to those stirring words from President Ivins relative to the conditions that obtain in the world, indicating that even in our own blessed land, there is a loss of 'self-control; that men are not willing to abide by the constitutional law of the land; when I listened also to the statement quoted from a distinguished senator to the effect that there are no interests in this country now that are not bound up together for selfish purposes, I wonder if we are not approaching the day prophesied of in olden times, both upon the eastern and the western continent, and again uttered in this dispensation, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, to the effect that men would be bound in bundles; and when the time cometh that they  bound in bundles, they are ready for the burning; they are ready for destruction. 

THE DANGER OF SELFISHNESS AND CLASS COMBINATIONS 

I plead with you now, my brethren and sisters, that we shall not fall into the ways of the world in being bound into selfish bundles. Every organization and institution that promotes the welfare of one particular class against the welfare and interest of others, is dangerous; any institution, I care not what its name may be, that makes you concerned only in your own particular group of workers, promotes selfishness. Unions have never found very much favor in this Church; not because we do not like to see our brethren of one particular profession or group affiliated together, but we see the danger of the system, the plan and the purpose of it, which is selfishness, wherein the man within the union or combination is at enmity with his brother, who is out of the organization. There ought to be, therefore, no feeling tO' find fault with the leaders of this Church, who have given counsel and advice to our brethren, with respect to this matter because they see dangers that we can not see. The appeal to selfishness is dangerous, and there never was a period in the world's history when it was more rampant than it is today. We talk about the time when the Redeemer of the world shall come, when peace shall be in the earth, when we shall enjoy universal brotherhood. But outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, it seems to me, there never was a period, in modern days at least, when there was less universal brotherhrood than there is today, and more selfishness displayed than -ever before. But you brethren, sixty thousand of you, who have filled missions, who left your homes, paid your way, to preach this gospel to strangers, what was your training? It was a training in universal brotherhood. It shows that we love our brothers and sisters in other parts of the world, sufficiently, that we not only pray for them but we spend our good means and time to bring them salvation. 

THE LAW OF TITHING A REMEDY FOR SELFISHNESS 

The law of tithing which has been revealed to this people makes for the destruction of selfishness, and for the establishment of universal brotherhood. And how much that is needed now, when we think that a half-million people in this country today are on strike because of the warfare between capital and labor, wherein the country itself, is in danger and in peril, and the whole world is in distress because of the conflict between capital and labor. I have reached the conclusion that the Lord knew the needs of our times when he gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith the law of tithing. And prior to that, he gave him the law of consecration, a plan by which, in the days of Enoch, men had all things in common; there were no rich and no poor among them. Our people were willing to go forward and enter into that order, but they were not prepared, they lacked training, they lacked preparation, and the Lord gave the law of tithing in his own words, "as a schoolmaster," to bring us to the higher law. I want to tell you that the day of graduation from that school is coming, but it will not come by a little group going off here, and another there, to undertake to precede the Church. It will come when God inspires His prophet to step forward and speak the word, and many men and women will be prepared for graduation, to enter into those principles that are altogether righteous, that God has decreed must be established when the Son of God comes to reign and rule among men upon the earth. They will come from that school, and be the men and women who have paid their honest tithing, and those who have not, will be ready to go back in the primer class and start all over. How many are prepared to do greater things ? Flow well have we attended school ? I appeal to you now, at this time, when men are tempted, because of their financial circumstances, because of their distress and inability to pay their obligations, perhaps, to depart from the commandment of the Lord, and deny Him that which belongs to Him. I say to you, my brethren and sisters — I know it, in the very depths of my heart; I know it, and I say it to you. As the Lord lives, if this people will pay their honest tithing and practice economy, as suggested by the President of this Church, you will meet your debts and your obligations and be free. I promise you that if we will keep the commandments of the Lord, we will never lack means to the accomplishment of the purposes which he has in store for us, if we will use the material things as but a means to a glorious end. 

HOW THIS PEOPLE HAVE LEARNED OBEDIENCE AND SELF-CONTROL 

I said that we are men and women who have learned self-control. We have learned it in the payment of tithing; we have learned it in obeying the laws of the land. One of the things that men are now deploring is the tendency upon the part of the people, even of our own country, to disregard and disobey the laws of the land. I hold up to the Latter-day Saints and to the world the example of this Church, in obeying the law as an evidence of our superior ability in self-control. 

President Ivins called our attention to those experiences through which we passed in the days of President Woodruff, when we resigned the practice of a principle that God had revealed, when we gave it up. What for? In order to obey the law of the land. It produced hardship, heart-ache, sorrow and distress. Men had shown their devotion to that principle and had suffered bonds and imprisonment, but in order that we might be a law-abiding people, honoring and obeying and sustaining the law, we surrendered it, no matter what it cost; the practice of it we gave up, and I hold it before the people of this country as an evidence of the ability of the 

''Mormon" people to honor and to obey the law. Let us not forget it, Latter-day Saints, that there is a duty incumbent upon us, to continue, to set a law abiding example. The Lord said (you will find it recorded in the 115th Section of the book of Dbctrine and Covenants) that he called upon the Church to come out of the world and to lift up an ensign to the nations. That is what we are here for, to show them the way. 

TO REACH THE GOAL WE MUST PAY THE PRICE OF MORAL INTEGRITY 

I speak now of another principle involving the same question. No people ever shall reach the heights except they are pure in heart. There is coming from abroad, reaching us in some form or another, and it will continue to come, the demoralizing influences that are in the world; that have broken down the moral standards of the nations of the earth. I care not what they say against us in England. They are saying that we have selected handsome boys to go to England just now, when there are two million more women in England than men. to lure the women and girls of England to come over here for immoral purposes. As Sir Phillip Gibbs said to us privately, in commenting upon it, "You would not need to send boys over to England to do that, particularly handsome boys; if you would just put a little advertisement in the paper that you would pay their fare you would get a boat-load a week." Let them say what they please in England or anywhere else. I care not what they say; but what I am concerned in is what we do. All the world may condemn us and count us as the scum of the earth, impure and unclean, but that will not keep us down, nor deter us from reaching the heights. On the other hand, all the world may speak well of us and praise us and give us credit for being a virtuous people, and if we are not, we cannot rise, by all the plaudits of the world. So, the secret of our attaining the goal is to pay the price of moral integrity. We must maintain the standard that has been exalted for this people. I have heard it, as you have. From the clays of my boyhood, I was taught by my mother to live as clean and as chaste and as pure as the girl I asked to be my wife, the mother of my children. It has been taught by this Church, that next to murder itself, is the crime of sexual impurity. Jesus said, discussing the question of the morals of men, "He that looketh upon a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery already with her in his heart." In these last days he has said that he that looketh upon a woman to lust after her and does not repent, shall deny the faith. There never was an immoral people who did not entertain immoral thoughts. I believe this generation excels all others in doing this wicked thing and we are encouraged by reason of the dress and deportment of women, innocently, sometimes, perhaps, and yet in others, deliberately to attract the attention and make the sexual appeal. They deport themselves in such a manner that their very appearance is suggestive to impure and unclean thoughts. The depicting of the sex stories that we now often see upon the "Movie" screen, tends in the same direction, and I could mention other things. 

APPEAL TO YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN TO MAINTAIN OUR MORAL STANDARDS 

Now, I say to you, daughters of Israel, do not fall into the snares of the world. It is incumbent upon you, not only to preserve yourself, but to save your brothers. If the young men of this Church do not keep themselves clean, woe, woe unto the daughters of Israel! You, young men, it is incumbent upon you to preserve our standards; to preserve the moral integrity of the daughters of Israel; and remember that next to murder itself, is the crime of sexual impurity. Let that be burned into our hearts and our souls, and we will weather the storms that beat upon us. 

PARENTS SPIOULD ASSUME MORE RESPONSIBILITY 

Then, parents, let us assume a little more responsibility; do not take too much for granted. I have said to my own sons and daughters.; "It isn't that I do not trust you and have confidence in you, but I know the temptations of the hour; I am not going to let you stand alone; I am going to keep a little closer to you than I have ever done before. Too many courtships are going on in automobiles, instead of next door where father and mother are within the home. I am appealing to you, my brothers and sisters, that we shall not follow these alluring things, because they are deceptive. 

A CALL TO REPENTANCE 

I say to you that the civilization of this world has reached its pinnacle. Except it shall repent and serve God, there will never be any greater civilization in this world than there is today. They cannot go higher, because their foundation is not solid. They have not learned self-control. We who have set out upon a great task of doing things, that never have been done, let us remember the lessons we are to learn; and if we adhere to these things, we shall "go over the top;" we shall attain the heights. May God help us to get clearly in our mind the vision of what we are called to do and the ambition to do it, by individually maintaining control, while chaos shall reign out there. Do you know what is coming? Oh, my heart is sick when I see what is coming in the world. Do you want to know what it is? You read what happened when Rome became immoral and degenerate; you read what happened on this land of America when the Lamanite and the Nephites became degenerate. Kings will be murdered upon their thrones, bands of men with common interest shall seize the government for a moment, to be overthrown by other combinations of interest; property will be unsafe; law will be mocked at, and the rule that will obtain is the rule of self-interest and selfishness, except men shall repent. 

A VISION FOR ZION 

But, I see something different for Zion. I see her rise and shine in glory and power and might, because she has the truth, if she will only treasure it and live up to it. The day will come when people shall come from the east and the west, and the north and the south, and say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the house of the God of Jacob, that there we may learn to walk in her paths." and so, we shall attract not only them but we shall attract the angels of God and bring to live upon the earth again, among men, the Lord Jesus Christ. We can speed that day, for he is waiting upon us. Let us rouse ourselves, and go forth from this conference with a determination that, better than ever, we will adhere to the standards of Zion, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church.') 

In my memory I go back ten years ago from this Conference. I was not present, however, but I suppose a great many of you were here when the opportunity came for you to raise your hands in vote to sustain the patriarch of the Church. You sustained a man you did not know, and whom many of you had never seen. Today, I am grateful for the testimony which has been strengthened in me, especially during the past ten years. It seems only a clay, in one sense, since that Sabbath day — the 6th of April 1912 — when, as a branch president, seven hundred miles from here, I had entered upon my duty as a humble elder in the Church, while the great multitude of Saints who had gathered here in this building, raised their hands to sustain me as the Patriarch of the Church. 

The Lord has blessed me in my ministry and, before you, my brethren and sisters, I wish to acknowledge the hand of God in his blessings unto me. and unto this people. I have observed that during my tenure of office many important changes have taken place in the growth of the Church. Many of its leading men and women have fin-ished their earthly missions and are separated from us. I have seen the workings of the Church here at home, in the stakes and wards of Zion, and in the mission fields, and I see the Church going on in growth, in keeping with the wonderful teachings which you have just listened to, in obedience to the true law of Christ, the love of our fellows, living the pure laws of life, which have been revealed from heaven from our Father and our Redeemer. I not only see the work of the Lord progressing here at home, in the wards and stakes of Zion, but I see the honest in heart of the world being brought out of the world, through obedience to the teachings of humble elders and the missionaries in general, both men and women, throughout the world, in the missions that have been organized by the Church. I see today that the missions are gradually partaking of the nature of stakes. Further organization and growth will go forth to gather out the honest in heart and those who are willing to take upon them the name of Christ and enter into these holy alliances for the establishment and growth of truth and righteousness in the world. This work has been organized and given to the earth, never more to be thrown down nor given to another people. It has been given for a purpose, and the Lord will, in his own due time and way, see to it that that purpose will be accomplished and fulfilled. The responsibility is upon us today. God grant that we may have the power, the courage of our convictions, to stand by our standards, and be equal to the responsibilities given us. I pray that God will bless and sustain those whom He has called to preside in the Church — our President — the First Presidency, and all associated in this great work, both directly and indirectly, whether called to labor at home or abroad. With all the power that the Lord has given me, my heart goes out in blessings to those who are in the Church today and those who are willing to come in, in the proper way, that we may all rally together and work together for the standards of truth and virtue, even in the face of evil witnesses, who decry us as untrue and false. 

I suppose there will always be someone to rise up in the world to testify against the work of the Lord, but He will triumph in the end; and in the present time, the great responsibility of carrying orf His work is given to us — the great multitude that is assisting to bring about the blessings which were pronounced upon the head of Ephraim the son of Joseph, to fulfil the blessings of Joseph, who was separated from his brethren, and became a savior unto his people, are being fulfilled today in our very lives. We are the nation today that should preside and become established in the tops of the mountains, even in the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills, where that great salvation for all the world should be established, where not only the house of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob should be established, and saved, but where all of God's chosen children should receive their blessings — and they shall receive them at the hands of Ephraim. 

Therefore, my brethren and sisters, as kinsmen in the house of Joseph, descendants of his chosen son, let us be true to our birthright — valiant workers in this great cause of righteousness and be prepared to administer the promised blessings. 

We were admonished by the President of the Church in repeating that great truth that is revealed to us, that all of our blessings are predicated upon obedience. No matter how great or how small the blessing we desire, we must first learn the law upon which that blessing is predicated, and then, in obedience to that law, we must work for our blessings. If we are to share in this great work and officiate in turning the keys for the blessing of all mankind, of every kindred, tongue and nation, we must learn the law and we must obey it. We must receive our blessings first, else we cannot share them with our fellows. 

In the name of the Lord, I pray that the blessings of our Father in heaven may be upon this people, and upon all those who are called to preside and lead in their midst; that we may get the blessings which our Father has provided for us; that we may stand true and firm in the faith; that we may live virtuous lives as sons and daughters of God, and be worthy to administer the promised blessings to the world, as the people come out, cleansing themselves from the sins of the world and espousing the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There are in the Church, as it is organized today, over two hundred patriarchs bearing the holy Priesthood, with power to administer blessings unto the faithful members of the Church. I pray God to bless and magnify them, that they may honor that great gift of pronouncing blessings upon the people. God bless us all. in our homes, in our fields and places of business, bless our labors both temporal and spiritual, and bless those who befriend us at home and abroad, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

{President of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brothers and sisters : I trust that I shall be able to make you hear some of the remarks that I shall make, if not all. 

On the 30th day of June, 1843, it is recorded that the Prophet Joseph Smith was a prisoner in the hands of Mr. Reynolds, a sheriff from Missouri, who had endeavored to carry him away, across the. border of the state of Illinois, into Missouri, that they might there destroy his life. I believe that was their intention, and I believe that he was impressed with that thought, for he says, on this occasion : "I was a prisoner in the hands of Reynolds, the agent of Missouri, and Wilson, his assistant. They were prisoners in the hands of Sheriff Campbell who had delivered the whole of us into the hands of Stephen L. Markham." By the way, Brother Markham was a personal friend, and faithful follower, of the Prophet Joseph Smith, so that the prophet expressed himself as full of joy and rejoicing that he was once more in the hands of his friends. 

Years after the Saints had left the city of Nauvoo, in company with my wife I visited the great exposition of the western states and of the Union Pacific Railroad combined, held in Omaha, Nebraska. After the exposition had received our attention and we had visited as long" as we desired, we took a journey down to the city of Nauvoo. I found the city of Nauvoo consisted of about eight hundred inhabitants, and they had removed the city from the banks of the Mississippi river, and from the homes surrounding the mansion house and dwelling place of the Prophet Joseph Smith, up on to higher ground and further out on to the prairie, making a new town or a new city, as they claimed. The walls of the temple had also been taken down and removed, stone by stone, and much of that material composing the lime-rock walls, was taken and builded into a school house, just east and north of where the temple stood. A few of the marked stones in the temple — the union, clasping of the hands, and the faces representing- different individuals or different scenes in the history of creation were still held by private individuals, as stones representing a curious condition or time of the building of the temple by the Saints in Nauvoo. They were retained as a matter of curiosity; not that they had any veneration for these building stones that became so sacred in the walls of the temple of the Saints. 

We visited the Mansion House also. A Mr. Sells was in possession of it, a young German and his wife. They had gone there because they could rent the place, with an acre of land containing an orchard, for the small sum of $50 a year; and so, we found them living in the old home of the Prophet. After it became time for us to depart and close our visit with this very interesting young couple, I asked the privilege of remaining in the mansion house over night and sleeping in one of the rooms where the Prophet once dwelt. My wish was readily granted and they prepared a bed for us in the reception room, on the east side of the hall. 

[ make mention of this matter to you because my feelings were very much wrought up during this visit, and I had deep sympathy, in memory of the suffering of those martyrs, of their imprisonment and their final murder by an armed mob in Carthage jail, and the grief that came over the people at the time of their burial when their remains were taken from the funeral services and deposited in the earth. I remember very well the feelings of veneration that came over me that morning; and a new love and a new light seemed to dawn in my heart, in realizing that I had come to view and had been permitted to see the blood-stains of the martyrs that were left at the time they lay in that sacred room. 

I remember very well the first time that I ever beheld the Prophet Joseph Smith. He sat upon his horse, "Old Charley," as he affectionately called his saddle-horse, a very fine specimen of a messenger horse, dark in color, with a white stripe in his face; and as I saw him sitting upon this noble animal, dressed in his full uniform, as Lieutenant-General of the Nauvoo Legion, at the head of that Legion, in the Spring of the year 1842, as the rank and file were on parade in their uniforms, marching to and fro on a prairie lot, adjoining the farm owned by the Prophet Joseph, the sight of the Prophet at this time made a lasting impression upon my mind, that never has been erased. I felt that I was looking upon the greatest man that I had ever seen, and truly his appearance was prepossessing, dressed in his full uniform of the State Militia, as commanding general of the Nauvoo Legion, this military organization composed of Latter-day Saints entirely. I remember often seeing the Prophet after this occasion, and every time that I saw him, I was more and more impressed with the sacredness of his calling, with the  of his manhood, and in lesser degree with the great work that he was establishing for the benefit of human kind. On this morning, that I mentioned in the beginning of my remarks (see Vol. V., History of the Church, pp. 459-475), he expressed his joy and satisfaction that he was once more at liberty, freed from the hands of his enemies and among his own people again. He was met on this occasion at the outskirts of the city by his brother Hyrum and by his wife, Emma, in company with many of the leading citizens of Hancock county, escorted to his home again, on the 30th day of June, 1843. 

The impressions of his greatness, of his prophetic ministry, that I received, although but a small boy, only six years of age, I never have forgotten. On the morning of June 23, 1844, he passed our little dwelling, riding along the road known as Mulholland Street, toward the town of Carthage, in company with his brother Hyrum and some ten or fifteen brethren, members of the Church, who were accompanying him on his way to Carthage. On the steps of our little dwelling, some few rods away from Mulholland Street, with my mother and her four children, I saw them pass. My mother pointed to the company as they passed plainly in our sight, and said, "Children, there go the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum, on their way to Carthage," and she added. "1 fear they are going to their martyrdom." Those words impressed me with a deep meaning of sorrow, for they were prophetic indeed. 

On the 28th day of June, at 5 o'clock, about day light in the morning, Jacob Gates, our near neighbor, came to our door and rapped upon it, and said: "Sister Jane, are you awake?" addressing my mother. He would have said "Brother Joseph, are you awake," but my father was on a mission to the eastern states at the time. So my mother answered and said, "Yes, Brother Gates," and I never shall forget the startled tone in which she asked the question : "What is it ?" Brother Gates replied : "The Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were murdered in Carthage jail last night at 5 o'clock." I never remember of referring to this matter directly, and talking it over with my mother, but the memory of her words and the memory of the visit of Brother Gates and the statement that he made concerning the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the Church comes up before me, and it has never left me, and the recognition that I felt in my very soul of the greatness of that man, so far as I could comprehend it, have never been separated from my memory from that time to the present. 

I rejoice with you today, my brothers and sisters, that I have a testimony of the life and labors, acceptable to the Lord, of this great man, that he was indeed the Prophet and revelator, the seer of the fulness of times, bringing to earth again for the acceptance of mankind, the gospel of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, organizing the Church under the inspiration that God had given unto him, with all its officers complete, and the quorums of the priesthood, all put in perfect order, organized before his martyrdom. He seemed never satisfied to rest from his labors until every quorum of the priesthood was represented in the organization of the Church. 

In 1834, a company under his direction, went up to the State of Missouri to see what could be done in replacing the Saints again in possession of their homes, from which they had been driven in Missouri, and particularly in the town of Independence. This visit was made, and the company making it was styled "Zion's Camp." How much they accomplished, the Lord only knows, and the good that they did, He knows also, for he directed and led the company and piloted them until their safe return, most of them, back to their homes, in fulfilment of the promise made by the Prophet Joseph to his brethren. 

The quorum of the Twelve apostles was organized the following spring, and the quorum of Seventies, all of which evidenced the determination of the Prophet to complete the organization of the Church. He had been warned, as he declared, that his life would not be prolonged, only until time had been given him to finish his work, which the Lord had assigned him. 

I testify to you today, my brothers and sisters, with what little experience I have had in the Church for lo, these eighty years or more; I say I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of the living God, and that he has accomplished the purposes and the work assigned to him, organizing the Church of Jesus Christ once more upon the earth, and I am happy to say that I have a testimony within my heart today that I am a member of that Church. 

May the Lord bless us all and help us to be faithful and true, I pray, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "The mighty Lord hath spoken," was sung by Mrs. Laurinda Brewerton. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

At this moment I sympathize very heartily with the remark made by Dr. Carver last Thursday, as I left him at the Tabernacle door, "I have heard of many ways by which a man may lose his breath, but I know now that the most effective method is to speak before a General Conference meeting in the Salt Lake Tabernacle." Nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, I am glad to bear to you my testimony of the conviction in my heart that this is the work of God. 

THERE IS A SPIRIT IN MAN 

Surely every person in this vast congregation, who has tasted of the gospel of Jesus Christ, can testify that the words spoken during this conference, have been uttered by the inspiration of God, and not of man. The Lord has made His servants mighty and strong. "There is a  in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty gives them understanding." 

I rejoice to know that, if I obey the commandments of God and live in accordance with my best knowledge of His law, when great things are required of me, I may, with confidence, draw upon the power of God, to secure the assistance I need. 

MATERIAL HYPOTHESES DO NOT EXPLAIN THE WORLD 

As I have listened with great interest to the addresses made at this Conference, from the remarkable key-note address given by orn beloved president, to the last address made, I have been reminded over and over again, of the sober words spoken by one of America's greatest chemists, who died only about two months ago. This man was a discoverer of two of the chemical elements. He had made many other notable contributions to human welfare. Sometime before his death, he gave himself to the study of the purification of 'ether, with a view of making it more serviceable in the surgeon's operating room. A short time before he died, Dr. Baskerville, who was both a great chemist and humanitarian, in conversation with some of his friends, reviewed the great advances in knowledge during his life and the peculiarly intimate knowledge that he had gained of his own field in science. In summing up the results of his life's labor, he declared that "There is something which cannot be explained on a purely materialistic hypothesis." This man, standing at the pinacle of scientific knowledge — in the full light of man-made knowledge — declared' soberly to his friends that w'ith all the knowledge he had won in the laboratories and from books, he was constrained to say that his knowledge was incomplete, that there is a spiritual something which must be taken into account, even in the domain of science. This declaration of a modern scientist is the age-old and eternal wail of the baffled soul, which, rich in man-made knowledge, stands helpless by an impenetrable wall which only spiritual truth can open or move away. His declaration is also the great cry of faith for man, when he discovers his limitations and learns to understand the value and power of faith, cries out, "There is something in the world which cannot be explained on a purely materialistic hypothesis." 

THE EXPLANATION OF EXPLANATIONS 

Ever since the beginning of time, men have sought for an explanation of the universe. Facts are merely the building blocks of -truth; they have no value in themselves; but when facts are placed in conjj unction with each other, in an organized form in the service of gneat explanations, they leap into life and attain meaning. The world moves on, not by the discovery of facts, but by the explanation of the facts that men secure; and the most rapid way of discovering new truth is to win the great explanations that make coherent the innumerable facts of the universe. It is instinctive in the human soul to seek for the greatest of all explanations — the explanation of human existence. The questions : Whence comes man? What is his purpose here? What will he do hereafter? are the natural questions of every human being who thinks about the things about him. Poets and philosophers, from the beginning of time, have attempted to answer these fundamental questions, and thereby give satisfaction to the human soul. Nations have become great, or have remained small; have impressed themselves greatly or poorly upon the course of human history, as they have been able, in a greater or in a smaller degree, to answer these fundamental questions regarding human existence, and to train the people in this knowledge. A nation with a purposeless philosophy of man's existence has never served the world greatly. 

It is the glory of this Church that it possesses, and the glory of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that he left behind him, for us and for all generations to come, the explanation of explanations, the reason for life and reason for human existence. Under the inspiration of God, he told us whence we came, what we are doing here and where we are to go. This knowledge is a glorious heritage. We lived before this life; we were in the beginning with our Father, our God. We were begotten by Him, as President Penrose declared last Thursday. In tha. preexistent life, we made a preparation and laid a foundation on which we are building today : we won our right, as Elder Talmage said, to come forth upon this earth, to do our work. We shall live hereafter —  not a quiet, silent, purposeless life, but a life of development and progress, everlastingly achieving, everlastingly growing,-; everlastingly becoming more and more like the greatest and highest of our ideals. Around such an explanation of life may be clustered in orderly fashion all the events of existence. It was such an explanation, I think, that our friend Dr. Baskerville had in mind when, a few month ago, he spoke the sober words I have quoted relative to the achievements of his life. 

ALL ACTS MUST HAVE SPIRITUAL MEANING 

I would like to leave as one of the thoughts, and perhaps the main thought, of the few moments I have at my disposal, with this vast assemblage of people, that the all-important thing in life, after all, is to find a place in the universal scheme of things, for all the acts of our lives. There is a Spiritual meaning of all human acts and earthly events. The Lord has specifically declared "not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal." It is the business of man to find the spiritual meaning of earthly things. I pay my tithing, for many reasons, perhaps, but the one great reason is that by so doing, I am advancing this great cause, this great purpose, this great plan to which I am committed. I keep the Word of Wisdom to keep my body clean and pure and wholesome, but I keep the Word of Wisdom also, because by so doinb I make myself an abler colaborer with God in carrying onward  great work. I grow sugar beets, not merely becajuse I want clothing and food for my family, but because the cultivation of the soil and the consequent increased prosperity among the people, adds to the onward progress and nearer fulfilment of the purposes of Almighty God, of the great explanation of explanations, beginning in tine vast Before and ending in the vast Hereafter. No man is quite so happy, I think, as he who backs all his labors by such a spiritual interpretation and understanding of the acts of his life. A piece of silver always has a certain value as it passes from hand to hand; it is weighed and we sell it in the market place; but, when that piece of silver is coined into a dollar, it receives the stamp of government service; it becomes a coin of the realm, and it moves from hand to hand to accomplish the work of the realm. So, every act of man, the moment it is fitted into the great plan, the plan of salvation, receives spiritual coinage, and passes from hand to hand, from mind to mind, to accomplish the great work of God. It is a great theme beyond my powers to develop fully, and far beyond the time at my disposal; but I desire to leave with you as my testimony, the thought that the greatness of life is won only when men regulate and order the affairs and acts of their lives by an understanding of the great spiritual purpose of man's existence. Those who do not so place their lives, who act because of selfish purposes, independently of the great plan, are as the purblind; they stand in the midst of knowledge and light, yet they do not see. In times of material difficulty, like these, it is more important than ever to hold to the spiritual significance of life and to obey the spiritual law. 

OUR TEMPLES PLACES FOR SPIRITUAL INSPIRATION 

We have on every hand in this Church many opportunities for gaining the great spiritual knowledge and strength with which we may surround and interpret all the acts of our lives. Every principle, every part of the organization of this Church, lends itself to the spiritual strengthening and iup-building of our lives. 

Temple work, for example, gives a wonderful opportunity for keeping alive our spiritual knowledge and strength. We believe that those who die without the faith, may be served by us, as proxies, in the holy temples; and that these dead, because of our unselfish labors, may be able to secure blessings, somewhat similar to those that we desire for ourselves. Thus, by serving the dead, we commit ourselves defi- 1 nitely to the great eternal plan of human salvation, which constitutes the spiritual basis of all life. The past, the present and the future are united by our vicarious acts. The mighty perspective of eternity is unraveled before us in the holy temples; we see time from its infinite beginning to its endless end; and the drama of eternal life is unfolded before us. Then I see more clearly my place amidst the things of the universe, my place among the purposes of God; I am better able to place myself where I belong, and I am better able to value and to weigh. to separate and to organize the common, ordinary duties of my life, so that the little things shall not oppress me or take away my vision of the greater things that God has given us. 

TEMPLE WORK A SIGN OF THE LAST DAYS 

My brethren and sisters, we belong to the last days, in this last great dispensation, which has unfolded the great explanations of life. God has said that this people is to prepare for the last days. The last days will come; there will be a time when this work shall be accomplished, and a new work undertaken. One of the great purposes of this Church is to prepare for the last days. There shall be signs of the last days; there shall be things that will tell us when the last days are about to occur and when they are here. May I say to you that we need not go far away to look for these signs; they are about us. I know of no more convincing sign of the approaching end than the work now being done in our temples. I heard Elder George F. Richards, president of the Salt Lake Temple, say, a short time ago, that five or six times as many endowments are now being done daily in the Salt Lake Temple as were done a few years ago. This is a sign of the last days. When the hearts of the fathers and the hearts of the children, living and dead, are tied together in love, and in recognition of God's great purposes for the human family, then the Lord has found a people which may prepare properly for the last great coming of the Savior and the purification of all things, and the re-establishment of the true kingdom of God. 

God bless us, that in all we do, in our labors in the home and the field, or wherever we may be, we may understand the spiritual meaning and value of the things we do; that we may go through life with seeing eyes, finding light even in the darkness of earth, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "O say, what is Truth ?" 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I have recently returned from attending the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America, held in the city of Chicago, on the 29th and 30th of March. As our Church is very much interested in the Boy Scout movement, I have thought that perhaps the best contribution I could make to our conference, would be to report some things connnected with the National Council proceedings. 

It so happened that the Sunday before going east to attend this conference, I delivered, in this Tabernacle, a discourse on the subjects that have been dwelt upon, more or less, by the speakers in this conference; namely, the wave of lawlessness which seems to be sweep over our land. It was, therefore, somewhat refreshing, to get connected up with a movement, and obtain a vision of the other side of the picture that represents our country — the good side. If we attend solely to observation and the summing up of evil alone, we are very apt to get a mis-vision of things. Truth is knowledge of things as they are — not as they are in wrong vision of them, but as they are in reality. And so, attendance upon this National Council of the Boy Scouts of America gave me an opportunity to get a vision of some of those progressive things that are being done in our land, that make for good citizenship, for moral worth, for spiritual uplift, and I feel very grateful for that view of the things which came to me by reason of my connection with this national council. 

There were in attendance at this council about two hundred men, representing the finest citizenship of our land, men interested in the future welfare of our country. They came from New England, from the Atlantic Coast states, and from the Gulf coast states, and from the great Middlewest. They were a fine representative body of American men interested in more than eight millions of the youth of our land within the Scout age, the age from 12 tO' 18, 

It was reported by those having this work in hand, that we had enlisted in this great cause of citizen development of our youth, about 530,000 men and boys, 403,000 of them being enrolled scouts. Plans were adopted by the National Council, looking to the complete occupancy of the whole territory of our country, by which all the youth of our land would be brought within the territorial organization of this great movement. It was recognized that what had been done was but little in comparison with what remains to be done. It is important, of course, that more than five hundred thousand men and boys are enlisted in this cause, but it is of still greater importance that plans should be adopted for reaching the eight millions of lads within the scout age and not yet enrolled in scouting. This body of men from all parts of the country were made up from among the leading citizens of the various districts they represented. And not only did they represent the organizations directly interested in this movement, but also those organizations which indirectly are interesting themselves in it, and giving it financial and moral support. There was spoken of there the business men's organizations throughout the land, that are interesting themselves in this movement; the Kiwanis clubs were mentioned; and the Rotary clubs, and "The Lions," an organization of business men's societies — all these were represented as playing the part of the "big brother" to the Boy Scout movement, in many localities. The financial aid and moral support that these business men's organizations are giving to the Boy Scout movement convince me that the reputation America has for being materialistic in spirit, and selfishly money-mad, isn't altogether true, since so many organizations of business men are interesting themselves in a movement that is so purely unselfish, and that has for its purGENERAL CONFERENCE 

 the moral uplift of the present boyhood of America, in order to provide for the future good citizenship of our country. 

America, notwithstanding the present reign of lawlessness, which we all deplore, is not all bad. There is a great volume of good in it, and those prophecies of evil that we have in the scriptures that have been given to our Church respecting our country — the United States — while they sound a note of warning against lawlessness and the evil conditions that now obtain, yet they also carry with them an alternative, to the effect that if the people of our country will repent and respect the conditions of righteousness, which God requires of any people that inhabit this God-blessed land of America, then He will not destroy them, but will secure them, in the enjoyment of their rights and of their liberties. His blessings will attend them, and they will become a mighty instrument in His hands for good; and He will couple their destiny with the destiny of modern Israel, until the Zion of God shall be founded upon this land which is "choice above all other lands." I have been thinking of late that if I were a younger man, I would be disposed to consecrate all the years of my life in sounding that warning to our American people, to outline for them, as God has outlined it in our scriptures, the glory, and honor, and power, and influence, and world-leadership that God is willing to confer upon this mighty people of America, and upon their government that He has brought forth through the inspiration of His Spirit, upon the minds of the fathers of the republic, who laid deep and well the foundations of human liberty by creating and adopting the constitution of our country. I would be willing to devote my life to that, I say, to the saving of the manhood and womanhood of America; and get that manhood and womanhood consecrated to the accomplishment of God's high purposes with reference to our land. 

What I now want to do, however, and more especially, is to awaken your interest in this Boy Scout movement. You do not know how proud I was to have it said that our state of Utah held the record for the highest percentage of enrollment of Boy Scouts of America; that in this state we had registered one in ten; whereas, in other states the nearest number approaching that is about one in thirteen. This gives evidence of larger interest in boy scouting in Utah than elsewhere. 

Now, what I want to do in these few minutes in which I am to address you is to awaken a universal interest in this Boy Scout movement. We have gathered here in this meeting, representatives from all sections of the territory occupied by the Church of the Latter-day Saints, not alone from Utah, but from surrounding states. I would like, if I could do so, to send you all home enthusiastic in this cause. I would be delighted if all our bishops could go from here determined to give full recognition and encouragement to this movement, until what has become a mission with the General Board of Y. M. M. I. A., which, as you know, is assuming the role of "Big 101 

Brother" to boy scouting; I would like to have you officers of the Church, everywhere, give welcome to the promotion of this organization, and I am sure that you will be inclined to do that if only once the great purpose to be achieved through this organization is carried home to your hearts. To accomplish that desire I am going to repeat to you, but only in "head-lines," the purposes of this great organization, to which our Church has given official recognition and encouragement; and which our Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association has taken under its wing, for the purpose of helping it develop and achieve its highest purposes. "The Scout Promise" — sometimes called, "The Scout Oath," is: 

1. On my honor I will do my best to do my duty to God, and my country, and to obey the scout law. 

2. To help other people at all times. 

3. To keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight. 

What a foundation is here! All that these apostles, with the spirit of their apostleship upon them, have urged and asked for with reference to our labors among our youth, is pretty well covered by this solemn promise that the boy gives upon entering into scouting. 

The further aim of scouting is set forth in the scout law, which requires that the scout shall be trustworthy, that he will be loyal, that he will be helpful, that he will be friendly, that he will be courteous, that he will be kind, that he will be obedient, that he will be cheerful, that he will be thrifty, that he will be brave, that he will be clean, that he will be reverent. What more could be required of boydom than that? 

Fathers and mothers in Israel; presidents of stakes, and high councilors; bishops of wards, Church officers of all grades, who have to do with boy life, what a fine program is here, and what co-operation and help you will get to the main effort of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, from this organization, engaged in -laying these foundation stones in the life and character of boys! 

Can this program be improved upon? Yes, I think it can be a little improved upon. A rather interesting and amusing incident happened at the banquet that was given in honor of this National Council, gathered in Chicago. Father Cavanaugh, of the Catholic Church, who was called upon to deliver an address at the banquet, given in honor of the National Council, cautioned the representatives not to regard scouting as religion. While Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch, of Chicago, who was also among the speakers, very boldly proclaimed that since so much of scouting had to do with helpfulness to others, it was good religion. Mr. J. H. Beveridge, Superintendent of Schools of Omaha, and President of the National Education Association, held that the movement was chiefly educational. While another speaker, Mr. H. H. Merrick, I think, representing the Executive Committee of Chicago, stated that he was glad to hear all GENERAL CONFERENCE  had been said by the other speakers in relation to scouting, but held that it was an American movement — a movement for good American citizenship. And so these parties differed, very greatly, but each one contributed a thought worth while, for scouting. 

But now, as to improving upon the scouting program. When Brigham Young instituted the Y. M. M. I. Association he said : 

"Let the keynote of your work be the establishment in the youth of individual testimony of the truth and magnitude of the great latter-day work; 

the development of the gifts within them, that have been bestowed upon them by the laying on of the hands of the servants of God; cultivating a knowledge and an application of the eternal principles of the great science of life. It is our desire that our young men may grow in the comprehension of and faith in the holy principles of the gospel of eternal salvation, and furthermore, have an opportunity to testify, and be encouraged in bearing testimony and speaking of the truths of our holy religion." 

The superintendency of our Mutual Improvement Associations, while President Ivins was our superintendent, declared, through the Improvement Era, that coupling this spiritual, religious element voiced by President Young, with the Boy Scout movement, gave the finest program for boy control and guidance, and work, that it was possible to conceive. It adds the one other important element to such a work; the element that Dr. Widtsoe spoke of a moment since, that mysterious, almost indefinable, spiritual ingrejdient anjd power, essential to the success of things human — it makes it then a genuinely religious movement, as well as an educational, a moral, and a physical betterment movement. Well, add that religious element to the Boy Scout program, and you have, as a means of guidance for the citizenship of tomorrow, in these United States, the best possible program. And so, I commend this movement to you, elders in Israel; bid it welcome into your several communities, and grant to it your moral and whole hearted support, so that we may extend scouting until every Improvement Association shall have its Boy Scout organization. 

Just these words in conclusion. In this thing we cannot as successfully walk alone as we can by keeping step with the national organization. I learned a new idea at this National Council, to which I have been giving much thought since, namely, a man or a community who comes to regard himself as all-sufficient, turns out generally to be, and it is the observation of experience, turns out to be inefficient. We cannot be all-sufficient in ourselves in such a work as guidance of our youth — such a work as scouting. Wa need the national organization. We need it for the classification of scouts, from tenderfoot to the eagle scout. We need its courts of honor; we need its system of merits and rewards; we need the "national pull" that is found in these things. We need the recognition that the national organization is willing to give us. We can not, of course we would not desire, to plagiarize all this organization, and the splendid things that have been developed by it. Yet you cannot devise another boy program without plagiarizing it — it covers the field so completely — and that being true, 103  is nothing for us to do but to join in the great national march of the boyhood of our land, toward the goal of the highest citizenship. Therefore, let us recognize in boy scouting a point of contact with our fellow citizens of the United States that is of great advantage to us, and through which we also, perhaps, can contribute something to the great national movement. Be friendly, therefore, my brethren in your attitude towards this great organization, I pray you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

A DELEGATION FROM JAPAN 

I am reminded, by a little note from Elder Junius F. Wells, that fifty years ago, February, 1872, a large delegation from Japan, headed by Prince Sionii Tomomi Iwakura, Marquis Ito, and other eminent Japanese officials, were snow-bound in our great city. We have here today a delegation from Japan, and we welcome them with another snow storm, which is rather unusual. The above embassy was detained here for about three weeks. The Territorial Legislature was in session at the time and they were extended many courtesies by the Mayor, City Council, the Territorial and military officials, and they visited this tabernacle and heard the great organ played upon by Elder Ridges, its builder. ' Here they had their first glimpse of the pioneer work accomplished by the people of Utah, and the great West in twenty-five years. They obtained statistics regarding the development and colonization of our beloved country, and studied its government in our city. It fell to my lot to have the honor of being called upon a mission to Japan and open the way there for the spread of the gospel, as believed in by the Latter-day Saints. I am very glad, indeed, upon this occasion, to welcome some of my friends from Japan. 

We also have with us today, as visitors, several members of the General Staff of the American Army. 

The choir sang the finale of the Oratorio, "The Restoration," under the direction of its composer, Elder Brigham Cecil Gates. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder James H. Robinson, President of the South Davis stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


