Morning
05 04 1914

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

President Smith announced that, for the benefit of the great number of people unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle, overflow meetings will be held in the adjoining Assembly Hall this morning, and afternoon, and in front of the Bureau of Information at 2 p. m. 

The tabernacle choir sang the anthem, "The Palms." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Richard W. Young. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Gathered Saints." 

The following letter was read to the congregation by Elder Heber J. Grant. 

Salt Lake City, Utah, 

April 4, 1914. President Joseph F. Smith, and Members of the Church in General Conference Assembled: Dear Brethren and Sisters: I greatly regret my inability to be present, and to rejoice with you in the outpouring of the Holy Spirit which I know will characterize this conference as it has characterized the conferences of the past. My absence from you is due to an attack of illness requiring absolute rest and quiet for a few days. 

I congratulate the Church on its continued prosperity as shown by its numerical increase in membership, and as further evidenced by the improvement of its members in the different activities of our splendid or ganization. This improvement is shown in the steady increase of attendance at Sacrament meetings, quorum meetings, and other appointed gatherings, and in the growing inter associated with the different auxiliary organizations. 

I bear witness to the earnest devotion of the Latter-day Saints to their Church duties; and commend to them a continuation of this action. I understand there is to be observed a "Go to Church Sunday" in the near future, and I trust our people will show their hearty accord- with this commendable movement and that they will observe that day together with fifty-one other "Go to Church Sundays" during the twelve months following. 

The attendance of our people at the Temple meetings, and their devotion to Temple labor speaks well for the Saints, and we have reason to rejoice in the earnestness with which this labor for the living and for the dead is maintained. 

The work of the Historian's Office has been actively carried on in the collection and collating of historical facts which will prove invaluable both for the present and for future generations. Our office history has been brought into permanent shape down to the year 1906. 

With assurances of brotherly affection, and with earnest prayers for the continued advancement of the Church with ever-increasing efficiency in the work of the Master, I am 

Your brother in the Gospel, Anthon H. Lund. 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

The Church ordinance for healing.- — Misuse of words "appointed unto death." — Proper limitations in field of ministry. — Officers well trained. — Not all healed under administration. — Many remarkable healings. 

My brethren and sisters, I will need your assistance, your faith and prayers, to be able to make you hear, and I trust that the Lord will bless us in hearing and in speaking, that we may be further instructed and edified in this conference. My mind has been resting upon a subject in connection with our doctrines and principles which, although generally recognized in the Church, has not, I fear, been fully appreciated, and that is the principle of the healing of the sick. 

Having had occasion to give consideration to this subject lately, I desire to express a few of my thoughts in regard to the same. I believe that this principle has been enjoyed quite generally in the Church; that it has been enjoyed by every family, if not by every individual member of the Church. There have been very remarkable healings, which have sometimes been brought to our attention. Some have been published, but generally the healing of the sick has not been commented upon. I think the Latter-day Saints should be aroused to the fact that this great blessing and spirit is in the Church, that we enjoy the benefits thereof, and that the Lord has so arranged, in the organization of the Church, that within the reach of every family, in every ward, there are those commissioned and authorized to administer to the sick, that the sick may be healed and their lives preserved. But I have wondered if the Latter-day Saints, on some occasions, have not been surprised, and their faith possibly weakened, because all are not healed, and that we do not always receive answers to our prayers. I thought I would just read to you from the forty-second section of the Doctrine and Covenants the word of the Lord upon this subject, so that we may be prepared in our hearts and minds for the conditions that obtain, and be willing to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in the  of those who have not faith to be healed. For the time comes when men are appointed unto death, and the fact that we may be finally "appointed unto death" has aroused some question in the minds of the brethren. It is an expression that I always prefer not to mention when administering to the sick. In asking the Lord to heal our afflicted it is not necessary to add, "If they be not appointed unto death." In fact, I have felt that such an expression in our prayers, tends rather to weaken the faith of the afflicted, and to shake their hope and confidence. The time will come, however; it will come to you and me, as well as it has to those that have passed away, when we may be appointed unto death, and I understand that that appointment is when fatal sickness is upon us and we have not faith to overcome it. At such times we may realize, in our administrations, that the sickness is fatal, and it is not possible to overcome it, for we may discover conditions that inform us in no uncertain terms that death is at the door. 

We should appreciate the fact that the Lord has provided, in the organization of this Church, that there are elders, including seventies, high priests and patriarchs, and other brethren of the Melchisedek Priesthood, always at hand to administer to the sick in our wards. There are stake authorities who may officiate in the stakes and do officiate as patriarchs, blessing the people, and as stake authorities they are at home in any part of the stake. Then there are the general authorities of the Church, with the presidency thereof, whose jurisdiction extends throughout the Church, both at home and abroad. But ordinarily the brethren bearing the Priesthood are expected to officiate  their own wards. I have thought of the wonderful opportunity that is provided there for the employment and service of the brethren bearing the Priesthood. They should cultivate the spirit of faith and the gift of healing, as well as other gifts that pertain to the Gospel, so that whatever is required in a ward, it will not be necessary for you to send to a neighboring ward for help. We do not have to send from one stake to another; for in every stake, in every ward in this Church, in every branch and in every mission, there are those who are entitled to administer to the sick and have experience therein, as well as in administering the Sacrament to us on the Sabbath day. These services belong to the ward. They belong also to the stake, and to the Church, and to those who are designated as officials in these particular positions. 

Sometimes brethren have felt that they had a mission and a gift, and I believe that men do; I believe that some men have greater faith than others. I believe according to our living and our conduct and our service in the work of the Lord, so will our faith increase in the healing of the sick, and in other ordinances. But we should understand the limit of our jurisdiction and ministry. The brethren of the ward should not go to their neighbor wards. They should not be sent for; it is not necessary. And we should jealously be prepared ourselves for what is required in our own wards, in our own stakes. Baptisms, confirmations, the blessing of children, ordinations, and so forth, are all taken care of in order. The house of God is a house of order, so that it is not necessary for us to be moving about from place to place, from ward to ward. It  occurs that brethren are inclined to make merchandise of their ministry, which is not proper to be done. All who are authorized should administer to the sick and wait upon them gratuitously; it is not proper that we should make merchandise of that ordinance. 

Presidents of stakes and bishops of wards and officials throughout the Church should be advised that they ought not to send abroad for help. We send for physicians, and for attorneys, and men in worldly affairs, whose jurisdiction extends everywhere; but in our Church affairs each ward and each stake, as a rule, is provided with all officials that are necessary for the performance of the ordinances required in the Church, and to officiate in the Priesthood, to anoint with oil, to bless the sick, and to pray God for their restoration. 

These ordinances belong with the people where they live. As a rule we would not expect the elders who are officials in a ward, or the brethren who labor in a stake, to follow the example of the general authorities of the Church, for their jurisdiction reaches all over the world, while your jurisdiction extends only to where you are called. Men are called also to officiate in certain positions, such as stake positions, and as members of general boards for the Sunday Schools, for the Mutual Improvement Associations, for the Relief Societies, and the like, and when that is the case they are designated, they are appointed and set apart for the special ministry and labor, and they have their peculiar and marked responsibilities resting upon them in connection with these auxiliary organizations. We would not expect brethren in the missionary field to assume to enter into wards, nor branches, baptizing, confirming, blessing children, ordaining, and the like, only in the ministry that really belongs to them. And though the general authorities of the Church, the Twelve and others, have ample authority in all stakes and missions everywhere in the world, yet the discipline of the Church is so carefully straight that when we go into wards and stakes, and missions, we always labor in harmony with those who preside. We observe order in the official acts that are required at our hands, and we work in harmony with the people, with the common consent of all concerned. We do not want the brethren that labor at home and whose field is not quite so broad as ours, to feel that we are at liberty to do as we please; that is, except we please to do exactly what is right. The Twelve are subordinate to the counsels of the presidency of the Church, are under their direction and counsel, and we never outrage order and discipline. The chief authorities of the Church should be models in all these things, and every consideration and care should be taken by us that we receive the approval of the Lord, the approval of the Spirit of the Lord, and in the hearts of the people. We work harmoniously with the First Presidency, and we are controlled, submissive, obedient, listen to counsel, and labor in harmony with the mind and will of the Lord. 

I am delighted to make this little talk before you leading brethren of the stakes of Zion, for we have had occasion to consider this matter. As I say, we have found occasionally a brother who is out of order — not very many; it does not frequently occur; but it occurs sometimes, as referred to in the remarks of the President this morning. There are people who sometimes get curious  in their minds, ideas that are not tenable, and that are not proper. Men sometimes get the thought that it is their duty to regulate the Church, and to set it in order, and to regulate the authorities of the Church, and the organization of the Church. These instances occur occasionally, not very frequently. I thank the Lord that we discover, when we look over the Church, that the brethren quite generally know where they belong; they know their field, they know their homes, they know their limitations; and the presiding authorities in wards, in quorums, in the stakes and in the missions, know what is required of them. They are learning lessons; and we are learning lessons all the time. Men are called to fill positions in missions, in stakes, and in wards, and are frequently changed; hence new men are brought into the field, and they are not always supplied by their predecessors with the information that has been in their home offices. Consequently we have to continue to teach, instruct and exhort them, answer their questions and train them in the ministry that is entrusted to them. But there is growth and development, and we discover that the Church, as spoken of yesterday by the President, is in its very best condition, for the reason that we have been in long training. We have been born and reared among the Saints, and we have been in the ministry and have had great experience, and our questions have been answered. The doctrines of the Church are comprehended and thoroughly understood by these brethren who preside over us. When we gather with this body of men, with these trained brethren, tried brethren, general authorities of the Church, associated with the Presidency; and then we go to the fields,  go to the stakes, we go to the wards, we find the very choicest and most model men have been chosen and are employed. The same is true of our sisters in the Relief Societies, in the Primary Associations, and in the Religion Class work. Our brethren and sisters are thus being well trained. In the quorums and classes of the Priesthood they are being more thoroughly trained now than ever in the Church, and these trainings, lessons, instructions, and experiences tend to establish the Latter-day Saints. But there is, no doubt, room for improvement, and always will be. 

I want to emphasize one fact, and I want to read this scripture now, my text, in order to close my remarks, so that the brethren will bear in mind and notice how reasonable and consistent is this doctrine. 

You will find something about the same principle included also in the 5th chapter of St. James, in the New Testament. And you will find the doctrine, also, in regard to the healing of the sick, contained in the 17th. "l8th and 19th chapters of III Nephi. Read them at your leisure, for they are very choice, and pertain to the ministry of the Lord in the flesh. Here is what the Lord says in our day: 

"And whosoever among you are sick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, shall be nourished with all tenderness with herbs and mild food, and that not by the hand of an enemy, and the elders of the Church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and lay their hands upon them in my name; and if they die they shall die unto me, and if they live they shall live unto me." 

The Lord does not expect us all to die when we are taken sick; that is quite well understood. Generally we are healed, and I suppose that  person in this congregation, almost without exception, could bear strong testimony to their own healing, and some very many times healed from serious sickness, remarkable healings. 

"Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have not hope of a glorious resurrection. And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them; and they that die not in me, woe unto them, for their death is bitter. And again it shall come to pass that he that hath faith in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed.' 

If they have not fatal sickness they may be healed; if they have fatal sickness they will die. They have been doing so, and you and I will do the same, one time. 

"He that hath faith to see shall see; he who hath faith to hear shall hear; the lame who have faith to leap shall leap; and they who have not faith to do these things, but believe in me, have power to become my sons; and inasmuch as they break not my laws, thou shalt bear their infirmities." 

Many there are that are infirm in their hearing, faulty in their seeing and otherwise, and if they will but serve the Lord and keep His commandments they shall become the sons of God. They have that power, though they may not be able to overcome all their infirmities, and with them we must bear. You must bear with my infirmities, and I must bear with yours, for they will abide with us if we have not faith to be healed. We want the brethren bearing the Priesthood in every ward in Zion to be a little jealous to take care of the employment that is furnished them there in their office as teachers, and in administering to the sick; don't let the people send abroad, and don't make merchandise of your ministry. Attend to the ordinance of the healing of the sick in your own ward, and the ministering to them, and laying on of hands. It should be done in order; it should not be done offensively, but properly and rightly done, in a manner that no one need take exception to. I want to make the declaration that there are elders sufficient, and high priests, and seventies and patriarchs, and other brethren bearing the Melchizedek Priesthood, in every ward in Zion, for all the laying on of hands that is required; and the Lord is just as near to one ward as another. He is near at hand to every one of us. If our faith is not quite so strong as our neighbor's, we should cultivate it, and we should have the experience and the practice. We don't send to a neighbor ward for somebody to administer the Sacrament for us, do we ? Nor yet to baptize, nor to confirm, nor to ordain, nor to bless children, or perform any of those ordinances. It is not necessary to do so. If the sick want the brethren who are general authorities, and who are traveling, if you can put the sick in their way so that you don't do them a hardship, they are always willing to bless the sick; and quite generally, almost invariably the sick are healed under the hands of the elders. This Church is remarkable therefor. 

Though there may be among us some that are a little careless and indifferent, they are always aroused in case of sickness, in case of death and hardships and trial. They are aroused at once to seek the Lord, and they want the help of those who are faithful and worthy. They want the assistance of the Holy Priesthood, and they appeal to us, and  know, my brethren, you that are here today, that the Lord has answered the prayers of His servants, and the sick have been healed and there have been some very remarkable healings. Sight has been restored to the blind, and hearing to the deaf, and health to the sickly and the afflicted, and there is not a man on this stand, I presume, who has not been healed. I presume I have been generally as healthy as any man upon the stand here, but I have had the assistance of the Lord to help me on occasions when I have needed to be healed, and I have been healed very remarkably, and instantly, under the hands of brethren over whom I presided in the Southern States, and in our own state, and on different occasions. And so it has been with you. The sick have been healed under our hands. They have been restored and this is the experience of every family. I don't have to refer you to any one family where the sick have been healed, for it is manifest in every family; in every home. No family is so far away out on the borders but what they have been found, and the sick have been administered to, and they have been healed. Yet we who have been healed, who have received these remarkable manifestations, will pass away after a while, when the sickness is final and fatal, and death has been appointed unto us, and it will not be appointed to us until the time we are required to pass away. 

I took occasion to talk on this subject last Sunday in Davis Stake, and there were some remarkable cases there of the sick that I had been acquainted with and that were healed, such as Brother John R. Barnes who, like King Hezekiah, has been given a lease of life of about fifteen or eighteen years, and  prospects of living no one can tell how much longer, when he was at the point of death. And also the late President John W. Hess of Davis County. It fell to my lot to go and ordain him a patriarch when he was thought to be lying on his death bed, that he should take the office with him. He arose from his bed and blessed his numerous family, as I understand, almost every soul of them, and then he went from ward to ward and blessed the people in whole, all that would gather to hear him. He raised his hands and put blessings upon their heads after he had been at the point of death. We want to bear these things in mind and acknowledge the hand of the Lord, and when we offer up prayers and acknowledgments to the Lord, let us gratefully remember the good that we have received at His hands. Don't let us forget, don't let us lose our faith, don't let us wander from the straight and narrow path that leads to life, but be sons of God, serve and honor Him with all our might, mind and strength, to our latest day. 

May the blessings of the Lord be upon gathered Israel, upon the people in these valleys, these splendid valleys, and upon the presiding officers in the Church, that they may be blessed, that they may be healed when they are afflicted, and have the same experiences that we have had before, be healed and restored, that our lives may be perpetuated and extended, while the Lord finds it profitable for us to live. God bless you. The Lord bless these brethren, presiding brethren that have come up here, and who come up twice a year to worship the Lord and receive instructions. God bless you, my brethren. God bless the brethren in all the wards and stakes in Zion; and the Lord bless our sis in their labor and ministry as ministering angels, those that have been chosen and have sustained the work of the Lord, and have joined with their husbands and brothers in carrying forward the work of the Lord in the heat of the day. They have borne a great responsibility. They have borne the sons of men, the souls of men in this earth, and have builded up the kingdom. They are entitled to all honor and credit and blessing. 

We pray, Father, that Thy Spirit may rest abundantly upon these gathered people, and upon all Zion, and upon the honest in heart, the conscientious throughout the earth, the friends of the Latter-day Saints, those that have the courage to speak a good word in our favor, for we deserve it, we need it, and are entitled to enjoy it. May the blessings of the Lord be upon us always, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

The Gospel again revealed, the same in all ages — The Bible a "measuring stick" — The fruits of "Mormonism" prove its divinity — The Gospel manifests the mercy and justice of God — New revelation confirmed by the old Scriptures — The glorious principle of salvation for the dead. 

This certainly is an awe-inspiring sight, to see this large building filled to its capacity, hundreds of people being obliged to stand. 

I can say that I never in my experience was able to see more clearly the beauties of the Gospel, to feel its truth more keenly, or to realize more fully its saving power than at the present time. I rejoice exceedingly in the knowledge which I have of the Gospel, in the testimony I have of its truth, in the blessings which I have received therein. The Gospel which the Lord has revealed to us, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, is the same that was instituted before the foundations of the world, and has in it the power of God unto salvation, unto all those who will receive it and obey its laws and precepts. It is the same Gospel which was revealed by the Lord to Father Adam and to Enoch, and to Moses, Abraham, and others of His prophets. It is the same that was taught by our Savior, and His disciples of the primitive church. The Scriptures tell us, "There is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism," and the Apostle Paul, in addressing his epistle to the Galatians, declared that "though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. *A.s we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed." The deduction which I draw from these declarations is that, though there are many religious denominations, there is but one true Gospel, and that scriptural doctrine is one of the strongest evidences of the true Gospel. 

Our elders go out into the world with the Scriptures, the Bible, as the measuring stick recognized by all Christians, remembering the saying of the prophets, "to the law and to the testimony, for if they speak not according to these it is because there is no light in them." They teach the doctrines which the Lord has revealed to us in these last days, and they bring 'forth the Bible, and invite men and women to a comparison, and it is discovered that the doctrines taught by the elders of 

Israel are identical with those taught by Paul and his associate apostles, and by the Savior Himself. These comparisons accompanied bv the Spirit of the Lord, have the result of convincing and converting many honest souls, numbered by the thousands, who have been willing to forsake their sins, their former faith, their friends, their occupations and all for the Gospel's sake. On the other hand, our elders, by a study of these truths, and comparison of them with the Scriptures, have had their testimony strengthened and established, so that such a thing as one of these elders being led to embrace any one of the religions of the world is almost unknown in the entire history and experience Of the Church, in the preaching of the Gospel, and there have been many thousands of elders engaged in that work. 

There can only be one true Gospel of the Redeemer, according to the Scriptures, having in it the power of God unto salvation, and we have strong evidences that the Gospel which we teach is that particular Gospel. On one occasion the Savior gave a test by which false prophets might be discerned; said He: 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. * * * Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them." 

We have in the New Testament the teachings of Jesus and of His disciples, who are recognized by all good Christians as good trees, figuratively speaking, and the fruit borne by them is good fruit, and we prove to the world that these fruits and  fruits of "Mormonism," socalled, are identical. It only requires an investigation to reach this conclusion, an unbiased, unprejudiced, sincere investigation. Finding that the fruits of the Gospel, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, are good, we must accept the tree which bore them as being a good tree. 

The Gospel has not always been upon the earth; it has been here in part at times, and sometimes, perhaps, wholly from the earth, the authority to preach it, and to administer its ordinances, having been taken away. In view of the fact, recognized by men and women of the world everywhere, that millions of our Father's children have lived when the Gospel was not upon the earth, who have died without a knowledge of the truth, without a knowledge of God, without a knowledge of the Savior; for religionists to teach the doctrine that faith in Jesus Christ is necessary to salvation, and then deny the provision which God has made for the salvation of those who have never known of the Gospel, to teach that all those who do not confess Him, on any count whatever, are lost and damned, such teaching is a heresy abominable in the sight of God, and of honest, thoughtful men and women. Through the teaching of such doctrines many, no doubt, have been led in to infidelity and atheism, and others have been made to think of God our Father as a monster of injustice and without mercy, rather than the loving, merciful Father that He is. 

The Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is founded upon the rock of revelation, Jesus Himself being the chief corner stone, as it has been predicted that it would be. The superstructure is composed of truth,  truth, and righteous principles. There is no shade of evil, or deception in it, and it will withstand the winds, the rains and floods of vituperation, df villification, of falsehood and persecution, with which it may be assailed, because it is founded upon the rock. God is at the helm in this great work, and He has made provision for the salvation ot all His children who will be saved. There are no inconsistencies in the plan of life and salvation as it has been revealed to us, and it all tends to glorify our Father in heaven, demonstrates His divine attributes, and proves that He is a just, a merciful and a loving Father; for, notwithstanding that millions have died without a knowledge of the truth, there are provisions made that they shall hear and have the privilege of obeying it. 

The Scriptures tell us that, "until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where there is no law." The Gospel of the Master is the law by which all mankind must and shall be judged, and of necessity it must be taught unto all mankind or they could not be judged by it. 

This Gospel having been revealed to us from the Lord direct, not given of men through their wisdom, and what they could glean from the Holy Scriptures, it is to us the known truth. It is not founded upon the Bible, that was not the source of inspiration of the Prophet Joseph. When occasion arises, as it often does, in regard to the interpretation of certain Scripture, because many plain and percious truths have been taken from the Scriptures, as the prophets declared they would be, and because of mistranslations, we go to the W ord of the Lord as it has been revealed to us, and learn the truth, and then refer to the scripture of the Bible and reconcile that scripture with the known truth, and we are not in darkness, but constantly in the light. So that the Gospel, as we have received it, adjusts apparent discrepancies of the Scriptures, and makes plain the way of life. We understand what was meant by Jesus going, while His body was in the tomb, and preaching to the spirits in prison, as Peter says, "For this cause was the Gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." 

And so with the ordinances of the Gospel. Faith is necessary unto salvation, a condition, and yet it is not the only condition, ior the laws and ordinances of the Gospel must be obeyed. 

"We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel," and not without; and, "we believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are, first, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, repentance; third, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, the laying- on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost;" 

These are but the first principles. Priesthood, endowments, sealings, etc., are necessary to salvation, and the Gospel provides that these ordinances shall be administered in behalf of the dead, by proxy. It is for this purpose that temples are built by the Latter-day Saints, genealogies of the dead procured, and the ordinances performed, the same for the dead as for the living. If when the Gospel is preached to those who are dead, they accept of it, and the vicarious work done for them, the work done will be binding and of force, and we become "saviors upon Mt. Zion" through having  that work. If the dead reject the work done for them, it will be of non-effect for their salvation, just as the atonement of our Savior redeems us from our sins if we accept Him and His atonement, and obey Him, but if we reject Him, and what He has done for us, that which He has done for us, so far as atoning for our individual sins is concerned, profits us nothing. Even when we have received these ordinances our salvation is not secured, we must go on to perfection, adding to our faith virtue, virtue being a condition necessary to salvation; and to virtue knowledge, knowledge being another condition; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience and godliness, and brotherly kindness, and charity, which latter is the pure love of Christ. We have the promise of the Lord that if these things be in us, and abound, our minds will not be barren or unfruitful of the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, to know whom is life eternal. 

God help us to be true and faithful to these principles, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"An Easter Song" was rendered by the choir, Rose Smithen and Carl Samuelson sang the duets. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The Power of God and the power of man — Illustrative anecdotes — Prejudice against the miraculous — What doubt leads to — The marvelous work and wonder — Individual testimony the strength of the Church. 

There is an old saying to the effect that men are but children of a larger growth. I was reminded of this saying yesterday morning when President Smith declared that there are men, a few, in this community,  would fain have us believe that the power of God is no greater than the power of man. 

One Sunday evening, in the Eighteenth ward of this city, while I was bishop there, a Primary Association conference was in progress, and among the exercises was the teaching, by one of the sisters, of a class df little children. She gathered them around her upon the stand and related to them, in the presence of the congregation, the beautiful story of the Savior feeding the multitude. After the meeting had dispersed, one of the mothers, going home with her little boy, put him through a course of questions in order to ascertain what he remembered of the lesson that had been taught. 

"What has Sister Pyper been telling you?" the mother asked. The boy answered, "She taught us about the Savior feeding the people." "How many people were there?" she inquired. "Five thousand," he replied. "What did He feed them with?" "With five loaves of bread and two fishes." The mother then said, "Well now, how do you suppose He could do that ? How could He feed a great multitude, five thousand people, with only five loaves of bread and two fishes?" The little fellow was thoughtful -for a moment, and then exclaimed, "Well, I don't believe those in the middle got any." (Laughter.) 

That boy evidently believed, with some of our "children of a larger growth," that God is no more powerful than man. he sought a scientific solution of a miraculous problem, and solved it in his own way. 

But all children are not of that kind. My experience with little boys and girls teaches me that as a rule they recognize that there is a vast difference between the power of 

God and the power of man. It is comparatively easy for them to accept the miraculous; they do not have the prejudice against it that some men and women have. I recall another anecdote, which I have related before, that will illustrate this phase of my subject. 

In the Salt Lake Theatre, many years ago, John B. Gough, the great temperance orator, was delivering a lecture, in the course of which he deprecated the practice of endeavoring to simplify the Bible so that children could understand it. Said he, "Let them read the Bible just as it is, and they will understand it; they comprehend things much more quickly than we give them credit for." He illustrated the point with this story. Two little boys, one named Johnny and the other Billy, were playing in the dooryard. Johnny had a knife and was sitting on the doorstep whittling a stick. Billy, who had just caught a fly, came up to Johnny with the fly between his thumb and finger, remarking "What a funny thing a fly is!" See what lots of legs he's got; and every time I blow him he buzzes." Here he blew on the fly and put it up to his ear to hear it buzz. "I wonder how God made him," mused Billy. And the great orator paused long enough in his narrative to say : "Many a learned man has asked the same question, and could not answer it." "But," he added, "Johnny had an idea of how God made the fly. He went on whittling his stick, and said, 'Well, Billy, God don't make flies like men make houses; when he wants flies He says, 'Let there be flies,' and then there is flies." (Laughter.) 

"That little boy," said Mr. Gough, "had been reading the Bible, and he believed what he read, and understood it; it was plain to him that the power of God is greater than the power of man. He had read that beautiful lesson presented at the very beginning of the book of Genesis, 'And God said, Let there be light, and there was light." 

When man wants light he must strike a match, or press a button, or turn a switch, or rub two pieces of wood together as do the Indians, in order to create a flame. But when God wants light, He has only to say, Let there be light, and there is light. Nay, He would not have to do even so much as that, for God Himself is Light, dwells in the midst of light, in the midst of eternal burnings, and He would only have to appear, and darkness would flee away. 

We children, we men and women, who for the time being have to learn like little boys and girls, by crude and primitive methods — we are told that the time will come when, as the reward of obedience, of continued faithfulness, our bodies shall be filled with light, our eyes be single to the glory of God. But we approach that condition gradually. We are learning how to do things, little by little. We do them now in inferior ways; but our Heavenly Father has learned how to do them in a masterful way. Then why should we seek to drag Him down, and deny His power to do things that we are not able to do ? Where is the logic of it? 

Why this prejudice against the miraculous? Why should any man or woman, and particularly any Latter-day Saint, take ground of opposition against miracles, and try to relegate them to the domain of the mythical? Where will it stop, if you give way to the spirit of skepticism? Allow yourselves to think that Christ never walked upon the , that He never roused Lazarus from the slumber of death, that He never did a miracle, never brought a dead world to life by the shedding of His blood as a ransom for sinners — encourage these doubts and where will they land you? Where will they lead to? They will lead you to reject the Redeemer of the world; they will lead you to deny, as many do, that such a man as Jesus of Nazareth ever, lived. Continue giving way to doubt, and you will end by doubting your own existence — as many do already. 

If there were no ancient miracles, there have been no modern miracles. If the wonderful works of the Son of God are myths, then this whole fabric of "Mormonism" crumbles to the ground, it has no foundation, for it is based upon miracles, ancient and modern, and was intended to be based upon them. 

How do I know that Joseph Smith ever lived? How do I know that he was a prophet of God ? Is it because my parents knew him — because they told me he was a prophet? How many of you ever saw the Prophet Joseph Smith ? How many here know, by the seeing of the eye and the hearing of the ear, that such a man lived and labored and died? There are two men upon this stand, perhaps others, but I know two who, as little boys, saw the Prophet Joseph — "three, four, five," someone behind me says. These five are President Joseph F. Smith, President Francis M. Lyman, Patriarch Angus M. Cannon, Elder William W. Riter, and Elder Nymphus Murdock. There may be others, but it does not matter — I am not trying to make it cumulative. This is the point : How do I know that Joseph Smith ever lived? Is it because these brethren saw him ? I have re for their testimony; it is one of the elements of my own testimony concerning this man. But if I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet — and I do know it — it is because God has shown it to me, by the power of His Spirit, the spirit of revelation. That is how I know it, and that is how you know it. We know it by miraculous manifestation, or we don't know it at all. We are dependent upon the miraculous for what we know of all such things. Then why should we want to tear out from under our feet the foundations upon which we stand? 

Seven hundred years before the birth of the Savior a prophet declared, in relation to the last days, that a work should be done among men by the Almighty, even a marvelous work and a wonder, and the wisdom of the wise should perish, and the understanding df the prudent should be hid. What fulfils this prediction but "Mormonism," God's great work of the last days, founded upon marvels and wonders? Can. you conceive of anything more wonderful than the opening of the heavens at a time when men denied revelation, denied the visitation of angels, and declared that the world would never have any more of them; when it had lost its knowledge of the true God and virtually ruled Him out of His own universe ? Can you conceive of anything more marvelous than the opening of the heavens and the appearance, the personal appearance, of God, the Father and the Son, to Joseph Smith, then a little boy between fourteen and fifteen years otf age? There is the first marvel of "Mormonism," there is the beginning of the fulfilment of Isaiah's prediction concerning the marvelous work and wonder. 

At first Joseph's testimony was  with scoffing, and he was denounced as a rogue, as an imposter. All sorts of evil stories were circulated concerning him, in order to break down his testimony. "It's all of the devil," said a Methodist minister, to whom he told his story — told it in a simple, child-like way, declaring that God had appeared to him in vision, and had talked with Him. The boy never deviated from that declaration, and as a man he died by it and died for it. 

Gradually the world is beginning to concede that Joseph Smith was at least sincere, that he really imagined that he saw and heard, and one great, wise man has capped the climax of worldly wisdom, in its efforts to explain away Joseph Smith, by asserting that these wonderful manifestations, the coming of God the Father and the Son, the coming of the Angel Moroni, the coming of John the Baptist and of Peter, James and John, bringing back the powers of the priesthood and the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, that these were all hallucinations, resulting from an epileptic fit! Was there ever a more striking illustration of the fulfilment of prophecy —  "The wisdom of the wise shall perish, and the understanding of the prudent shall be hid"? 

We know that Joseph Smith's testimony is true; we know it by the Holy Ghost; and that is the strength of this Church. It is not the sagacity of its leaders, it is not its members, that constitutes its strength. We are only a handful in the midst of many millions. The strength of this Church is in the testimony possessed by every man and woman belonging to it, that it is indeed the work of God. 

Testimonies are of two kinds, direct and indirect, positive and negative. Persecution testifies indirectly of the truth. "All things bear record of me," the Lord says. We only have to look around upon the manifestations of nature, and we see and hear them testifying of the Creator. Every thing made proclaims its maker, to those who have eyes to see and ears to hear, and who use them for those purposes. 

I was once conversing with a gentleman who expressed* an earnest desire that the Latter-day Saints should co-operate with those rich philanthropists who are endeavoring to colonize the poor Jews of Christian countries — to move them out of the large cities — to make farmers and artisans of a people who have been peddlers, merchants, and money changers for centuries. One of these colonies, by the way, is in central Utah, near the town of Gunnison. This gentleman said to me, "I recognize the 'Mormon' people as the greatest colonizers in the world, and I wonder why you don't see the necessity of co-operating with such men as Baron Hirsch, who has spent millions of wealth endeavoring to colonize these Jews, but has failed thus far, because of his lack of knowledge and experience in colonizing methods. Why don't you Latter-day Saints co-operate with him, he to provide the millions, you to furnish the experience?" And he added, "You could make a stipulation that every Jew you helped to colonize should become a Latter-day Saint." (Laughter.) "See how that would build up your Church." 

I answered Mr. Davenport — that was the gentleman's name — in substance as follows : "You remind me of a conversation I once had in the Eastern States, while upon my first mission. I was asked, "Why don't  "Mormon" elders fly for higher game? Why do you always preach to the poor and the lowly? Why don't you get up among the high and the mighty ? Take Henry Ward Beecher, for instance" — he was then alive, the great pastor of the Brooklyn Tabernacle — "convert him and his whole congregation would flock in after him; and just see how that would build up your Church!" I said to Mr. Davenport, "That is not God's way of building up His church. The Lord declared by an ancient prophet, 'I will take you one of a city and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion and give you pastors after mine own heart." I explained the great problem of the dispersion and gathering of Israel, whereby the blood of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the blood that believes, with spirits answering to that blood, who have been dispersed for a wise purpose among all nations, are now being recalled and brought together in a great movement called "The Gathering," preparatory to the building of the New Jerusalem and the glorious coming of the Lord." And I added, "God is not anxious for great conregations. He is not desirous that the Jews, or any other people, should make a bargain with Him and join His Church -as a business proposition." 

The suggestion reminded me of that scene in Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice," where poor old Shylock stands before the court, condemned! for having conspired against the life of a citizen of Venice, and the judge decrees in effect: "Half of your goods are confiscate to the merchant Antonio, whose life you sought, and half are confiscate to the state of Venice, whose laws you have outraged; and, moreover, the court decides that you shall  become a Christian." ( Laughter. ) 

Christians are not made by judicial decisions, nor are Latter-day Saints converted by legislative enactment or by commercial bargaining. There is but one way to make a Latter-day Saint. A man must have faith in God, he must repent of his sins, he must have his sins washed away by baptism at the hands of one having divine authority to administer sacred ordinances; he must have hands laid upon him for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and by that testimony he will know that this is God's work, and become a full fledged Latter-day Saint. This is the strength of the Church — that every man, woman and child who has obeyed the Gospel knows for himself or herself that it is God's truth, God's work. This is the rock upon which Christ founded His Church, and the gates of hell cannot prevail against it. Amen. ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

It is observed that from one end of this great auditorium to the other all heads are uncovered. The sisters have voluntarily removed their hats so we are confronted by a sea of intelligent faces, instead of feathers and ribbons. Aunt Emmeline Wells, President of the Relief Society, sets the example. The members of the Tabernacle choir, who have 'found it difficult to take care of their millinery, have conformed to this custom of the Church. The President desires me to make this comment, and say that the universal observance of this custom is very much appreciated by the General Authorities of the Church. 

The choir rendered the anthem, 

"Mighty Jehovah, Accept Our Praises;" A. Clyde Crawford sang the bass solo. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith. 

Adjourned until 2 p. m. 


