Overflow
05 04 1914

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, April 5th, 1914. The services were presided over by Elder Anthony W. Ivins. 

The Murray ward choir provided the musical numbers, under direction of Wm. F. Robinson, and an orchestra conducted by Wm. N. Morris. 

The orchestra played while the congregation was assembling. . 

The choir and orchestra rendered the hymn, "Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell." 

Elder Ferdinand F.  Hintze offered the opening prayer. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Palms," with orchestra and organ accompaniment. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(President of Mexican Mission.) 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of meeting with you in conference this morning, and I trust that the few moments I occupy in speaking to you I may be inspired with the Spirit of the Lord. I desire an interest in your sympathy, and in your faith and prayers, that the Lord may inspire me in whatever I may say. 

I am truly thankful that I had the privilege of attending our meetings yesterday, and listening to the words of inspiration that flowed from the lips of those who addressed us. I was particularly interested in the remarks of our beloved President, and in the reports that he gave of the excellent conditions that exist in the Church. It made me glad, it made me feel that the work is rolling onward, and it gave me an assurance that truly the words uttered by Jesus to Peter upon that memorable occasion when he asked his disciples "Whom do men say that I am?" were being fulfilled. I would like to read to you this morning what the Savior said to Peter on that occasion, and comment a little on what I believe to be the fulfillment of those words in what we are witnessing: 

"When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Phillippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men sav that I the Son of man am? And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias; and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thout art the Christ, the son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him. Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee. That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the sr-ites of hell shall not prevail against it." (Matt. 16:13-18.) 

I reflected yesterday, in listening to the report of the President, on the fact that it seemed from the very incipiency of this work, in this day and age in which we live, that the gates of hell, in a measure, have been against this work. It seems as though most all the powers that could be brought to bear have been used in the effort to retard the progress of this work in this age. This Church has been organized, in fulfillment of the words of the Savior,  the rock of revelation, and the gates Of hell, and all the powers of men that can be combined and brought to bear against this work, will not be able to retard its progress. We heard from the lips of our President, yesterday, that the Church is in a better condition than it ever has been since it was organized. There are more people living in accordance with the doctrines and commandments of the Gospel, as they are taught to us, than ever before; and the quorums of the priesthood are more united in performing their duty, in extending and proclaiming the word to those who know not the truth, than they ever have been in the past. This is very gratifying. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, it seems that great powers have been brought to bear to retard this work, to bring to naught the work of the Lord, from the moment that the Prophet Joseph Smith announced to his friends, and to the world, that he had received a vision in which he had seen the Father and the Son, and in which he had been commanded to organize the Church as it was organized by the Savior anciently. Persecution followed him until the day he was martyred, and persecution pursued the Church from place to place, until the Saints were driven across the plains to these valleys of the mountains. Not only persecutions of wicked men were brought to bear against this people, but the Saints were brought face to face with persecutions, as it were, of the elements. It is said that the trail of our people across the plains could be traced by the graves of their loved ones, so many perished by the way; and then, of course, there were the hardships incident to redeeming the desert and  the foundations of a new state. But notwithstanding all these things, the Church has come off triumphant, and the work has progressed, and is progressing today in the world more than it ever before has done. My testimony and firm belief is that it will continue to progress more and more. 

The work being done in the missions today, particularly in the mission that I have been engaged in, I can testify is very encouraging, and the people seem to be very desirous of hearing the truth concerning "Mormonism." Thus, notwithstanding the fact that the world is in a condition of disbelief in regard to the old isms they have before believed in, it seems to me that more than ever before is the way open to the elders of our Church to teach the Gospel to the people. 

Now; brethren and sisters, there are conditions that exist today, at home, that have to be met, and we must not believe, as I view it, that the persecutions that have been brought to bear upon us formerly will cease. Conditions confront us today that are different from those that confronted our fathers, and those who crossed the oceans and plains, and came to these valleys and subdued them, and made it possible for us to live here in peace and quietude, even in luxury, enjoying all the blessings of the Lord. There are conditions that we, particularly the younger people, have to encounter that are just as terrible, just as potent in their influence to drag down the Church of Christ, and to bring to naught His purposes in the earth, as were the persecutions and influences that were brought to bear against our fathers. We must not flatter ourselves that we are immune to those temptations and persecu. We should realize that we are surrounded, all the time, by the influences of the evil one; and it is only those that will set their faces as flint against evil that will triumph in the end. The Savior said that those who endure to the end shall be saved; and those who do not keep the commandments of the Lord will fall by the wayside. The decree has gone forth, and it will be fulfilled, that this Church will not be left to another people, and that this kingdom will increase, and go on to perfection; and the very gates of hell shall have no power or influence to overthrow the Church. Yet there is a possibility of some of us so far forgetting ourselves that we will slip out, and be left behind. 

I wish to appeal to the young folks, and ask, after we have had the examples of those who have crossed the plains, and subdued the desert, and endured the hardships incident to settling these valleys, shall we lie down before the temptations that stare us in the face ? Shall we allow the influence of Babylon to come among us, and destroy that which our fathers built up in our behalf? or shall we, the younger generation, set our faces' as flint against the temptations of the evil one, that are ever present wherever the people of this earth dwell? Shall we resist temptation, and make it possible for us to continue with the body of the Church, that will not be overpowered by the influences of the world, or be overwhelmed by any wicked influence or power under the sun? I know there are harmful conditions existing here that have to be met. I have had the privilege, for the last few months, of laboring among the young folks in this city, visiting in the stake where I reside, as a home missionary, and I have seen that the young people have great obstacles thrown in their path, and great temptations to overcome. I constantly feel it my duty to raise my voice against the possibility of the young people yielding to those temptations and evils. The parents should know all the conditions that surround the young 'folks, and they should throw a safeguard around their children, our young people, and set their faces against the evils of the day, and help them to overcome these conditions. 

I pray for the youth of Zion. I pray that they may have power to overcome the obstacles in their paths, and be able to keep themselves unspotted from the sins of the world and the generation in which we live. Wrong conditions are every day apparent, they are every day with us. It is our privilege and duty to live near unto the Lord, and to have His Spirit always to be with us, to guide us in the ways of all truth. I have often had occasion to make promise to those in the world who embraced our principles and became connected with this Church, that if they will live according to the dictates of the Spirit that they are entitled to, and that they receive at their baptism, there is no power in or out of the world that can take them out of this Church. It is only the men and women who forget themselves, and who live so that the Spirit of God leaves them, that the powers of evil can successfully assail and break down their faith, and cause them to do those things that result in loss of blessings that they would otherw'ise be entitled to. 

I bear my testimony that I know this work is true. I know that Joseph Smith was raised up in this day and generation for the special  of organizing the Church in its purity and fulness, and it exists today just as the church existed when our Savior established and organized it, when He came in the meridian of time. I know positively that those who have guided the Church from the days of Joseph Smith the Prophet until the present day have been prophets, seers and revelators unto the Church. I bear testimony that the power of God unto salvation is in the Gospel we have received. We should live in accordance with the teachings that we receive from day to day, from the living oracles that we have among us. The Lord can conduct this work without the use of the Bible, or the Book of Mormon, or any other book. He has seen fit to provide us with these books and records, for a wise purpose, but we should not restrict ourselves -to the letter of the word, but should endeavor to live according to the Spirit of the Gospel, and according to the spirit of the instructions that we receive from those who are placed in authority over us, whom the Lord has placed in our midst to tell us what to do. 

I have a testimony that this work will continue to progress, and that the gates of hell will not prevail against it. I know these things beyond the question of a doubt, and it is a great consolation to me. I thank the Lord for the privilege of going into the world and teaching the Gospel to people that are sitting in darkness. The Savior said, "This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world as a witness, and then shall the end come." God is a just God, and he designs to judge the world by this gospel, and he will not judge them unless  have had the privilege of hearing it. 

In Mexico, where I have been engaged in missionary work, there are millions of people that have not the slightest conception of what "Mormonism" is; in fact they have no conception of what true Christianity means; therefore, how can they believe Christ taught and lived as He did unless these things are taught unto them? The missionary work in the world is a grand, and great, and glorious work, and it is our privilege to prepare Ourselves, as young men and women, to do this work in the world. I believe firmly that all those that have this desire in their heart will have the privilege of carrying the Gospel into the world. I can promise all young men and women, that if they will accept humbly, and perform thankfully the duties of the missionary, that there is no labor in their lives that will give them more joy. They will not desire any earthly recompense if they will labor faithfully and humbly, because the very act Of doing good unto others, bringing people from a state of darkness into light, is sufficient recompense for the time and trouble spent in performing this missionary work. 

I do not desire, my brethren and sisters, to prolong my remarks, as there are others who will address you; but I desire to say again that I am happy to be here, and that I am happy to have had the privilege of bearing my testimony to you. I hope I will remain firm and faithful in this testimony, and that we all will do likewise, and go on to perfection in this great gospel of progression, and eventually be saved in the kingdom of our Father in heaven, is the prayer I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The anthem, "Grant us Peace," was rendered, the solos, etc., by Ada Russell, Lucy Brown, Manasseh Smith, and John Tucker. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

The majority of men and women in the world are perfectly willing to go to heaven, if they can go on their own terms. We discovered from the report of President Smith, yesterday, that there are some also in the Church who would like to go on their own terms, who would like to lay aside some of the requirements the Lord has made and substitute their own notions, and they believe that their ideas of what they ought to do are as good as what the Lord has given. We missionaries are constantly under the necessity of showing men and women in the world that the wisest forms of worship devised by the wisdom of men are woefully inefficient, and not to be compared with the terms given by Him who has the right to make the requirements. 

I have undertaken to illustrate the necessity of strict and absolute obedience to the requirements of the Lord, by appealing to the knowledge of men and women with respect to the necessity rjf yielding obedience to the laws of the land, or complying technically with the terms of a will. If I shall inherit a property granted or left to me by my father, grandfather, or any one who has a right to will or deed, or give to me anything that he possesses, you who are acquainted with matters of this character know that if one is possessed of property, he has a perfect right to state the terms upon which his children or descendants shall inherit the property; and you know also that if you wish to inherit such interests as are left to you in a will you must strictly and absolutely comply with the terms of that will, or you cannot inherit. 

I take it that if there is any hope in the human heart of a hereafter, of a life beyond this, of a heaven, of a place of progress, it has to come through the revelations of God to man, largely revealed in the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ. While others have had some faith that there is a hereafter, we have been given positive and absolute assurance, by the demonstrations given in the power manifest both in the preaching and in the miracles, so called, in the life of Jesus Christ. There are better evidences to believe that what He said is true, than to believe the statements of any man. He spoke not only with authority, but acted as possessed with power such as no man has ever exhibited while upon the earth. I say that if we shall inherit salvation, a life beyond this, a glory, it shall be through the wonderful and wise provisions instituted by the Lord Himself. 

If we believe the Scriptures, we shall accept the statement of John, that "in the beginning was the Word," and by the Word was the world made, "and the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us." In other words, that Jesus Christ, under the direction of His Father, was the organizer and builder of this world; that out of the elements that existed in space, He, the great Master, compounded, produced and materialized this substantial world npon which you and I live; that we are indebted to Him, and to our Father in heaven, for this life that we are enjoving, the bodies that we have, the beautiful world that we . We sometimes wonder where our heaven will be, that is, the people of the world wonder. We Latter-day Saints have no reason to doubt where our heaven will be, for the Lord has made known to us, that this splendid world that has been provided for us will ultimately be redeemed, having obeyed the laws of its being, and become celestialized, the home of celestial beings; so that if we shall ever come into heaven, or heavenly conditions, it will be, ultimately, upon this redeemed world. Jesus Christ has been the organizer and the builder of it, possessed with power to do all that. 

Sometimes I am astonished at the expressions of men professing to believe in Jesus Christ, and His claim to be the Son of God, when they doubt that He had the power to turn water into wine, and create and materialize a few loaves and fishes. When I think of their objection, I think of the splendid world that has been produced by the wonderfully marvelous power, ability, and knowledge such as Jesus Christ exhibited. If Jesus had planted a vine, and waited until the little grape had developed and had absorbed from nature those particular ingredients necessary to produce the wine, it would have been considered no miracle. Or if he had sown a few bushels of grain, and waited until they had matured and materialized, it would have been considered no miracle to have gathered it and made bread to feed the multitude. But where did all that bread come from? Where do the millions of bushels of wheat that are raised in these valleys come from? Who brought it here? All the pioneers did was to bring a little seed. Where do the millions of gallons of wine that are produced come from? No  produced it. It was in the elements, and the seed possessed the power to abstract or draw from the soil, and from the atmosphere those particular elements that are everywhere in attendance, provided by the great all-wise Providence. Those instruments, those seeds, had the power to extract from nature her resources, and produce, after a season, the wine or the bread, through that life activity drawing from nature's resources to feed man and beast. Who do you suppose gave to the vine its power to work this mirable in nature? Who do you suppose organized the kernel of grain, gave it the power to draw from nature those component parts necessary to make more grain? Why, the Creator. Do you not suppose that He who organized this splendid world knew of plant life? The Scriptures tell us that even the herbs of the field before they grew were organized, prepared to live in this world; and He who organized it also organized the plant life, and animal life, and assigned to each its place and sphere. He who did it, who organized the vegetable life, the tree, and the kernel of grain, reserved to Himself the power to work this miracle independent of the vine or the kernel of grain. And when I look into the splendid world organized by His superior power, with all its beauty and all is variety of life, and then listen to the objections of some short-sighted individual who doubts His ability, after organizing such a splendid world, to produce a little wine or produce bread, to me it is almost ridiculous. 

When I think of this, I also think of the objections made on the part of those who doubt that there is a God in all the universe, and hold  nature happens to produce these results by some chance or other, or in a mysterious or peculiar way known only to nature, that she assumes to act in that particular way. When I think of some of those who have traveled around the world, and some who have not gone out of their own counties, trying to discover if perchance God will be seen manifest in some state or nation, or somewhere else in this world, I wonder at their ignorance of the position that they occupy when they deny that there is a great and mighty Creator. If you have traveled around the world and have not discerned Him, and have not found satisfactory evidences of His existence, or manifestations of His presence in this world, you yet are not entitled to say He is not. If you are properly informed, you will know that this is but one of the smallest of all the worlds, and that it belongs to what is known as our solar system, comprising many worlds revolving around the sun. We had better, perhaps, go out to our big brother Jupiter, that is so much larger than our world, in an effort to find evidences of God. If we failed to find Him there, we might endeavor to explore the sun, the great ruling, controlling world in our system, that our astronomers tell us is so much larger than our earth that it would take upwards of three million worlds like this to make one the size of the sun. And then, if our finite minds failed to find sufficient evidences of God in that, should we be entitled to say that He is not ? No! Let us look still higher, and we will discover there are fifty millions of suns in the view of man, like unto our sun, one rising above the other in majesty and power. There are suns so great it would take ten thousand the size of ours to make one like 

unto those mighty suns, and then if we still had not been able to satisfy ourselves, or discover sufficient evidences of the creative power of God, are we then entitled to assume that we have not found evidences of His existence? No, for with all the power you might have to discover these, you might justifiably conclude that there are innumerable millions of worlds that man cannot see. If a man started out to reach the nearest of those worlds outside of our solar system, they are so far away that it would require over four years, traveling at the rate of 186,000 miles per second, the rate that light travels, before he would reach any of them; and if he tried to search further in the universe, it would take unlimited millions of years, traveling at the rate of 186,000 miles per second. It would be about as easy for him to find the extent of the universe as it would for him, if he were traveling up the Mississippi Valley in an airship, far above the earth, to discover a mustard seed hidden in that valley. 

For a puny man, able to travel only a little way around this world, to assume to be so great, so wise and so mighty that he can declare that God is not, reduces him to such an insignificant atom, so little, so small, that he, if he could only see himself, would be utterly disgusted with his supposed wisdom. The wisest and greatest men in science have always been the humblest. It was Sir Isaac Newton, who had advanced further than most men, who humbly said, I have been but as a child playing upon the sea shore; and have succeeded in discovering a few puny pebbles and shells, but the mighty ocean lies before me unexplored. The great man is the humble man,  he knows that he don't know it all. When men begin trying to discover, as they say, the origin of life upon this world, they manifest the lack of sufficient reasoning power, they should remember that in the midst of this creation there are worlds infinitely older than ours. It is absurd to try to account for the origin of life on our earth, just as absurd as it would be to come to Salt Lake City to find evidences of the earliest existence of human life upon the American continent. We would naturally begin such research in those places where people lived before they came to this city. Likewise in the mighty universe, we would have to go to those worlds that are older than ours to discover some df those secret wonders of nature that we try to discover on this earth. In the meantime, would it not be wise for us to listen to the words of those who are better informed than we are, to obtain information upon conditions in the worlds that existed prior to the organization of this world ? Surely it would be wise to listen to some of their suggestions and advice with respect to these matters. 

There are men who are forming all sorts of schemes for their own salvation and exaltation; but I assert that Jesus Christ had the right to designate the way by which you and I may inherit the salvation that we desire, and that we may have eternal life and being upon another world, or this world, we are indebted to His wise and wonderful provisions. He has a right to say what I shall do; and if I shall inherit I must obey absolutely that which He has required. I am not dictator in the case; I have no right to demand the estate. As before remarked, perchance my father, or my grand, leaving an estate, leaving a will decreeing upon what terms I may inherit, may have specified some terms that I do not like, but I cannot inherit unless I shall comply technically and strictly with the terms df the will. And so, though I may feel that there are some things in the Gospel that I do not understand, or that to me might seem unnecessary, or undesirable, I have no right to absolve them, or lay aside the terms provided by the one who has the right to specify what should be followed. Yet many assume to say we do not know whether these are the correct terms or not. There are numerous churches, each contending they have the correct plan. They arrogate the right, and they are interpreting according to their own will, and adding to the confusion. How eminently necessary it is that the true will may be made known, and all of its terms made perfectly clear and plain. After all the evidences of doubt which have gathered around this will, through the notions and interpretations of men, how important are the words of the Master, coming direct, ringing through the courts of glory, to us anew, giving the exact terms of that will, making it plain, clear of all doubt, and specifying with certainty what the requirements are. And if I discover the terms of the will (I am speaking as an illustration), can I legally inherit property without I comply with those terms on my own part? No; I must find some legally appointed judge, who has the right and authority to administer on that will, and I must go to him in a judicial court, and there comply with the terms of the will, and have the judge certify that I have done it, and by his decree that I have complied with the terms , he may give me title to the property. Seeking to evade those proceedings would not give me title nor claim. 

Just so it is with men and women in the world with respect to the words prescribed by Jesus Christ, the terms by which they may inherit eternal life and the blessings of heaven, the beautiful and splendid celestial world that He is providing for us. I must not only know what the words of the will are, but I must find the legally appointed servants of God who have the right and the authority to administer the terms of that will. I cannot do it by finding some man who claims a right without divine appointment. I must find those who are legally appointed and rightfully constituted as the delegated authorities of heaven. I assert to the world, to all churches and to all men, that here has been restored and established the authority of the holy priesthood, the only men delegated by God to administer the terms of this will to man. In the priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, are the rightfully constituted and delegated authorities. These bearers of this priesthood can trace through the hands of one, two, or three men the authority that has come upon them directly from Peter, James, and John, who received their divine appointment under the administration of Jesus Christ Himself. I cannot get legal title to these blessings and ignore this priesthood established by God. I . shall discover, too, that I will not be able to do anything that the Lord has required at my hands without compliance with His way, His terms. If I undertake to produce electricity, and abridge some of the essential things necessary to its production, will I get electricity? If in the realm of chemistry, I undertake to ignore some of the well known and established principles by which I shall produce certain chemical results, will I get the results? So on the farm, if I neglect to use some of the methods well known to be necessary in the cultivation otf the soil, shall I get the results? or in any field of activity? No. Law rules and priciples govern everywhere; and I will discover that there are rules, laws, and principles, with respect to men, that have been divinely established, and not formulated out of caprice. Jesus Christ said, "I came not to do my own will, but the will of the father who sent me." The law that He announced and established, was under the direction of the Father, and so even the Father could not abridge it, or make it null and void. He complied with it Himself, and through compliance with it became God. Jesus is the Christ, and you and I will discover that it is necessary for us to comply strictly with His law in order that we may inherit. 

I suppose there are some in the Church who will excuse themselves, and say on account of some good they do, "I am a pretty good man, I go to meeting, I look after the sick; but I smoke once in a while, I drink a little, I take a glass of beer sometimes, I pay a little tithing, one hundred dollars a year, I think that is pretty good, I will come out all right." By such conduct we excuse ourselves, trying to deceive ourselves by only partly complying. There is a scripture that is not thoroughly understood, wherein Jesus said, If ye fail in the least of these, ye are guilty of breaking the whole. Now I want to say what appeals to  with respect to that matter. I do not think that if a man keeps two-thirds of the commandments of the Lord that he is as bad off as the man that is not keeping any. There are those who assert that all roads lead to heaven. But there are manyroads that lead to Salt Lake City, or to New York, and no matter which road you take, it will bring you there. I am perfectly agreed with my friends that every man that does some good, that good will take him so far on the way toward the goal of salvation, part of the way. Some of us get just about one-half the way, some of us two-thirds; but until we get to the goal we do not get what we are seeking for. We discover that all men who do good are led toward God. Nevertheless, I must comply with each and every requirement_made if I wish to attain eternal life. While there may be many other ways that lead into a place, I cannot enter only by the straight and narrow gate; and I must pass muster before I enter and meet all the requirements and conditions. If I have gone two-thirds df the way, there is just that much less for me to do; and there is just that much encouragement for the man or woman until they comply with all, but they <do not get the desired results. Just as in the case of the electricity, I may comply with two-thirds of the requirements to produce electricity; I may comply with nine-tenths, but I do not get it until I have complied with all. I am just that much nearer the goal, but I don't get the result until I comply strictly and absolutely with the law. So I say again that it is necessary that I shall be a strict observer in this regard. 

Jesus did not require anything that was unnecessary, in one single . How can I expect to inherit the place promised by obedience to the law of tithing, except I keep that law? I am deceiving myself if I am only a tithe payer on account. The grand and glorious principle is that I am an honest tithe payer, and that I pay the full tenth. And the greatest asset is in the training of the man and the woman that are found complying with this principle, better and greater than possessing much land in. these splendid valleys. While the world may build splendid cities, and railroads, and accomplish other enterprises of a wonderful character, they may be morally weak. The greatest asset of this Church today is the splendid manhood and womanhood this Church is building, the training and perfecting of men and women through obedience to the Gospel. I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, that you shall not treat lightly a single requirement made, and that we shall be strict observers df those obligatons enjoined upon us. We deceive ourselves if we think we can get the results, the promised blessings, except we comply with the laws on which they are predicated. 

The Lord bless us and give us strength and courage to comply with these requirements, not minimize one of them, but so live faithfully in the observance of our part in the stewardship over which we preside, that it can truly be said of us: "Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many." Nevetheless, never shall we hear these words, in time or eternity, until we have been faithful, strictly and absolutely, according to the requirements. God bless us to have faith in these things, and enable us to live so that we will  even with that which we have not yet seen, that may be required, and trust the promises that have been made by Him whose promises never fail, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MURBIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

In standing in your presence, brethren and sisters, I do so in the hope that through the blessings of the Lord I may discharge this duty acceptably to my Father in heaven, and to the good and blessing of all those who are gathered together in this' meeting of the general conference. My heart has been made glad in listening to the words that have been spoken to us by President Rey L. Pratt, of the Mexican mission, and by President Melvin J. Ballard of the Northwestern States Mission. The words of one of the inspired writers have been forcibly impressed upon my mind. The doctrine that has been taught unto us this morning is not the doctrine of the men who have been teaching us. It is the doctrine of our Father in heaven; and the only way whereby men can understand and know the truth of the doctrine, is by receiving and testing the principles that have been expounded. When the Redeemer of men tarried in the flesh and undertook to teach men the way of salvation, He could only make them a promise of this character. He was looked upon as an imposter. Men did not believe that it was possible for one of so lowly an origin to be the Great Redeemer and deliverer for whom they had been looking for ages. His words have been in my mind, He could only say to them : "My doctrine is not Mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of Myself." 

My brethren and sisters, I thank the Lord that in my own experiences I have demonstrated the truth of this announcement made ages ago, and I take it that every Latter-day Saint, every missionary, every man, and every woman, who have taken upon them the name of the Redeemer of the world, in the way that has been appointed by the great law giver, have had like experiences, and they have learned the absolute truth of these things because they have lived in harmony with the principles of the Gospel. They have had evidences come to them by the divine aid of the Holy Spirit that have swept away all doubt, and that have made them know in very deed, that the doctrines that they have attempted to put into practice are necessary and constitute the saving principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I have been greatly impressed, my brethren and sisters, with the manifestations of that spirit of kindness and forgiveness, that is taught in the Gospel, through meeting quite recently in Arizona, many of our people who have been expelled from their homes in Mexico. I found among them a wonderful spirit of forbearance. It has been marvelous to me to listen to their words of kindness, and the manner in which they defend the people who are responsible for their expulsion from their homes at the present time. 

While sitting here, listening to the words of President Pratt, in relation to the persecution and opposition that have been brought to  against the work of God, I could not help but think of one very remarkable and unexpected testimony concerning our vitality and wonderful growth that I heard from one of our faith, many years ago, when I was laboring abroad as a missionary. Our indifference at times gives cause for fear that we ourselves, here at home, under Gospel influences, and under the guidance of those who have been authorized to teach and instruct in the way of salvation, we, ofttimes do not appreciate the marvelous manifestations of the divine favor of our Creator. The matter to which I have made reference occurred in a lecture that was delivered by a man who has been world-renowned in his time, Charles H. Bradlaugh one occupying a position among the British people similar to that that has been occupied by Robert G. Ingersol in America. I was at one time invited, with other missionaries, to attend a lecture delivered by this noted man in the city of Bristol. His theme was "Is Christianity a Persecuting Religion?" He gave abundant evidence of being familiar with the religious history of the world, particularly those portions of religious history that have been made during periods of persecution. It is a, sad thing to know that there have been dreadful deeds committed in the name of religion. Those who have professed to be ministers of the gospel have ruthlessly murdered their fellowmen in the name of the lowly Nazarine. In the name of the Being of all beings who has ever lived upon this earth who has stood for peace, who has been the embodiment of forbearance, and charity, and love. Who has taught the doctrine that we have heard announced in this conference, that when we are  upon one cheek we should turn the others also. In His name so-called religious teachers have been guilty of some of the most dreadful deeds that blacken the pages of history. Possibly there have been men in times past who have felt that they were doing God's service when they persecuted those who did not see and understand, and believe as they understood. This noted lecturer was familiar with all such pages of history, and he brought to the attention of the gentlemen who were gathered together to hear him, many very dreadful stories. An opportunity was given at the close of the lecture for those who were present, to propound questions, among others a young man arose and asked if it was not true that in the commencement of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ He stood practically alone, and that He was from the ranks of the lowly, and that those who gave attention to His testimony were drawn from the same ranks; that He and they were without power; that they were few in number and were without worldly influence, and also without wealth. The answer was that was the condition. Then this question was propounded. "Was there not arrayed against this lowly individual, and the people who had been drawn to Him from the ranks of the poor, who, like Himself, were without power and influence, the might of the great Roman empire, and was it not the decree and the determination of those who were in authority to crush out the religion of the Nazarine, and to destroy those who had given allegiance to Him?" The answer was frankly given, that that was the condition. Then the young man asked, "How do you account for the pres of the early Christian Church in the face of this deadly opposition, if there be no God; if there w,as no hand of providence extended over them how is it that they were preserved? It is the story df the world that when great strength and might is arrayed against weakness, weakness must give way, and be destroyed, and that strength and might prevail. How is it those early Christians were not destroyed?" I was very interested in the question. I wondered how it could be answered, because a very wonderful story of remarkable preservation has been written concerning the early Christian church. When Mr. Bradlaugh arose to make answer, he said, "Young man, away out in the western part of America there can be found a people who have had similar experiences to those of the early Christians, a people who have had arrayed against them the might of one of the mightiest of nations, a people who have had arrayed against them the religious prejudices of all other peoples, and yet in spite of all opposition, in spite of this prejudice and religious hate, that people have made remarkable headway, and the history that they have written during recent years is more remarkable than anything that has been written concerning the early Christian Church. I speak, he said, of the 'Mormon' Church of Utah. Do you think that because of their preservation there is any evidence that the power of God has been extended over them, and that the great being whom you worship as Father and God, who created this earth upon which we dwell, has had His hand made manifest in their preservation ?" Of course there went forth from that gathering of people, when this statement was made, a titter of laughter. Who was there in that gathering that could say that the great God was interested in the "Mormon" people? Who was there that could feel that because their wonderful history paralleled the history of the early Christians that there was a living God who had decreed that they should be preserved, just as those early Christians had been preserved, until the work that our Father had designed in the meridian of time had been by them fully accomplished? In my judgment it was not wisdom for me at the time to take any part in the discussion, as I was a guest of the chairman of that meeting, and in fact had been inlformed that discussion was not permitted. A question could be propounded and the answer would be given according to the view point of the lecturer. When the answer was given by the lecturer the question was closed. In my soul on the occasion named, there came a very great joy, my brethren and sisters, I was filled with happiness to know that when one of those men of the world, who was well posted in history, and who was recognized intellectually as a giant among men, when such a man sought for a religion and people to parallel the history of early Christians, he found my people. He brought the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the attention of the audience, and bore record that our history was the history that paralleled the story of the early persecution and opposition to the Church of Christ in the meridian of time. 

I thank God that the same forces are in operation today that operated in that day, that the same Being has revealed the everlasting Gospel that planted His Gospel in the meridian of time, and that He has established  work in this our dispensation with a great promise, a promise that has been so often sounded in our ears, the promise that never in this age shall the cause of truth be overcome, or given to another people. God has planted this glorious work. He cries to men, He cries to you and to me to test the doctrines- of His Gospel. He does not demand anything of any one of us beyond our power, only that we shall, in a spirit of humility, with a feeling of proper anxiety in our souls, seek to know the truth, and give those things that He has revealed an honest, fair test. The Lord God of heaven has Himself pledged to every man, and to every woman who will thus seek to understand the truth, the promise that he or she shall discover it. This knowledge is not to come by means of scientific discovery, or by the ideas that have taken possession df men in these latter times, educationally; but in the only way that God has ever given, that is, by the revelation of the Lord God to the individual, through the manifestations of the Holy Spirit, thereby dispelling darkness through the power of the Holy Ghost, that truth may burst into the soul, and that the human mind may be lit up by the inspiration and power of God, and be made to know that God lives, that He is our Father, and that He has in very deed revealed the way of salvation. 

To my soul this knowledge has come; I desire to repent, and to have faith and confidence in my Father in heaven, and I bear record of the truth of this work. This work that He has commanded shall be heralded among the nations. That responsibility has come unto us, that we shall go to every nation and to every kindred and to every tongue  to every people, sounding the message of the Gospel, and calling men to repentance, and point out to all the way of everlasting life. Every soul who has tested the message has been made to know the truth, and in that manner the knowledge of this work, its truth and power, has come to me. I bear this record, in the name of Jesus Christ, my Savior. Amen. 

The anthem, "Gog and Magog," was rendered. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

May the blessings of heaven go with you, my brethren and sisters, as you disperse from this meeting. 

Believe in the Lord. Believe that He is, and that we are His children. Believe in Him as the Creator of the universe, the heavens above us and the earth upon which we dwell. Let us put our trust in Him. Cry to Him continually. Pray to Him in your fields that the harvest may be abundant; as you attend your flocks and herds, that there may be increase; as you transact the business of your stores and counting houses, or whatever vocation the Lord has given you to labor in, let that labor be performed in His name, and with faith in Him. He does control the destinies of men and of nations. His kingdom will come and His will be done upon earth as it is in heaven. Every man and woman who have put their trust in Him, who have taken upon them the name of His only begotten Son, the Redeemer of the world, and entered into covenant that they will serve Him and keep His commandments, if they keep those covenants shall be brought back into His presence and  crowned with glory, immortality and everlasting life, and shall be redeemed from death. 

I pray the blessings of the Lord upon our brethren and sisters who have furnished this splendid musical program, and all others of His people who are here, and those who are away from us. May God's blessing be with His Church eveyrwhere, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The anthem, "Hosannah," was rendered. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Roscoe W. Eardley. 


