Afternoon
08 04 1934

The closing session of the Conference convened Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock. 

At this meeting the great Tabernacle was again crowded to capacity, and in addition thousands of people assembled on the Tabernacle grounds and in the Assembly Hall, where they listened to the proceedings of the Conference as they were broadcast by radio from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Do what is right." 

Elder Edward J. Wood, President of the Alberta Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The hymn, "O Say, What is Truth?" was sung by the Choir and congregation. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

IMPRESSIVE NATIONAL BROADCAST 

I do not know that I have ever enjoyed a richer hour, that I have had my emotions stirred with deeper religious conviction than during the hour of our national broadcast this morning. It was an effective introduction to a great conference session, and an outstanding compliment to Professor Anthony C. Lund, director of the choir, Frank Asper, our organist, and also to the devoted, unselfish, and efficient members of this great Tabernacle Choir. 

I have thought often and have several times said that music is as important a part of religious worship as is the preaching. Our hearts were surely opened this morning by that hour of unusual music and those calm but impressive words of our radio announcer, Richard Evans. Our souls were thus made ready to receive the stirring messages that followed by President Clark and President Ivins, and by President Rowan of the Texas Mission. 

REMARKS ADDRESSED TO PRESIDENT GRANT 

I want to address a few remarks to President Grant: I was ten and he twenty-four when I sat in the gallery of the little meeting house in Tooele and heard him deliver that seven and a half minute address of which he spoke yesterday. He, a beardless youth, was sent to us to be the president of our stake. An outstanding baseball player, he was the hero of the boys then and he has been the hero of the youth of the Church ever since. I said to him this morning : "I do not know that it is so much. President Grant, what you say as what you do that spurs us on and fills us with a determination to try harder." For him at this busy time, in the midst of this great conference, to walk into our Mutual Improvement meeting this morning before eight o'clock (the meeting began at eight) is but an example of the quiet but effective way he has of telling us, by his actions, how intensely interested he is in the advancement, welfare and progress of the young people of the Church. 

M. I. A. WORK 

The work being done by the Mutuals is becoming more and more effective and popular all the time. I was impressed with the confidence in our young folks, the confidence in the Sunday School workers, as expressed by Brother McKay yesterday. And I have already said : 

President Grant, I will be glad to borrow a car and furnish the gasoline if you will go with me to any of our stake conferences. I want you to look into the faces of the multitudes of young folks who assemble on Sunday night and see what great and rapid strides the young people are making, what clean, active and satisfactory lives they are living. 

I was at Hyrum Stake a week ago where the Mutual Improvement meeting held Sunday night was a music festival. The ward meeting house 107  packed with 822 boys and girls. Two choruses came forward, a chorus of boys and a chorus of girls, and then a mixed chorus. My soul was stirred. 

At that conference I was handed a message in the form of a picture from President Cardon, of the Cache Stake. No doubt many of you have seen it in the Deseret News. Just think of it — a world 'record there broken! And then some ask if we are doing effective work with our young people. Ninety-six per cent of all the boys of Scout age in the Cache Stake are Scouts, registered and active. God bless the bishops, the stake presidency, the high council, and all who in that stake are thus intensely interested in the welfare, salvation, education, and training of our young people. 

While Scouting was adopted as a part of our M. I. A. and Priesthood program before the administration of President Grant began, our M Men and Gleaner girl work has all been started since he became president, and with his support and encouragement it has gone over the Church like a prairie fire and as a result we have all these thousands upon thousands of young folks from seventeen to twenty-three who are living in accordance with the standards and ideals of the Church. 

Later our Vanguard and Junior Girls with thousands more, ages 15 and 16, became intensely interested in Church activity. Next came our Senior classes — those between the ages of twenty-three and thirty-five. And here again we have brought thousands more into intense M. I. A. activity. 

An example of the effectiveness of our work is the great music festival which was announced in our morning meeting. Three thousand singers from all over the Church during our June Conference are to practise Friday and Saturday under the direction of Noble Cain, famous Chicago leader, and under his direction the festival will be presented Saturday evening and the chorus will sing Sunday. The whole Church is being stirred by this outstanding national musical event. We anticipate that the national hook-up will give the same general satisfaction as did our program two years ago. 

You had a little foretaste yesterday of the treat that is coming. Just think of it, the chorus of the Liberty Stake alone that sang for us here yesterday filled all of these choir seats — nearly 500 now I understand — and that was but one stake. We have a hundred and four others. When from all of these, a total of a hundred and five, we bring together in this Tabernacle their outstanding singers, we will have to do what we did two years ago, that is, ask the bishops to keep their people in the wards, because there will not be room for them even in this spacious Tabernacle. 

SUPPORT FOR PRESIDENT GRANT 

Thus I say to President Grant, as a word of encouragement, that he was our hero in the beginning, he is our hero yet. He showed the intensity of his interest in our work when he came this morning to our GENERAL CONFERENCE  Mutual Improvement meeting. President Grant, we are more than a hundred thousand strong. We stand firmly behind you! 

Now a few words to the rest of you and to those who are listening in. 

ARE WE GENUINELY CONVERTED 

It is now more than a hundred years since this, the Church of Jesus Christ was organized in these last days by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am wondering how nearly, with what degree of accuracy, the deeds, the conduct and the lives of our Church members agree with the exalted standards, the principles and ideals of this the Church of the Master. Are we doing genuinely, conscientiously and faithfully the will and carrying out the wishes, instructions and desires of our Father which is in heaven ? 

I am going to undertake to draw to your attention a few of the standards of the Church with the hope that each of us for himself will conduct an examination and find out whether or not our lives and conduct satisfy these standards and requirements. If they do not, perhaps we may be induced to try harder to be better and to do better, especially if we have a deep conviction and realization that "the ax is laid unto the root of the trees : therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire." (Matt. 3 :10; Luke 3:9.) 

JUDGING OURSELVES 

And how are we to be able to sit in judgment on ourselves, to tell whether or not our acts and conduct, our sense of guilt, will bring into our souls sorrow and regret, yes, a feeling of anguish and remorse ? Concerning this matter St. John in the Book of Revelations says : 

And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened : and another book was opened, which is the book of life : and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, * * * every man according to his works. (Rev. 20:12-13.) 

Thus it is stated clearly that we are to be judged by our works, by our accomplishments, by what we do and not wholly or primarily by what we say. Concerning this important matter Jesus the Son of God himself has said : 

Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. (Matt. 7:21.) 

DOING THE WILL OF THE FATHER 

It is what we do, it is what we are, it is our actual accomplishments that are going to count most. As I think of these things, I cannot help but wonder if it is possible that even here in our own Church there are some who actually draw near to the Lord with their lips but in their hearts and in their actions and conduct they are far from him. It is not words alone, it is not utterances of the tongue only that count, for to paraphrase slightly those impressive words of the Savior, it is not every 109  that saith Lord, Lord who shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of the Father which is in heaven. ( Matt. 7:21.) 

With these preliminary remarks in mind, let us now at the end of a hundred years of our Church activity, apply a few practical tests to ourselves and find out whether or not we are actually believers in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, if we are genuinely converted, and if we are really living in accordance with the teachings and standards of the Gospel. On this occasion I propose to submit for your consideration only three of our many Church standards and teachings. I do this with a hope that by applying these to our own lives and conduct some of us, perhaps finding ourselves not measuring up to one or more of these three standards, may resolve to struggle a little harder and make our lives and conduct better. 

ARE WE HONEST 

Our 13th Article of Faith begins with the words : "We believe in being honest." Measured by this first standard, about which I wish to speak, how many who are familiar with us, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, how many who know and who are familiar with our doings and our conduct have a genuine conviction that we are "absolutely honest," that we are living in strict and close conformity with this important requirement, this fundamental teaching of the Church ? 

It has been said of Abraham Lincoln by Morse, the historian, that "his chief trait all his life long was' honesty of all kinds and in all things; not only commonplace, material honesty in dealings, but honesty in language, in purpose, in thought; honesty of mind, so that he could never even practise the most tempting of all deceits, a deceit against himself. This pervasive honesty was' the trait of his identity, which stayed with him from beginning to end, when other traits seemed to be changing, appearing or disappearing, and bewildering the observer of his career. All the while the universal honesty was there." (American Statesmen, Vol. XXV, p. 20— Morse.) 

During all of his days, even from his boyhood in the Kentucky cabin, through to the end of his life in the White House, Abraham Lincoln was known by his intimates as "Honest Abe." But as honest as was Lincoln, I have said repeatedly in public and in private, that he was no more frank, no more honest, and no more conscientious in his life and in his dealings with his fellowmen than is our own President Heber J. Grant. Like Lincoln, President Grant's outstanding and unchangeable quality, that from which he, in his life and conduct never varies, is absolute honesty. 

This absolute honesty in word, in deed, in thought, has been also the outstanding characteristic in the life of every president of the Church. These men so lived and so conducted themselves that they had nothing to conceal. Their lives were like the contents of an open book. Such men say what they mean and mean what they say. Their outstanding characteristic is dependability. 

Ar e you, who are listening to my voice, honest as Lincoln was honest ? Are you honest as President Grant is, and as other presidents of the Church have been, honest? Or are we, some of us even members of the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Church, inclined at times and under some unusual conditions to say with our lips what we do not feel or believe or know down deep in our inmost hearts to be the truth ? In other words, are we honest, absolutely so ? 

ARE THERE ROBBERS AMONG US 

Do you think, for example, that if a careful examination were conducted that we could find any among us who have robbed anybody? Remember it has been said of a whole nation, "Ye have robbed God." And when the people of that nation exclaimed, "Wherein have we robbed thee?" the answer came promptly, "In tithes and in offerings." (Malachi 3:8-9.) 

DUES TO THE CHURCH AND TO THE LORD 

Among you good folks who make up this multitude that I am addressing in this historic Tabernacle and among those who are hearing my words over the radio, are there some who have not settled in full with the Lord ? Are there some who have not paid their dues to the Church ? If so, do we in our heart of hearts sincerely believe in being honest in our dealings, honest with our fellowmen, honest with ourselves and honest with the Lord ? And if we so believe, do we actually practise or live in accordance with this belief? Are we practically and earnestly and seriously religious? Are we genuinely converted? Have we actually shown fruits of repentance and righteous living ? Have we fed the hungry and clothed the naked ? Have we visited the fatherless and the widows in their affliction? Have our hearts gone out in sympathy to the unemployed, or when the hungry have called for bread have we with hardness in our hearts merely handed them a stone? 

REAL WORSHIP 

Do we partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper regularly each week and do we partake of it worthily? This is the second standard about which I wish to speak. It is a teaching of the Church and a practise of the faithful, as the scriptures say, to love the Lord our God with all our hearts, and with all our souls, and with all our minds. (Matt. 22 :37.) We are expected to have faith in our Heavenly Father and to worship him; we are instructed to go to our several places of worship on Sunday and there partake of the Sacrament — the bread and the water — in memory of the broken body and the shed blood of the Master. Are there some here today and others within the sound of my voice who are generally regarded as being good Church folks who do not take advantage of the opportunity to go regularly each Sunday to their respective wards and there with bowed heads and prayerful hearts in the Sacrament meetingenjoy genuine worship? 

In these days of depression, the down-hearted, the sick, those who are discouraged, the weary and the heavy laden will do well to go to their respective ward chapels and there receive comfort, consolation, blessing and encouragement. We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59 : 111 

Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. 

Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; for verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. (D. & C. 59:7-10.) 

It has been said that no human tongue can speak words whose message is equal in importance to partaking worthily of the Lord's Supper. If we are neglecting to take advantage of this outstanding blessing, are we converted ? Are we genuine Latter-day Saints ? 

Thirdly: Let us measure ourselves by another Church standard, that of watching and praying "unceasingly." The Master said, "Pray that ye enter not into temptation." (Luke 22:40.) The Bible says distinctly, "pray without ceasing." (Thess. 5:17.) "Watch and pray," the Master said again, "that ye enter not into temptation, the spirit indeed is willing but the flesh is weak." (Matt. 26:41.) 

To pray without ceasing is a practise that should be followed particularly by the youth of our nation today; in these times our young folks are surrounded with pitfalls, yes, with unusual temptations practically everywhere and practically all the time. The words of the Savior ought to be kept constantly ringing in their ears : "Wlhy sleep ye ? Rise and pray lest ye enter into temptation." (Luke 22:46.) 

PRAYING 

"Seek ye the Lord" is another admonition that applies also to the people of these days. Those whose lives are well-nigh completed, those who have had long years of experience and know with certainty what things are and what things are not worth while — these are they who ought to call out to the youth of today : "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found." Today is the time to call; tomorrow may be too late. O youth of our nation, "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near." (Isaiah 55 :6.) 

Measured by this standard of praying, of family prayers and of secret prayers, how well do you and I measure up? Christ himself says. "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will g*ive you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart : and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light." (Matt. 11 28-30.) With what degree of regularity and earnestness do we in prayer struggle to put ourselves in harmony with that matchless power, the power of God, that power which comes into human hearts and lives as a result of prayerfulness and righteous living. 

I realize that many who have paid little or no attention to religion, ridicule the idea that the light of heaven may shine into human hearts and souls as it shone into the lives of Saul of Tarsus and Joseph Smith, or that it may bring into a human heart a conviction like that which enabled Paul to stand before Agrippa and say, "I saw a vision. I saw a light." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

But here are Joseph Smith's own words : 

However, it was nevertheless a fact that I had beheld a vision. I have thought since, that I felt much like Paul, when he made his defense before King Agrippa, and related the account of the vision he had when he saw a light, and heard a voice; but still there were but a few who believed him; some said he was dishonest, others said he was mad; and he was ridiculed and reviled. But all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise; and though they should persecute him unto death, yet he knew, and would know to his latest breath, that he had both seen a light and heard a voice speaking unto him, and all the world could not make him think or believe otherwise. So it was with me." (Pearl of Great Price, p. 49.) 

Experiences like these, it seems, can be understood and most of them can be experienced and enjoyed only through the power of faith. A satisfying knowledge or faith concerning things spiritual cannot come merely through logic or reason, for these come only as a result of righteous, prayerful, religious living. The following familiar words from the Holy Book explain briefly and clearly what I mean : 

If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. (John 7:17.) 

If we are losing faith, if it seems our prayers are unanswered, let us reflect upon these words which the Lord has given to us in Section 101 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me. They were slow to hearken unto the voice of the Lord their God; therefore, the Lord their God is slow to hearken unto their prayers, to answer them in the day of their trouble. (D. & C. 101 :7-8.) 

I have mentioned but three of the standards of the Church. Measured by these, are you and am I doing the will of our Heavenly Father ? If we are, the promise says it is our right to know whether or not there is life beyond the grave; whether the doctrines advocated are true, or whether these doctrines are false. 

SUMMARY 

Referring specifically again to the three standards which I have named, let me ask: 

1. Are we honest, absolutely so? Do we deal justly, honestly and charitably with our fellowmen ? Do we pay our tithes and pay our offerings fully ? 

2. Are we participating in that intense worship which comes from attending our Sacrament meetings and from partaking worthily of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper? 

3. Are we participating in family and secret prayers, earnestly, honestly and with regularity ? Are we praying always ? 

Humbly I pray that by the power of God we may be able as a result of our living in accordance with these and other standards of the Church to have faith, to understand, to know and to have a testimony concerning the divinity of the doctrines of the Church and the effectiveness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 113 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters, I pray that the Lord may guide me by his Holy Spirit so that my words may be edifying to all of us and in harmony with the Lord's desires. 

AN OCCASION OF GREAT JOY 

Despite the fact that I sense the tremendous responsibility of standing before this vast congregation I think there is no one here who is enjoying this conference more than I. Since my late boyhood I have sought to attend these conferences from year to year, and with considerable regularity I have been able to do so. Because of my absence in the mission field I have been able to attend only one of the last twelve general conferences of the Church; therefore I come to this conference hungry, hungry for the spirit that I feel comes to me from my fellow-believers, hungry for the word of God spoken from this pulpit. 

I am grateful that I am a member of this Church, that I have a testimony of the truth of the restored Gospel, and I bear witness to the existence of God, the divine ministry of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and the divine, inspired mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

OUTPOURING OF SPIRIT IN MISSION FIELD 

Do not misunderstand me. While I realize great joy in being present at this conference, I must say that in the small gatherings in the mission field we have similar outpourings of the Holy Spirit. At times it has seemed to me that the spirit that has moved upon those who have spoken and listened in the small gatherings in the mission field has been even stronger and more powerful, than we feel here at home. It often happens that, when far away from home, far from the sheltered protection of the temple, the tabernacle, and the stakes of Zion, we draw more heavily upon the spiritual forces about us. So, while I am glad to be here T bear witness to the splendid spirit that pervades the gatherings of the Saints in the mission field. 

THOSE MAKING MISSIONARY SERVICE POSSIBLE 

I have been thinking about the mission field during this conference. As I look back over the years spent there I seem to see first of all a group of people whom I scarcely know, the fathers and mothers, the brothers and sisters, other relatives and the friends who have made possible the service of the Elders in the field. There is no time, and here is perhaps not now the place, to tell of the rich incidents of sacrifice and love, almos! divine love, that have led many of those whom I do not know — fathers and mothers and relatives — to give the necessary support to the Elders in the field. God bless them and be with them. 

THE MISSIONARY. — HIS DISCOVERIES AND GROWTH 

When I think of the fine men and women missionaries with whom 1 GENERAL CONFERENCE  labored, young, sturdy, honest, who desired to learn, and who learned to love God, I am proud of my association with them. I have seen them make the greatest discovery of all time. They have gone into the field largely uneducated in the things of the Church. I have seen them discover God. I have seen them discover Jesus Christ. I have seen them discover the Gospel, its virtue and truth. I have seen them discover their own place in the great plan of salvation, and I have seen them return to their homes matured in spirit and better able to carry on the great work that the Lord has established in these latter days. 

THE SAINTS IN THE MISSION FIELDS 

I think also of the Saints who constitute the membership of the missions in which I have labored — thirty thousand faithful men and women, trusting in God, bearing witness to the truth of the Gospel, feeling an assurance in their hearts that this is the truth, the great truth, the everlasting truth, the culminating truth of all the ages, who are making sacrifice in many ways to carry forward the work of the mission field. These brethren and sisters look upon us in the stakes of Zion as examples whom they should follow; and I trust that we are carrying that burden and accepting that responsibility, the challenge to be an example not only to the world but to our brethren and sisters who labor in behalf of the Lord's great cause far beyond the organized stakes and wards of Zion. I love those people as I love you here. They are battling for the trujh on the outposts of Zion; they are extending the boundaries of Zion; they are fulfilling the prophecies under which we shall go forward until we cover the earth. 

THE ETERNAL BATTLE 

There is a new feeling towards us throughout the world. There is more tolerance, there is little persecution, as has been said by a number of speakers during this conference. Conditions have changed vitally, wonderfully, beyond the understanding of those who labored in the field a generation or two ago. But do not let us be deceived. It has been well pointed out here by other speakers that the eternal battle is still on between truth and error, between the Lord and the Evil .One, the battle that will never end so long as men have their free agency, so long as error is possible, wherever there is truth. We have merely shifted our battle ground, we have merely changed our weapons. Three hundred years ago humanity fought with spears and shields. Today out of the sky poison gas and bombs are dropped on the unprotected cities below. Just so, in the mission field today, under the new conditions we must change our battle ground and the weapons that we use, but the battle goes forward. 

The world is looking for that which we have to give them, though they know it not. I think that out of my experience in the mission field these last few years there comes as my deepest impression a feeling that the world is in sad need of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Men 115  in darkness, seeking for light, they desire righteousness, for a desire for light and truth is in the heart of every man. They walk in darkness, trying to find their way out, pleading often for help. 

REFUSED ENTRANCE 

I recall very distinctly the first experience I had as our ship touched 1 British shores six years ago last December. The official of the British government who came on board to stamp our passports, to permit us to enter the country, when he came to me and my family and discovered what we were about, he refused us entrance. "I cannot permit you to enter; we do not want your kind of people in our country. We may tolerate the young Elders, but not you who are leaders." In the course of the conversation that followed — I must not take the time to detail it here — he said, "What do you intend to teach if I permit you to enter England ?" I answered him, "We intend to teach the British people so far as we are able how to win happiness while they live on earth, and how to find happiness in the life to come. We intend to teach them the meaning of life, where they came from, why they are here, and where they are going." 

VITAL QUESTIONS 

Almost in a breath this official stamped the passports and said : "Now we are done with that. Let's talk about Mormonism. I belong to a church but I am dissatisfied with it. It does not answer the problems of my life. It does not answer the questions that lie within my soul. I want to hear your teachings. Can you really tell me whence I came? Can you tell me why I am here? Can you tell me where I am going, for I know that life upon earth will end?" He became a fast friend — a type of millions of people in the world today who walk in darkness, feeling the need of light. Our obligation is to these people the world over. 

A PATHETIC CHAPTER 

We seem to be writing today the most pathetic chapter in human history. We stand at the pinnacle of human achievement, every natural force is more or less under our control. We have the radio, the telephone, the electric light, types of a conquest undreamed of in the generations gone before; and yet we stand helpless from country to country, from ocean to ocean, before the means of supplying the common needs of mankind. We have. harnessed the forces of nature but we are unable to apply them and use them to meet human needs. It is indeed a pathetic chapter that we are writing. As I have traveled among the nations I have become convinced that the trouble with the world is that it still relies upon man-made truth, man-made institutions, man-made methods of solving the problems of humanity. 

ETHICS VERSUS RELIGION 

We have had in the world throughout the ages two opposing types GENERAL CONFERENCE  guides Tor human conduct. One we call ethics and the other we call religion. An ethical man is good because it pays him to be good; because it promotes the peace of the community. An ethical man is virtuous because otherwise he contracts disease, and disease, personal or community is not desirable. Such is ethics — calculating, selfish. Religion tells another story : I must be good because in the great economy of God, in the great program laid out for the salvation of humankind, in which I am involved with all my brethren and sisters, it is required that I must be righteous and virtuous. Obedience to the law leads to infinite results, both on earth and in the life to come. I must be virtuous, not merely because I protect myself, but because I live then in harmony with the greater law that proceeds from the author of law. 

The world needs the flaming fire of religion to replace the dead husks of ethics with which the nations are attempting to rebuild the fallen structure of their governments. We have an N.R.A.; what we need is an S.R.A. — a spiritual recovery activity throughout the earth; and until we launch a campaign for spiritual recovery we shall not fully solve the problems that lie before us.' 

SPIRITUAL FOUNDATION NECESSARY 

This may seem far remote from the need of filling the mouths of hungry people; yet it is the only way by which we shall solve the problems of the world. The spiritual is ever greater than the material. The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith : "All things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given you a law which was temporal." A study of the condition of the world today shows that we are depending upon temporal means and methods for restoring that which we have lost, for bringing to us that which we desire so much to achieve. 

I stand here today with a simple message, an age-old message, which every speaker here has mentioned, that we must build from the foundation upward, upon a spiritual foundation which underlies everything that is beautiful, virtuous, and truthful. 

THE COMMON MAN'S PROBLEM 

Many men among us are hungry. The common man has decided that he shall have an equal opportunity with all other men so far as the common necessities of life are concerned. That is a real issue. The common man says, "I'll give my time, my strength, but in return I ask bread and shelter and clothing." The common man will win; but he can not wholly win until we get back to the spiritual background of the problem itself. 

It is well enough to say that we will feed hungry people because thereby we shall be better off. That is ethics. However, the Lord has said: "Let every man esteem his neighbor as himself." That is quite a different proposition. 

THE ONLY SOLUTION 

There will be no solution to the disturbing problems now racking 117  world until men learn to esteem their neighbors as themselves. It is a tremendous demand upon mankind. We of this Church must lead out in this as in other righteous matters. The revelations given by God to his people in these latter days must be taken at their face value. Our destiny is world leadership. There is much suffering among us, as I have discovered in the few months I have been home. I regret it, yet why should we not suffer ? I was trained in chemistry in my young manhood and I still remember that to purify gold and other noble metals greater heat was necessary than to purify the ignoble metals. Perhaps we will have to go through a more fiery furnace because we are destined for leadership in the solution of the world's problems. 

There is much to be said, but there are several speakers yet to come and my time is just about over. The present day offers great challenging subjects. This Church looks forward, builds upon the past, invades the future, builds here and builds there, upon eternal verities, upon spiritual foundations which God has revealed through his children. 

GREATER THAN TRUTH 

The Lord has given us an example that all the world can follow. A boy not quite fifteen years of age was troubled in his soul concerning the truth. He had a quality which redeemed him above many men. He had a surpassing love of truth in his heart. Perhaps I may not be misunderstood if I say that there is one thing in the world even greater than truth, and that is the love of truth. Without the love of truth men cannot prosper even in the possession of truth, and in fact never shall men possess truth fully, without the love of truth. This boy went into a grove to plead with Divinity for eternal truth, and God spoke to him. and also the Son of God spoke to him, and the foundations of the latter day work of salvation were laid. The authority of the Priesthood was restored. The wonderful gifts and blessings that the whole world is beginning to recognize as belonging to this people, were given through that initial act on the part of Joseph Smith. 

EVERY MAN MAY KNOW FOR HIMSELF 

In a conversation with one of my brethren a short time ago he said : "Well, Joseph Smith had a mighty vision, but it cannot be duplicated. I wish I could have it." 

I stand here to declare to you, and there are thousands in this building who can voice the same declaration from their own experience, that every one of us, every human soul, may obtain the same testimony and the same conviction that came to the Prophet Joseph Smith as he knelt upon his knees praying in the sacred grove for light and truth. God may not come in person, but God has agents. His Holy Spirit has powers beyond our understanding, and it is possible for every man and woman to satisfy his and her mind and soul and being, every part of them, of the truth of this work. When men will do so within this Church, will seek to obtain this transcendent testimony, then this Church will assume GENERAL CONFERENCE  rightful leadership. Indeed, it is already assuming the right to lead, modest and humble as the Church may be. When the world approaches upon its knees the Author of Truth with full love of truth in its heart, then shall humanity be able to build toward the perfection of which humanity dreams. There is no other way. 

I bear you my testimony that this latter-day work is the truth, the eternal truth, and that only through this truth can man's happiness be won on earth or in heaven. May God help us to retain the truth in our hearts, to win it more completely, to live in accordance with it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

An anthem, "And then shall the Light break forth," was sung by the Choir. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I stand before you this afternoon to add my testimony to the testimonies that have already been given from this stand. It has been my pleasure during the last two and a half years to mingle my voice together with the voices of the other mission presidents who are sitting on the lower stand this afternoon, in promulgating the Gospel in the nations of the earth. We have taken your sons and daughters and with their aid have undertaken to introduce to the people who are not acquainted with us the principles and truths of the Gospel. 

I wish to congratulate you upon the excellent material you have sent us in the mission field. They are wonderful young men and women. They come to us usually well established in the faith. However, occasionally there are men and women who come who might have been better prepared before leaving home. And we would appreciate it wonderfully if all these young people could be taught somewhat in the fundamental routine that they have to follow when they go into the field. It is a rare thing indeed, but it sometimes happens, that we have to teach these young men how to pray properly, how to ask a blessing on the food, and to do such simple things as they should be taught at home. If you would take that care and pains with your young men, all of them, I have no doubt but that it would establish them in the faith in such a way that when they come to us they would be all ready for service. It would help them wonderfully in the beginning of their mission. 

Without exception it has been my experience that these men round to and leave their missions with strong and living testimonies, having done wonderful work. It has been one of the greatest experiences of my life to labor with these young people, and it is with somewhat of a reluctant spirit that I have surrendered the reins of the Mexican Mission to President Pratt who addressed you yesterday. However, we go and we come; when the President of the Church says go, we go; when he says come, we come, with equal good will. I trust that in the new labors 119  I have to undertake I will have the Spirit of the Lord to guide and direct me, that it may be just as pleasant to me as' the work that I am now leaving behind. 

We have been laboring with a wonderful people, as you have been told, a vast and numerous people who need the Gospel, much more perhaps than some of our own races and nationalities do. They have been downtrodden for many years, centuries in fact, and they have come to a condition where they absolutely need the help that the Gospel can give them. Our own people on the contrary have grown up under a more liberal teaching and perhaps find themselves not quite in the same need that our neighbors on the south do. We have been trying to carry the truth to them and it has been a wonderful pleasure. 

I have been very much impressed with the things I have heard at this conference, and was especially pleased with the remarks that President Clark made this morning. We teach faith through the instrumentality of these young men and young women — faith in God, faith in Jesus Christ, faith in the Gospel. There are some things that are not reducible to mathematical formula, and these things we must take by faith. Brother Widtsoe told us that he was a chemist in his earlier years, and one thing I remember most of all about my studies in chemistry is that the instructor began that course by telling us that it was founded upon hypotheses, and an hypothesis, he said, is a scientific guess. And to show us how the hypotheses that are fundamental to chemistry change he got out some of his old books and read to us the story of an earlier chemistry — alchemy they call it. And since my days in school these hypotheses in chemistry and physics have changed again, and they are constantly changing. 

Now the science that is erected upon an hypothesis is no truer than that hypothesis. If that he true, the science may be true. If that be false, the science is questionable. Before we replace the fundamental truths that we have inherited from our ancestors, religious truths that have been of so much comfort and help to those who have gone before, let us be certain that the things we put in their place are true. 

We maintain that the Gospel embraces all truth. That may not mean that any living man may know all truth. It may not mean that the body of the Church can properly interpret all truth, but it does mean that whenever a truth is established we should accept it as part of the Gospel. But let us scrutinize those things carefully before we turn down the beliefs of the past and accept a new thing which may be founded upon a false hypothesis. That was one of the comforts to me when I went to college. I wondered if the study of chemistry, of physics, of biology, of geology, and of zoology might upset my equilibrium. But I found so many question-marks in the foundations of all of these that I believe it did not. And I would like to recommend just that thought to you, that perhaps after all we have within the Gospel the fundamental truths and precepts upon which these very sciences will in the end find themselves standing. I have that faith. I believe that every truth that will ever come into the world is part and parcel of the plan that was laid GENERAL CONFERENCE  by God our Father for the government of this world and man, and while he sojourns in it. 

I think we should not be afraid of scrutiny and of friendly criticism; we should welcome it. Man can be saved only so far as he gains intelligence and understanding and exercises faith. Consequently, I welcome criticism if it is made in the proper light and spirit. Unfriendly criticism, inimical criticism perhaps is not to be desired because it is always prejudiced in advance and never sees a question fairly. That is the one thought and idea I had in mind in coming to this stand. I give it to you for what it is worth. 

I pray God our Heavenly Father that he will sustain each and all of us, that we may carry forward with our heads erect, with a firm tread, to a successful culmination of our careers. May God bless us to this end, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

In the few moments that I stand before you I pray that I may have the inspiration of God to lead me to say that which he would have me say upon this occasion. 

Perhaps it would be well for me to report my missionary experiences, or some of them. Thirty years ago last month I was called on a mission to the Central States and went into the mission the latter part of the year. I think I have attended the general conferences fifty-four times in that period of time. I have seen many things that have strengthened my testimony and proved to me without a doubt that this is the work of God. I went into the mission field with a testimony of the Gospel — I knew it was true before I left home. It was an undeveloped testimony, it is true; I had had no experience in the preaching of the Gospel, hut I realized its truth as revealed from heaven in these the last days. It came to me from my parentage and those pioneers who were led into the valleys of the mountains under the direction of Brigham Young and who fought the Indians and helped to establish these settlements in these valleys. Coming of that lineage I could not but have a testimony because of the things that I had seen. 

It has been a great privilege which I have enjoyed to be associated with the thousands of men and women I have met in the mission field — fine men, clean in their lives, and good women. There were more than 2500 of them — a great congregation from all over the Church, and they labored with me and with my good wife in the mission field. I was thinking a few days ago about the success that has come to the Church through the ministry of this fine, noble band of men and women. There were fewer than three quarters of one per cent of those 2500 missionaries who returned home without an honorable release. There were fewer than three-fourths of one per cent who lost their lives in the mission field. I handled all the funds that came to the mission in all the years we were 121 . They deposited their money in the mission office and we kept it for them. There was a loss of less than twenty-five cents per missionary during all that time. That covered loss on books, literature and money that was furnished. They paid their bills. There are few banks in the world with that many accounts that could say they had not lost more than that amount. I doubt if there are any banks that could say it. In addition to that, when the mission was turned over to President Woodruff every penny of the funds on hand belonging to missionaries was returned to them, and there was not one of them who owed the mission anything. There had not been an overdraft for more than five years. 

That group of missionaries baptized over 11,000 people, over 9000 of them being adult converts, not children. They worked hard and faithfully, and I give this testimony to the children of men today that it may occupy a place in the history of this Church, and may stand to the honor and the truth and the integrity of the men and women of the Church, covering a period of twenty-six or twenty-seven years. Most of these missionaries are now actively engaged at home. Some of them could be more diligent it is true, but perhaps that isn't altogether their fault. Since returning home I have found them, when I have visited the stakes, serving in stake presidencies, as bishops, bishops' counselors, in the auxiliary associations; and in all the places that men and women have been called to occupy. They are engaged in positions of trust and in presiding capacities everywhere. This is true of representatives of all the missions; I know this about those of the Central States, but I am quite sure it could be said about all the missions of the Church. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will never fail. It has steadily grown in membership, and it has steadily grown in faith. The integrity of the men and women today who go out into the mission field is just as great as it was twenty-five years ago. 

There is a great spirit of friendship in the world, and there ought to be. W!e ought not to meet the opposition that we did a hundred years ago, when those mighty men under the leadership of Joseph the Prophet and Brigham Young fought so hard for the establishment of the Church and its standards. It was the very opposite of what the people were being taught at that time. But a continuation of the practices and teachings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ has brought about a change in the hearts of the children of men. It will continue to be so. I know that we will be tempted by the Evil One, as Brother Ivins so well stated this morning. I think that Lucifer will fight with more vigor from now on than he has ever fought before, but so will God our Eternal Father. The battle that was begun in that world from which we came is still going on. The men and women who fought for the principles of right before the foundations of this earth were laid have been in the earth in the past and are today, carrying on under the leadership of Jesus Christ our Lord. They are fighting for the right, for the establishment of God's work and to bring about the plan that he intended should be accomplished when he sent his children into the world. 

There is a fine opportunity for this work to continue. I am not the GENERAL CONFERENCE  bit discouraged about the things we hear — the things that might appear to hinder the progress of this Church. There is nothing worth while in the world that we can get easily; we have to work for it. It will demand the support and attention of every one who takes part in the Church to do that for which the Lord has sent us into th e world — the carrying on of this Gospel at home and abroad, so as to fulfil the purposes of the Almighty as planned by his servants, prophesied by his prophets, and taught by those who went out under his name. 

I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that Brigham Young was the great leader that history says he was. I never knew him except as I have read about him. I was not intimately acquainted with those who followed him, although I remember John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and Lorenzo Snow. But my ministry, my intimate association with the leadership of this Church, began with President Joseph F. Smith, and has continued with President Heber J. Grant. I have seen these men on the firing line out in the world, I have seen them at home, and I want to tell you that the integrity of the Church under the leadership of the men who have been placed at its head cannot be questioned. If the world had what we have, if the world could preach what we preach, I tell you the institutions of learning would be changed everywhere. The power of the Holy Ghost has never come to them : when it does it will make them powerful and great agencies for truth. 

I bear you my testimony that this is the work of God. I am glad to be home again in the bosom of the Church, visiting in the stakes, and to find the men and women there that I do find, associated in the different organizations. It has been a great pleasure to visit the various stakes and see the young folks of the Church take their part in the different auxiliary organizations, and also in the Priesthood circles that T have come in contact with. I am happy to be here. I know that the work of God is safe in the hands of the Priesthood of this Church. I care not for the attacks of the outside. Jesus Christ our Lord won in the beginning and he will win in the end^ He did it with his sons and his daughters before, and he will do it now, for this is his work and it cannot be frustrated. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

In these days of indecision, uncertainty, and confusion concerning the things that have to do with the economic life of the country, concerning education and science, it is not remarkable that men's hearts begin to fail them when they stop to consider the question of religion. It seems as though men are running to and fro, trying to find their way out, but because of the darkness it is more difficult than they anticipated to get into the sunshine again. 

As Latter-day Saints we have faith in God the Eternal Father and in this great work which has been established in our day. But even with 123  of the supervision and the knowledge and the guidance that we receive, I am afraid that our hearts waver at times and, if we are not careful, we begin to doubt regarding some of the things that have to do with God and his work. 

It seems to me that there are a few things that will help us hold on and steady ourselves, that will stabilize the faith we have in this work. One thing essential to the faith of the people is confidence in the leadership of the Church, in God's servants whom he has chosen to lead and direct his people. I say that unless we have that confidence and the determination to follow our leaders and accept their guidance andcounsel, our faith will grow weaker, we will not have the strength to stand and do the things which God would have us do. 

I am not thinking only of the leadership of the General Authorities of the Church, but also of the leadership of the Stake Presidencies, of Bishops, the Priesthood of our Church, and the men and women who have been chosen to guide and direct the auxiliary work of the Church. It takes confidence in these men and women if we are to get from the spirit of the Church the things that God expects us to get. It is agreed that we are human, that we may make mistakes; but the few mistakes, if there are any that may come to us because of this leadership, are not comparable to the thousands of fine, splendid things that this leadership does for us. Their counsel, their instruction, the wisdom that God gives to them, so outweigh any possible harm that if we would keep our faith we must believe and have confidence in the leadership that God has given us. 

I think I would be the most miserable of men if I had to sit in an audience and continually decide whether the leaders of my Church were speaking by the gift and power of God or whether they were speaking of themselves. I have found in my experience that when I have followed the counsel and instruction given to me by my leaders, even though I could not understand the thing at the time, I have always come out better in the end, and God has blessed me because I have given my allegiance and confidence to the men who have a right to guide and direct me in the affairs of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and help us to keep in our souls love and confidence for those who preside over us, that we shall not be found wanting, that we shall not be found on the wrong side, that we shall not be found where criticism is, or allying ourselves with those who are trying to destroy God's work by trying to destroy our faith and our confidence in these men that we love as life itself. I bear you my testimony that these men are men of God, whom he has chosen and placed here, that we might find our way safely back into the kingdom of God under their supervision and direction. May God bless us to this end, I pray, in Jesus Christ's name, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I bring you greetings, my brethren and sisters, from ten thousand Latter-day Saints in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Next Saturday and Sunday from seven to ten hundred people will assemble in Portland in our annual Mutual Improvement contest work. On Sunday evening we will broadcast our Music Festival over the Columbia national network, connecting fifty stations from coast to coast. 

Never before in my life, and I have been attending these conferences for many years, have I felt the same inspiration and cooperation that I have during the sessions of this conference. As I stand before this microphone gazing into the faces of thousands of people before me, how I wish that television were perfected, so that the world could witness this great congregation of people — men before me and behind me who are revered by thousands of people as God's servants; men who have served and are now serving their nation in offices of trust and responsibility — the governor of our state, and other men associated with him in thv. political field. Educators, presidents of colleges, and men from all branches of our industrial life are here. Then I look into the faces of the most queenly women in all the world. No purer women, no purer men can be found on God's footstool than are registered as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Some weeks ago I listened to a program over the radio at which time the minister in his prayer prayed thus. "Oh God, come down and make thy reality known!" In a recent magazine an article appeared descriptive of the chaotic condition among the Christian churches. The writer said the thing that was needed now was for God to come down and say "Hello" to the people of the churches. 

I listened to the testimony of our beloved President who in most solemn declaration bore witness of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of the visit of the Father and the Son who appeared to the young man in person. The vision was not an hallucination, it was a reality. The Prophet Joseph for seven years was under the divine tutorship of holy men, prophets who had lived upon this earth. Under their tutorship he was schooled and prepared for his great mission of ushering in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. I marvel that the world is so blind to the sublime truths. 

I think of the father of our country, George Washington, the man to whom we all pay homage, leading the armies of our country, at Valley Forge, and later as President of these United States. In the Congressional Library at Washington there are some 2,'654 books treating more or less on his life, while here is a boy born in the humblest of circumstances, uneducated in the colleges of learning, and yet in the archives of the Church are to be found some 20,000 volumes giving something of the life of Joseph Smith. Many of them however are books from the pens of his enemies. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 125 

Who is this man Joseph Smith ? Who can understand him ? Only members of this Church can appreciate that he was and is a prophet of God, and we sing with heart and voice, as we did today : 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that prophet and seer! Blessed to open the last dispensation, Kings shall extol him and nations revere! 

This is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

I rejoice exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of again attending a general conference of the Church, in the things that we have heard, the testimonies that have been borne, the doctrines and principles that have been enunciated. 

This morning I had an hour of infinite enjoyment. I have not been blessed with a very sensitive ear. I have not perhaps, therefore, as keen an appreciation of musical sounds as have some, but I sat here entranced with joy, peace, and comfort in my heart and my soul uplifted to think I live in a day and age when such a thing as that could be given unto us. Not alone the artistry of the message brought to us by the choir and the organ, but the spirit and the power and the vitality that accompanied it, bear testimony unto our hearts. I can echo the wish that has been here expressed that the world could have been here and heard. Much of the prejudice which we contend with now would be dissipated, because people would see for themselves; but now they are not even willing to listen for fear they may be convinced of something contrary to that which they have always heard. 

We have had a very severe winter in Canada, but milder weather has come now, and we are grateful for it. We have had considerable sickness at various times among our missionaries, but they are now all well and very grateful to our Heavenly Father for their health. There has been considerable disunity among members of the Church in the past, fault-finding and criticism, but much of that has disappeared for which we rejoice. 

We have but few missionaries. We had to withdraw from four of our districts. We hope the times will change and that more help will be given, that we might re-establish ourselves there and continue the work. 

I might say that up until the present time we have had one thousand per cent more baptisms this year than we had a year ago during the same period. That sounds big, but it is not so big as it sounds. At this time a year ago we were able to report but one baptism, and this year we have had ten thus far. I wish that we could realize a continuation of that kind of increase for the entire year. That is possibly beyond us, but I do pray that my brethren and sisters in the mission field, and that you all may GENERAL CONFERENCE  your prayers to the end that our labors may be so fruitful there that we shall be able to draw the people away from the delusions in which they find themselves, and from their self-centered and satisfied feeling. One lady expressed it in this wise : "I do not want any of your tracts or any of your teachings. I do not think it is fair for us to read or listen to anything that will weaken our faith in our own church." When they thus set themselves against the truth, do not wish to listen to it, lest it might cause some sacrifice to accept it, of course they lose the blessing we offer unto them. It touches our hearts, but we can only go to others and seek to bring them the Gospel. We have joy in our labors. We thank God for the privilege of working in this cause and seeking to bring souls unto him, and in a humble way be his assistants in the accomplishment of his great and glorious work. 

I have a testimony of the truth and the divinity of this work. I obtained it fifty-eight years ago in Stockholm, Sweden, when I accepted baptism at the hands of one of our brethren who became a bishop of one of the wards in this city, and that testimony has never gone from me. I rejoice in it; I treasure it; I know nothing so great in my life as the possession of that testimony, and to be assured of the truth, to knov where we are going, and that only we ourselves can hinder our progress and our advancement, and, eventually, our joy and exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God. 

May God bless you and me and all of us who are his covenant people, in giving of our means, our talents, and our ability to God's work, that this work shall spread and that righteousness and truth may fill the whole earth, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

President of the California Mission 

I appreciate this great opportunity and I sense the responsibility. I have undergone great anxiety for three days, and now if I can have as faithful a prayer offered for me as I have been offering for those who have spoken during this conference, I shall be happy indeed. 

To come up here and bring good news from California is happiness. If there is any schism or division I have not discovered it. There seems to be peace, love, good-will, brotherly kindness in the hearts of the people. 

We have been favored recently with a visit from Elder George Albert Smith, and he has brought us a great refreshing. The people have turned out en masse to hear him; strangers have attended. They have testified that they have been impressed and more than impressed. They have testified that they have been inspired. The friendliness of the people is made manifest unto us on every hand. 

We have been blessed with an increased number of missionaries. The investigators are more numerous than at any other time during my experience. Last year was the most favorable year according to the record, so far as baptisms are concerned, in the history of the mission. The expense of the missionaries was never so low as now. Through 127  goodness of the Saints we have been able to care for missionaries at an average cost of less than seventeen dollars per month. There is a great opportunity to serve. The people want us, they are seeking the truth. 

I should like perhaps to mention one incident that I think would be interesting to every soul in the Church. A few months ago we sent two Elders out into Westwood, up in the mountains in one of the lumber camps. We have had people there for years, some of our people, but we have never been able to get any foothold. Every foot of ground there is owned by the Red River Lumber Company, and every house and every shack. We were never able to rent a place where we could hold meetings. We sent two Elders there recently, Elder Richards and Elder Foulger, under District President DeVaugn Jones. They were instructed, "Go and visit our own people, be prayerful and humble, and see if we can overcome an adverse situation." We found our own people and we visited the resident manager of the Red River Lumber Company. There is a community church there, and we said, "May we not have the privilege of preaching the Gospel in that church ?" Finally that privilege was promised, provided we would be careful about what we should say. 

That was not exactly what we wanted. We wanted the opportunity first of teaching, training, and helping our own. We wanted the opportunity of having a more humble place and having it where we could hold our meetings. Through the intercession of some faithful Saints a place was found. The man said : "What would you need ?" We told him. "What could you pay?" "The very lowest amount." 

- He finally said to our inquiring Saints, (Elder Young's family) "We have a hall for you. It is seated, there is a piano in it, it is heated, it is lighted; the janitorial work will be taken care of. Would ten dollars a month be too much for you ? We will give you three rooms in which to take care of your Sunday School." 

Of course we counted that a gift from God, we counted that an answer to prayer. 

When we assembled those Saints who had not been permitted to meet before, when they stood up and sang the hymns of Zion, when they prayed, when they listened to the words of truth, their hearts were melted and their joy was made almost complete. While visiting them recently we invited this resident manager to come to our meeting. We hardly dared hope that he would favor us with a visit, but to our great delight He and his wife took seats immediately in front of the stand, and the Elders discoursed under the inspiration of the Almighty. He sat there all attention. At the close of the meeting, as I approached him and held out my hand, he took me by both hands and said : "I have not only been interested, I have been blessed. Where do these Elders stay? Could some of them come and stay at our home?" 

We said to the two Elders that labored there, "You go; you are the men who have done the pioneer work," and so they went. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The next morning as the Elders came back rejoicing we said : "How did you sleep?" 

They answered, "We could hardly sleep, the beds were too soft. And he gave instructions to the butler to feed us anything that we should ask for." 

The mercy of the Lord! He is going before us. He is being upon the right hand and upon the left. This is exemplified every day. Since that day we have not only held a Sunday School but we have organized a branch and we have baptized converts, and there is joy out in Westwood. 

I want to refer to this one incident which I think will be interesting to the people of this Church. One of Phineas Young's sons lives there, and he said in the evening : "Brother Hinckley, I wish you would come and stay at our home. I have something that I should like to have you read," and to my delight he pulled out ten letters written by Oliver Cowdery to Phineas Young during the time that Oliver Cowdery was out of the Church. The letters are dated from 1843 to 1848. I sat up through the night. I have never had such a thrill before. 

Brother Young said : "I have never read them, the writing seems so old-fashioned that we cannot make them out." 

This to my mind seemed peculiar because the writing was clear, the paper was good, the ink had not run or faded with age. The paper was yellow, it was broken in the corners; the paper had been folded and sealed with sealing wax. The address was on the outside with the statement, "postage paid." 

I could never describe to you the thrill that I had as I sat there and read those letters. I have read of Oliver Cowdery, I have shed tears when I thought of what the man had witnessed and what he had suffered, and then what it must have meant to have been excommunicated from the Church and to have been outside in the darkness. And so about two o'clock in the morning I said to one of the Elders, who had fallen asleep : "Wake up and listen to me while I read." 

If I may have time I should like to read this letter to you. It is dated Tiffin, Seneca County, Ohio, March 23, 1846, and reads as follows : 

Tiffin, Seneca County, Ohio March 23, 1846 

Dear Brother Phineas : 

Yours of the 5th and 9th, and mailed on the 11th, has just been received. I was not looking for a letter from you, nor did I expect, when one should be received, that it would contain what yours does. I mean that part relative to the second Eldership, and Counselorship, etc. 

Before the receipt of this, you will have received one from me, enclosed in another to brother Daniel. From which you will discover that your last letter was perused with the greatest satisfaction; and that one received from brother Orson Hyde about the same time was either misunderstood, or its' spirit misconceived by me. But from your last I am fully satisfied, that no unjust imputation will be suffered to remain upon my character. And that I may not be misunderstood, let me here say that I have only sought, and only asked, that my Character might stand exonerated from those charges which imputed to me the crimes' of theft, forgery, etc. Those which all mv former associates knew to be false. I do not, 129 

I have never asked, to be excused, or exempted from an acknowledgment, of my actual fault or wrong — for of these there are many; which it was always my pleasure to confess. I have cherished a hope, and that one of my fondest, that I might leave such a character as those who might believe in my testimony, after I shall be called hence, might do so, not only f or the sake of the truth, but might not blush for the private character of the man who bore that testimony. I have been sensitive on this subject, I admit; but I ought to be so — you would be, under the circumstances, had you stood in the presence of John, with our departed Joseph, to receive the Lesser Priesthood — and in the presence of Peter, to receive the Greater, and look down through time, and witness the effects these two must produce, — you would feel what you have never felt, were wicked men conspiring to lessen the effects of your testimony on man, after you should have gone to your long length rest. But enough, enough, of this. I will here say that I cannot fully comprehend the purport of Brother Hyde's letter; but from your last, in referring to a conversation by Brother Brigham, about the presidency, I am fully, doubly satisfied that all will be right, that my character will be fully vindicated. I write thus plainly because I do not intend to mention it again in any of my letters. Let the records show what you, Brother Brigham and Parley, say they shall and you will be furnished with weapons to use against your enemies hereafter to good effect. You say you are to have a meeting on the 6th of April. Brother Phineas, I could be with you and tell you about the 6th of April, 1830, when but six members only belonged to the Church and how we looked forward to a future, I should gladly, but I cannot — only in spirit — but in spirit I shall be with you. And then in assembled with [then are some words I could not clearly make out] those who are yet alive of that six — How many can you count? 

From my letter to you and brother Daniel, you will see that Brother Thurston left, much to my regret, without letting me see him again. I think if he were to send me the note that falls due the first of October, 1846, I could get the money on it, by giving a share — by this means I could be with you * * * than I know of in any other way. You will of course see him on the subject and write me on receipt of this. The situation of my family is such that it is not possible for me to come with them this spring; but I want to be prepared at the earliest moment. We are well as usual. I wrote in great haste. May the God of our fathers bless you and yours, and the Church as a body. Such is my prayer. 

I am yours in the New and Everlasting Covenant, 

Oliver Cowdery. 

You will never know the spirit that was mine. 

I stood in front of the monument on these grounds today and looked at the Witnesses. In my heart I prayed for the descendants of Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, all good men who suffered for the truth in the revelation of the everlasting Gospel, which has been restored through the mercy of God, and which it is our high privilege to proclaim to the world. 

It is fifty years ago today since I first took upon me the responsibility of the presidency of the deacons — fifty years of joy, fifty years of walking safely in the footsteps of the leaders of this Church. For fifty years I have been acquainted in a way with every President of the Church from Brigham Young to Heber J. Grant, and now with my hair white and my experience ripe I testify that the path of safety is in following those whom God has called and appointed to lead the way and to carry responsibility in this Church. I testify that they are called of him and that they lead by divine authority. The Lord says it is given unto the President to have the spirit and to be like unto Moses, a prophet, a seer, and a revelator, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the Church. That is what we have, and is what we will always have in our leaders. God help us to be true to them, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH J. DAYNES 

President of the Western States Mission 

I am delighted, my brethren and sisters, to be here to represent the Western States Mission. I rejoice in the opportunity that has come to me to be called to this responsible position. I love it. It is wonderful. 

We have in our mission some of the noblest and finest Elders and lady missionaries ever sent out by the Church. Our work is progressing, our baptisms are reaching high numbers. I want to say that during this past month we have baptized forty-two souls. Our tithes for last month show an increase of 133% over the same period a year ago. 

We love our work, we bring you words of greeting. God has blessed our mission. It is a delightful place to be. We hope there will be many young men and young women come into our mission. We can teach them the Gospel, they will enjoy their labors, and I am sure that excellent results will follow. 

I was thrilled with the broadcast .this morning by the Choir, and wish to pay a tribute to them. Having been raised in the environment of music I can appreciate the wonderful work that they have done. Music mellows the heart, softens the soul, brightens the intellect, and increases one's interest in eternity. It develops love and brotherly interest, thaws out the iceberg soul, permits the tears to flow, and fills one's heart with a desire to serve God. 

I thank God that I am a member of this Church. It is marvelous and wonderful. I rejoice in the very delightful way the non-members of the Church receive us. Prejudice has gone, interest is to be 'found everywhere. We find friends everywhere we go. The Lord is blessing our work. 

I know that the Gospel is true. I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet, and the Western States Mission stands one hundred per cent behind the President of this Church in their desire to serve and to do their part as God directs them. 

May his peace and favor attend each and every one of us in our desire to serve him, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am very sorry that we have had to skip again five or six returned mission presidents who have not had an opportunity since their return to speak at a general conference. Notwithstanding that three of the General Authorities are away we have not been able to hear from all those whom we desired to address us. 

I have been pleased beyond expression with the very splendid 131  we have had. Perhaps we should begin conference at least one day earlier; or else, say, at 9 :45 and at 1 :45, and in this way get in an extra half hour each day; then perhaps we could get through and hear from all the brethren from whom we would like to hear. 

LAST CONFERENCE THE BEST 

It is a common phrase that our last conference is our best one; and I suppose the reason is that we have the proper spirit. Things have been so difficult financially during the past years that I believe there is a greater appetite on the part of the people spiritually than they had a year ago, and that accounts perhaps for saying that we have had a very fine conference, one of the best that I have attended since becoming the President of the Church. 

FAITH HOW DEVELOPED AND MAINTAINED 

I am grateful indeed for the advancement of the Church, for the faith of the people. Faith is a gift of God, and faith comes to each and all of us who serve God and supplicate him for the guidance of his Spirit. There is no danger of any man or woman losing his or her faith in this Church if he or she is humble and prayerful and obedient to duty. I have never known of such an individual losing his faith. By doing our duty faith increases until it becomes perfect knowledge. 

It has been a source of great pleasure to me to listen to the testimonies that have been borne here of an absolute knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. 

INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING SELECTING MISSIONARIES 

I wish again to ask the presidents of stakes — I intended to do it last night, but forgot — before recommending a man for a mission to sit down with him and find out if he is ready to go and if he is capable of representing the Church in the mission field. We do not want any more missionaries to be sent into the world to be reformed. Do not forget this. We do not want bishops to listen to the pleadings of fathers and mothers to send us young men who perhaps will smoke before they get across the ocean. We want every president of a stake to sign his name at the bottom of a recommendation and write a few lines on the recommendation form or write a letter with every recommendation, saying that he has interviewed the person recommended and found him to be in every way worthy to go into the mission field. If they do not do this we will have to send the recommendation back to them. We want them to know by personal conversation, by sitting down and talking with the young man or the young woman, that he or she has a willingness to go on a mission. I am not asking that they shall have a testimony; but I want them to be clean, and I haven't the least doubt on earth, if they go out clean and with a desire to serve, that God will give them not only faith but a knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

BLESSES SAINTS 

I think that covers all that I want to say, except that wherein the power is given to me, with all my heart and soul, I bless the Latter-day Saints. I thank them from the bottom of my heart for their faith, and for their prayers in my behalf, and am grateful to have had their faith and prayers. I am stronger, and have more vitality, also have greater force, than I had thirty years ago when leaving to preside over the European Mission. I believe that all true, faithful, diligent Latter-day Saints have given to me the best that is in them, in supplicating God in my behalf, for his Spirit, for health, for vigor of body and of mind. I pray that God's blessings may be upon Israel and upon all honest men everywhere. I pray with all my heart that those who have made mistakes will repent; and by this we may know that they have repented — they will confess their sins and depart from them. 

God help them to do that, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer, Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "The Lord Victorious." President Heber J. Grant pronounced the benediction. Conference adjourned for six months. 

The singing at the various sessions of the Conference was conducted by Anthony C. Lund, assisted by Albert J. Southwick, David E. Smith, and Charlotte O. Sackett. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank Wl Asper and Wade N. Stephens. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 2 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 66 

A marvelous change, 66 — Enemy seeking new means, 66 — Dawning of a new day, 67 — Satan's allurements, 67 — A changing world, 68 — True to our standards, 68 — God's work shall triumph, 69 — Church not found wanting, 69 — A glorious future, 70. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 120 

Bluth, Elder John V 125 

Callis, Elder Charles A 48 

A vision of Deity, 48 — The words of Isaiah, 49 — Prophecies that have been fulfilled, 49 — A s'olid foundation, 49 — Prophecies of a modern prophet, 50 — Testimonies of those not of us, SO — An experience in Atlanta, Georgia, SO — With no uncertain sound, 51. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 71 

Labors of Presiding Bishopric, 71 — Progress of the Church, 71 — Growth of the Priesthood, 72 — Great mission of the Church, 72 — Great missionary work of the past, 72 — Pioneering and empire building, 73 — Spiritual and cultural growth, 73 — Another era, 73 — Fundamental principles', 73 — The challenge to us, 74 — Build faith and righteousness, 74 — Advancement of missionary work, 74 — Development of finer civilization, 75 — Improvement in education, 75 — Improvement in employment conditions, 76 — Welfare of women and children, 76 — Better community building, 76 — Development of local industries and resources, 77 — Make our communities attractive, 77 — Better homes — more neighborliness, 77. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 90 

Compliments singers) and musicians, 91 — As a result of purity and chastity, 91 — "The truth shall make you free," — Sheep who stray away, 92 — Should not challenge truth, 92 — The truth that there is truth, 92 — The only source of salvation, 92 — The great truth of modern revelation, 93< — Men who are not learned, 93 — Material and spiritual learning, 94 — The challenge of experimentation, 94 — No compromise with error, 95 — Prays for understanding of spiritual truths, 95. 

Clawson, President Rudger 51 

The Articles of Faith, 51 — Ministers 1 answer questions, 52 — The Bible a precious book, 52 — Meeting of mission presidents, 53 — Spirit of testimony with leaders and people, 54. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Colton, Elder Don B ,62 

Cutler, Elder Newel J 87 

Daynes, Elder Joseph J 130 

Financial and Statistical Report 4 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 25 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 2 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 3 

General Officers of the Church 3 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Presentation of General Authorities and Officers, 2. 

Grant, President Heber J 7 

Recalls early trip, 7 — Divine authority restored, 7 — Chapels' dedicated, 8 — Have truth to give, 8 — Testimony remains, 9 — Missionaries happy, 9 — Lying scored, 9 — Church makes no mistakes, 10 — President Smith's last message, 10 — While presiding in Tooele, 10 — Growth through observance of duty, 11 — Possesses knowledge, 11 — The Lord prepares the way, 11 — Thankful for wise counselors, 12 — Confident Church will triumph, 12 — An early experience with planchettes', 12 — Result of Godbeite movement, 13 — Recalls' other instances, 14 — The testimony of Wilford Woodruff, 14 — A tribute to mothers, 15 — Honored by Church, 15 — Praises own mother, IS — Inquired for Elder Ivins, 16 — Thankful for testimony, 16 — Colonel Hawes' tribute, 16. 

Grant, President Heber J 105 

Members of the Twelve who are absent, 105 — Compliments the Choir, 105. 

Grant, President Heber J 105 

Music by our own composers, 105. 

Grant, President Heber J 130 

Last conference the best, 131 — Faith — how developed and maintained, 131 — Instructions regarding selecting missionaries, 131 — Blesses Saints, 132. 

Hinckley, Elder Alonzo A 126 

Ivins, President Anthony W 95 

Sees ray of hope, 96 — Satan cast out, 96 — A son of the morning, 96 — His character and subtle power, 97 — Seeks dominion over the earth, 97 — Devil worship, 98 — Once an intelligent and mighty people, 98 — Image of the serpent, 99 — Opposed to Christ and his mission, 99 — Satan still lives, 100 — Man an agent unto himself, 100 — Satan's power limited, 101 — An armor against Satan's power, 101— Must be cultivated, 101 — A scriptural answer, 102— The same wily deceiver, 102. -/  135 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R. Jones, Elder Miles L. . 

118 .40 106 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden Lyman, Elder Richard R. 

Impressive national broadcast, 106 — Remarks addressed to President Grant, 106— M. I. A. work, 106— Support for President Grant, 107 — Are we genuinely converted, 108 — Judging ourselves, 108 — Doing the  will of the Father, 108 — Are we honest, 109 — Are there robbers among us, 110 — Dues to the Church and to the Lord, 110 — Real worship, 110 — Praying, 111 — Summary, 112. 

McKay, Elder David 20 

Pays tribute to officers and teachers, 21 — Successful conventions, 21 — Seeking and desirous of living the truth, 21 — Wielding an influence for good, 22 — As a result of religious convictions, 22 — Latter-day Saint standards, 22 — The personality of God, 23 — A means of consummating God's purposes, 23 — As a means of accomplishing specific objectives, 24 — The principles of true Christianity, 24. 

A diminishing faith in God, 25 — An understanding of the purpose of life, 26 — Divine truths revealed through a prophet, 26 — Our responsibility to mankind, 27 — The only means of securing peace and happiness, 27 — Our privilege and duty, 27 — Preparation for Celestial glory, 28 — Divine authority necessary, 28 — Progress of Church can not be impeded by man, 29 — The only plan, 30 — Should magnify our calling, 30 — Rejoices' in companionship of Church authorities, 30. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 17 

Importance of record keeping, 17 — Information furnished by historian, 18 — Recorder's office an important one, 19 — Individual records, 19— Patriarchal journals and private journals, 20. 

Pratt, Elder Harold W 

Richards, Elder LeGrand ...... 

Romney, Elder George S 

Rowan, Elder Charles E., Jr. ... Second Day, Morning Meeting . Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 

Sloan, Elder William R 

Smith, Elder David A 

Smith, Elder George Albert 

.88 

102 

124 Fulfilment of God's promises, 35 — Work for the dead, 35 — Under the higher Priesthood, 36 — Free agency, 36 — Necessity of labor, 36 — Individual responsibility, 37 — Some achievements, 37 — Results 1 following neglect, 38 — Remember the Lord, 39 — Friends of Jesus, 39. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Taylor, Elder John H 122 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 90 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 105 

Welling, Elder Arthur 45 

Wells, Elder John 81 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 55 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 113 

An occasion of great joy, 113 — Outpouring cf spirit in mission field, 113 — Those making missionary service possible, 113 — The missionary — his discoveries and growth, 113 — The Saints in the mission fields, 114 — The eternal battle, 114 — Refused entrance, 115 — Vital questions, 115 — A pathetic chapter, 115 — Ethics versus religion, 115 — Spiritual foundation necessary, 1 16 — The common man's problem, 116 — The only solution, 116 — Greater than truth, 117 — Every man may know for himself, 117. 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 42 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 78 

THE FALLING AWAY 

By B. H. ROBERTS 

This new work is a ringing challenge to Christendom and a frank : ndictment of the multifarious creeds that are an outgrowth of the disintegrated Apostolic Church. It shows most conclusively and brilliant1 that all the churches had departed from the true pattern of Christ and lost the authority completely, long before the New Dispensation was ushered in through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. 

Yet the motive of the author is not to tear down, but rather to build up; had there been no "falling away," the claim of the prophet of the New Dispensation would have been an imposture; if there was a "falling away," however, his claim is credible. It was to establish this fact sharply and conclusively that these radio addresses were given. All who heard Elder Roberts or who will read these published discourses, will agree that he has accomplished the end in a scholarly and convincing manner. 

Though most of the discourses deal with eras of apostasy and centuries of discord, the ultimate message of the book is one of hope and salvation for the world. The three discourses on the Restoration read like the happy outcome of an otherwise tragic story. You feel at the end that the author has performed a necessary but melancholy task, only that he might invest with true meaning the unique claim of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The Appendix of the new work is an answer to Catholic charges that the author had been unfair in his use of evidence and presentation of historic facts. His reply is given with enough zestful detail to leave the reader without a single doubt. 

Price $1.50 

Sunday Night Talks by Radio 

By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE 

In answer to an insistent demand the 1930 series of L. D. S. Radio Addresses given by Dr. James E. Talmage has now been issued in regular book form under the title of "Sunday Night Talks By Radio." It is printed on a good grade of book paper from type especially set for this edition, and durably bound in beautiful marblex cloth. 

This book will make a beautiful as well as practical and useful addition to the library of any member of the Church. It will be especially valuable to missionaries or prospective missionaries. 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

In Utah add 2% for Sales Tax Send your order now to the 

Deseret Book Company 

"The Home of Good Books" 44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 

Chronological Documentary History of the Church 

Complete in Seven Volumes From the Organization of the Church in 1830 to the Arrival of the Pioneers in Salt Lake Valley, 1847 



These books are continually being used as texts for some class or organization of the church. 

This set of books constitutes the authorized Chronological History of the Church and is of inestimable value to every church member. The books may be bought one volume at a time if desired or in complete sets of seven volumes. The prices are as follows — delivered to your door: 

Cloth Half Full 

Binding Leather Leather 

Single Volumes $2.50 ea. $3.50 $6.00 

Complete set of seven volumes 17.50 24.50 42.00 

For a limited time only you may buy the full set of seven volumes in cloth binding for $15.00 if cash accompanies the order. 

In Utah Add 2% For Sales Tax 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City P. O. Box 958 







