Afternoon
06 04 1934

President Heber J, Grant called the second session of the Conference to order at 2 o'clock, and announced that The Singing Mothers, (Relief Society Chorus) under the direction of Sister Charlotte O. Sackett, would furnish the music for this meeting. 

The Chorus and congregation sang the hymn, "God moves in a mysterious way." 

Elder Charles C. Heaton, President of the Kanab Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A sacred selection, "Sleepers wake," was sung by The Singing Mothers Chorus. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am very grateful today to be with you, my brethren and sisters, in this, the second session of our conference. I trust that the Spirit of the Lord will continue with us, that we may be edified under the influence of the same, and that when we go from here we may feel that it has been profitable and that we have indeed waited upon the Lord. 

A DIMINISHING FAITH IN GOD 

During the last few months some things have occurred that have been more or less distressing to me, one being the evidence that there is a diminishing faith in God. Only a few weeks ago I read in one of the large daily papers a statement of the result of a questionnaire that had been sent out to 500 Protestant ministers, men who are leaders in the churches of the world, and I was very much disappointed to discover that there were those among them who did not believe in a personal God, who did not believe in the divinity of Jesus Christ, who did not believe that there is a heaven, and 54 per cent did not believe in a personal devil. I might mention other things, Bible teachings, that were discredited by these men, who have been educated to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the Christian world. 

Recently I have met quite a number of missionaries, many of them young men, some young women, representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They have been able when they were called upon, to stand on their feet and testify to the truth of these things that are doubted by the men who are supposed to be leaders in Christian churches. 

AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE PURPOSE OF LIFE 

I fear that the condition of the world is due to a lack of understanding of the purpose of our being. They do not know about pre-existence. There are so many that seem to have no conception of it, and have no desire to know where we are going when our mortal life is ended. 

That was the condition which prevailed in the world when the Gospel was restored in the latter days. The Savior, in the meridian of time, delivered his message and gave to the people an understanding of the truth. Then, when he finished his work, after having organized his church, he left them, went back to his Heavenly Father and is enthroned in the heavens. We are the recipients of the benefits and blessings enjoyed by humankind as a result of his marvelous life here upon the earth. 

A little over a hundred years ago there were few people in the world who believed in a personal God with a body. But a manifestation came at that time to the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he was only a boy, not yet fifteen years of age, and he saw the Father and the Son and so testified. He also received visitations from other heavenly beings, and the Lord, through them gave him additional information for the children of men, and he, in his own way, gave to us, or to those who preceded us in the Church, an understanding of the purpose of life. The Lord blessed him in his ministry, but like many of the prophets who had lived before him, he became a martyr for the truth. 

DIVINE TRUTHS REVEALED THROUGH A PROPHET 

Before his death thousands of good men and women accepted him as a prophet and gathered at Nauvoo, Illinois, and erected a beautiful Temple. Mob violence deprived them of their homes and they were driven to the wilderness, arriving in this then desolate valley July 24, 1847. They believed in God the Eternal Father and in his Son Jesus Christ and accepted his Gospel as the only plan that would insure them a place in the Celestial kingdom. His description of heaven inspires us with a desire to foe worthy of a home there when our earthly lives are finished. A literal resurrection and a description of heaven and hell are made so plain that, to use a scripture, "a wayfaring man, though a fool, need not err therein." 

All that information that was given to Joseph a little over a hundred years ago has been passed on by a community of people that were driven from their homes in the East, who came to this western land and established themselves here. They have been subduing the land, building  and cities, and in the meantime they have been sending missionaries into all parts of the world to disseminate the truth. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO MANKIND 

I can understand how careless men might be with the rights of others, if they believe that in this life only we have hope. They would not be as considerate of their fellows if they did not understand the purpose of life. There has been bequeathed to us who are here today, and our associates in this Church, the responsibility of delivering a message to the children of men, carrying it into all the world so that others will understand it, and so that those who do not know may be brought to repentance of sin, and turn to righteousness. 

I asked myself today, as I looked into the faces of this fine congregation, how many of us have performed our part ? How many of these men who are in presiding positions have been in the world, and given their time and their means to divide with our Father's children the truth that has been restored again in this latter day ? There are thousands of men in this audience, and it is probable that by far the majority of those who are here, holding the Melchizedek Priesthood, have been in the mission field. You have not only given two or more years of your lives as ambassadors of our Lord but you have borne the expense necessary to accomplish your missions, for which you may receive an eternal blessing. 

It is our duty to teach the truth. The Lord has called us to do that and we should qualify, not only to teach it to the world, but to live it in our own homes, in all our communities. Only in proportion to our observance of the teachings of the Lord will happiness come into our lives. 

To believe that we are the children of the Lord, that he is the Father of our spirits, that we are living eternal lives, is surely a comfortable feeling. To know that we may have the companionship of those we love throughout the ages of eternity is an inspiration. These blessings have come to us. The Lord has bestowed them upon us to prepare us to take advantage of our opportunities here, and to exemplify in our lives those precious truths that enrich us here and bless those with whom we associate. 

THE ONLY MEANS OF SECURING PEACE AND HAPPINESS 

There is much confusion in the world and there seems to be no way to remove it except by the power of our Heavenly Father. The wisdom of the world is failing, the scripture is fulfilled, and today the wisest of all men are seeking, by means of legislation, to bring about a better condition and a more wholesome life among the human family. They may strive in that way, but unless men have faith in God, unless they understand the purpose of life, they will not go very far. The people of the world must repent of their sins before the Lord can give to them the peace and happiness desired. No other plan will succeed. 

OUR PRIVILEGE AND DUTY 

So upon you, my brethren, who hold the Priesthood, much responsibility is placed. We have an understanding of the truth. It is your duty and mine to live the Gospel, and to disseminate the truth as we have opportunity. It is your privilege and mine to carry the message of life and salvation to the children of men. There are many who have no idea of the purpose of this Church. I have had men ask me: "Of what benefit is your church more than some other church ?" I have tried, in a tactful way, to explain to them the difference. Any organization may band together for worship, but that does not give them divine authority. Any group of churches may mass together and organize community churches. That does not confer divine authority. Men may unite for good purposes, but authority from our Heavenly Father is only obtained in his way, and his way in former days was by calling and ordaining men and setting them apart for the work. The same thing is true in our day. 

PREPARATION FOR CELESTIAL GLORY 

So while we may see the beauties of other faiths, and they may teach precious truth, and many wonderful people are identified with the various churches, we must understand that only the Lord's plan will prepare them for a place in the Celestial kingdom. The purpose of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is to prepare us for the Celestial kingdom. The Lord has revealed to us that there are other kingdoms of glory, and other kingdoms not of glory; but in order that men might be prepared for the Celestial kingdom he sent his Only Begotten Son into the world. He overcame death and found the way of the resurrection, and delivered the message of life and salvation to the children of men. We know that, brethren, but our Father's children in the world do not understand it. 

Think of the responsibility that is upon us, if in carelessness or indifference we live our lives, not seeking to divide the truth with those whom the Lord loves as much as he loves us, and who are precious in his sight. I feel that there should be an awakening among some of the members of this Church. I think a greater effort should be made to divide with our Father's children all the truth that is deposited with this Church. 

DIVINE AUTHORITY NECESSARY 

People should be made to understand that just to bow before the Lord in prayer does not give them divine authority. To live up to the requirements that are made of honesty, virtue, truth, etc., does not give them divine authority. Our Heavenly Father has made it plain to the children of men that only under the hands of those who possess divine authority may we obtain the power to become members of the Celestial kingdom. Knowing that, how anxious we ought to be to disseminate that information and divide it with those who live in the world. 

I stand here today, fully convinced of the divinity of the mission of Jesus Christ. I know it as I know that I live. If I were recreant to that knowledge, if I failed to do my part, knowing that, what would my condemnation be ? 

I am grateful that in this day and age the Lord has revealed the 

Gospel again. The Father and the Son appeared, men who held the Priesthood formerly came and conferred that Priesthood upon humble men and they in turn were commanded to confer it upon others. So the Gospel and the Priesthood have been made available to all who will qualify to receive the same, and that is the Lord's way. 

It is not sufficient that we pray, that we attend church. It is necessary that we possess divine authority, and it is the claim that we possess that authority that has brought upon this Church much of the persecution that has followed it from the beginning. But it is the truth and many of our Father's children are beginning to observe the effect of divine authority in this Church. They see the development that is made in the lives of men and women and I think there is more inquiry today after the truth, as taught by the Redeemer of mankind, than there has been during the last hundred years. I believe the way is opening, and the Lord is preparing the hearts of men, that they will be willing to hear the truth and accept it. 

PROGRESS OF CHURCH CAN NOT BE IMPEDED BY MAN 

What a glorious opportunity is ours! The Gospel has been preached in this very structure, from this pulpit, for more than half a century and we are the fourth, fifth and sixth generations in the Church now living, and all this time the adversary has opposed the truth, and he will continue to oppose it, but it is our duty to exemplify the beauty of it in our lives, that men, seeing our good works, will be constrained to accept the Gospel and to glorify the name of the Redeemer. 

Think of the men who have presided over this Church — Joseph Smith gave his life without hesitation, when the time came, but he had finished his work. The men who have succeeded him in the presidency have possessed divine authority. Each of them in their turn has been criticized. Fault has been found with their ministry, but they have been servants of the Lord and he has recognized them, and they have lived long, useful lives, and have blessed the people. 

The conditions are just the same today. The same influences that destroyed the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith crucified the Savior. The same influences that have betrayed the servants of the Lord in the past are in the world today. Knowing that and realizing how futile men have been to impede the progress of this Church how grateful we ought to be to know that this work is not the work of man, but it is the work of the Lord; that this Church, that bears the name of Jesus Christ, is directed by him, and he will permit no man or group of men to destroy it. He will not permit the men who preside over his Church to lead the people into error, but he will sustain them with his almighty power. He will magnify them in the eyes of good and great men and women. He will bless their ministry and it will be fraught with success. Those who oppose and find fault will not find joy in their opposition. Those who criticize and seek to destroy the influence of the leaders of the Church will suffer the result of their wrong-doing. THE ONLY PLAN 

But let us who know, those of us who have a testimony, go forth day by day and with love and kindness unfeigned go among these men and women, whether they be in the Church or out of the Church, and find a way to touch their hearts and lead them into that pathway that will insure them a knowledge of the truth. 

This is the Lord's work. As I said before, men may unite for prayer and thanksgiving, but that does not confer upon them divine authority. All the churches of the world might unite and agree upon one plan of worship, but that would not give them divine authority. And if all the churches of the world did agree to some plan, and decide that that plan would be sufficient for us here upon earth, that would not prepare men for the Celestial kingdom. The only plan that will prepare men for the Celestial kingdom is the plan that has been given by JesusChrist, our Lord; and the only authority that will qualify men to teach and to officiate in the ordinances of the Gospel properly is the authority of Jesus Christ, our Lord. 

SHOULD MAGNIFY OUR CALLING 

Now, brethren and sisters, knowing that, how grateful we ought to be; realizing that, how anxious we should be to go about doing good. It is a slothful servant who waits until he is commanded in all things. Our Heavenly Father expects us to magnify our calling, no matter where it may be, no matter how humble our lot in life may be. Let us improve our talents, so that when the time comes for the Master to reward us according to what we have done, we may receive the blessing that was given to two of the three men referred to in the parable of the talents : "Well done, good and faithful servant." 

REJOICES IN COMPANIONSHIP OF CHURCH AUTHORITIES 

Again I say I know this is the work of the Lord. I am thankful for the companionship of the men with whom I am associated. I am grateful to stand at the side of the Presidency of the Church and among the Quorum of the Twelve and bear witness that I know that this is God's work. I am thankful for my heritage, grateful for the love and kindness that have been extended to me by those with whom I have associated. 

I pray God, our Father in heaven, that we, his people, may see and understand all truth, attune our lives to the righteousness of the teachings of the Gospel, and conduct ourselves in such a way that everywhere we go men may rejoice in our companionship. If we will do that our homes will be the abiding place of peace; our towns and cities and our countryside will be blessed of the Lord. If we will observe the commandments of our Heavenly Father we will not suffer for the necessities of life, beyond what we can bear, we will not lose the faith, we will not fall into darkness, but the light and joy of the testimony that comes from our Heavenly Father will fill our souls. That it may do so, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of the Seventy I will read the platform on which I stand as a member of the Church. There is one Lord, one faith, one baptism, 

One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all. 

******* 

And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; 

For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. 

Till we all come in the unity of faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ. (Ephesians 4) 

On August 6, 1842, Joseph Smith prophesied to the Saints : 

Some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith gave instructions to the Apostles at the last meeting prior to their leaving on missions : 

I have sealed upon your heads all the keys of the kingdom of God. I have sealed upon you every key, power and principle that the God of heaven has revealed unto me. 

President Brigham Young said after the martyrdom of the Prophet : Thank God, the keys of the kingdom are here. President Woodruff said : 

We have already revelations enough to lead this Church into the Celestial kingdom of God. We are not without revelation. The heavens are full of it and so also is the priesthood of God. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is established and perfectly organized, and the keys will remain with the Church until the coming of the Son of Man, which means until the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ in the cl'ouds of heaven, to reward every man according to the deeds done in the body. 

The machinery of the Church is working perfectly : Semi-annual, stake, and ward conferences are being held; auxiliary organizations are doing their part as helps in the Church. The people are taught and fully instructed. 

Thank God we have in our Church men whom God hath chosen, who have a genius for expression, and who are so vivid that when such men talk to people they repent of their sins and serve God and keep his commandments. 

Our Eternal Father, the Ruler of the Universe, is working for his children daily. He is rolling up the sun of morning, making wheat, and fruit and vegetables grow; keeping our hearts and lungs going; carrying water from the ocean and sprinkling it Over the land. In short, he too goes on loving again and again as long as we live, and he too finds joy in service to his children who are thankless and unappreciative most of the time.' 

Jesus Christ in his ministry could have built up a kingdom. He could have built cities, temples, tabernacles, and ivory palaces, had armies and navies, and forcefully proclaimed himself a king, a ruler. He could have won the crowds, could have filled his time with appointments with rich and influential folk, who would have contributed to the establishment of a temporal kingdom. 

Jesus Christ taught the people a simpler way. Some of the outstanding wayside ministries of Jesus, some of the incidents which reveal Christ's methods of teaching, were his conversation with the woman at the well, his approval of Mary's lavish outpouring of the precious ointment in expression of her love, the turning of the water unto wine, the healing of Simon's wife's mother, the washing of the disciples' feet, the stilling of the storm-tossed waves. 

Jesus took time to heal the sick and to bless, to talk with the heartweary, to comfort the discouraged. His time was largely spent in kindly "wayside ministries" and it was not counted as wasted time. 

We can hardly think of Jesus Christ as feeling himself interrupted by the sick and weary who at eventide crowded around the house where he tarried. 

The visit from the rich young ruler, the midnight meeting with Nicodemus, the time of the service at the wedding feast, are just as important as are those incidents where he preaches to the crowds or feeds the hungry multitudes. 

The more we think of and study Christ's way of living and preaching the more we are impressed that there was a lack of fixed formalities or haste in his plan of work. There were no false standards of time, no statistics, no wrong estimates of the great importance of numbers. His mission was to minister to seeking hearts anywhere and at any time. The only time, so far as we know, that Jesus excluded himself was when he went aside alone to pray. 

How strikingly in contrast with our modern conception of the value of time, and of organization, and of efficiency, which so completely fills our days with one pressing engagement after another, running hither and thither, until we have little or no time to minister to the needy, the hungry, the naked, the disconsolate ones who are ever with us. It would almost seem that materialism and selfishness and greed have nearly driven out of us that Christlike spirit. 

We as Latter-day Saints, holding the Priesthood as we do, should become more intimately acquainted with Jesus Christ, who is the Way, the Truth, the Life, and let Christ's spirit of self-forgetfulness and service take possession of us and "seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness." 

It is disquieting to talk about it. 

"Many are called and few are chosen." 

The people who were in a hurry crucified Christ. What was Christ thinking about when he was nailed to the cross ? 

"There is safety in thought, but great danger in the expression of one's thoughts." The idea some have is to think and study but keep still and not talk. That is, you just sit on the fence and be a cud-chewing  and watch the procession go by. You listen and hearken and let knowledge sink into your soul, just as a sponge absorbs water, and answer in monosyllables. Some wise men never express a thought. Why? Because they trust in the arm of flesh. Fear creeps into their hearts. 

That is to say, you assume an air of owlish wisdom and get a plastercast expression on your face and conclude that silence and mental dryness are indicative of wisdom, but such people seldom if ever get a bright idea in their heads or a generous sentiment in their hearts. Such men are halfway men. In a million years they couldn't prophesy. If God put the words into their mouths fear of criticism and misunderstanding would put them to silence. Heber C. Kimball in 1848, or near that time, prophesied that goods would be sold on the main street of Salt Lake City as cheap as in New York. 

Arthur Henry Young believes "that thought is the most sacred thing in the world." Of what use is thought if there is no way of giving expression to thought? There never was genius without inspiration. 

In a revelation to Joseph Smith in 1831 the Lord said : 

But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their mouths, but they hide the talent which I have given unto them, because of the fear of man. Wo unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them. 

And it shall oome to pass', if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have. (Doctrine and Covenants 60:2-3) 

This ought to be an ensample unto all those who are ordained to the holy Priesthood and moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and more especially to those whose mission is appointed unto them to preach the Gospel. Because the instruction is that "they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost." 

And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of 'the Lord unto salvation. 

Behold, this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servant?, (Doctrine and Covenants 68:3-4) 

President Wilford Woodruff said : 

There is not a man on God's footstool that is sent forth into the world to preach the Gospel but ought to have the Spirit of the Lord upon him and the revelation of God to him. The holy Priesthood and power of God does not stop with the prophet, seer, revelator, Apostle, or just leading men of the Church, 

The reason for this is, that every man who is honored by holding this holy Priesthood and receives an appointment under the hands of those having authority, the Holy Ghost should be with him. That is, if he lives his religion and does his duty and lives a clean life. 

Brother Woodruff continues : 

The Bible is all right. The Book of Mormon is' all right. The Doctrine and Covenants is all right, and they proclaim the word of God. But the holy priesthood is not confined to these books; that is, the revelations of G^d did not cease when these books were written. Heber C. Kimball expressed a thought when he said : 

I do not know that this can be found in the Bible, but it is just as good and 

true. 

Thought, with the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is to the Latterday Saints the most sacred thing in the world. Oliver Cowdery, however gifted, did not understand the great secret of thought and study. He supposed that the Lord would give it unto him when he took no thought save it was to ask. But the Word of the Lord came to him : 

Behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore you shall feel that it is right. 

Jesus gives a perfect answer : 

My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 

"Ask, and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. 

We have men who can look into the future. Men of vision is what the world needs. Three thousand years ago it was written: "Where there is no vision the people perish." 

Today, at the dawn of the twentieth century, we, as Latter-day Saints, are in sore need of a vision of the future which will uplift us above and beyond the petty, sordid interests of the moment, viz : That money devil, intemperance, and immorality, are some of the evils which are lying right across the highway of our future. It is riches, automobiles, oriental rugs, fashion, social functions, class distinction, and other worldly things that appeal to our covetousness more than just doing right, for they are advertised better and have a stronger appeal to our sordid natures. 

Brethren and sisters, I have been in this work a long time. I pray God that I may have his Spirit always. There is only one way for me to get out of this Church, and that is by doing wrong. I hope I shall never live long enough or say anything that there will be taken from me that which I have. God bless you, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo and Chorus, "Ave Maria," was sung by Emma Lucy Gates Bowen and the Singing Mothers. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

In contemplating the attitude of the Latter-day Saints as a body of religious worshipers towards their fellowmen, my mind is led in serious reflection to the great mission on which we lay a divinely authorized claim. We present ourselves as messengers of life and salvation binder the Gospel of Jesus Christ, to all with whom we come in contact. 

We fit our calling to the present day, this scripturally known Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, our claim is that we are divinely commissioned to perform Gospel ordinances in the name and by the authority of Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of the living God. 

FULFILLMENT OF GOD'S PROMISES 

We particularly lay stress today upon a culminating feature of the Gospel revelation for the salvation of the living and of the dead of God's children who have dwelt on the earth in ages past. We point out that through the channel of divine revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that culminating feature was in fulfillment of God's promise recorded in the closing words of the Old Testament, that he would send Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord to turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to their fathers. In proof of the validity of our claim we cite, among other things: 

1. That the present disturbed condition of the world, more general than ever known before, is evidence of the great and dreadful day of the Lord now being upon us. 

WORK FOR THE DEAD 

2. That early in the present dispensation of the Gospel, and now about a century ago, the Prophet Elijah did come; and that following that coming, the genealogical researchers have grown to millions in numbei among the civilized peoples of the earth, and are seeking, records of their ancestors back to the patriarchs Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. 

3. That in the temples of the Latter-day Saints, and among that people only, are performed the higher Gospel ordinances for the salvation of the living and of the dead of ages past. 

4. That while those ordinances are no part of the strictly Mosaic law, they are a necessary part of the fulness of the Gospel for this age and time, and for the dead who have died without law as well as for the living today, as resultant upon the statement of Jesus of Nazareth : "The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live." (John 5:25.) The reason for this is given by the Apostle Peter: "For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." (1 Peter 4:6.) 

To my mind this is a serious, a marvelous claim, carrying not only to the Church as a body, but to the individual members thereof, a stupendous and weighty responsibility which cannot be lightly turned aside. In early days, now nearly thirty-three centuries ago, those children of Israel who had come out of Egypt, and were traveling in the desert between that place and their promised land, failed in a degree to meet the requirements of the higher Priesthood law, and were placed under the lesser law known as the Mosaic covenant. 

UNDER THE HIGHER PRIESTHOOD 

But such is not the case with the Latter-day Saints. We are under the covenant with Christ, which is the higher Priesthood, and are amenable thereto in our individual as well as in our collective capacity. The authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood is conferred upon us. The ordinances of that higher Priesthood are ours. The requirements of its responsibilities are upon us individually, and admit of no justifiable evasion on our part. They come under the explicit saying of the Savior: "If ye love me, keep my commandments." (John 14:15.) 

Jesus further said to his disciples : 

This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. 

Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. 

Henceforth I call you not servants'; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth; but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. 

Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. 

These things I command you, that ye love one another. (John 15:12-17). 

FREE AGENCY 

Men have their free agency. Under the full and proper exercise thereof, they are free to think, free to act within reasonable restrictions. This freedom of agency places upon them the responsibility of both thought and action as individuals. Their opportunity is to choose to follow either the good or the evil in life. Those of us who have aligned ourselves sincerely with the Church of Jesus . Christ of Latter-day Saints have made choice of the good, and have become messengers of salvation in ourselves and to others. We have become followers of Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God. As such followers, integrity of word and deed should be the cornerstone of our efforts. 

NECESSITY OF LABOR 

To be a true disciple of Jesus, we must needs be workers in his great cause. It is said in one of the Proverbs, "Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings." This necessity of labor is a mainspring in what we call progress by individuals as well as in civilization. To labor, to actually, definitely labor in the cause of Christ produces its effects in righteous growth and development. The Apostle Peter once said to believers in his day : "Ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people." (1 Peter 2:9.) A "do-nothing" people cannot fill that calling. Industry, integrity, application, self-respect, in the spiritual as well as in  material things of life, are essential qualites. "Ye shall know them by their fruits." 

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

In the quotation here made from the Apostle John's record of the sayings of Christ, two elements may be selected for definite thought. One of these is that in and of our own volition, we assume the responsibility of doing something ourselves, rather than be always seeking to depend wholly upon the advice and direction of others. This advice is timely in degree, but it has its limit in often burdening others beyond necessity. In proper degree it is timely in that it complies with the design of Providence. Yet let us remember that the inspiration of the Holy Ghost for us to proceed upon our own individual initiative is worth something; and acting under that inspiration is an obligation aptly expressed by the Apostle James : "Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." Wherein we seek over-guidance or over-government from human sources, we develop in ourselves a tendency to helplessness. That which is put into us by others is always far less ours than that which we acquire by our own diligent and persevering effort. It is not luck nor accident that helps a man in the world so much as purpose and persistent industry. 

These aphorisms are among those which, so far as my ability to apply them in my own life has been concerned, have been to me of great and durable value. But to be of the highest value, we must remember our duty and service to God. That is the supreme calling which the Latter-day Saints have accepted and assigned to themselves in the choice they have made within their free agency. By thus assuming our individual responsibility, our example becomes not only helpful to others, but definitely removes us from the classification indicated in the verdict: "Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire." (Matt. 7:19-20.) Those Latter-day Saints who have the spirit of their calling aim to bring forth good fruit in the Gospel of Christ, materially and spiritually. Therein they do manifest their love for their fellowmen as the love of Christ comes into their hearts. 

Jesus himself found occasion to lay particular stress upon the individual responsibility for action by those who. professed his name. He thus did so in these words : "Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. * * * Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 5:14, 16.) 

SOME ACHIEVEMENTS 

It is in the history of the Latter-day Saints that they have done much in harmony with this divine injunction. In a spiritual way, they have engaged in extensive missionary service for bringing souls into the fold of Christ. Yet it cannot be said that they have been idle in helpful material things. Since coming to these valleys, now nearly eighty-seven years ago, they have been wonderful colonists; their mission of colonization has opened up to an advanced civilization this intermountain country, from their settlements in Canada to their settlements in Mexico, as well as easterly and westerly to a considerable extent. Individually and collectively they have established and carried on home industries which reach into every city and hamlet, bringing useful and congenial employment in the production of life's necessities and comforts. By both individual and cooperative effort they have developed irrigation projects that aid in "subduing the earth" in this intermountain region, until it has become desirable for man's habitation. By similar effort they have encouraged educational institutions and an educational system of which any community may be proud. By their moral training of both young and old, they have attained a standing in character that is an honor to the commonwealth. As temple builders they have adopted different types of architecture into a class of strikingly beautiful edifices regarded as especially sacred. As a community of home-makers they have brought to comfortable homes thousands of families from the civilized nations, and have molded those people of different tongues and nationalities into a uniform community sentiment. Yet, in their responsibilities under the higher law of the Gospel which they have received, these achievements are not at an end. They are just begun, to be continued until the Zion of God is established in the land, as the Lord has foretold through his prophets. Their work as individuals may be humbly done, but in righteousness it is age-during, to the glory of the God of Israel whom they seek to serve. 

As Jesus invited his followers anciently to voluntary and cooperative effort for all good, so in this dispensation he has given explicit instruction which applies to such voluntary action by each Church member. On one occasion, he expressed such lesson in these words : 

For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is' a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. (D. & C. 58 -.26-29.) 

RESULTS FOLLOWING NEGLECT 

Yet it is wise to recall that sometimes, in our own human weakness, we become neglectful even of our supreme obligations. As told in Bible history, the Israel of olden time did this on different occasions, and called forth reprimands therefor. Our knowledge of such instances may serve as warnings to us, to avoid similar mistakes, and to keep the Gospel light shining within our hearts. The Israel of the Book of Mormon record also had occasions of neglect. The book of Helaman in the 

Book of Mormon makes record of such event, wherein the words of that writer present a timely lesson to us, were we to become neglectful of God's word. The writer says that the people to whom he refers had been prospered "in the increase of their fields, their flocks and their herds, and in gold and in silver, and in all manner of precious things of every kind and art." They also had been relieved from the active antagonism of their enemies, and presented a scene of "exceedingly great prosperity." Then they became lifted up in pride, and were given to boasting. When in their situation of ease, they began to forget God, they fell under affliction arising from their own neglect of responsibility to the divine word. The historian then goes on to say of them : 

Behold, they do not desire that the Lord their God, who hath created them, shruld rule and reign over them; notwithstanding his great goodness and his mercy towards them, they do set at naught his counsels, and they will not that he should he their guide. (Helaman 12:6.) 

REMEMBER THE LORD' 

In these days of distorting the plain words of scripture, of atheistic teachings, of chaotic social propaganda, and of general economic uncertainty, it may be well for us, in our private contemplation, to give at least a passing heed to the conditions cited in the Book of Mormon, and for us to seek more earnestly than ever to remember God, that his blessings and protecting care may come to us still more abundantly in our time of special need, such as seems to be upon us today. Though the efforts of men may be frustrated, God's promise does not fail wherein he says to those who draw near to him : "I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you." (Lev. 26:9.) It is our own responsibility, individually as well as collectively, to thereby gain our own welfare, and the welfare of others, under our divine call in this age. 

FRIENDS OF JESUS 

Referring again to the quotation hereinbefore made from the Apostle John's record of the sayings of Christ, a second element for present definite thought is in the Savior's words : "Ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I command you. * * * These things I command you, that ye love one another." This command to "love one another" was not narrowed to family or social relationships, or even to Church memberships. Its scope was broad indeed, for bringing the Gospel message to all who would give heed. Jesus himself thus explains it : 

Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy. 

But T say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that dcspitefully use you, and persecute you; 

That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have you? Do not even the publicans the same ? 

And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others ? Do net even the publicans so? ( Matt. 5 :43-47; 3 Nephi 13 :44, 45.) 

In the present hectic discussions of religious and social questions especially, it is well to be careful in personal criticisms, that we may not be unjust. There may be faults, but who is without them? These can be corrected without either growing angry or scolding each other. The scold may make an enemy, but never a convert. Sometimes we meet the suggestion that Jesus himself administered severe rebuke to certain persons. (Matt. 23:15.) He did more. He denounced them. They were seeking his life, and the lives of his followers. It was open warfare. It was his affair, not ours. Theirs were the grosser sins. To us he says : ''Judge not." 

As Latter-day Saints we wish to be recognized, and to be in reality as friends of Jesus, by keeping his commandments. That is the condition he has prescribed. Even our little Sunday School children are taught his command "that ye love one another," and to "oft speak kind words to each other." For myself, I do sincerely trust that as Latter-day Saints, whether of high or low degree in membership, yet all being under the Gospel law in the covenant with Christ, we will seek diligently and honestly to speak kind words to and of each other, that the love of God, the love of our associate members in the Church and the love of our fellowmen may increase among us for the- furtherance of the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Let us not forget the divinely given words which I have quoted to you today, and also the further words of our Lord : 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it : Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prcphets. ( Matt. 22 : 37-40.) 

May the grace of the Father and his boundless love be with you evermore, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Chirst. Amen. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I feel my weakness, my brethren and sisters, in standing before you this afternoon, realizing, as I do, the great responsibility that rests upon those who undertake to speak in the name of the Lord. 

I am indeed happy to report to you this afternoon the activities of the East Central States Mission. I am pleased to say that the missionaries are enjoying good health. They are enjoying their labors. There are new fields being opened up from time to time, and they have the privilege and the opportunity of explaining the Gospel to many people, and many are being brought to a knowledge of the truth, and are receiving the ordinance of baptism by immersion, for the remission of sins;  after that, the birth of the Spirit by the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

I have had the privilege, while laboring in the mission, of meeting many men and women of prominence in various communities and have had the privilege of explaining the Gospel to them. 

Just a few days ago, in the city of Louisville, in conversation with a very influential man whom I had met several times before, and with whom I had left some literature — he put this question : 

"Mr. Jones, do all members of your church have the same abiding faith and assurance that some of you have?" To which I answered that that testimony comes through the Holy Ghost, which is conferred upon the baptized believer by those who hold the authority. Having been divinely commissioned and holding the holy Priesthood, they have the authority to perform that ordinance in the name of the Lord. Those who receive the ordinance of baptism and then the birth of the Spirit, through the laying on of hands, do have that abiding faith and that testimony burning within their souls, provided they live worthy of that blessing. 

Conditions have arisen that have given me a great deal of satisfaction. Just recently we had an application from three persons who desired to enter the waters of baptism. Not desiring to wait until the weather was more pleasant so that we could retire to the river, I called upon a very influential man who I knew was a member of the Board of Control of the First Christian Church. I had talked with him a number of times, I had learned some of his views, and I knew the position that he held. I called upon him and asked if it would be possible for us to arrange for the use of their baptismal font for this particular occasion, to which he answered very readily : "Yes, sir. I can make the arrangement for you, and will be very glad to do it," which he did. We had the privilege of going into the finest chapel in the city of Louisville, and those three persons entered the waters of baptism. 

I wish to say that the feeling that went out upon that occasion, and the spirit manifested, bore witness to all who were there of the divinity of the work; and the director and others, as well as the minister in charge, assured us that we could have the use of the font any time that we desired, absolutely free of charge, and that we were entirely welcome to the use of it. 

That is the spirit that is being manifested among the people of the world, generally speaking. A wonderful change has come over the people, and I am very thankful indeed for conditions as they exist. I want to say that there are thousands in the world today that are earnestly seeking after truth, and as the Gospel message is brought to their attention it is making an impression upon their minds. It is almost a daily occurrence that I receive letters from various parts of the mission, asking tor more literature and more information in regard to our teachings. Thus we have the opportunity of corresponding with these people after which the Elders visit them in their homes and explain the Gospel to them; in this way many are being brought to a knowledge of the truth. As I view it, there is a wonderful harvest before us, not only for this' year but for time to come because of the change that is coming among the children of men; and I ask you who are here in the land of Zion, where you have the privilege and the opportunity of attending your meetings, your Sunday Schools, and the various organizations, if you realize and appreciate to the fullest extent the blessings that you are enjoying. You should be thankful for the opportunity that you have, compared to that which prevails in the world. It is a great blessing to you and a blessing to all those who have this privilege and this opportunity. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that I have had the opportunity of laboring in the work of the Lord for a third time in the mission field, something over five years now. It seems a short time, but I have seen many things that have strengthened my testimony, and I have witnessed conditions upon several occasions that have been beyond the power and the wisdom of man to solve, but God has come to the rescue, the way has been opened, and the work has been carried on, I hope and trust, in a way that is pleasing to our Heavenly Father. 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have of the divinity of this great latter-day work, for I know, as I know that I stand before you this afternoon, that it is the work of the Lord, that it is the power of God unto salvation; that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior and the Redeemer of the world; and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of Almighty God, in establishing this work upon the earth for the last time. It will never more be thrown down nor given to another people, but will stand forever; and those who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith, down to the President who stands at the head today, even President Heber J. Grant, have been and are God's mouthpieces upon the earth. 

God bless you. Peace be with you, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Central States Mission 

I appreciate the opportunity that is mine, to represent the division of the Church known as the Central States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have never permitted myself to aspire to such a position, or to even think about it, but the Lord, through his servants, has graciously permitted me to enjoy this opportunity. To me it is a rar e privilege. I hope to be worthy of the confidence and the trust imposed in me. 

The people of the Central States Mission, most of them having been converted and brought into the Church under the presidency of President Samuel O. Bennion, are God-fearing, humble, sincere people. There are twenty-three organized branches and a considerable number of Sunday Schools in addition to the branches, with the usual Relief Society  and the Primaries that are common to each of the missions. 

These good people are faithful tithe-payers. They observe the Word of Wisdom as well as the people do in the stakes of Zion. They are trying, in their own way, and it is a good way, to keep the commandments of the Lord. They are well organized. We have a mission stake organization, so to speak, that is, a union board, which supervises the auxiliary work of the mission. 

During the month of May there will be a Mutual Improvement contest, which is held annually in Kansas City, Missouri, from which we hope to have the honor of sending a few delegates to join with you in your June conference. 

It occurred to me that it might be of interest to many people who know Horace Ensign very well, to have me tell you that he presides over our Wichita branch, and that delightful and rich voice of his, which has cheered and gladdened the hearts of many, is frequently heard in that humble congregation, and enjoyed by them. He is their spiritual father and their music master. They love him, and he devotes himself as assiduously to that work as if he were presiding over the most important branch of the Church. I know he would like to have me give you his greetings, because I can remember many a conference, in days gone by, when his voice has added to the pleasure of our conference. Others formerly prominent among you are living here and there in portions of our mission. 

As you know, the mission headquarters are in that city of early romance in church history, Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. I think I have never been in a community where the business men seem to be more united and of higher character than they are at Independence. They hold our people in high esteem. This has been made so, I am sure, by the very splendid public service rendered by President Bennion and his wife in that community. I find, in going about Independence, when I have to introduce myself, if I merely say I am the successor to President Bennion the door is open for me, and I am made welcome everywhere. Those good people send greetings to him. The thing I have noticed about the people of Independence is their devotion to high ideals. 

I remember, at a recent meeting of the Kiwanis Club, listening to a lecturer from Kansas City, who, in the course of his lecture, saw fit to tell a few stories that may not be properly told in a drawing room, among ladies and gentlemen, and he was not very well received. I remember particularly that at the close of the gathering, as we were separating to go to our occupations, the editor of the paper said to me: "Mr. Woodruff, how did you enjoy the talk?" "Oh," I said, "I have enjoyed things better than that." 

"Well," he said, "I didn't like it at all. I don't see why it was necessary for him to impose his stories upon us." 

I mention that because I want you to know that the people who now live in Jackson County, Missouri, are high-minded, clean-minded people, and they esteem the Latter-day Saints. They regard us as worthy people, and would welcome us back there in numbers if we should happen to want to go. 

The mission is in a prosperous condition. The people are happy. I am honored to represent them and happy to labor among them. I hope to be worthy of their love and confidence. 

I am happy to tell you that the missionaries are well and enjoying their labors, and they are laboring with reasonable zeal and diligence to carry the message of the Gospel to those to whom they have been sent. The harvest is great and the laborers are few. Through the Bureau of Information we receive many leads, many names of people upon whom we are asked to call. We can visit only a few of them. All over the mission people are calling and asking for Elders — can't we send some Elders ? We can send them only those that we have, as far as they can go. They often become wandering Elders, at the present time. Only a few of them settle down in any community to labor locally. In order to cover the districts it is necessary for them to move about a great deal. But they enjoy their labors, and as I say, they are all well. 

We have no persecution at home or abroad apparently, that is, nothing to speak of. It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that the danger in the Church today is within it. I have found, as I go aboiut the mission and over the Western States Mission, to some extent, the same — a disposition on the part of the people to want to find fault with each other, rather than to be happy with each other. I do not mean all of them; I mean some of them. When I come home I find the same condition here. 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, if we cannot be more united, if we cannot have more confidence in our leaders, those who preside over us, locally and generally; if we cannot live so that we may enjoy the spirit that comes to those who keep the commandments of the Lord, and who want to sustain his servants who preside over them and be in harmony with them. I am trying to teach the people, as far as it lies within my power, to examine themselves, to ask themselves the question : "Am I enjoying the Holy Spirit?" And in order to ascertain whether they do or not I say : "Find out whether or not you have the fruits of the Spirit in your lives, for the fruits of the Spirit are love and joy and peace and long-suffering and patience, and kindred qualities. If you are happy and at peace with all men, if you love your neighbor, then you enjoy the Spirit; but if you are unhappy and discontented, and if things are not going the way you think they should go, and you feel like you must reach out your hand to steady the ark, then perhaps the fault is yours." 

So the people are being urged to examine themselves, to see whether there is something the matter with them. I ask myself the question : What is the matter with Elias Woodruff? If I can find out what is the matter with myself, and keep myself in harmony with the Holy Spirit, then I feel like I am reasonably safe. Let me ask you, my brethren and sisters at home, as well as I would ask those people in the mission : Examine yourselves and see if you are in the faith. Do you believe the Gospel ? Do you believe that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God ? Do you believe  President Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God ?' Are you willing to take his counsel and advice, and follow it ? Or are you a law unto yourself, guiding and charting your own course in life, determining what you think is right and what you think is the wrong thing to do ? It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that there is the danger in the Church today. Let us examine ourselves. Let us be happy in our worship. "Adam fell," we are told, "that men might be; and men are that they might have joy." If we are not joyful and happy, then we ought to be. 

God bless you, I ask, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the North Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to again bring greetings from the mission field, and to join in testimony of the truth and importance of this great latter-day work. I know, as I know that I live, that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and am grateful that we of the mission fields have the privilege semi-annually of coming up here "To the mountain of the Lord's house, — to be taught of his ways, and to walk in his paths." I am increasingly thankful for this testimony and privilege, and for my calling in the mission field. 

Some one has said that what men most need is something to hold them always at their best. Mormonism and the missionary system of this Church do just that. A story, abbreviated within time limits allowed, will illustrate : 

In a hall at Northwestern University is a bronze tablet memorial to "The Man Who Did His Best." And the legend accompanying it is as follows : 

A storm of unusual violence had swept Lake Michigan, destroying or disabling practically all vessels and strewing the shore with wreckage. As the storm abated, watchers ashore could see, far out on the lake, a group of survivors clinging helplessly to the wreckage of their crafts. 

For want of other means of rescue, one young man, a student at Northwestern, renowned among his fellows for his prowess in the water, resolved to bring what help was possible to those in distress by swimming to their aid. Stripped of excess clothing, he swam out and back, out and back, eighteen times, each time bringing to safety a sufferer from the wreck, until, completely exhausted, he fell unconcious among his fellows ashore. Admiring friends worked over him, and as consciousness returned, he looked into their anxious faces, his own brother among the number, and feebly asked: "Did I do my best?" 

In like manner, I repeat, Mormonism and the missionary system of the Church encourage the youth of the Church to do their best. They go into the mission field imbued with a testimony of the truth and with a feeling of responsibility to you, to the Church and to the Lord. They read with new meaning the first great commandment. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy mind. — And thy neighbor as thyself." And they begin really to live up to that standard. 

They learn afresh that "The worth of souls is great in the sight of God;" and they go out and try humbly to reclaim some of these souls. 

They begin to realize the meaning of the Savior's words: "He that findeth his life shall lose it; but he that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it." In borrowed phrase, "Who gives himself with his gift feeds three, himself, his hungry neighbor, and Me." And so, unselfishly serving this great latter-day cause, they grow as never before, and possibly never again; and "the power of God is in them." They love their work, and are magnified in the eyes of the people. Small wonder they remember these experiences as the happiest of their lives. 

And while the missionary is thus serving at his best in the field, what is happening here at home? Devoted parents follow anxiously the progress of the one away. Brothers and sisters often make little sacrifices that the missionary work may continue. Thus, each at his best, all share in the spirit of service and in the rare privilege and opportunity of carrying this great Gospel message to the world. 

I concur and rejoice in the testimony that friendliness is increasing in the world. There never was a better time for preaching the Gospel than now. Everywhere, among the better informed classes, this Church and people are held in high regard. But I venture the thought that friendliness alone is not enough. Salvation cometh not by sufferance of former critics; but by obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. That good men everywhere may come to know and love the truths of the restored Gospel, that our friends of the world may be induced seriously to examine the claim that God has again spoken from the heavens, and that this is verily the Church of Jesus Christ, established again upon the earth, for the perfecting of the Saints, and for the benefit and blessing of all who believe and obey its teachings, — all this is part of the high purpose and obligation of Mormonism's message to the world. 

In conclusion, I can think of no more fitting expression of the missionary spirit than Howard Arnold Walter's "My Creed" : 

I would be true, for there are those who trust me; I would be pure, for there are those who care; I would be strong, for there is much to suffer; I would be brave, for there is much to dare. 

I would be friend of all — the foe, the friendless; I would be giving, and forget the gift; I would be humble, for I know my weakness; I would look up — and laugh, and love, and lift. 

On my honor, my brethren and sisters, I will do my best to live up to the high privilege of missionary service. 

May the Lord continue his blessings upon the missionary work of his Church, and upon the people of the world, that they may find the truth and obey it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Singing Mothers Chorus sang the anthem, "The Lord nowvictorious," after which the congregation joined with th e Chorus in singing the hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Wallace E. Poulson, President of the Sevier Stake. 


