Morning
07 04 1934

Saturday morning, April 7. 

The Conference reconvened promptly at 10 o'clock, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

Elder Thomas E. Towler, President of the Wells Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A tenor solo, "Then shall the righteous shine forth," was sung by Herbert Bluck. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The Lord giveth men weakness that they may be hurrible. In humility I earnestly invoke his aid this morning. 

The words of the poet come to my mind. They are as follows : 

On Christ the solid rock we stand; On other ground is sinking sand. 

What is there for our salvation outside of our Heavenly Father, our Savior, and the glorious Gospel which they have provided ? There is nothing of real worth to the soul. 

A VISION OF DEITY 

It is a remarkable thing that two of the greatest prophets that ever lived commenced their prophetic ministry with a vision of Deity. The prophets referred to are Isaiah and Joseph Smith. In the sixth chapter of Isaiah — and many commentators think this chapter should have been placed first in the P>ook of Isaiah — the Prophet says : 

[ saw the Lord sitting upon a throne * * * mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of Hosts * * * I heard the voice of the Lord. 

Xo quibbling here. This is direct evidence, the highest form of testimony. No living being can successfully challenge the truth of that statement. Every Christian soul accepts it as the truth, but can that testimony be proved ? It can. It is proved by the fulfilment of prophecy, and the fulfilment of prophecy is one of the strongest evidences that a man is sent of God. 

That the prophet in the vision saw Christ in human form, as the brother of Jared saw him, there can be no doubt when the passage is deliberately compared with John 1 2 :41 . "These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him." Isaiah was preeminent among the  band of Old Testament prophets. His clear and striking representation of Jesus Christ and prophetic delineation of the person, work, and character of the Messiah deserved the praise the Savior bestowed upon him when in quoting his prophecies he said: "For great are the words of Isaiah.!' (3 Nephi 23:1.) 

THE WORDS OF ISAIAH 

Centuries before the birth of the Savior, Jsaiah predicted that wonderful event in this stately language : 

For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given : and the government shall be upon his shoulder : and his 1 name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. 

Isaiah predicted the sufferings, death, and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ so vividly that his prophecy adds strength to the truth of the old axiom that prophecy is but history reversed. The prophecy as every Bible student knows was literally fulfilled. The prophet foretold the coming of the locomotive and the airplane. In the 29th chapter of his book Isaiah predicts the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. We testify that that prophecy has also been literally fulfilled, and that Joseph Smith translated that sacred record by the power of God. 

PROPHECIES THAT HAVE BEEN FULFILLED 

Is it not reasonable to conclude that if Isaiah's predictions concerning the Savior have been fulfilled, his prediction concerning the Book of Mormon has likewise been fulfilled? The Latter-day Saints know of a certainty that the prophecies concerning the Savior and the Book of Mormon have been fulfilled to the enlightening of their understanding and the salvation of their souls. 

The Creator said : 

So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth; it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. 

A SOLID FOUNDATION 

Consider the Prophet Joseph Smith. He beheld in glorious vision the Father, and the Son. Can any man on earth successfully contradict the testimony Joseph Smith gave of that vision? No, it stands as firm as the Rock of Ages. His witness is supported by the fulfilment of prophecy. The same source of Isaiah's prophetic power was the source from which Joseph Smith derived his prophetic gifts. 

When the Apostle Paul stood before Agrippa and Festus, he said : 

Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come : 

That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead. 

That was the yardstick that the Apostle Paul used. That should be the standard of measurement that the Elders of Israel should always use to keep their feet firmly upon the foundation of the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the teachings of ancient and modern prophets. And when they preach from this foundation they stand on solid ground, and the souls of the people are fed. PROPHECIES OF A MODERN PROPHET 

Joseph Smith was an inspirer of souls. He said he did nothing but what the ancient prophets said he would do. He was a fulfiller of Bible prophecy. Consider some of the prophecies which he uttered : The exodus of the Saints to the Rocky Mountains, where they would become a great and a mighty people; his prediction of the Civil War, twentyeight years before it occurred — and only a month before that bloody conflict, statesmen were saying, "Peace, peace, there will be no war." But the God of heaven had spoken and desolation swept over the land. Oh, if those statesmen had only heeded the words, if they had only accepted the remedy, the solution which the great statesman-prophet, Joseph Smith, gave to them, a million lives would have been spared and eight billions of dollars in property would not have been destroyed! 

TESTIMONIES OF THOSE NOT OF US 

Joseph Smith founded the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A great American statesman, on the floor of the House of Representatives, referring to this great organization, said : "It is magnificent in its priestly organization and rivaled by no other institution in the world." 

Charles Dickens, the celebrated novelist, whose "Life of Our Lord" is appearing in some of the daily papers, declared before he visited a shipload of Mormon emigrants bound for America that he was going there to bear testimony against them. But when he saw the order, the neatness, the cleanliness, the prayerful spirit which prevailed there he said : 

There is a power in that Church, there is a remarkable influence among those people that is not witnessed in other institutions in the world. 

AN EXPERIENCE IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA 

Some years ago President Grant was in Atlanta, Georgia. A Universalist minister had converted his chapel into a sort of public forum, the ministers of the various religious denominations of the city were invited to occupy his pulpit and preach their religious sentiments. He propounded several questions that he requested them to answer, and two of these questions were as follows : "Do you believe that Jesus Christ is divine and the Son of God ?" "Do you believe that there is a life after death ?" The answers were not satisfying. 

Hearing of President Grant's presence in that great city the minister invited him to deliver a sermon and he placed in President Grant's hands the same questions that he had earnestly entreated the pastors to answer. President Grant did answer all the questions, and not in a negative way. 

He did not say, "It may be," or "I believe that such is the case," but standing before that mixed congregation the President said : "I know of a certainty that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. I know that there is life after death, and that the soul is immortal." The other questions he answered in an equally frank, authoritative way. 

At the close of President Grant's address the minister approached him with extended hands. I fancied that there was a trembling in his voice; there was a longing in his heart for something better than he had, for, as he held President Grant's hand he said to him : "I wish I had your earnestness, your sincerity, your faith, and your testimony." There was sadness in my heart for that man. 

WITH NO UNCERTAIN SOUND 

President Grant has always sounded the Gospel trumpet with no uncertain sound, so that the children of men could prepare themselves for the battle. In line with Joseph Smith and the Apostle Paul and all the prophets our President is speaking and doing the things that the ancient prophets declared would be done. We are rallying around President Grant and listening to his inspired counsels. The Gospel message is sounding in our hearts. With the help of the Lord, by keeping his commandments, we will go with the First Presidency and the rest of our leaders into the Celestial kingdom of God, which I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Brethren and sisters, I said this morning to one of the brethren who is yet to speak, "Brace up, brother, brace up." 

He said, "Yes, Brother Clawson, I feel a little exercised about it, a little timid. I feel as if I need some stimulant. What shall I take?" 

I said : "Take the strongest within your reach." 

Of course that would be a glass of cold water. 

If any of you brethren think it is a simple matter to stand before a vast assemblage of people like this, I can only wish that you might have the opportunity. It is a great responsibility. I must needs look to the Lord to assist me, and I ask for your faith and prayers. 

THE ARTICLES OF FAITH 

I have in mind just at this moment the Articles of Faith that were given to the Church by its founder under the Lord, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I submit to you that this is a very wonderful instrument, that these Articles of Faith were set forth in simple language and with great clearness and cannot very well be misunderstood. 

The first Article of Faith reads as follows : 

We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. Let me say to you that there is very much of supporting scripture that is placed behind this first article and the twelve articles which follow. I call your attention briefly to article eleven, which reads like this : 

We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship bow, where or what they' may. 

You will notice that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is very liberal in its attitude towards other beliefs. As a Church and as individual members of the Church we do not attack other people, we do not hold their religious views up to ridicule, but since their articles of faith are set forth and published to the world we take that to mean an invitation to investigate them and to investigate their views. That is our attitude in relation to the Gospel that is set forth in our Articles of Faith. 

These Articles are published to the world and we invite them to inspect them and carefully consider them, and, if they choose, to offer friendly criticism. So when we observe conditions that obtain in the world and as set forth in the daily papers we take that to mean that we are invited individually and as a community to consider these conditions. 

MINISTERS ANSWER QUESTIONS 

I remember a few years ago that President Heber J. Grant spoke of a questionnaire that had been sent out by Albert J. Beveridge, a member of Congress, and the results of that questionnaire were quite remarkable. President Grant made comments on it that were enlightening and instructive. 

Recently another questionnaire was sent out by the Chicago Northwestern School of Education. The presumption is that the said school was sincere in this matter and sent out this questionnaire for enlightenment and for study. If you will pardon me I will take a few moments to read the results growing out of that particular questionnaire as published in one of the daily papers in February of this year. Answers were given in percentages by the paper that published them, but I have reduced these percentages to actual figures. The questionnaire was submitted to 500 Protestant ministers. 205 of that number did not believe that there is a heaven; 345 did not believe that hell is a place having existence; and so far as those two questions were concerned, as you will see, heaven and hell were swept away. 270 did not believe there is a devil, and yet we see the works of the devil on every side and all around us. 195 did not believe there would be a judgment day. I fancy some men perhaps are fearful that there will be a judgment day. 370 did not believe that God keeps a record of an individual's bad deeds, and 130 did not believe in the deity of Jesus Christ. 

THE BIBLE A PRECIOUS BOOK 

Now the Latter-day Saints as a people have regarded the Bible as a sacred volume of scripture, and we look upon it as a holy book — 

Holy Bible, book divine, Precious treasure, thou art mine. 

And furthermore, the Bible is one of the standard works of our Church. We cannot get along without it, we cannot spare it, it is invaluable to the Church. Brother Callis has just been quoting wonderful words from the Bible, words spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Marvelous predictions were given by that holy prophet, and in the New Testament we have a very elaborate and reasonably full account of the life and works of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, one who has atoned by the shedding of his precious blood, for the sins of the world, which sins are to be washed away by repentance and reformation and the application of the blood of Christ. 

And yet there are 134 Protestant ministers who have apparently abandoned the Bible. They do not believe in the deity of Christ. Did you notice, brethren and sisters, the remarks that have already been made in this meeting and in the former sessions of this conference in regard to religious matters, in regard to our faith, how direct and to the point these remarks have been and will be throughout this conference ? There will be no uncertain word go from this pulpit, you may depend upon it. We invite the world at large and everywhere to investigate our teachings, to go right to the bottom of them, and if they discover any errors, and can persuade us that they are errors, we will gladly abandon them. Our Articles of Faith have stood the test of one hundred years. 


MEETING OF MISSION PRESIDENTS 
MEETING OF MISSION PRESIDENTS 

Now briefly let me call your attention to an incident that occurred on Wednesday last. The presidents of the Latter-day Saint missions met with the Council of the Twelve and the First Council of Seventy, thirteen of them, representing the missions in the United States, and one in Canada and one in Mexico. These mission presidents preside over about 537 missionaries at the present time. They came together to make report of their labors and of the labors of the missionaries in the field, and I will say to you we had a glorious time together. And I might add in this connection that seven of the Apostles of the Church have been mission presidents, and six of the First Council of Seventy have been mission presidents. The other member of the First Council of Seventy has filled a mission and presided over a district within the mission. So that in fact it was a gathering of mission presidents throughout. 

In making their reports, which were brief and to the point and yet quite comprehensive, we discovered that these mission presidents are attentive to their duties and active and progressive, and are well posted. They reported the activities of the Elders and lady missionaries in the field. These young men and young women under their charge are very much devoted to the work, and most of them, if not all, have a testimony of the Gospel. They could not very well fill their appointments successfully without a testimony of the Gospel. There may be a few among them who, if they have not yet received a testimony, still say they believe the Gospel is true. In those cases the testimony soon comes to them. 

SPIRIT OF TESTIMONY WITH LEADERS AND PEOPLE 

Before we closed our meeting and as it progressed these thirteen mission presidents bore their testimonies and each and all of them said that they knew that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world; that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet sent of God, standing at the head of this great last dispensation. That was their testimony uniformly, no exception to the rule. And be it remembered, brethren and sisters, that that same spirit of testimony rests upon the Presidency of the Church. We will not soon forget the powerful testimony that was given by President Grant at the opening of this conference. The same spirit is with his counselors, I assure you, and this testimony is with the Council of the Twelve Apostles. 

I am happy to say that the Twelve are active, diligent and faithful in the performance of their duties. They are a body of men who make quick response. They do not hesitate, there is no shirker in that Council, they are alive to the situation. I think you will agree with me that they are men of wisdom, men of counsel, and I believe I can say as the president of the Twelve that they are as nearly one as a Council of Twelve could be, and that they give to the Presidency of the Church their entire support. They recognize them as their file leaders and are laboring constantly under their jurisdiction. If we go into the stakes of Zion — and we are a traveling high council — we go to represent the Presidency of the Church because we are laboring under their direction. I am veryhappy to bear this testimony to you. So far as I know there is no division of sentiment in the Council of the Apostles. 

The same testimony rests not only upon the Twelve, but upon the First Council of Seventy, and not only upon them but upon the quorums of the holy Priesthood — High Priests, Seventies and Elders — and upon the presidencies of stakes and high councils, also bishoprics of wards and lesser officers in the Church. 

And may I be permitted to say that this testimony as to the truth of the Gospel is in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, the entire people of this Church, and there is no uncertainty about it either. They know it is the truth. They know it is the pearl of great price. They know it is most precious indeed. 

I am speaking now, as perhaps I have a right to, of the Twelve. We know that except we are one we are not Christ's. And further let me add that except the people of the Latter-day Saints are one they are not Christ's, because he is not the author of doubt or disbelief or contention or false doctrine. 

I bear testimony to you that this is a glorious work in which we are engaged, and this is a glorious occasion and a glorious time. I know there is a depression and we have suffered and are suffering every day more or less from it, but behind and above it all is the Lord God of Israel  we are getting experiences that may be profitable to us. If the Lord will sanctify it to our good, we will surely be mor e careful in the future, will be a little more economical, will not be wasteful and spend our means foolishly, and we will stand by the principles of liberty and by the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May the Lord bless the Presidency of the Church, all of which I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Sister Elizabeth S. Cushing sang a solo, "My Western Home." 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

What a remarkable age is this in which we live! It seems to me that it is most wonderful, and I feel grateful that the Lord has permitted me to live in an age and time when such wonderful progress has been made, in an age that surpasses all previous periods in the history of the world, and yet the preacher tells us there is no new thing under the sun — things which were, which are now, and will be in the future. Sometimes I almost doubt that, and yet when I contemplate it still further, I believe that all of our progress, the advancement of science, all our new inventions and discoveries, the great things that are taking place in the world today, mean simply this, that we are approaching nearer to the ultimate truth, that truth however which is eternal, and always has been, and always will be. 

None of the great principles of progress is changed. Many things are changing. We change our views with regard to many things, and in these changes lie the principles of progress, we do not remain just where we are. We are going onward, but that progress is that we are approaching more nearly to the truth. 

We want to keep abreast with all the various things we see around us; we do not want to be accused at any time of not progressing. We ought to adapt ourselves more or less to the times in which we live and not be what some people call those who do not change at all, "old fogies." Old fogies ? Oh, no, but there are some things that do not change, and one thing is the truth, and the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is the truth. Whenever we see people who undertake to make changes in the fundamental things that have been revealed from heaven they are undertaking to change God's truth. 

The Lord has said, "I am the Lord, and I change not." His word shall endure forever. The Lord has so ordained that a number of generations shall be contemporary in sojourning upon this earth. What a wise provision is this! What a wonderful thing is wedlock, the home where father and mother rear their family of children! What a splendid thing it is to have grandfathers and grandmothers, and even great grandfathers and great grandmothers, four or five generations sometimes contemporary, living upon the earth at the same time! What a wonderful advantage that is to mankind, an advantage to the aged, and an advantage to the young, to live and to mingle together and to partake of each other's feeling and spirit! Youth — how eager they ought to be to profit by the experience of Age! The aged — what a wonderful and elevating influence it must have upon them as they ponder over the lives and characters of their own children! What a development of all the Christian virtues is involved in this contact or association with those you love — your own kindred! It always brings a certain amount of regret when this association is lacking. 

Old age can learn much from youth. They keep us abreast with the times; they keep us alive to the burning questions of the day. Therefore, you fathers and mothers, let us listen to the young with sympathetic hearts while they endeavor to instruct us, which they sometimes feel themselves quite competent to do. But, oh youth, you have much to learn from old age! Out of the rich experiences of many years your elders are surely able to instruct you in the way of life, in the principles of truth. 

The Psalmist says : "I have been young, and now am old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread." Therefore youth should hearken and give heed unto the counsels of old age; they should seek the counsel of their fathers and their mothers. Remember the Lord's commandment : "Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." How greatly then we ought to appreciate the privilege of living with them and seeking their counsel, and we ought not to regard them as "old fogies," or somebody not up to the times. How can one be up to the times unless he can benefit by the experience he has ? How could there be any progress without experience ? 

"There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding," and whatever understanding we have it comes from the Almighty. There is no other source of knowledge. He is the great fountain of all truth, the inspirer of all discoveries; they all come from him. I am aware that sometimes we find inventors, discoverers and scientists that are not always willing to admit the source of their inventions and their discoveries, but nevertheless it is true.. We do not always appreciate when the Lord is making known his truth. 

I remember in my school days many years ago reading the story of a Greek philosopher, Archimedes, who was making a study of specific gravity, the relative weight of things. Upon one occasion while he was bathing in a pool of water he observed that his body in the water was much lighter than it was out of the water, and as he pondered upon it a flash of light came to him and, greatly elated over his discovery, and forgetting that he was naked, he rushed out into the street crying "Eureka, Eureka, — I have found it!" 

Now what was that ? There was a spirit in the man and the inspiration of the Almighty had given him understanding. It does not detract from the honor that is due to the scientist, the discoverer, or the  to say that God has used him in bringing truth to light. And what is true of secular knowledge and of the things that pertain to our temporal salvation is likewise true of religion. God uses scientists and philosophers, inventors and discoverers — for they are also his servants — in bringing secular truth to light; but he also uses his servants, the prophets, in bringing spiritual truth to light. 

What a wonderful flood of light came into this world with the advent of the Gospel, with the coming of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that prophet of the latter days 1 What wonderful discoveries have come to us and to all mankind! The same almighty being who overrules all things is bringing to pass his mighty purposes, and a flood of spiritual light has come to the world through the instrumentality of the prophet of God in the day and age in which we live. That is another source of joy and gladness to me that I live in this glorious day, notwithstanding the fact the world seems to be changing. We are merely discovering more truth. 

How eager we should be to keep abreast of the times and come to a knowledge of the truth, both secular and spiritual, scientific and religious. Be assured that when we do there will be no conflict between the two. Doctor John A. W'idtsoe tells us in that excellent little book "In Search of Truth" that "the way to truth may be found by anyone who desires it." "But," says he, "he must desire it with all his might, mind and strength." 

We often sing the words of our inspired poet, John Jacques : 

Yes, say, what is Truth? Tis the brightest prize 

To which mortals or Gods can aspire; 

Go search in the depths where it glittering lies, 

Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies, 

'Tis an aim for the noblest desire. 

And let me add the following words found in the closing paragraphs of the Lord's preface to the Doctrine and Covenants : 

Search these commandments for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

What I the Lord have spoken, I have speken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the spirit beareth record, and the record fs true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. 

But other things do change. I am reminded of a little sentiment I read in an autograph album in the German language when I was upon my first mission. Slightly paraphrased it reads like this : 

Es wechselt Zeit und Glueck Es aendert alles sich Doch Gottes Liebe bleibt Stets unveraenderlich. 

Translated into English, without any attempt at rhyming, it means GENERAL CONFERENCE  : Time and fortune change, everything changes, but the love of God remains always unchangeable. 

'And so it is with his glorious Gospel. It is the means of advancement, it is the means of progressing along spiritual lines. If we would be better men and better women, and lay hold on eternal life, let us render obedience to those principles which God has revealed, and which have remained the same from eternity to eternity, never changing. If we have fallen by the way and made mistakes and feel almost depressed and discouraged, resort again to those principles. There never was a time when genuine faith and sincere repentance would not bring a blessing and a change for better in one's life. There never can be a time when these principles will not bring progress and advancement. There never will be a time when we can grow in the knowledge of God and good works without the application of these principles. Be not discouraged or fall by the way, but if we have made mistakes repent and (if not already) be baptized, every one of us, for the remission of our sins, and we shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. These principles are applicable to all mankind and they never change worlds without end. 

May God bless us and our children to the latest generation and help us to live in accordance with them, that we may come to the knowledge of the Truth. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

Yesterday afternoon I stood in uniform on the parade grounds at Fort Douglas. That uniform indicated that I held a position of some importance in the United States Army. On each shoulder I had insignia showing my rank; on the lapels of my coat the insignia showing the branch to which I belong. Men in uniform honored that insignia by saluting me, many of them did not know me, they were showing their respect for the authority as indicated by my uniform. I had witnessed death-dealing instruments and machinery, while overhead airplanes were roaring, diving to the earth, turning and looping, to show their power and strength. In the guard-house were confined men who had been disobedient to orders, on the parade grounds were men forming for review. 

As the commanding officer gave orders, which were passed from one to another, all executed them with precision and accuracy. They had been well trained and knew what to do. Every man was in his place, and rendered the service required of him without hesitation or confusion. 

During the time I was there I had in my mind another picture. I had left this building and hurried to that place to take part as an officer during the celebration of the state department of the Reserve Officers Association of the U. S. A. Here was a marked contrast. There I found a group of men trained and equipped to battle an enemy if an enemy should come upon us. They were soldiers and that was their  and duty. Some of my brethren have inferred that it was not very becoming for one of my position to be engaged in such work. It is not of my choosing. I went in at the request of this government and have remained because we are all expected to do our duty. For the duration of eighteen years I have been at times under training. During that time I have never heard one of them — and I have mingled with men of the line and officers of every rank, up to that of commanding general — ever express a desire that we go into action. But I have heard them say that they wanted to be prepared to defend themselves should an enemy make it necessary for them to go into action. The Army of the United States is not training to invade the country of another, but they are training to be ready and prepared to defend their country if an enemy should come upon them. 

Now, as to this army which I see before me. The officers are not in uniform, no insignia of rank to designate their authority, but they are men nevertheless who have authority to serve and to give orders in a greater army, one commanded by our Lord and Savior. These officers are devoted to the great cause in which they are engaged. They are men who are self-sacrificing, men who are full of faith and of love. And when I say men I speak of our sisters also, for I am quite sure if it were not for the devotion of our wives and our mothers and our sisters, we would find it far more difficult to carry on the work that is required of us. 

This army is made up of deacons, teachers, priests, elders, seventies and high priests, with power far greater than that which comes to those who are engaged in this other army. 

I believe that Joseph Smith saw God the Father and Jesus Christ, his Son, and conversed with them. I believe that the Priesthood of God was bestowed upon him and his associates, and that that Priesthood has been passed down to us. iWe enjoy power and privileges through it. I say power, because in the Priesthood there is a power as witnessed daily where the Priesthood is found and exercised in harmony with the plan and promise of God. To have this Priesthood conferred upon one is not only a privilege but a great honor, and one who receives it and disregards its sacredness is a deserter. 

Some among us are asking for new revelations. I am not concerned as to whether new revelation is coming or not. I am just a little fearful that should new revelation come, especially if it should be of the type that some people feel we should have, too many of us would not be in a position to stand up under it, as evidenced by the failure to understand and follow that which has been given to us. I am concerned with that which has been received and the question of whether or not I am living in harmony with those teachings which have come to us through revelation by the power of the Priesthood. 

I am not so sure that we as a people as yet are sufficiently familiar with the revealed word which has been given to us to be in a position to receive new revelation; and I am quite sure that when we reach a point where we fully understand and observe that which has been given to us new revelation will come, and those whom the Lord has endowed with authority to receive revelations will receive them. For more than a quarter of a century it has been my good fortune, privilege and blessing to meet almost daily with the men whom we sustain as the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and whom we sustain as prophets, seers and revelators. With that acquaintance and that association there is no question in my soul but that when the time comes for us to receive more than the Lord has already revealed, it will come through them, or their successors. 

One of my brethren working in the Church Historian's office, said to me : "Brother Smith, I have been going over your sermons and compiling them. You have something human about that which you say. You are constantly appealing for help for the young man." It may seem that that is the only thought I have to express in these meetings. We are of necessity limited as to time. There are many other subjects I could use, but as a member of the Presiding Bishopric, a member of the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, there has been placed upon me a responsibility, and as I visit with you and see the reports that come in I think I sense that responsibility, and I don't want to be held to account for my failure to encourage my brethren to see that which I think I see. 

We have accomplished a most wonderful missionary work, and yet there is much more to be done. We don't have a guard-house. In this army punishment is of our own making. We go out to battle, and, unlike the Army of the United States, we are in a great conflict. Some of us don't know it, but we are. We have an enemy, an enemy we can't always see, an enemy which we don't always feel, because we have not been trained to see and feel. When we who hold the Priesthood and are honoring it and magnifying our calling in it, come in contact with that enemy, we are given to understand that he is an enemy and that we must defend ourselves with all the vigor and power of our manhood. We don't always do it. 

I dislike to make this statement, and would not do so were it not for the fact that I have heard it several times during the past year in different stakes of this Church : "But Brother Smith, we can't do it," — speaking of laboring with men who have become indifferent to the work of the Church and are falling away — "We are a little community. We know each other. All we do when we go to visit is 'kid' each other." What justification is there for such a thought? If we permit it, are we prepared ? To me it has the ear mark of a slacker. I think a prophecy made centuries ago might give us some encouragement. The prophet Haggai said : 

Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes. Thus saith the Lord of hosts; Consider your ways. (Haggai 1 :6-7. ) 

Are we not in that condition? Why is it? What has brought about this condition ? How are we to overcome it or change it ? Just one way.  only one, and that is to be true to the Gospel teachings and honor the Priesthood which has been conferred upon us. And those who are afraid to kneel in prayer with a wayward brother should first set their own houses in order; then when we have developed faith, manifest that faith through our works. When we do exercise our faith in our work the Spirit of God is manifest, whether in our own home or in the home of our neighbor, or in the lives of our neighbors, and the better the acquaintance the greater the opportunity for carrying into the life of our brother who is wayward that which will save him from the error of his ways. It can be done only through the spirit of prayer, not by "kidding," not by beingafraid. 

Remember the statement of Paul to Timothy : 

I thank God whom I serve . . . that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day; 

Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. 

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. 

Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of cur Lord. . . 

Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. (2 Tim. 1 :3-9) 

The Savior said : 

Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess 1 also before my Father which is in heaven. 

But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven. 

And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me. (Matt. 10:32, 33, 38.) 

It is my opinion that if we want to succeed, if we want to bring peace in the earth we should stir up the spirit, the gift which is in us, by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority, being not afraid. Let us go into the homes of these our brethren who are wayward, and who because of inactivity have been blinded and see not the light, and pray with them and plead with them, that God may give them again the spirit of the work, that they may return into the spiritual light, and praise him for his goodness and his mercy. That will bring peace. That will put love into the hearts of men, and is the only way in the world in which peace and happiness and prosperity can come to the children of God in the earth. 

What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works ? Can faith save him ? 

Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. 

Shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works. Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well; the devils also believe, and tremble. 

But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead ?. . . . By works was faith made perfect. 

Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead. (James 2:14-26) 

May the Lord help us, I pray. May his Spirit rest upon us. May we understand that this Priesthood which is in the Church today has power and is manifest in the Church, through those who serve, not only as leaders, known as the general authorities of the Church, but you who labor in the stakes. 

God bless you, and bless those who serve with you, that we may carry the spirit of this work into every home, into the life of every individual, continuing untiring and unafraid, until we shall have won the battle and brought them back into the fold. God so help us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, the last six months have been eventful ones in the Eastern States Mission. We have dedicated three chapels in that mission. A member of the Council of Twelve, Elder Stephen L. Richards, has visited practically every district in the mission. President Grant, during his stay in the East this winter, also went into many of the branches and districts of the mission, all of which we feel sure has resulted in great good. 

Reference has been made in this conference to the dedication, last November, of the Washington chapel. We regard it as one of the great agencies for missionary service in the Eastern States. Brother Edward P. Kimball has given an organ recital every day, I think, except one, since the chapel was dedicated. More than six thousand people have attended these exercises. They consist not only of the organ recital, but also a speech by Brother Kimball and in most cases the escorting of the company through the building. Between five and six thousand tracts have been distributed at the chapel. 

This does not include the many people who visit the chapel during the day, nor the special clubs and organizations which have held their gatherings there. 

Recently one organization of the Government, with a membership of about four hundred was entertained there. The Rotarians of Washington recently held their weekly dinner in our chapel. Some of the leading ladies' clubs of Washington have met there and have listened more or less to the story of Mormonism, which is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as explained by our brethren in charge of the chapel. We feel very grateful for this great agency for good in our mission. 

I have rejoiced in the exercises of this conference. There is an ancient Arabian proverb which reads something like this: "If thou hast two loaves of bread, sell one quickly and buy a rose. Something beautiful is as essential to the welfare of man as is bread." So I thought today, and also yesterday, particularly while listening not only to the inspired remarks but to the excellent music, that the spirit of all those who come to these conferences is being fed — fed with food as essential to the soul as that which is needed to nourish and strengthen the body. 

Two thoughts have been running through my mind ever since President Grant spoke. Religion is the master passion in the life of a man who believes in Jesus Christ. It is the mainspring of his life, the motor that carries him forward. Today there are two great influences at work to encourage and develop religion within men. The mothers of Israel are doing, in my judgment, one of the greatest services possible for this Church. May I speak to the mothers particularly who have sons upon missions. Continue, I pray you, to write them. Tell them of the deep feelings in your soul. It does them good. Let them know your feelings concerning the Gospel. 

One boy, speaking to me just a few days ago, referred to the fact that he had written home and expressed some doubt as to whether or not he was acquiring all that he should acquire upon his mission. His good mother wrote back and said : "My son, if you are acquiring a testimony of the Gospel, if in your soul there is coming a conviction that Jesus is the Christ, and that his Gospel has been restored for the salvation of the souls of men — if you are acquiring that, you are acquiring sufficient to justify your being upon a mission." 

I would like to say to that mother, and hope it will encourage all mothers, that boy, on that occasion, with tears in his eyes and emotion in his voice, said : "That much I am acquiring. I do know, as I know that I live, that Jesus lives and that his work is true." 

I am grateful for my mother, now gone to her reward. I am grateful that from her I acquired the first feeling that led me to seek God. How glad I am for parents who knew of the Gospel of Jesus Christ! 

The love of mother and its influence for good in the earth is perhaps only surpassed by the love of Jesus Christ. The power which he has exercised and is exercising in the world is the other great influence for good. 

Paraphrasing and abbreviating the words of another: Jesus was born in obscurity; never traveled more than two hundred miles from the place of his birth; never attended a university; had no newspaper; never wrote a book; the only property he owned of which we have any record was divided at the time of his death, at the end of a quarrel between soldiers; dying between two thieves; buried in a borrowed grave; — yet he has exercised an influence in the world that exceeds that of all the armies that ever marched, all the navies that were ever built, all the parliaments that ever assembled, all the kings and queens that ever ruled. The influence of Jesus in the earth has exceeded them all, and it is a glorious thing to be an ambassador of the being whose influence has been and is so potent in the world. 

We have been accused of not being Christians. Well, what does it matter anyway, if the accusation is without foundation ? In this case it isn't true. We know that in his name and in his love and in his great Gospel plan is salvation, and in reality we are preaching his message to the world. And we say now — I say — that if the nations of the world would accept Christ and his teachings as taught by the Latter-day Saints all the problems of this weary world would be solved in a single day. 

God bless us and help us to know the truth. I know it and bear witness to you of its truthfulness today. God help us to know it and to live it, for it is the power of God unto salvation. I know whereof I speak, and bear this witness in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE S. ROMNEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I trust that the Lord will give me strength to say the things I should say to you on this occasion. I have been deeply impressed during this conference, and especially with the remarks of our President at the first session. 

President Grant, in speaking of some criticisms, made reference to the fact that he acknowledged his own lack of information. When he said this I remembered that two thousand years ago the most learned men among the nation of the Jews went to the court of Pilate, the Roman governor, and there they said of our Savior : "Crucify him;" and they emphasized it by repeating it three times. They also said : "Let his blood be upon us and upon our children." And I remember that just before this the Lord had asked Peter whom he thought that he, the Son of God, was, and Peter said : "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the LivingGod." Then our Savior told him that that knowledge came direct from God through revelation. Then I thought of the two thousand years since then, when the sequel has proved that the great revelation which Peter had, though he was but a poor fisherman, without the learning of the world — I say time has proved that that knowledge was worth a thousand times more than all the knowledge of the learned. 

I have had the privilege of sitting, as a student, at the feet of some of the most learned men in this world. Or at least some who have the reputation of being the most learned. I remember that one of these great educators — the man who translated the Old Testament most recently, and whose translation is said to be the most learned translation of the Bible that we have, — in reviewing the events in the Old Testament this gentleman said that he had recently been to Palestine with the archaeological expedition which his school had sent there. He was speaking of that story in the Bible which tells of the walls of Jericho falling when the army of Israel marched around the city. He said that in the explora of Jericho they had found that the walls had never fallen; and in rather a light mood made light of that and other stories in the Bible. 

Of course, I do not feel that it is my duty, nor the duty of the Latterday Saints, nor is it their responsibility, to prove the truth of all the stories in the Bible. Yet, I was impressed greatly only a month or two later when I read that that very expedition from his school, in excavating farther, had found that part of the walls of Jericho had fallen. 

Paul spoke of those who were ever learning but never coming to a knowledge of the truth. I respect the scientists, I respect the great men of learning, but I respect more than them those who, like the prophets of God, have obtained that light which comes direct from God, — that which can never be changed, even though another archaeological discovery may be made. 

It is the spirit of the Gospel of Christ — the spirit that is manifest by the missionaries in the mission field in their devotion to the great eternal truths which God has revealed, that will save this world from the ills which now encompass us. It is the same spirit which Abraham Lincoln had when, in reference to the laws of our country, he wrote the following words : 

Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the Revolution never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation. Let every man remember that to violate the law is to trample on the blocd of his father, and to tear the charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the law be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it he taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges; let it be written in primers, spelling books, and in almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed from legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice. And, in short, let it become the political religion of the nation, and let the old and young, the rich and poor, the grave and the gay of all sexes and tongues and colors and conditions sacrifice unceasingly upon its altars. 

Your sons and daughters in the Northern States Mission are full of this type of devotion which was advocated by our great President Lincoln. Their devotion is to the laws of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that sacred truth that the Lord has given to us as a people. 

I bring that message to you, and trust that throughout Zion that same love of truth, in the acting and doing of a thing, may come to all of us, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "High on the mountain tops." Elder Claudius Bowman, President of the Juarez Stake, offered the closing prayer. 


