10
Afternoon
05 04 1903
Rulon S. Wells. 

The Bible and Book of Mormon— Both true — Latter fresh from pen of Prophet — Word of the Lord today Is "get out of debt" — Seventies willing to go on missions — Many hindered by debt. 

My brethren and sisters, I sincerely hope that I may be sustained by your faith and prayers. As one of the presidents of stakes was coming upon the stand this afternoon, after having been invited by President Smith, he stopped and shook hands with myself and Brother McMurrin, and asked that we pray for him. In standing before you hero I feel like shaking hands with the Latter-day Saints and asking them to pray for me, because I believe that the prayers of the Saints are heard by our Heavenly Father, when they are offered up in faith. 

Brother Kimball made reference this morning to the Bible, and I am reminded of an article of our faith, which  that we believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly. We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. While he was quoting this article of our belief, the thought came into my mind, how often has it been quoted in the mission field, and how frequently have our enemies and those who have not accepted our faith criticised us in making reference to the Bible and qualifying it by saying that we believe it as far as it is translated correctly. "O yes," say they, "you Latter-day Saints believe the Bible when it is convenient for you to accept of it, but when it is not convenient, then you fall back upon the provision which says "as far as it is translated correctly." In giving this article of faith the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired by our Heavenly Father. Suppose for a moment that he had left out that condition. The question would at once arise, Which Bible do you Latter-day Saints believe in? Do you believe in the King James translation of the Bible, or do you believe in the revised edition? Do you accept the Catholic Bible, or the one that was translated by Martin Luther in the German language? There are a great many different editions of the holy scriptures; which of these Bibles do you believe in? because in many particulars the translations are at variance, and do not always agree. There was inspiration in the putting in of that condition. We believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly; and when it has not been translated correctly, we do not believe in that. To all intents and purposes, however, the Bible which is common among us is accepted by the Latter-day Saints as the word of God. When you refer to the Book of Mormon, however, you say that the Book of Mormon is the word of God, without any qualification. 

Now, what is it that the Latter-day Saints believe in? We believe that holy men of old spake and wrote as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and that which they spoke and wrote was the word of God; and if that has been handed down to us in its purity, we accept it as being the word of God. The Book of Mormon comes to us fresh from the pen of the prophet, and was translated under the inspiration of our Heavenly Father by one whom He raised up for that purpose. Consequently we can accept it without qualification as being the word of God. We also believe in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, because it contains the predictions of the prophets and the revelations of God delivered unto this people by the living oracles upon the earth in this day and age of the world. We read in the scriptures that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. The Latter-day Saints understand that the Lord will yet reveal many things pertaining to the upbuilding of His kingdom upon the earth. In other words, we believe in learning the will of God through the proper channels, and then to do it. That is our creed, our faith. We have among us the living oracles of God. The mouthpiece of the Lord has spoken to us at the beginning of this conference, and in his remarks he gave unto us the word of the Lord. He gave us counsel upon certain things that' are of great importance to the Latter-day Saints, and we will do well to heed the counsel of God as it is delivered unto us. I take this lesson to myself, and I believe it ought to be the feeling of every Latter-day Saint, to hearken to the warning voice. As Latter-day Saints, we pray unto our Heavenly Father that the President of this Church may receive wisdom from on high, and the inspiration of His Holy Spirit and the revelations of His mind and will, that we may be guided and directed in the ways of all truth. How willing, therefore, and how eager we ought to be to hearken unto his words and carry them out in our daily lives. The great spectacle that I see before me this afternoon is an evidence that the Latterday Saints are eager to hear the words of the servants of God. No doubt, many have come today with the expectation of hearing the voice of the mouthpiece of God. But "what would it avail unto us unless we tried to carry out his advice and counsel? 

Whatever may arise as a hindrance to the work of the Lord ought to be dis with, and that which interferes with the performance of our duty ought to be set aside. The adversary of the souls of men is striving with all his might to thwart the purposes of our Heavenly Father; but in no particular do I think that he has had greater influence upon the people at large than he has in taking advantage of theirtveak nesses by persuading them: to go beyond their means and into debt. It does not necessarily require a wicked man to yield to that influence at times. We are all more or less susceptible to it. Even some of the characteristics of our people which are to be commended— that, for example, of being unselfish and willing to let go of the substance that has come into our hands, have sometimes been a means that the adversary has employed to lead our people into debt. We have received, as has already been stated, a great many letters from the Seventies whose names have been suggested for missions to the nations of the earth, and the great majority of those letters have brought with them the spirit of the Gospel. The brethren have shown a willingness to respond to every call, and many of them have set forth their circumstances, but have closed their letters wtih a statement something like this: "These are my circum. stances. I do not offer excuses. I am willing to go into the mission field, and lift up my voice and cry repentance unto this generation. I am willing to leave my home, because I know this is the work of the Lord." They have thereby placed the responsibility upon the authorities of the Church to decide whether or not they should go. Notwithstanding this, there has been no disposition to work any hardship upon the Seventies or the brethren suggested for missions, and many of them have been excused when we have known their circumstances. Over 100 have been released on account of their financial condition. Thus the going in debt has been a hindrance to the work of the Lord. It has hindered the brethren from going out and magnifying their callings. It has been the means of depriving them of privileges which they might enjoy if they were only free. Those who are encumbered with debt, indeed, know what it is to be in bond. It is a block in the way of their magnifying their calling and responding to a call that would bring to them great joy and blessing. Oh! how willing we ought to be, and how careful to overcome the difficulties that stand between us and the performance of our duty. 

I ask the Lord to abundantly bless His people, and to bless all those who are striving to live by every word that cometh forth from the mouths of the prophets. May the Lord lead us to do His "will and keep His commandments, that thereby we may keep pace with the work of the Lord and do our part in helping to roll it on, is my prayer in i the name of Jesus. Amen.
