12
Morning
06 04 1903
President John R. Winder. 

Important recent occurrences — Beneficent characl er oi Temple work— Suggestions about Marriage — Indebtedness should be avoided — Work of God pressing onwrd to Its destiny, 

I am very much gratified this morning to have another privilege of meeting  you in conference, and have been delighted with what I have seen and heard during the last two days. 

I am reminded this morning of an occurrence that took place just ten years ago — the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple by President Wilford Woodruff; and I have reflected a little upon some of the things that have happened since that time. Two presidents of the Church — President Woodruff and President Snow 1 — have passed away; one First Counselor — President George Q. Cannon; one President of the Twelve Apostles — President Franklin D. Richards; and one Apostle. But, my brethren and sisters, they have not lost interest in the work that we are now engaged in. Since the dedication, of the Salt Lake Temple there have been performed in that house about eight hundred thousand ordinances, or about eighty thousand per annum. While the world are ridiculing and scoffing at what we are doing in the temples, I wish to say to you all, and you can bear testimony of the same, that every ordinance, every ceremony that is performed therein is pf a sacred and holy character. Every ordinance performed there makes better fathers, better mothers, better children, better husbands and wives, better citizens of the state, and better citizens 'Of the United States. Nothing occurs in that house that we need be ashamed of; but everything that takes place there is for the betterment of all who attend. I presume that there are thousands now listening to my voice who could testify to the truth of that which I speak. 

There is one thing we regret sometimes, and that is with regard to our young people who, when they are about to enter matrimony, fail to come to the house of the Lord to have' the ceremony performed there; because we know that if they are prepared to enter that house they will receive ordinances that will be of great benefit to them while they live. We also regret sometimes to learn that some of our sisters contract alliances with those who are not of our faith. It has been said that we are too exclusive in this matter. I was reading an article in a paper yesterday, and I took a clipping from it to show that we are not the only ones that are exclusive in this respect. This article was headed "Mixed Marriages Barred in Future," and the clippings reads: 

"Chicago, April 4th. 

"The Record-Herald New York correspondent says: Owing to the reception of orders from the Propaganda at Rome, Archbishop Farley will not officiate at the wedding of Reginald Vanderbilt and Miss Catherine Neilson. Positive instructions have been received by the Roman Catholic hierarchy of the "United States forbidding them to officiate at any more weddings in which one of the contracting parties is not a Roman Catholic." 

So, brethren and sisters, you see that we do not stand alone on this question. "We know from past experience that where our sisters have entered Into matrimonial engagements with those not of our faith they have, as a rule, proved to be unhappy. Therefore, we want to urge upon the presidents of stakes, Bishops, and officers everywhere, to use your influence with our  people in regard to tnis matter, to the end that they may so order their lives as to be prepared to come to the house of the Lord when they desire to enter the sacred and holy state of wedlock, and be worthy of a recommendation from their Bishop, signed by the president of the stake. 

I want to sustain the remarks made by our president in the opening of this conference, with reference to going into debt. It is a matter of regret, but I am cognizant of the fact that many of our people even now are mortgaging their homes and farms to obtain money for the purpose of going into some speculation. It is all very well for us, if we have a little means aside from' our homes and farms, to go into some enterprise wherein we think we can make something for ourselves, if we wish to do so; but when it comes to borrowing money and mortgaging our homes, it ia liable to prove very disastrous. I could mention a number of our brethren who in the "boom" mortgaged their homes and entered into speculation and enterprises which proved disastrous failures, and today they are without homes to cover the heads of their wives and children. Let us take warning from this, my brethren and sisters. I know that what President Smith said yesterday ia timely and appropriate. It is said by some that we are going to have an era of prosperity. All right; let prosperity come, and if during that time we can get out of debt, we will rejoice that we are out of debt. But if, on the other hand, a time' of adversity should come, and we are in the bondage of debt, what will be the result? We will likely lose our homes and our farms. I hope, therefore, that we will take to heart what was said in relation to this matter. It is important that we should. 

I do not know how many more conferences the Lord will permit me to enjoy with you; but I know He has been very merciful to me, and has extended my days beyond what I could expect. I will soon be 82 years of age, and I rejoice to think that the Lord has so preserved me that I have this one more privilege of standing before you. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, when we go from this conference let us go with a determination, each one of us, that 

"as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." I have a very strong- impression that missionaries will not be withdrawn from the nations of the earth, and that the temples will not be closed, but that the work will progress and go on from this time henceforth with greater force and strength than it ever has done before. My the Lord help us all to be faithful and true, even to the end, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
