14
Afternoon
06 04 1903
Elder Marriner W. Merrill. 

Importance of Manual training for the Ynulh — How to gain freedom fmm debt. 

I am very thankful for the privilege of attending this conference, and to see the interest manifested by the Saints in their presence at the meetings. We have certainly had an excellent time, a grand conference so far; and the policy of hearing from the presidents of the stakes and the missions abroad is one that I believe meets with the hearty  of all the Saints. The Saints in the outlying districts feel that they are remembered, that they are recognized, and reported by those who have immediate charge of the various fields of labor. The results, I am sure, will be good, and the Saints will be satisfied. 

The opening remarks of our president gave us some texts to talk upon, not only here, but when we go home. I think they should not be lost sight of by the brethren from the various parts of the Church. The subject of training our sons and daughters in principles of usefulness deserves our attention. While some of the brethren were talking about it, especially Supt. Tanner, I thought it would be almost impossible to teach all our boys in technical schools, if they were established. But there is opportunity to teach them trades if they do not have the advantages of a technical school. When they are taught trades as they are in the old world they become very thoroughmore so, I think, than they would in a technical school, unless they followed it until graduation. To my mind, this is an important subject, because we have so many young men and young women that need to be taught. We find that if we want to employ a mechanic it is difficult to get one that has been raised in our midst. Of course, there are a few scattered up and down the country; but it is difficult to secure skilled labor from among our own people. Now, we are just beginning to build up this country. Look back on Salt Lake City fifty years, and you will see that a vast improvement has been made in that time; but look forward fifty years, and what will you see? We need artisans. Our boys should learn trades. The Bishops and presidents of stakes should take this matter in hand. I knew a Bishop once who ran across five young men that came from the old country. They went to the Bishop to know what to do, and he told them to each learn a trade, and he assigned them different trades. They did not feel very well satisfied about it; they thought they could do something else to more profit, that would bring them in something at once; but they were finally persuaded to learn * trade, and they stayed with their employers until they were skilled workmen. Every one of them today is in comfortable circumstances, having had employment from that time till now. There is no need of our boys going off to Montana, or out of the country, to fine employment; for there is plenty here. Teach our boys trades, is the thing to do. We must not forget this when we go home, because we have many young throughout the country who need some encouragement in this regard. It is the word of the Lord to the people, and we can all readily see the necessity for it. 

Another text given was in regard to not going in debt. Perhaps some of us are in debt, with our homes mortgaged. It is a bad thing, but it >s done. Now, do not do it any more. Lift your mortgages and obligations the very first opportunity, and be free. 

I want to bear testimony to another thing that was said, because I know it is true from experience, and that is, that the easiest and shortest way to get out of debt is to first pay our tithing, promptly and honestly, and then the promise of the Lord is that the way shall be opened up, and we will be able to liquidate our obligations. Be patient -in the matter. Remember the Lord first, and then turn our attention to our creditors. Pay them just as fast as we can; but do not go in debt any more. Let our families live within their income. If you get $3 or $5 a day, live on considerably less than that. I knew a young couple that started out in life, and the man worked for $20 a month and the wife worked for $2 a week. They were hired out when they were married, because they hadn't anything else to do. How much did they save out of that? I took pains to inquire into the matter and I learned that they saved $12 a month. When they quit that work and went to housekeeping they had considerable means on hand, with which they bought what they needed. People think that cannot be done. Why, I knew that two people can live on $10. a month, because I have watched this thing for many years. We have high ideas about everything now. The young people must have everything that their fathers and mothers have. The first thing, they must have a house, well furnished, before  can get married. I do not think that is a good idea. My experience has taught me otherwise. Get married, young people. It is the duty of all who are of marriageable age, to get married. And get married in the Temple. Then work together, put up with circumstances as they are, and improve them as fast as you can. But do not go in debt. Do not go beyond your means to buy fine furniture. Better live in a cabin. 

These are practical things, which should be of interest to our people. We do not want our young men and young women to float around; we want thera to stay with the Saints. We want them to build up Zion wherever they are located. When they are called, then is the time to go — not before. Do not run up and down the country to improve your condition, unless you can go by the counsel of the Priesthood. Use economy and live within your means. Teach the boys trades. Be a wise and a considerate people. Seek for the Spirit of the Lord to guide us. Seek for the counsel of the brethren who preside. There are men appointed of the Lord throughout the land to counsel and advise with the people. Go to them for counsel; advise with them, and you will go about right. But when we undertake to go on our own hook, we are pretty sure to get off wrong. 

May the Lord bless and inspire the Saints to carry out the counsel given. May we make our lives useful and honorable in the earth. I bear you my testimony that this work is true. It is from God. I testify that Joseph Smith was a great Prophet of God, raised up in our day and time to usher in the Gospel dispensation. Thousands of people have 'had this evidence and testimony, and we know the work is true. It is not our work; it is not the work of the Presidency of the Church; it is God's work, and He has placed these men to direct the affairs of the work, and let us give heed to their counsel. God bless you. Amen.
