16
Afternoon
06 04 1903
Elder John Henry Smith. 

bnanlmity of the Church Authorities— Relating to Capital and Labor Combinations— Preservation of Liberty— Duties within the family circle. 

I would have preferred, as a matter of fact, to have listened to a continuation of the testimonies and reports of the presidents of stakes and of missions. Nevertheless, I feel happy in the privilege of standing in your presence upon this occasion, and I desire to say to you that President Brigham Young sends greeting to the Latter-day Saints, and thanks you for your faith and prayers in his behalf. He is in a critical condition, but with good faith, and determined, if possible, to make a live of it and accomplish much work in the future. I desire to report that the Presidency of the Church are in the enjoyment of the spirit of their calling and in unison in their work; and to say of the Council of the Apostles that each one of them is anxious to perform his part and discharge the obligations resting upon him to the best of his ability. The good feelings and wishes of Elder Lyman have been given to you by our brother who has just returned from that field. Brother Grant also joins in greetings to the Latter-day Saints and rejoices in their growth and development and in the good spirit of union that is manifest among the people. He is anxious to extend the work in that land as fast and as far as it may be practicable. I desire to say further that the Patriarch of the Church is in unison with the Presidency of the Church and the Council of the Apostles. The presidents of the Seventies, as you have heard from them, are in like spirit and action with their brethren. I believe the same is true of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church. The general authorities of the Church are fully in attune with each other in connection with the work that is assigned them to do. I know of no time in my connection with the work of the Almighty when the general authorities of the Church were more in unison and with a higher regard and love for one another than they possess today. 

I trust that the words that have been spoken and the reports that have been made will write themselves upon the hearts of the Latterday Saints. It is necessary that we unite ourselves together in the accomplishment of every spiritual and temporal work that the Lord may set us to do. Every stake of Zion should be uniting its interests and seeking to provide, so far as within its power, a variety of employment essential to the development of that section. The people should be striving to thus unite their efforts and accomplish the purposes of the Almighty. I believe in combinations of capital, I believe in combinations of labor, so long as those combinations shall not presume to interfere with the rights and liberties of their fellowmen. But when they presume to exercise unrighteous dominion and their efforts are in the direction of harm to their fellows, I am opposed to them, one and all. I trust that the spirit of the instructions given during this conference has found lodgment in every one of your hearts, that you have determined to do the bidding of the Master, to guard your own liberties, to preserve the liberties of your fellowmen; that you propose to carry with you the spirit of the words that fell from the lips of President Winder this morning, that having been made partakers of the heavenly gift of entering the sacred precincts of the house of God, the covenants you have made there to honor your fathers, to honor the laws and institutions of -your country and to maintain the rights and liberties of your fellowmen, will be sustained by you in every place and in every station where Providence shall call you to act. I trust that the sentiments of your heart shall be to have your homes pervaded with the spirit of prayer; that as fathers and mothers you shall remember to have your children taught to pray, and that thoughtlessness and disregard of these obligations shall not come in among you. I trust, my brethren and sisters, that each sentiment expressed by our brethren will find place within you, and that you will be led to glorify the iiame of your Father in heaven; that the voice of of the truth, distilled upon your ears in your native land, shall continue to guard and guide every one of our lives in this land where we have our home,  the shades of these mountains, where should exist the spirit of liberty, the love of God, respect for right, and a determination to pvjrrorm our part to the best of our ability. 

When these brethren testify to you that they know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the priest, hood of the Son of God is among the children of men, they testify to you a truth that you know yourselves. I trust that you seek in your ministry to so labor that the results of your lives will demonstrate, in the character and ministry of your children and your neighbors, your absolute knowledge of the truth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

My brothers and my sisters, it would be imprudent for me to take more time. Perform your part in righteousness. Impress upon the minds of your sons and daughters that no son or daughter of Zion need enter any other church to receive the ministration of the laying on of hands for the healing of the sick; that when God bestowed this Gospel and turned the key, He placed with it the power to heal the sick, to rebuke evil spirits, and to command evils to subside, and if we will live as we should live and instruct our children as we should, they will never hunt any other than the ministrations of the servants of God to be healed of their sickness or to have evil rebuked from their homes, but they will come to you for the aid and comfort necessavy for them in the midst of their distresses. This that has been given to us is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation. Its mission and ministry is the regeneration of the world, the establishment of righteousness, the cleansing and purifying of mankind; and if you will walk m the pathway of the Gospel, and fulfill the requirements thereof, no man can complain of your morality; no man can find fault with your temperance; no man can censure the spirit of justice, charity and mercy that shall guide you in your lives. God Himself introduced His word in this day and age of the world. He introduced His Son to the children of men. He pointed the way of life to all His sons and daughters, and has set you upon the road to aid in the regeneration of the world and in the establishment of righteousness. May He bless you forever. May you be obedient to the truth. May you do the bidding of the Master. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
