17
Afternoon
06 04 1903
 The General Authorities. 

Of the Church were presented by President Joseph P. Smith, to be voted upon by the Conference, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Brigham Young-, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

Ap members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teas dale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Claw son, Reed Smoot and Hyrum M. Smlih. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

Tho Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted. Brigham Henry Roberts, George Rtynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon b. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, and John R. Winder. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, O. F. Whitney, A. M. Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the Conference. 

THE TABERNACLE CHOIR, was also presented, as follows: 

Leader and Conductor — Evan Stephens. 

Secretary and First Counselor — Robert T. McEwan. 

Treasurer, Librarian and Second Counselor— George C. Smith. 

Organist — John J. McClellan; and all the members of the choir. 

BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY. 

In compliance with a requirement of law, the Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young Academy were presented to the Conference for approval, as follows : 

Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young Academy, Provo, Utah— Jos. F. Smith, president; David John, vice president; Wilson H. Dusenberry, Brigham Young, Susa Y. Gates, Reed Smoot, Stephen L. Chipman, John Henry Smith, Jesse Knight, Lafayette Holbrook, Oscar B. Young, Jonathan S. Page, Jr. 

All of the voting was unanimously in the affirmative. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Satisfactory character of reports— What is expected of the priesthood— Glorious destiny of American Nation - The Church its strong supporter , — Characters of those who misrepresent this community—Saloons and their Keepers— The honorable do not assail the people of GodBrethren and sisters; I have been delighted, beyond my power to express, with the spirit of this conference, with the spirit of those who have spoken to us, with the subjects that they have dwelt upon, and with the reports which they have made to us in general conference assembled. I believe that, in the policy we have pursued, we are carrying out, in a measure at least, the original design and purpose in the Lord of holding these annual and semi-annual conferences. The Lord made it obligatory in former days that conferences should be held frequently, and  representatives from all the various branches and organized bodies of the Church should he present, with power and authority to report their condition and standing and to speak of any matter that would affect the welfare and prosperity of the people thej r represented. There is another purpose, I think, subserved in the policy that we have pursued, which I consider a worthy one, and .that is this: We want the people to understand, and we would like the world to understand, the great fact that it is not the prominent leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that wield all the influence among the people of this Church. We want it understood that we have fewer layin embers in this Church, in proportion to the number of our membership, than you will find in any other church upon the globe. Nearly every man in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints holds the Melchisedek or the Aaronic Priesthood, and may act in an official capacity by authority of that priesthood whenever called upon to do so. They are priests and kings, if you please, unto God in righteousness. Out of this vast body of priests we call and ordain or set apart our Presidents of Stakes, our counselors, our High Councilors, our Bishops and their counselors, our Seventies, our High Priests, and our Elders, upon whom rests the responsibility of proclaiming the Gospel of eternal truth to all the world, and upon whom also rests the great and glorious responsibility of maintaining the dignity, the honor and the sacredness of that calling and Priesthood. So that nearly every male person in the Church, who has reached the years of accountability, is supposed to be, in his sphere, a pillar in Zion, a defender of the faith, an exemplar, a man of righteous ness, truth and soberness, a man of virtue and of honor, a good citizen of the state in which he lives, and a staunch and loyal citizen of the great country that we are proud to call our home. 

This great American nation the Almighty raised up by the power of His omnipotent hand, that it might be possible in the latter days for the kingdom of God to be established in the earth. 

If the Lord had not prepared the way by laying the foundations of this glorious nation, it would have been impossible (under the stringent laws and bigotry of the monarchical governments of the world) to have laid the foundations for the coming of His great kingdom. The Lord has done this. His hand has been over this nation, and it is His purpose and design to enlarge it, make it glorious above all others, and to give it dominion and power over the earth, to the end that those who are kept in bondage and serfdom may be brought to the enjoyment of the fullest freedom and liberty of conscience possible for intelligent men to exercise in the earth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be a strong supporter of the nation of which we are a part, in the accomplishment of this grand purpose. There are no more loyal people to their country on God's earth today than are the Latter-day Saints to this country. There are no better, purer or more honorable citizens of the United States to be found than are found within the pale of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I testify to this, and I know whereof I speak. We never have been enemies to our nation. We have always been true to it. Though we have been persecuted, we have said, We will put our trust in thee. We have been driven and maligned, not by the nation, but by insidious, wicked, unprincipled, hypocritical, lying, deceitful goats in sheep's clothing, who are jealous and constantly raising a hue and cry against the covenant people of God. Our government would have befriended us, protected us, preserved our rights and liberties, and would have defended us in the enjoyment of our possessions, if it had not been for these infernal hounds who are enemies to morality and to the truth. If there is anything despicable, if there be anything that can never, no, never, enter into the kingdom of God, it is a wilfull liar; and if we have not been lied about, maligned and misrepresented of late, then I do not know what lying is. Well, let the falsifiers go on and lie. Some people are evidently doomed to lie. President Woodruff used to say there were some people in his day who were born to lie, and they were true to their missions. There are some of these born liars still with us and still true to their mission. They cannot, it would seem, tell the truth; they often do not when it would be for their best good. S let them go on and lie as much as they desire. But let us do right, keep the laws of God and the laws of man, honor our membership in the kingdom of God, our citizenship in the State of Utah and our broader citizenship in the nation of which we are a part, and then God will sustain and preserve us, and we will continue to grow as we havedone from the beginning, only our future growth will be accelerated and be far greater than it has been in the past. These slanders and falsehoods that are circulated abroad with the view of bringing the ire of the nation upon us will by and by be swept away, and because of these misrepresentations the truth will be brought out clearer and plainer to the world. Thus the word of the Lord will be verified, that they cannot do anything against but for the kingdom of God. This is the Lord's work; it it not man's; and He will make it triumphant. He is spreading it abroad, and giving it deep root in the earth, that its branches may grow and spread, and its fruit be seen throughout the length and breadth of the land. 

By their fruits ye shall know them. Men do not gather grapes of thorns, nor figs .of thistles; neither does a bitter fountain send forth sweet water. We, as a people, deplore as much as anybody can the existence of evil amongst us. But when our brethren get up here and talk as some have done, "We have saloons; we have all the 'modern improvements' "—WE have them— I wish they would take the pains to distinguish as to who "we" is. If they mean that the Latter-day Saints have saloons, then they are mistaken. It is not the Latter-day Saints that sustain saloons. If they are fostered and sustained in the midst of Latter-day Saint communities, they are sustained by men that are either in bad standing or have no standing at all in the Church. The most of them are sustained by men who do not belong to the Church. I will venture to say that over here in Emery county, where we hear of saloons and "modern improvements," that there  not a saloon run by a Latter-day Saint. But, says one, hold on, Brother Smith, there is one, I believe. There was one, out of the many, that used to be run by a man who claimed to be a member of the Church; I don't know that it is now. I give it out to you, my brethren and sisters, that no man who is a Latter-day Saint, in full faith and fellowship in the Church,will ever keep a saloon anywhere. Therefore, if there is a man claiming to be a "Mormon" running a saloon anywhere, the best thing you can do is to cut him off the Church, and then you will know where he 1 is and who he is. He is not a Latter-day Saint, at all events. Now, when you say WE have this, and WE have that, I hope you will draw the distinction between Latter-day Saints and latter-day devils. 

I am not sorry I have made theset remarks, because it will give some of our "friends" a chance to say something, and there is nothing like having a little of the spice of life. I rejoice in the Gospel. I rejoice in the mission of the divine Savior, the Son of God. I know it is the power of God unto salvation. I rejoice in the name and in the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith; for I know his mission is divine. I rejoice in the gathering of Israel in the tops of these mountains in the latter days, because I see in it the hand of the Almighty, and not the hand of Brigham Young, nor of any mortal man. No man of himself could ever accomplish that which we see before us. The Lord is behind it, at the bottom and at the top of it, and in and through it, and He will consummate His purpose. The world cannot prevent it either, because it is for good, not for evil. If it were net. for good I would pity some of these poor devils that we have amongst us. But we will be patient, longsuffering, and forbearing. We will say, Let God judge between us and our enemies, and award them according to their deeds. We will not harm them. On the contrary, we will protect them. Though they seek to defile us and ridicule our religion, though they lie about us and say all manner of evil against us falsely, we will not hurt them. We will " them good, if they will let us. We  protect them, as we would protect good men in their rights. We will do all we con to protect the rig-hts of mankind, and nothing to break down the liberties of men. This is our mission, and I pray God to help us to be true to our mission, as these poor creatures who lie about us are true to theirs. 

Now, when I speak as I have done about the lying riff-raff that infests our land, I do not wish it understood for a moment that I refer to honorable men. We have honorable men amongst us, and in this nation. God bless and sustain all honorable men. We will sustain, not only the rights and liber of the honorable, but we will also defend and help to maintain to the uttermost the liberties and rights of dishonorable men. We have honorable men amongst us, and they are ever in the favor of the people of God. 

The choir sang: Do what is right; the day dawn is breaking, 

Hailing a future of freedom and light; Angels above us are silent notes taking 

Of every action; do what is right. 

Benediction was pronounced by Presiding Patriarch John Smith. 

Conference adjourned for six months. ITS ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The general semi-annual conference of the Sunday schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Sunday, April 5, 1903, at 7:30 p. m. General Superintendent Jos. F. Smith presiding. 

Present: of the general superintendency, Joseph F. Smith, George Reyno'.ds and J. M. Tanner; most of the members of the Deseret Sunday School Union board, several of the Apostles, and the Tabernacle was packed with officers, teachers, and Sunday school workers and Saints. 

The tabernacle choir sang the hymn: "Earth with her ten thousand flowers." 

Prayer was offered by Elder John W. Taylor. 

Messrs. Ashworth, Best, Christopherson and Squires then rendered the quartet, "God is love." 

Secretary George D. Pyper called the roll of stakes, all but two being represented, as also were the Northwestern states, California and Colorado missions. The secretary also presented the following items gleaned from the annual report of the Sunday schools: 

Total number of schools in the organized stakes, 749; in the missions, 291 — grand total, 1,040; showing a gain of 64 schools during the year — 33 in the organized stakes and 31 in the missions. 

Number of officers and teachers in the organized stakes, 14,333; in the missions, 1,647 — total officers and teachers, 15,980; a gain of 782. 

Number of pupils in organized stakes, 107,323, of whom 52,752 are male and 54,571 females; in the missions, 10,413, of whom 4,821 are males and 5,592 are females— grand total of pupils, 117,736;  increase of 3,811 — 2,818 in the stakes and 893 in the missions. This report shows there are 2,590 more girls than boys in the Sunday schools. 

Total officers, teachers, missionaries and pupils in the stakes, 121,971, in the missions, 12,060— grand total, 134,031; atotal increase of 4,399 over 1901. 

The average attendance for 1902 was 58 per cent, the same as for the previous year. 

Secretary George D. Pyper then presented the officers of the Deseret Sunday School Union, who were unanimously sustained as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent, George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; J. M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. 

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD. 

Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace Cummings, Abraham O. Woodruff. 

George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, treasurer; Thomas C. Griggs, business manager. 

GEORGE REYNOLDS, 

First Assistant General Superintendent, said: 

Since we met here, at the October conference, six months ago, the General Board of the union has had a very busy , for since then the "Outlines" have been prepared and published. We have already printed 41,000 copies for the benefit of the Sunday schools, and it appears as though we *shall have to print many more. The "Outlines," as has been explained to you, are intended to bring unity in the subjects and in the lessons taught in our Sundayschools, that the wide world over, wherever there are schools, of the Latterday Saints, there shall the same lesson be taug-ht on the same Sunday, thus unifying our efforts and giving strength to our teachings. The preparation of these "Outlines" has required a great deal of study, of prayer, and of work, but we feel confident that where accepted, as we trust they will be, by our schools, that the teachers will fr them a great help, and one great reason is that they cannot be used successfully and advantageously without preparation, home preparation both by the teacher and the scholar, and it will consequently make the work more thorough and more progressive. 

The general report that has been read to you is, in the main, satisfactory; but there is one item that is somewhat disappointing, and that is, tho average of increase. You will notice that our increase of teachers, officers Mid pupils is only about 4,000 for the entire year. This is a smaller pro rata increase than I remember for many a year. There may be many causes for it. but individually I believe that one of the chief causes is a lack of understanding on the part of some superintendents who, because certain ages have been suggested for the pupils in each department, and, to make it evident that the item was only suggestive it is printed in the "Outlines" in italics, yet some superintendents have endeavored to reorganize their schools and to grade them simply on the basis of the age of the child. I believe this has resulted in scores, possibly hundreds of our children, leaving school, because when simply the age was taken into consideration the dullard and the bright child of the same age have been put into the same class, and it has caused a sense of annoyance and discomfort to those who felt that they were not being justly treated. Nc  — and I trust the brethren will listen to what I am sayingno superintendent, without he expects to injure his school, will grade simply on the basis of the age of the child. There are other considerations that are more important, and that are never to he forgotten. But then to just simply grade by the age is the easier way, and one that gives the least trouble, the least necessity for investigation. But the fact is, if we wish to do our children good, we must place them in the class or in the department where they will learn the most, where they will make the most progress, and for which they are best fitted. "We must take into consideration their aptness, their advancement, their desires, their judgment, as well as their age, when they are graded. 

I would say as the treasurer of the Union board, that I cannot make any definite report at this time with regard to the nickel donation, because as yet it has not all been paid to me; but I can say this much, that the nickel donation for last year is larger than it has ever been before. Nor can a complete report be made regarding th«= prizes offered in the Juvenile Instructor, for the reason that we have not yet been able to make the comparisons necessary before some of the prizes and premiums can be awarded. We have published those premiums that have been awarded to the stakes for the payment of the nickel donation within the time specified, but further than this we shall have to claim the indulgence of the Sunday school workers. Nor is the fault ours. But in a little while we expect to publish them, and when they are published the books awarded will be at the disposal of those to whom they are given. 

There is one thing to which I wish to allude for a few moments, and that is the tendency, in some of our schools, to abridge the period of. their sessions, instead of allowing the Sunday school to continue the full two hours, from 10 to 12 o'clock, or whatever hours it may be; that is, some of the superintendents shorten the session to an hour and a half, sometimes to an hour and a quarter. It is not desired by the board, as a general thing, that the kindergarten and the primary children be Kept in the full two hours, because we know well that they will become restless and tired, and that they will not be in a condition to give attention to that which is taught them during the latter part of the session. We are always willing that the teachers in these departments should permit the children to leave when an hour and a half from the time of opening has elapsed. But surely, my brethren and sisters, two hours once a week for the religious instruction of our children in the Sunday school is none too much. It is told us sometimes that it is difficult to keep up the interest of the children for that length of time. But we generally find that where that complaint is made, the lack of interest is less, or the restlessness is less in the children than the disinclination of the teachers and superintendents to teach the full two hours. We also find that where difficulties of this kind are expressed that some exercises suggested by the Union board are omitted or neglected. For instance, we will say that there is a certain school that asserts that it cannot keep the two hours' session going with profit. On investigation we shall probably find that they do not have a ten minute singing exercise, that they have no concert recitations, or that the lessons from the "Outlines" are not gone through with that thoroughness that is expected of them. These are the reasons, my brethren and sisters, why there is a difficulty. It is because things essential to the well being and the progress of the Sunday schools are neglected and omitted. Those who have the spirit of their calling and a love for their work and for the children will have no difficulty, under ordinary circumstances, in keeping the children interested for the full two hours by the variety of exercises planned and carried out. 

I will say that taking all together, we are doing well. The work committed to our charge is receiving good attention. We are blessed of the Lord therein, and the establishment of stake union boards and stake union meetings, together with the publication of the "Outlines" is accomplishing much to make the schools more thorough, better disciplined and altogether more progressive. 

In conclusion, let me say, my brethren and sisters, let it always be remembered that our object in the establishment of the Sunday schools, the reason for their existence is thaJt we may, as an auxiliary organization, strengthen the hands of the servants of God in making Latterday Saints of the children of God's people, Latter-day Saints in faith and in works, who will love the Father's work and seek to upbuild His kingdom. 

May God bless us in our endeavors to accomplish this, is my -rayer through Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen.
