3
Afternoon
04 04 1903
Elder B. H. Roberts. 

With you, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the privileges and blessings of this conference. The presence of so many upon the opening day of confer j ence bespeaks the widespread interest that exists among the Latter-day Saints in the work of God. I take it that we are all interested in all the affairs of the Church, in all phases of the work, both the work within the stakes of Zion and the work abroad among the nations of the earth. But while we have this general interest in all departments of the great works of our Father, it is but natural that we should have a particular interest in that department of it in which more especially we are called to labor. I make this remark in order that you may understand why it is that I address a few words to the conference in relation to that body of Priesthood over which, in connection with the other presidents of the First Council of Seventy, I am called to preside. 

We have in the church 143 quorums of Seventy. There would be over 10,000 men in that body if all the quorums were full; but some of them are not full. Others, however.have members awaiting admission. So that the number of Seventies today in the Church is not far from 10,000. They are a body of men set apart and especially ordained to engage in the foreign ministry of the Church. When you take into account the very extended area of country in which these quorums are scattered, you can readily understand that it requires considerable labor to reach these organizations and keep them fully organized and the vacancies in the respective councils filled. 

Why I refer to this subject is for the purpose of making a suggestion or two to the Presidents of stakes and the Bishops of wards who are gathered on this occasion. I think a little careful attention to the great amount of work that is required at the hands of the First Council of Seventy in keeping these quorums completely and fully organized would make the presiding brethren a little cautions about takingour Seventies, and especially the presidents of quorums, for local positions. Of course, I understand that there are very important offices to fill in the Church, and when the right man is found among the Seventies it is proper that he should be ordained to the position; but if one equally fitted could be found among the Elders or the High Priests I think it would be wisdom on the part of presidents of stakes and Bishops to find men for local positions in these quorums and not disturb the presidencies of the quorums of Seventy. Of late, when thinking upon this subject, and the inconvenience that we are frequently put to, I have been much impressed with a principle that is named in the Book of Mormon. The passage gives a description of the manner in which the Apostles among the 

Nephites, upon this continent ordained men to office. It is as follows: 

"The manner which the disciples who were called the Elders of the church, ordained Priests and Teachers. 

"After they had prjayed unto the Father in the name of Christ, they laid their hands upon them, and said, 

"In the name of Jesus Christ I ordain you to be a Priest; (or, if he be a Teacher,) I ordain you to be a Teacher to preach repentance and remission of sins through Jesus Christ, by the endurance of faith on his name to the end. Amen.
