6
Morning
05 04 1903
President Anthon H. Lund. 

Success of Missionaries— Prejudice giving way — Zion progressing — In relation to tithing— Proper use of riches— Reckless speculation should be avoided. 

I rejoice this morning in seeing such a large congregation before me. Zion is growing, and the people are trying to live their religion. In looking back upon the past year we see that the Lord has been with His work and blessed His servants in their labors. The missionaries abroad have been successful in reaching the people and in bringing many into the Gospel fold. They have met some opposition; but as a general thing our people are getting better known in the world. In Germany some of our Elders have been exiled, and others notified to leave; but the courts have taken it under consideration, and It is not yet decided whether our Elders will be exiled or not. When the officers are asked what objection they have to our Elders, they say they have nothing against their lives or conduct, but they do not like their religion, and they claim the right to say who shall be their guests. They have this right; but I believe that when they reall/ examine the fruits of "Mormonism" and see the effect it has upon its converts, they will not be opposed to our people being in their midst. There are several lands  there is not perfect freedom of conscience, where there are state religions, and the people are not allowed to worship God in the way they believe to be right; but gradually prejudice and intolerance are giving way, and the most intolerant countries are yielding and allowing the people to believe as they please. In Norway we are not recognized as dissenters; still the police authorities and the people generally who have watched our course are pleased with it. The police of Christiania say that they have less trouble with the Latter-day Saints than they have with others; so we are tolerated there. For many years we have had a meetinghouse of our own in that city, which has been a great help to us. Last year we found that the foundations of the house were giving way, and we had to tear the house down; but it is being rebuilt: and this summer we hope that a better structure will be dedicated, and that our people of that city can again have their owti house of worship. The house in Copenhagen is giving general satisfaction, and many people are coming to our meetings. There is a project on foot for the building of a meetinghouse in Stockholm, which I hope will soon begin to be realized. A brother in that city offered a spot upon which to build a meetinghouse, and we believe that the brethren and sisters here, especially from the Scandinavian countries, will help to build such a house there. We have seen the necessity of having our own meetinghouses in branches where we have such large numbers of people in the Church. Stockholm, Copenhagen and Christiania each number several hundred of our people, and it will be a blessing for them to have a place of their own to worship in. I believe that this would also be well in cities like Berlin and other places, where our branches are growing to the extent they are. We are pleased with the reports that come in from the different missions. Our Elders are laboring zealously, going from house to house, spreading their tracts, preaching in the streets and halls wherever opportunities afford. 

In Zion the work is also progressing. The people seem more united, and a greater desire to attend meetings is noticed. The Presidency have visited many of the stakes, from the extreme north down to St. George, during the past year, and have found that the people are growing, and that the Spirit of God is in their midst. They show by their works that they are trying to live the lives of Saints. The tithing during the last year was up with the year before and even better. We commend the Saints for their fulfillment of this duty. President Smith in his opening address to the conference, gave us some good counsel. He asked the people to be honest and fulfill their duty to theLord and to their neighbors. I am pleased to see that the people have met their obligations to the Lord as well as they have during the past year. There is much room, however, for improvement. We find that there is a large number, still on the books, of non-tithepayers. This should not be. A man who professes to be a Latter-day Saint ought to show it in his works. If he does not Pay his tithing, he shows there is something wrong with him. He cannot have the faith which he professes to have; for if he did he would not be delinquent in this matter. It is a matter between him and his God. There is no compulsion. But a man who has covenanted with the Lord to do His will cannot feel that he is honest with the Lord when he refuses to obey the calls He makes upon him. This law of tithing is not a new law. It is as old as the days of Abraham, and further back than that; but the first mention we have of it in the Bible is where Abraham paid his tithing. He believed in it; so did Jacob; and so did Israel. In our day the Lord has again revealed that law to His people and those who have obeyed it have realized the truth of what Bishop Hunter used to say: "Pay your tithing and be blessed." 

I would say to the people, be honest one to another. Do not run in debt. 

The advice of the president yesterday was certainly wholesome. The Lord, in one of His revelations given very early in the Church, says: 

"Seek not for riches, but for wisdom, and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich; behold he that hath eternal life is rich." 

The riches of eternal life we ought to seek, not the riches of the world. There is a raging thirst for riches in this land. The love of money is growing, even in our midst. We do not look upon wealth in itself as a curse. We believe that those who can handle means rightly can do much to bless their fellows. But he who is ruled by the love of money is tempted to commit sin. The love of money is the root of all evil. There is hardly a commandment but is violated through this seeking for riches. I think, therefore, that it is timely advice to our people to guard against the growing tendency to speculation, and making investments when they have not the means wherewith to do it. It is not safe. We have prosperous times at present. We hope they may continue. But it would be very unwise to build upon the future, and not stand on a firm foundation in regard to financial matters. If any one wants to make investments, let him make them with his own means; not be too hopeful and borrow means beyond his ability to pay. If he makes investment with his own means and fails, he can still be an honest man; but if he borrow money of his neighbor that he is not able to pay, he may cause the financial ruin of his benefactor who trusted him. Now, brethren and sisters, let us not let the spirit of speculation take hold of us; for past experience shows that inflation is followed by depression, and many of those who are thought to be rich and prosperous, when such times come, may not be able to meet their honest debts. I would advise our people to guard against this thirst for riches, this wanting to get rich quickly. The old way of earning by our labor is the best way to become rich. It is true, we see some who engage in mining quickly realize fortunes; but we do not think of the hundreds and thousands who do not sue. We And some that invest in .certain enterprises that pay well, and we think that any enterprise which is started will do as well. This, we can certainly say, will not be, the case. There are always some enterprises that are really needed and may pay their projectors, but in the common run of business great returns cannot be expected. So let us stay on solid ground, and not venture too far out. The love of money is very marked in the world. The question is not, how much good will such an enterprise do? but will it pay? Now, even in business that should not always be the predominant motive. Many enterprises that have been started in our midst, and that have done a great deal of good, have not paid great dividends to the shareholders. Our Provo Woolen factory has been a great , blessing to the State; yet the owners have not realized great benefit from the investment. When it was first built, money was scarce in the state, and we used to turn our produce there and make exchange for woollen goods. Then we valued the institution perhaps more than we do now. I am glad to see that that institution is getting on a payingbasis. We could mention several others that have been projected by our leaders that have not brought great financial returns to the owners. The question, how much good can we do with our means? should be before the question, how can we double our means? The Lord says, seek not for riches, but for wisdom. Let that be our seeking." "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness, and all other things shall be added unto you," is the promise. He that hath eternal life is rich, indeed, says the Lord. Let us seek for eternal life, and while we live here make our lives as useful as possible, and do what we can for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God upon the earth. God bless you all. Amen.
