Morning
05 04 1903




PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Success of Missionaries— Prejudice giving way — Zion progressing — In relation to tithing— Proper use of riches— Reckless speculation should be avoided. 

I rejoice this morning in seeing such a large congregation before me. Zion is growing, and the people are trying to live their religion. In looking back upon the past year we see that the Lord has been with His work and blessed His servants in their labors. The missionaries abroad have been successful in reaching the people and in bringing many into the Gospel fold. They have met some opposition; but as a general thing our people are getting better known in the world. In Germany some of our Elders have been exiled, and others notified to leave; but the courts have taken it under consideration, and It is not yet decided whether our Elders will be exiled or not. When the officers are asked what objection they have to our Elders, they say they have nothing against their lives or conduct, but they do not like their religion, and they claim the right to say who shall be their guests. They have this right; but I believe that when they reall/ examine the fruits of "Mormonism" and see the effect it has upon its converts, they will not be opposed to our people being in their midst. There are several lands  there is not perfect freedom of conscience, where there are state religions, and the people are not allowed to worship God in the way they believe to be right; but gradually prejudice and intolerance are giving way, and the most intolerant countries are yielding and allowing the people to believe as they please. In Norway we are not recognized as dissenters; still the police authorities and the people generally who have watched our course are pleased with it. The police of Christiania say that they have less trouble with the Latter-day Saints than they have with others; so we are tolerated there. For many years we have had a meetinghouse of our own in that city, which has been a great help to us. Last year we found that the foundations of the house were giving way, and we had to tear the house down; but it is being rebuilt: and this summer we hope that a better structure will be dedicated, and that our people of that city can again have their owti house of worship. The house in Copenhagen is giving general satisfaction, and many people are coming to our meetings. There is a project on foot for the building of a meetinghouse in Stockholm, which I hope will soon begin to be realized. A brother in that city offered a spot upon which to build a meetinghouse, and we believe that the brethren and sisters here, especially from the Scandinavian countries, will help to build such a house there. We have seen the necessity of having our own meetinghouses in branches where we have such large numbers of people in the Church. Stockholm, Copenhagen and Christiania each number several hundred of our people, and it will be a blessing for them to have a place of their own to worship in. I believe that this would also be well in cities like Berlin and other places, where our branches are growing to the extent they are. We are pleased with the reports that come in from the different missions. Our Elders are laboring zealously, going from house to house, spreading their tracts, preaching in the streets and halls wherever opportunities afford. 

In Zion the work is also progressing. The people seem more united, and a greater desire to attend meetings is noticed. The Presidency have visited many of the stakes, from the extreme north down to St. George, during the past year, and have found that the people are growing, and that the Spirit of God is in their midst. They show by their works that they are trying to live the lives of Saints. The tithing during the last year was up with the year before and even better. We commend the Saints for their fulfillment of this duty. President Smith in his opening address to the conference, gave us some good counsel. He asked the people to be honest and fulfill their duty to theLord and to their neighbors. I am pleased to see that the people have met their obligations to the Lord as well as they have during the past year. There is much room, however, for improvement. We find that there is a large number, still on the books, of non-tithepayers. This should not be. A man who professes to be a Latter-day Saint ought to show it in his works. If he does not Pay his tithing, he shows there is something wrong with him. He cannot have the faith which he professes to have; for if he did he would not be delinquent in this matter. It is a matter between him and his God. There is no compulsion. But a man who has covenanted with the Lord to do His will cannot feel that he is honest with the Lord when he refuses to obey the calls He makes upon him. This law of tithing is not a new law. It is as old as the days of Abraham, and further back than that; but the first mention we have of it in the Bible is where Abraham paid his tithing. He believed in it; so did Jacob; and so did Israel. In our day the Lord has again revealed that law to His people and those who have obeyed it have realized the truth of what Bishop Hunter used to say: "Pay your tithing and be blessed." 

I would say to the people, be honest one to another. Do not run in debt. 

The advice of the president yesterday was certainly wholesome. The Lord, in one of His revelations given very early in the Church, says: 

"Seek not for riches, but for wisdom, and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich; behold he that hath eternal life is rich." 

The riches of eternal life we ought to seek, not the riches of the world. There is a raging thirst for riches in this land. The love of money is growing, even in our midst. We do not look upon wealth in itself as a curse. We believe that those who can handle means rightly can do much to bless their fellows. But he who is ruled by the love of money is tempted to commit sin. The love of money is the root of all evil. There is hardly a commandment but is violated through this seeking for riches. I think, therefore, that it is timely advice to our people to guard against the growing tendency to speculation, and making investments when they have not the means wherewith to do it. It is not safe. We have prosperous times at present. We hope they may continue. But it would be very unwise to build upon the future, and not stand on a firm foundation in regard to financial matters. If any one wants to make investments, let him make them with his own means; not be too hopeful and borrow means beyond his ability to pay. If he makes investment with his own means and fails, he can still be an honest man; but if he borrow money of his neighbor that he is not able to pay, he may cause the financial ruin of his benefactor who trusted him. Now, brethren and sisters, let us not let the spirit of speculation take hold of us; for past experience shows that inflation is followed by depression, and many of those who are thought to be rich and prosperous, when such times come, may not be able to meet their honest debts. I would advise our people to guard against this thirst for riches, this wanting to get rich quickly. The old way of earning by our labor is the best way to become rich. It is true, we see some who engage in mining quickly realize fortunes; but we do not think of the hundreds and thousands who do not sue. We And some that invest in .certain enterprises that pay well, and we think that any enterprise which is started will do as well. This, we can certainly say, will not be, the case. There are always some enterprises that are really needed and may pay their projectors, but in the common run of business great returns cannot be expected. So let us stay on solid ground, and not venture too far out. The love of money is very marked in the world. The question is not, how much good will such an enterprise do? but will it pay? Now, even in business that should not always be the predominant motive. Many enterprises that have been started in our midst, and that have done a great deal of good, have not paid great dividends to the shareholders. Our Provo Woolen factory has been a great , blessing to the State; yet the owners have not realized great benefit from the investment. When it was first built, money was scarce in the state, and we used to turn our produce there and make exchange for woollen goods. Then we valued the institution perhaps more than we do now. I am glad to see that that institution is getting on a payingbasis. We could mention several others that have been projected by our leaders that have not brought great financial returns to the owners. The question, how much good can we do with our means? should be before the question, how can we double our means? The Lord says, seek not for riches, but for wisdom. Let that be our seeking." "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness, and all other things shall be added unto you," is the promise. He that hath eternal life is rich, indeed, says the Lord. Let us seek for eternal life, and while we live here make our lives as useful as possible, and do what we can for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God upon the earth. God bless you all. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. Need of manual training in schools— Incidental reference to athletics — New methods of teaching in Sunday Schools. 

It *was with more than ordinary interest and pleasure, my brethren and sisters, that I listened to the remarks of President Smith yesterday morning,  for the reason that I felt for some time the great necessity of instructions being given on many of the points on which he touched. One thing particularly impressed me, and that was the necessity of more encouragement being given to the teaching of manual training in our schools. I well remember when President Brigham Young established our Church schools, how strong was his wish that these things should be encouraged and this department taught in the institutions of which he then laid the foundation; and I have always regretted that more attention has not been given to this department in these schools. We all know what a very practical man President Young was; how essential he felt it was that we as a people should be self-sustaining. In his day our territory was full of the best of mechanics, who had gathered from various portions of the earth. It -was well known that in no part of the United States were there better handicraftsmen, and artisans than in Utah. The work done in those times still stands as a monument of how well they could accomplish their purposes. But today, unfortunately, it is not altogether so. Our rising generation, born in the midst of these valleys, apparently does not turn naturally in this direction. Although we have increased in numbers, we have not developed in these conditions; in fact, nve are not so well off as we were a quarter of a century ago or more. One remedy for this evil is that those who direct the feelings and thoughts of this people should impress upon the youth the necessity of learning trades, by which the community can be built up, and not so many turn in the direction of what are called the learned professions. We cannot have a prosperous community if it is overweighted and top-heavy with so many inclined in one direction, and the arts and industries which lie at the foundation of all progressive and successful communities are neglected or trifled with. Therefore, feeling the necessity of our people being impressed with these truths, I was exceedingly pleased to hear our President talk as he did yesterday morning. I will acknowledge that I have felt that some of our institutions of learning paid more attention to athletics— to basketball and such games— and thought more of the credit they received by overcoming their competitors in that line, than they did of training the young men placed in their care in those things that will make them most useful. Of course, we are told that athletics are necessary. I admit that. But the argument appears to me to be essentially weak when applied to ball games and games of a like description, when we recollect that those engaged in them are the strongest, the healthiest and the best developed students in the institution, and that those who are not so well developed, and who need the training to strengthen them, if any do, are the ones that stand around, applaud, clap their hands and yell themselves hoarse when their representatives play a good game, or secure a victory. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that in developing the muscles and the vitality of our people a little change from athletics to manual training will be a great advantage to this -community. 

As a number of the presiuents of stakes have reported their stakes, I wish to say a few words with regard to our Sunday schools, as I am one of the assistants to President Joseph F. Smith in the general superintendency. I wish to report that as a general thing the schools are progressing satisfactorily. During the past year we have made a marked change in our methods and in the conduct of our schools by introducing a uniform plan of study in all the schools, so that any pupil going from one school to another can continue in the new school the sam£ series of lessons that he studied .in the school which he has just left. There has been a complaint that in our Sunday schools some of the children have received a one-sided education, having studied but from one or two of our sacred books during the whole time they have been in school. Some have been confined to the Bible, others to the Book of Mormon, others to Church his tory, others to the Articles of Faith. This has not been intentional, but it has been for the want of a detailed, progressive outline of, study. This the General Board has endeavored to obviate by the "Outlines" which have  been published. At this time any child who continues in the Sunday school through the entire course will have had every phase of religious, history and doctrine desirable to be learned presented to him by the time he has passed through the various departments. He will commence with the kindergarten, where he will be taught in the story form; then up through the primary, the intermediates and the theological, until he will become acquainted with the history of the Church, with the doctrines of the Gospel, with the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and their contents. While no book, sacred though it be, is made the especial object of study, that which is taught in all the departments is intended to increase the faith of the child in the Gospel of the Son of God and in love for Him. When the pupil has passed through all the departments he will go out with a well-rounded understanding of the dealings of the Lord with His people in this and in past dispensations. This has been our object in preparing the "Outlines;" and though occasionally we hear a word of fault found that we are adhering too closely to the mere historical record, yet I wish to say, as one of the representatives of the Sunday schools, that that is not our intention. Our intention is, first, and before all other things, to implant in the hearts of the children a love for God and for Hie holy cause, a reverence for all sacred things, and to develop within them a testimony of the truth of the great work of the latter days. I would exhort the teachers in this great cause to remember that all other considerations are secondary. While we give the historical portion a prominent place, yet that is simply intended to lead the mind and feelings of the child in the direction of the great truths that God has revealed, and we desire to make all teaching subservient to this end and intent. 

I cannot this morning give you any figures with regard to the increase of our schools, or of our attendance, because we have lacked some of the statistical- reports. And this teaches us a lesson of how dependent the whole people are upon individual effort. If the lack of one report causes the whole  of the Church or of the schools to be incomplete, inaccurate and unreliable, it shows how necessary it is that those who have the clerical work of the Church to do, whether in the wards and stakes or in the auxiliary organizations, should be correct and prompt; for statistics of any kind, if not exact and truthful, are worse than worthless, because they are misleading, and they give wrong ideas regarding existing conditions and what is being done. But I find— as I have much to do with these things in my daily duties— that the reports which are sent in, both by -the school officers and the stake officers, often come in a most undesirable condition. "We receive reports occasionally that are unsigned, undated, and unnamed, and we have to guess whence they come from the little information that is recorded. Think of a report without any signature, without any date, without any name, and you can see how difficult it is to make up general reports. Then they are occasionally sent -in just a day or two before the general report is required, when they ought to be in at least a month before, and two months would be better, so that they could be properly tab ulated, examined, and the results understood. 

Altogether, as far as the Sunday schools are concerned, we feel that we have great cause for encouragement, and with succeeding years they are doing more and more good in the establishment of righteousness and dn the confirming of the faith of God's people. 

God bless you. Amen. ELDER R. G. MILLER. (President of Emery Stake.) 

"While sitting here I was reminded of what President J. Golden Kimball said at one of our conferences. He yaid: "You brethren around here want tc look out; lightning is going to strike, and you can't tell just where." 1 feel like it had struck this morning. In standing before this vast congregation I feel very weak; but I trust I may be able to speak for a few minutes and report the Emery Stake, over which I nave been called to preside. It pleases me very much to hear the brethren tell  their stakes. It is a testimony to me that we are being blessed in the Emery Stake of Zion; for a similar report to those given might be made of the Emery stake. It lies about southeast from here, and east of the Sanpete s + ake. It is comprised of two countiesCarbon and Emery — and is about 70 miles east and west and 90 miles north and south. We have 13 wards, and they are scattered over this large area of country. We have some disadvantages compared with other stakes. As a consequence, we are probably not making the progress that we should. But the people generally are trying to do their duty and to serve God, though there is considerable room for improvement. We have all the modern conveniences of civilized (?) society; we have saloons, and organizations of most every kind. I am, however, happy to say that very few of our people have joined the organizations outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The saloons, with perhaps two exceptions, are run by people not of our faith; and in a short time we hope to bp able to say that no one runs a saloon in our stake who claims to be a member of the Church. If the Bishops will do their duty, there will be no saloons run by our people. 

There are great resources in our part of the country, and only about one corner of it has yet been touched. Prom the name of one of our counties — Carbon — you will see that we have coal there. The statistics of the state show that we have more coal in that region than there is in any other part of the west. We hope that this will be developed, and that the world may be supplied from the abundance of coal to be found there. There is coal all along the north boundary of our stake, and on the west also. It is full of coal, and we hope the day is not far distant when it will be produced and marketed. We have a fine agricultural district also. There is a movement now on foot whereby many thousands of acres will be brought under cultivation; and we invite the Saints who are looking for homes to cast their eyes on Emery stake. The people of Juab and Sanpete counties have had a movement on foot for some time to store water in the mountains and convey it. into their counties; but they have seen a more feasible way to get rid of this water, and they have kindly consented to come into Carbon county. We ask you brethren and . sisters who are looking for homes to join with us, and we will welcome you there. 

1 feel well in the position to whie v ' I have been called. I desire to do my duty. My great desire is to press forward and assist the people and help build up the kingdom of God. I have been blessed with good companions. My counselors are sturdy, thrifty men — John H. Pace and Henry G. Mathis. We work together in unity. I know thiwwrk is true. It is the work of God. I have known this from my infancy. It seems as if I was born with a testimony of the Gospel. My parents were among the early settlers of this country, and went through all the hardships and privations; and it seems to have been implanted in my nature that this is the work of God. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may continue with us during this conference, that we may go home filled with the Spirit of the Lord and more determined to serve Him and keep His commandments; which I do in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER W. C. PARKINSON (President of Hyrum Stake). 

I have truly rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in the timely and practical instructions that have been given at this conference. I have enjoyed the spirit that has rested upon those who have spoken to us. In reporting the Hyrum Stake of Zion I will say, it is a newly-organized stake. It was organized two years ago on the 30th of April. It comprises the south end of Cache valley, with ten wards and about 5,700 Saints. I believe the spiritual condition of the people there has improved of late. I think it was an excellent thing to divide the old stake, make it smaller, and place more active men in the field to look after the people and to encourage them in the work of the Lord. "We have divided one of the wards In our stake, and we believe it is an excellent thing. It has brought  good results. We now have three wards where we had one, and three Bishops and three sets of officers where we only had one. We find that the people are better looked after, and spiritual activity is growing. We have better attendance at our meetings. The presidency of the stake are united; and have a good deal of pleasure in their labors. We have an excellent High Council, and I think I am safe in saying that evejry member of that body is a good, faithful, consistent Latter-day Saint. They are good tithepayers.they observe the Sabbath day, they observe the Word of Wisdom, and they are active in the ministry. We meet together once a month, and we always have a splendid attendance. Usually nearly all the members are present, both regular members and alternates. The presidency are supposed to meet once a week. We do not always do this, but we do it as often as we can find it convenient and practicable. In our meetings we have a great deal of pleasure, and, I believe, have enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord. We take under consideration matters pertaining to the general interest and welfare of our people. Our wards are close together. We only cover a small area of country — about ten miles to our farthest ward; so that our stake is very compact, and. I think, a model stake. We have some splendid people in that part of the country — perhaps as good as can be found in Israel; and we have enough of the other element to keep those who are willing to work busily engaged. There is plenty of opportunity for them to labor in the ministry. We only have two saloons in our midst — and that is two more than we would like to have. Our tithing has increased between $5,000 and $6,000 the last year. Our Priesthood meetings are very well attended. We have ten very good, active Bishops. 

1 can say for all our Bishops that they are good, intelligent men, who thoroughly understand the Gospel and the duties of their calling. They are qualified and able to look after their wards, and I believe they are giving the people good attention. Our stake officers, as far as I have learned, are all good, faithful people, and our organizations are all complete. Although it is a 

new stake, we have the organizations all complete, both in the wards and in the stake. There is a meeting of the Priesthood every month, and all stake officers have their regular monthly meetings, at which they devise means and plans for the best interest and welfare of the various organizations. While we are located in one of the most fertile- and prosperous valleys in the Rocky Mountains, still we always have the poor with us. "We have plenty to consume the fast offerings and the funds placed at the disposal of the Bishops, though the people are increasing in the payment of their fast offerings, and we hope some time in the near future that we will be able to take good care of all the poor in our part of the Lord's vineyard without calling upon the Church for assistance. We are working to that end. 

I do not know that I have anything further to say, more than that I rejoice in the principles of the Gospel. I have a testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the great work of the latter days. I have had this testimony for many years. I can hardly remember the time when I did not look upon the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ and the men who stood in prominent Dositions in this Church with the greatest degree of reverence. I have looked upon those who have presided over me all the days of my life with perhaps as much consideration almost as I have my own parents. I have learned to love the servants of God, and I am glad to be associated with them. I am glad to attend these conferences, and I always rejoice in listening to the instructions that are imparted. The last conference that we held in the Hyrum Stake of Zion, I believe, was the best we have had. It was more liberally attended than any previous conference. Our house was so full that we had to have an overflow me cting, and the Spirit of the Lord was poured out upon us in abundance. We felt that the Lord had kindly recognized our efforts, and made us to rejoice. Although the roads were exceedingly bad, the people turned out in great numbers, and we had a spiritual feast. 

May the Lord bless us, brethren and sisters, and preserve us in the truth. T ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS E. BASSETT. (President of Fremont Stake.) 

I am very gratified, my beloved brethren and sisters, for the position that I now occupy in standing before you as a representative of the Fremont Stake of Zion. Our Stake is located about two hundred miles north of this city. It is in the extreme northeast corner of what is usually termedSoutheastern Idaho. It also extends across the continental divide into the southern borders of Montana, the branch of Lima in that State of the Union being a part of the Fremont stake. In the state of Idaho there are eighteen wards located in the Fremont stake. The area of our stake is approximately 70 miles square, embracing in the neighborhood of 5,000 square miles. We have a population of about 6,000 Latter-day Saints. All of the organizations of our stake are complete. Like the rest of my brethren who have reported, I feel proud to be associated with those who have charge of the various organizations in our stake. I am especially pleased to be associated with my two counselors, whom I have learned to love as men of God, and who are heart and hand with me in every enterprise that we esteem for the good and welfare of our people. I do not think that there is a better High Council throughout the length and breadth of the Church than we have in the Fremont stake of Zion. We hold meetings regularly once a month, and have a splendid attendance. There is no proposition ever brought before our people until the entire High Council are apprised of it and are unanimous in favor of it. We have two councils of Seventy, whose jurisdiction extends throughout our stake and one of the adjoining stakes. They are doing a very good work. We have four Elders' quorums, actively engaged in their labors. The superintendency of the Sunday schools of the stake are most active men, and the Union Board associated with them are exemplary members of the Church. They meet regularly bi-weekly, and arrange for their labors among- the various Sunday schools of the stake. So does also the stake board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, and the Stake board of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, meet bi-weekly, and I can testify that they are men and women of God and doing a noble work among our young people in that vicinity. "We have not met with the success in our religion class work that I would like to see; but we hope to bring that institution to the front as soon as we possibly can. With this exception, all the auxiliary organizations and the quorums of that stake are in excellent condition. 

Financially we are more blessed and prospered than we have ever been before, although we have no need whatever to complain of the blessings of our Heavenly Father that have attended us in that section of the country. It seems but yesterday that we settled on that then sagebrush plain, and located our tents on the banks of the South Teton river, under the direction of President Thomas E. Ricks, who was then Bishop Ricks, and he was under the jurisdiction of Presiding Bishop William B. Preston, who was then the President of the Cache stake of Zion. All that extent of country which now comprises the Fremont stake, the Bingham stake, the Teton stake, and a part of the Pocatello stake, was then known as the Bannock ward of the Cache stake of Zion. The number of Latterday Saints in that locality at that time did not exceed perhaps 200 souls. Today in these various stakes our people number approximately 20,000. 

What was then the Bannock ward of the Cache stake of Zion is now known as the Ricks Academy district, named in honor of our late highly esteemed and lamented president, Thomas E. Ricks. I am pleased to say that this institution of learning was organized by him under the direction of President Wilford Woodruff, fifteen years ago on the 12th of November next. From that time unto the present, although it has had many difficulties to encounter, it has lived and increased its usefulness  our young people. This year we have an attendance in that institution of 265; and I can tell you, brethren and sisters, I feel extremely proud of them, and of the noble work they are doing, with the faculty of the institution, under the able leadership of Brother Ezra Christianson. The work that they have been doing this winter is indeed excellent. In this institution there have teen 40 young men, called from these different stakes, to take the missionary course, and this spring nearly all of them have been called to take missions to various parts of the earth. These young men are scattered abroad today, others are going, and the benefits of this institution are so widespread that We cannot estimate the length and breadth thereof. On the 15th of November next— the fifteenth birthday of this institution — we expect to have completed a $50,000structure as a home for it. This year Fremont stake has contributed upwards of $12,000 for the erection of this building, and by doing a similar work during the coming season we hope to have it ready for occupancy on the 12th of November. 

As far as the tithes of our people are concerned, we feel that we have no complaints whatever to offer. In connection with what we have done towards the erection of the academy, our tithes have increased nearly $4,000 during the year 1902. 

I bear my testimony to you, as I have borne it time and time again, that this is the Church and kingdom of God in which we are engaged. Notwithstanding all of the opposition that has been brought to bear against it during the 73 years of its existence, look at it today, scattered throughout the length and breadth of these mountain valleys, our young men in almost every nation under heaven promulgating the truths of the Gospel, and who is there that cannot say with me this morning that were it not for the overruling power of Omnipotence this work would have gone down; but today we find it is the work of God, and the people are grow, ing and increasing upon the right hand and upon the left. We have in our stake, as some of the other brethren have said, all of the modern improvements (?). Twenty years ago it was a  plain; today we have upwards of 50 wards in that part of the country, we have a branch railroad, we have the electric lines, we have telephone communication, and everything is prosperous with us, financially and temporally. I feel to thank God for It; but above all things I thank Him for a standing in the Church of God. I bear my testimony to you of its truthfulness. Above all things, let us be true to the covenants that we have made, and not one of us be a traitor. I am extremely thankful for the very timely suggestions that have been offered by our Presidency during this conference with regard to the importance of teaching our young people the necessity of manual work. I omitted to state that in our institution of learning which I have been speaking of we have made preparations already to have a class in manual training the coming winter, as also a class in domestic science. "We are scattered over a very large tract of country, and I only regret that there are not more of our young people who * are looking for homes, that they may come and help us carry our burdens. We have had bridges to build, schoolhouses to build, churches to build, roads to maintain, and everything that is necessary in the development of a new country. Our people have taken up large farms; they are too large, and in too many cases they have been under the necessity of mortgaging them, and I am sorry to say that more than 50 per cent of the farms in our stake today are mortgaged. Our people are carrying too heavy a load, and we would very dearly like to see a host of our young people come into that country and buy out one-half or two-thirds of the farms we own, and help us to lift our mortgages and maintain those things that are necessary in the colonization of a country. "We invite you there; but we do not want to go contrary to the counsel of the First Presidency in asking our young people to scatter out too far. However, we will always welcome you to come and share our burdens, because we want to observe the counsel of the First Presidency and get out of debt as soon as we can. "We do not want, though, to sell our farms to strangers, but we would like to sell to our own people. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters. May His Spirit attend this people throughout the length and breadth of the world. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. G. KIMBALL. 

How the BiMe can be understood— Results of sacred books— How to popularize the Church —Friends in the world— Relating to Seventies—Prophetic promise and fulfillment. 

The few moments I occupy I very much desire to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. I realize that the ways of the Lord are not in harmony altogether with the ways of men. I have labored in the ministry long enough to know that should I be favored to enjoy the Holy Spirit and speak the things that the Lord shall give unto me; they will not be altogether in harmony with people who do not enjoy that spirit. I believe it is proper for us to be conservative and consistent in all that we say and do; but I confess to you that my time is too short on this occasion to prepare your minds for what I may say, for I have not an entire conception of just how I am going to come out in fifteen minutes from now. 

I have thought some little lately about the Bible, which we claim to be the word of God, "as far as it is translated correctly." Taking that statement into consideration, there are no people on the earth that quibble so little about the Bible as do the Latter-day Saints. I am strongly Impressed with the idea that the Bible cannot be understood only by the same spirit with which it was written. If that statement be true, I am impressed with the idea that the Christian world have not got very much of it, or else they would understand it more alike. There are said to be six hundred or more denominations. I have never exactly found out how many. I have heard Elders talk about it, but I never had an exact statement. And I believe what was expressed in an editorial in the Deseret News — we would like to know which one of them is the Christian church, for we are in some doubt. 

Now, we have the Book of Mormon; and if there is anything on earth that has made trouble for this people it is that book. It is largely the means of costing the lives of the Prophet Joseph Smith, his brother Hyrum.and hundreds of others belonging to this Church. But I am prepared to testify that it contains the word of God. We have also the Book of Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, which are accepted by this people as the revelations of God; and they have made an endless lot of trouble for this people, because they are the word of God. There is only "one of a city and two of a family" that are willing to accept them; so you need not think I am going to get discouraged because they do not believe all I say, and you need not think I am going to stop talking, if permission be given me, because some people do not believe all I say. 

Brethren and sisters, I believe I will tell you how to popularize the "Mormon" Church. If you want to be popular, I can tell you how to be so. The "Josephite" church has started out in about the right line to accomplish their purpose, by cutting out a number of truths that Joseph Smith revealed to the Saints, and in this way they are trying to popularize themselves. Now, if you will stop sending out these fourteen hundred Elders, testifying that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that we have apostles and prophets inspired of God, that we enjoy revelation, that the signs follow the believer, that the sick are healed by the laying on of hands, that we have divine authority from God, then you will be popular. Are your prepared to do it? If you will stop going into these temples and receiving your endowments and being married for time and all eternity, that will help -a little. After awhile, it seems to me, if I have the right spirit, they will refuse to allow us to hold offices if we go into these temples and receive our endowments from the Lord. And while they have not rejected us yet, I am rather impressed that they will reject us; for the Christian world have already done it, and I do not know but what this nation will. I do not know but I will be glad when it comes. If the Lord cannot take care of His Church and His people and look after their interests, then we have been mistaken. I tell you we have  and we have men in the world who have the Spirit of God, who will rise up and protect this people. I am not numbered among those who think that we have no friends, for we have friends; but, brethren and sisters, you are not of the world, and therefore the world hateth you, speaking generally. If you want to be popular, stop doing the things that I have mentioned, and deny their truth. But if you want to stay with this Church, be true to your covenants. The time will come when you will be — as you are now — a light set upon a hill. I tell you, all the devils in hell cannot destroy this Church. And the devil never has been entirely comfortable since that temple (the Salt Lake Temple) was completed. 

I would like to call your attention to another subject: I happen to have a little information on paper this morning, which is rather unusual for me. I desire to call your attention to some of the labors of the First Council of the Seventy. Listening to all these presidents of stakes, you would think that their stakes were the only stakes in Zion; and I rather approve of that style. I believe that you ought to love that which is your own. I am learning that slowly. If you have got anything that is not presentable, for heaven'a sake do not say anything about it; they will find it out soon enough. We have been laboring among these Seventies for four years — ever since the presidency of the Church notified us that we had a number of Seventies on that book containing the non-tithepayers of the Church. We received reports from these Seventies for two years, 1899 and 1900. Now we have a report here, which is a good deal like the reports Brother Reynolds was talking about — not entirely true, because twenty quorums have failed to send their report in. I feel so annoyed, I can hardly express myself. I have been working with the presidents of those quorums for four months to get their reports. I will say here that we have some Seventies, amongst those quorums that are just about as near dead as they ever will be in the world. They are walking around, but they are dead. From top to bottom they are dead spiritually. We have 143 quorums. Number not reELDER J. G. 

ported, 20. We have between 8,000 and 10,000 Seventies; we are not quite clear as to the actual number. There are 14 quorums that have no non-tithepayers. Number of Seventies who do not pay tithing because of neglect and carelessness, 238. Number that do not pay tithing because of sickness and physical ailments, 28. Number on account of debt, 12. Some of these men get in debt, and a few of them have told me that the Lord is so merciful and their creditors are so hard on them that they will pay them first. Number on account of poverty, 77. Number on account of unbelief in tithing, 28. Missionaries that have just returned and are heavily in debt, and make that as their excuse, 15. There are 7 that are disgruntled— that is, they do not like their Bishops, or they have locked horns with the Presidency of the Stake, or else they have not been treated right when they went to pay their tithing. There are 9 that do not like the manner of disbursing the tithing. These make a total of 412. Including the 20 quorums that have not reported, we perhaps have about 500 non-tithepayers out of 9,000 Seventies. 

The First Council of the Seventy have been looking after the Seventies during the last year for missionaries. We took up the matter under the direction of the First Presidency. We have had suggested from the different quorums of the Church 497 missionaries, and we have been laboring with those men ever since — that is, writing letters of inquiry regarding their moral, their spiritual, their physical, their financial and their educational condition; and after sending out these letters, I want to say to some of the Presidents of Stakes, you need not be exercised— we did not get all the 497. There is nothing that has been done by the First Council, under the direction of the Presidency, for years that has done as much good as our inquiring after these brethren. I wish we had the time to enquire after every one of the Seventies, and thos? that are nearly dead, it would doubtless start their blood to circulating, and teach these Seventies the fact that they are witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ 

KIMBALL. 

to the nations of the earth, and it is their privilege to preach the Gospel continually, and that they ought to be out of debt and prepared to go. Out of the 497 the number reported to the missionary committee of the Apostles was 163. The number excused, on account of financial and physical condition, 138. Number who have not answered letters of inquiry yet, 60; but some of these letters have only just been sent out, and they will answer them. Number notified to report to the First Council in one year, 131. The 131 were in debt, nearly all of them, and we gave them a year to get out of debt. They are now on the anxious bench for a whole year, and at the end of the year, with the blessings of the Lord and a desire on their part to go forth as witnesses, God will be with them; but if they do not get free, all they have to do is to report it, and they will be excused, no doubt. Number who declined to go, 5. Out of 497 only 5 declined; and I believe if we had fully understood their letters and had started the Presidents to labor with them, there would not be found probably more than one out of the whole number who would decline to go. I tell you, it is a remarkable thing. The Christian church cannot show anything like it. 

I have not time to talk much about missionary work. In a few words, I want to say that I am strongly impressed that we are spending too much money in this labor. I learned from the Deseret News last night — which corroborates largely what I have believed — that they have seventy missionaries out of Davis stake, and it cost them $15,000 a year. If that statement be true, that every Elder spends at least $200 a. year on an average, and we have 1,400 Elders out preaching the Gospel to the nations of the earth, it costs this people $280,000 every year in cash. All I have to say, brethren, if you cannot g'o On missions; you are too rich to go, or you have too much business, or you have positions in the Church that prevent you from going; then, for heaven's sake, help those who do go; The Church must be protected in its business, in its wards, its stakes and its Church schools. I believe in protection — if I am among the number protected; but inasmuch as I am not, I tell you who are, in the name of Israel's God, if this Gospel must be preached, and we must spend $280,000 to preach it, you men that stay home must help carry the burden, and not have our brethren mortgage their homes and sell out everything to do this work. There are not two rich Seventies in the whole number we have reported to the missionary committee of the Apostles. They are all poor men, and some of their letters would bring tears to your eyes, when they write to us explaining the little they have, but they say "I am ready to go; I know God Almighty will bless us." I will rob you of a little time for the purpose of reading you what the Lord told my father, and I take it as a testimony to me that there is nothing that brings a greater blessing than preaching the Gospel to the nations of the earth. 

Far "West, April 6, 1839. 

"A word from the Spirit of the Lord to my servant, Heber C. Kimball. 

"Trouble not thyself about thy family; for they are in my hands. I will feed them, and clothe them, and make unto them friends. They never shall want for food, nor raiment, houses nor lands, fathers nor mothers, brothers nor sisters, and peace shall rest upon them forever, if thou wilt be faithful and go forth and preach my Gospel to the nations of the earth." 

I stand before you as a living witness of its truth. I have traveled among this people for eleven years. I have received honors and blessings from among this people, because of my father. I have found fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters. I have found friends everywhere I have been among this people. And I attribute the greater part of it to the fact that my father fulfilled that commandment. His children have never wanted for bread, and I tell you, in the name of Israel's God, they never will. They will be mighty poor, but they will always have bread. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: 

"Rouse all ye mortals, the dawn Is near." 

Benediction by Elder John H. Smith. 


