Overflow
05 04 1903


ELDER BEN. E. RICH, 

President of the Middle States mission, was the first speaker. He said: 

I sincerely trust that the Spirit of the Lord will be with us this afternoon, and that it will rest upon those who may speak as well as those who listen. If we are here to learn more concerning our duties to our God, it Is as necessary for the congregation to have the Spirit of the Lord as it is for those who address the congregation. It is not enough that those who speak to us shall do so under the influence of that Spirit, but we should listen and strive to understand the ripirit prompting the utterances made. 

I rejoice that we have the privilege o£ coming together and listening to the words of counsel and inspiration that fall from the lips of the authorities of the Church. While we are here in conference assembled our brothers and sisters scattered througflout the different nations of the earth are assisting us with their faith and prayers, and they are praying for their deliverance from the land of Babylon; they are prayinsr that the time may come, and that speedily, 'when they will have the privilege of coming to Zion to worship the Lord. I have listened to the prayers of the faithful Saints in far off Europe and in the missionary fields of America, and I know that it is not necessary for the Elders .to preach the principle of the gathering to those who  obedience to the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. When they have faith in the Lord Jesus and repent of their sins, and are baptized for the remission of the same, and receive the seal of the Spirit through the laying on of hands, the spirit of gathering rests upon them, and they are anxious to gather to Zion, where they can learn more of the ways of the Lord. It has been predicted that in the last days the mountain of the Lord's house would be established in the tops of the mountains, and that people rrom many nations would be heard to say: "Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." This is being literally fulfilled by the Latter-day Saints in the valleys of these mountains. People from all nations under heaven — all civilized nations—are praying that they might come up to this house of the Lord, where they may learn more of the ways of the Lord; for they want to walk in the path that will bring them near to God. Many, however, on emigrating to Zion are disappointed, and when they behold the acts of some people, they feel that this is a different Zion to the one they have seen in their dreams — to the Zion they have prayed for. 

The Latter-day Saints should understand that they all hold a portion of the Presthood of God. All male members of the Church hold a portion of the Presthood of God, or have the privilege of holding it, from their earlier years to the grave. We are expected to honor that Priesthood. When we come to Zion it is required of us that we shall aid in making it Zion in very deed, that we shall assist in purifying and cleansing it from 'everything that is displeasing in the sight of God, making it such a place as would be expected that the Lord would select for the gathering place of His people from the nations of the earth. 

Our faith is not a myth; it is a reality. God has come to the earth in the age in which we live, and His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ of Nazareth, came with Him, and They opened up this work in which we are engaged. 

They gave to us the Prophet Joseph Smith; They gave to us the ones who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph in the Presidency of this Church; They gave to us the Apostles and the Priesthood, and They have also given us to understand that while They have granted us our free agency, we are to be brought back into their presence. Then the books will be opened, and we will discover that we have been talking, aye, and thinking, into such a phonograph as has recorded our words, acts and thoughts in the Lamb's book of life. When that book is opened we will be held accountable for every idle word we have spoken; and the Lord is going to reward us, or He is going to condemn us, for that which we have done. We will be rewarded for our faithfulness, and we will be held accountable for the way and manner in which we have used the authority that He has given us to act in His name; this we know. We also understand that where much is given much will be required. We claim more than is claimed by any other religious body on the earth. We claim that the windows of heaven have been opened to us; that God has visited the earth in person; that Jesus is our Elder Brother; that unto us is given the privilege, honor and authority to speak in the name of our Father in heaven. As I said, we claim more than is claimed by any other people on the face of the earth, but I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, that more will be required of us than of any other people, and that we will be judged according to the light that we have received. We have received more light than any other people on the earth; »we have received the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness and power. To us has been given the knowledge that the Gospel is not only for the living but also for the dead. While we send missionaries throughout the world to preach to the living the prinicples of repentance and baptism for the remission of sin, we also have our brothers and sisters laboring in the same cause for the redemption of the dead, knowing as we do that the Priesthood of God does not pertain to this earth alone, but that it also pertains to the spirit world, where mission fields have been opened and are being operated. People on the other side of the veil also hear the glad tidings of the Gospel of salvation; we know that the living can do the work for the dead. We also know that the dead without the living cannot be made perfect, nor the living without the dead. Not one necessary principle connected with the Gospel of life and salvation, either for the living or for the dead, has been withheld from us, but we have been made the custodians of this knowledge. We are the light that God has placed on the earth, and He has commanded us not to set it under a bushel, but to set it on a mountain, where it can be seen from afar. 

We are commanded to go into the darkness of the world and spread the light of the Gospel, and to lift up our voices and cry, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." Let us remember that we all shoulder a portion of this responsibility, that we have a portion of this Priesthood, and that we are expected to magnify the same. Let us remember that two Priesthoods have been given us — the Aaronic and the Melchisedek Priesthood. Those who have been ordained Elders hold the Melchisedek Priesthood, and also the Aaronic Priesthood. They have just as much Priesthood as any man in the Church. They have just as much Priesthood as the Presidency of the Church, or the Apostles; for there are but two Priesthoods, as I have said, and an Elder holds them both. However, there are different offices in these Pristhoods. In the Melchisedek Priesthood men are set apart to labor as Elders, others as Seventies, and still others as Apostles— special witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ in all the world; but there is only one Melchisedek Priesthood. Those who hold the Priesthood had better magnify their callings, for the day will surely come when the dead, great and small, will stand before the judgment seat of God, and then, as I have said, where much was given, much will be required. May God bless you Amen. 

ELDER HUGH S. GOWANS, (President of the Tooele Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, to attend the general conferences of our Church has always been a feast to me, and this one is no exception to the rule. I pray that the same spirit that has characterized the remarks of the brethren who have already spoken during this Conference will continue with us; that the people may be fed with the bread of life and that we may rejoice together. 

I feel pleased to have the privilege of representing the Tooele Stake of Zion. This stake joins the County of Salt Lake on the west. It is large in area, comprising the entire county, "which extends 50 miles north and south and 1?5 miles east and west. Although our stake is large in area, the population is small, it is probably one of the smallest stakes in Zion, the population being a little over 3,000 souls. There are nine wards, located in a radius of about 50 miles. A few of our people live on the extreme west of the stake, bordering on the Nevada line, where a small Sunday school has recently been organized. The presidency of the Tooele stake and the High Council labor in unison. Quite a number of the High Councilors have been members of the High Council ever since the stake was organized, in 1877, and they are laboring for the best interests of the people. Although the stake is small In population, we have the same organizations that they have in other stakes— Relief societies, Sunday schools, etc. So far as our population is concerned, we have not increased very much. We have been very limited in our resources, and are today, so far as our water supply is concerned. Our population has been limited on this account. We are not able to get the young people to settle in our midst and make homes; however, a few have taken up dry farms and have been successful to some extent, although last year was quite a failure. Since 1882 our population has only increased 159 souls. Our resources have been limited, and we have been swarming, like bees, and the people have scattered, going to oth places to which they have been invited to go to establish homes. A great portion of what is known today as Cassia county was built up by people from Tooele county. During the past season as many as twenty persons left Grantsville. They were obliged to leave on account of our limited water supply. The only remedy we can find for this, though we have not established it yet, is the piping of our water from the mountain streams to reservoirs to be stored and used during the dry season. That is the only way that I know of that we can increase our population. 

I feel pleased to report that we have established a Sunday school at the Mercur mining camp (sometimes referred to as the Johannesburg of America), according to a suggestion of Brother George Reynolds, of the general superintendency of the Sunday schools of the Church. "We have a nice ward there, but it is composed mostly of transients. We are kept busy re-organizing the various organizations of the ward, on account of the transient nature of the people. At one time this ward numbered BOO persons. We have been able to establish successfully religion classes in all the wards of the stake but three, one of these being Mercur. Our people are so engaged there that it has not been possible to get anybody to take hold of the matter, and the teachers of the district schools are not of our faith. The people of the Vernon ward, in the extreme south of the stake, are so scattered that, during the winter months, it has been impossible to retain the children after school hours to attend- the religion class. 

All the organizations and institutions of our stake are in a good and healthy condition, I believe. I feel to rejoice in this, and in the amount of faith exercised by the people. The subject of tithing has been referred to by some of our brethren who have represented their stakes, and they have reported a wonderful increase, amounting to thousands of dollars. In the year 1882 the tithing of the Tooele stake was about $9,000. Since that time it has doubled itself, though our population is about the same. I take that as an indication ' of an increase of faith on the part of  people. The tithing paid last year amounted nearly to $19,000, and the population is but 3,000. As I remarked, I take this as an indication of an increase of faith on the part of the people, because it is the oldest members of the stake who pay this tithing, the young people having moved to Canada and other places to find homes. 

I feel to rejoice in making this report, though it is probably not as complete as I would like to make it, as we have not time to go into details this afternoon. 

I hope that we will be able to remain faithful and to appreciate the blessings and privileges that we enjoy, associated, as we are, with the living oracles of God, who have been placed in the midst of the people to guide and direct them. I hope that we will be able to enjoy the same feeling expressed by Abraham Lincoln during the time of the civil war. A friend was talking with him regarding the condition of the country, and so on, and made the remark, "I hope that the Lord is on our side." 'Well," said President Lincoln, "I do not worry about that at all; I know that the Lord is always on the side of right. What worries me most is to know if we are on the Lord's side." I hope, my brethren and sisters that we will worry over this until we have a testimony of the truth, and an assurance that we are on the Lord's side. Amen. 

L. W. SHURTLIFF, (President of the Weber Stake of Zion.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is a pleasure to have this privilege of standing before you here today to make such report as I may be led by the Spirit to give, concerning the Weber Stake of Zion, over which I have the honor to preside. It is one of the oldest stakes in Zion. Although the area of our stake is small, the population is large, numbering over 13,000 souls. I believe we are all laboring in harmony. So far as the tithing is concerned, we have made a large increase during the past year; in fact, the tithing has been increasing for several years. I rejoice to say that the people of the Weber Stake are a good people. Regarding the opening remarks of President Smith at this Conference, advising the Latter-day Saints not to neglect the useful professions, I will say, that although we are located in the central part of the state and have quite a large city, yet nearly all our people are farmers and fruitgrowers, and a great many of them are employed in sugar and canning factories, which have been erected by the Latter-day Saints. I believe there is none in the Weber Stake of Zion who cannot obtain lucrative employment along the lines referred to, without being obliged to enter into the professions. 

I rejoice in meeting with the people of God in conference, in hearing the testimonies of our brethren, and in listening to the voice of God's servants, proclaiming the truths of heaven and pointing out our duties. It has been my good fortune, as I deem it, to be associated with the Church all my life. I have had the privilege of being personally acquainted with all of the Presidents of the Church, Prophets of God, since the days of Brigham Young, and have taken a small part in the labors pertaining to the Priesthood from that day until the present. I feel that those who lead the Church today have the same power and authority to guide us as did the first President of the Church. I thank the Lord that we have such men to lead us— the. sons of those great men who led Israel in the past, and who introduced the work of God in the earth. 

I do not feel that I should prolong my remarks. I know this to be the work of God. I have had this testimony from my youth up, and I have had the privilege of bearing the same not only in my own land, but also in foreign lands; for I realize, as has been said here today, that we will be held accountable for our acts, either of a public or of a private character. I thank the Lord that there is a Judge who will judge us — perhaps more carefully, and according to our deserts, than we judge one another. I pray God to bless us, and to fill us with a love for the truth, that we may never turn traitors to the principles of the Gospel or the servants of God. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID JOHN, (President of the Utah Stake.) 

I am pleased to make a few remarks, and they must be very few-, as a good many others have to speak. 

I am pleased to say that the Church in the Utah Stake of Zion is in a healthy, thriving condition. Of course, our stake is one of the oldest, being organized soon after the settlement of the people in that county. They divided our stake about 27 months ago, organizing two other stakes — Alpine and Nebo — leaving us between nine and ten thousand souls. Previous to the division we had between twenty-four and fwentyfive thousand souls in the stake. We are trying our best to keep up with the times. The people are paying their tithing. Some 2,500 Saints in our stake are paying a full tithing. There are others who pay only a partial tithing, 480 who should be tithe-payers pay no tithing at all. This is quite a drawback to them, and it is also a drawback to the Church. We are laboring with these people and are trying to get them to assist the kingdom. We want to labor with all of them; for we do not want to be rash in handling them for their fellowship. It is far better to labor with them, to seek to enlighten them, and to draw them to us, and to get the Spirit of God in their hearts. 

I labored a long time in the Utah stake with the late President A. O. Smoot. I was with him over 18 years, assisting in the presidency of the stake. Then I assisted President Partridge five and a half years. Since the death of Brother Partridge I have had charge of the stake, in connection with my counselors. We labor in harmony and with love for one another. Our High Council and our quorums are in good working condition. Our Bishops and their counselors are men of God, alive to their callings. Our home missionaries and all our organizations are doing excellent work. We have been striving, of late, to infuse new life into the quorums of the Deacons, Teachers and Priests. We feel that we have neglected these quorums more than we should in our stake. We want to bring the boys to the front, those who belong to'  quorums of the Lesser Priesthood, and have them do the work pertaining to their callings. In doing this, they will grow and develop and become members of the Church in very deed. 

I have a testimony of Jesus Christ in my heart, and light from heaven to comfort my heart and to cheer me in my labors. To me serving God is a pleasure. I have endeavored to do this all my life, and to devote my life and all that I have to God's service. I pray God to bless us all and to enable us to obey the Priesthood, to pay our tithes and offerings and attend to our duties, and to build an altar of prayer in our own homes. May God enable us to do this, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER FRANK J. BRAMWELL, President of the Union Stake of Zion. 

It affords me very great pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to represent the Union Stake of Zion, one of the youngest stakes in the Church. I believe it was organized nineteen months ago today. We were very few in number at that time, and were located almost entirely in the Grand Ronde Valley, In Oregon. Since our organization our number has increased exceedingly. I am reliably Informed that the increase of the Union stake exceeded that of any other stake in the Church during the year 1902. To be exact, our number increased 1,030 during the past year. We have ten organized wards and one branch. All the organizations of the stake are complete, as are also the ward organizations, with the exception of two. 

The Union Stake of Zion was organized, you might say, in the midst of the world, and there are great opportunities for missionary work — and especially by the good .example of the Saints living there. The people of Oregon, I am pleased to report, are very broad-minded, as a rule. We meet with practically no opposition. We are invited into the business circle. We are invited to take part in committees in the local government. Only a few days ago I was sent for by the business men of the city of LeGrand, which has a population of upwards of 5,000, and I  informed by that body of gentlemen that they had decided to put a ticket into the field that should be known as a business ticket, and that they wanted a "Mormon" to head that ticket. I considered this a very great compliment to the few of us located in that vicinity. 

We have an exceptionally rich valley. The soil is exceedingly rich, and with the cultivation that will be given it, I trust, by the Latter-Day Saints already there and those who may join us, it will produce enormous crops, and our people, I trust, will become wealthy. 

The spirit of unity prevails there. I know of no unhealthy condition in any of our stake or ward organizations. I think I am also safe in saying that there are fewer drones, at least in one or two of our wards, than it has been my lot to observe in any other stake. I do not say this boastingly, but with thanksgiving to the Lord. 

Our borders extend to the state of Idaho. We have two wards in that state which are increasing with rapidity. A few weeks ago I was in the office of the chief executive of the state of Idaho, and was speaking of the colonization of the western portion of that state by the Mormon people. I assured the governor that it was our intention to multiply and replenish the earth, to reclaim the desert, to do as much good as possible, and to assist in the civil government all we could. He gave expression to an observation that he had made, which will perhaps be of interest to you. He said, "Mr. Bramwell, th§ Mormon people compose about onethird of the population of this state. There are in the penitentiary today about 125 persons, nine of whom are, or call themselves, Mormons." There are in the insane asylum of this state ninety or one hundred persons, only six of whom are furnished by the Latter-day Saint populace. Such figures as these are very encouraging. It seems to me that to those who do not like "Mormons" or "Mormonism," in their sober moments of reflection, this would appeal at once and bear witness that some good, at least, can come from what they term "Mormonism." I con-, sider it a very favorable showing and a great compliment to the Church of Christ in the earth. I remarked to the governor that if those nine individuals who found themselves behind the bars in the penitentiary had listened to the teachings of the authorities of the Church, there would have been nine less in that institution at the present time. After all, these favorable conditions are not to be wondered at, because it is claimed by 'the people, and rightly too, that we are led of the Lord. I have claimed, and do always claim, that anybody can follow, but that it takes a great deal of intelligence and wisdom to lead. As President Rich has suggested, the Lord has been true to his promises. He has gathered His people from the nations of the earth and has established them here in the tops of the mountains. He has said that He would gather us from every nation and that He would teach us of His ways, that we might walk in His paths. If we are the best people on the face of the earth, it is because we have been taught of the Lord. 

I rejoice in the spread of the Gospel. I rejoice in the privilege that I have of being a witness of the Lord Jesus, that I am able to testify to the restoration of His Gospel, and that I know it is the power of God unto salvation to all those who accept it. I have been greatly privileged, for which I am exceedingly thankful. I am thankful that the Lord has blessed our efforts in the Union Stake of Zion. I think it has the nicest name that any stake in Zion could have. As I tell our people, we expect a great deal of them because as long as they are at home they cannot get away from Union. The great and last prayer of the Lord was that union might prevail, and we have got it in Oregon, at least in name. I trust that the fruits we bear will prove that we are worthy of the name. I know that "Mormonism" is true, that the Lord has revealed Himself in the earth, and that the power of God is in the earth for the salvation of the human family. Let us be faithful; let us live according to the light that the Lord has given to us, following our file leaders. We sometimes sing the hymn, "We . thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, to guide us in these latter days;" but, unfortunately for us, individually at least.  we are told tg do a certain thing, in some instances we fail. If we are thankful to the Lord for a Prophet to guide us, let us listen to his words, else how can he guide us? God bless us, and may He bless His children in all the world, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DON C. DRIGGS, (President of the Teton Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am proud to stand before you this afternoon to represent the youngest stake of Zion that has been organized, being the fiftieth, I believe. We are located in the eastern part of Idaho, joining the great national park, our boundaries taking in the Jackson Hole country as well as the Teton valley. It has been about 15 years since our people first began to settle in that country. I was one of the first. The scene that greeted our eyes at that time was very fascinating indeed, in looking into the Teton valley. It was then uninhabited, with the exception of a few trappers and frontiersmen, I think about 30 in number. To look upon that beautiful valley and see the miles and miles of fine land threaded by silvery streams of water, one was led to exclaim, "How in the world has a country like this lain so long unoccupied?" But as we. view it now and see it occupied largely by our people, we cannot help but think that it was reserved as a gathering-place for the Saints. In fact, the Apostles who visited us in those early days told us that it would be a home for many thousands of the Saints of God, that the land would be fruitful, that the elements would be tempered, and that we would be able to produce all that was necessary for our sustenance. These promises have been truly verified, for we are not only producing that which is necessary to sustain us, but we are exporting a great deal in the way of grain, potatoes, timothy seed, etc. Of course we do not raise everything, but we are able to produce that which is necessary to sustain us. Our stake was organized about one and one-half years ago, by President Joseph F. Smith. We rejoice very much that we have this organization and to receive the  that we derive from our various organizations in the stake. They bring into active labor a large number of people, and we see the benefits and are enjoying the blessings that come to us in this resnect. 

Some of the brethren here have mentioned something about the products of the soil. I might mention the fact that in the Jackson's Hole country we have, I presume, the greatest game country in the United States. Most of the elks from the national park are wintering there. I suppose that about 20,000 elks have wintered in the Jackson's Hole country during the past winter. I was going to say that many thousands of them had died of starvation, but I believe it would be more correct to say many hundreds. There has been a great loss among these animals on account of the early thaw that came in the winter resulting in the crusting of the snow, which prevented the animals from getting their feed. The loss was mainly among the calves. The settlers have encroached upon the winter feeding grounds of the elks. The elks have resented this by breaking into the haystacks, and they have become a menace to the people in that region, especially during the past winter. 

I rejoice in the instructions that we have received during this conference.. I have been particularly pleased in listening to the reports of the presidents of stakes. I am glad to be able to take advantage of their experience, having learned what they are doing and how they are working in their stakes. I hope to profit by their experience, and also by the counsel and advice that has been given to us by the brethren. I do not feel that it would be proper for me to occupy more of your time. I want to remember the advice given in the manual of the Y. M. M. I. A. To practice stopping at the right time and in the right place. I pray that the Lord will bless us, and bless Zion, that we may all rejoice in the Gospel and the blessings that are vouchsafed to us, through obedience to the command- ments of God.which is my prayer. Amen. 

Sisters Maggie S. Hull and Maria B. Winder favored the congregation with a duet. 

ELDER JOHN M. BAXTER. (President of the Woodruff Stake.) 

I take pleasure, my brethren and sisters, in representing the Woodruff stake of Zion. The Woodruff stake was organized about five years ago. It comprises the south half of Rich county, Utah, and the southern half of Uintah county, Wyoming, also taking in the Lucern valley in Uintah county, Utah. We have fifteen wards and branches in the Woodruff Stake. It covers a large area of country. Our stake extends east and west 125 miles, and about the same distance north and south. The mining and agricultural districts are divided about equally. That portion ot the stake in Wyoming is composed principally of mining districts, and the Latter-day Saints are greatly in theminority; while that portion of the stake in Utah and in the Ft. Bridger country, Wyoming, is composed mainly of farming districts, and the people are mostly Latter-day Saints. We have erected five meetinghouses since the organization of the stake, all of which have been completed and paid for. We now have a meetinghouse in course of construction at Randolph, which will cost upwards of $15,000. It has not been finished yet. 

We suffered a great loss two years ago, after the organization of our stake, when so many of our people were called to colonize the Big Horn country, including President Sessions, my first counselor, and a number of other persons holding prominent positions in the Woodruff Stake. The Big Horn Stake was organized two years ago; previous to that time it belonged to the Woodruff stake of Zion: We met with another great loss in the Woodruff stake, through the closing of the mines at Aimy, Wyoming, which caused the breaking up of the ward at that place. Alma was the largest ward in the Woodruff stake at the time of its organization. When the mines closed down, the people scattered throughout the states of Wyoming- and Utah. I am pleased to say, however, that the tithes of the people have not diminished on account of this loss. We are paying more tithing at present than we were when the Alma ward was in a flourishing condition and when the Big Horn country was still included in our stake. So, we are increasing 1 in number and good works. That barren country known as the Ft. Bridger country, over which so many of our fathers and mothers traveled in coming to these valleys, which was then, and up to a few years ago, a barren desert, now has many beautiful farms and homes. W e now have a thriving people there. They have erected a large meetinghouse, and it is equipped with all the modern improvements. 

We are getting along very nicely with our neighbors in Wyoming, although, in many of the towns in which our people are located we are greatly in the minority, yet we are accorded all the rights and privileges that others enjoy. We find the people of Wyoming to be a broad-minded, generous and large-hearted people. They are willing to accord to the Latter-day Saints all the rights and privileges that are given to other people, and we are tnjoying the friendship and fellowship of the people of that state. We love them, and love to associate with them. I am happy to say that some of the congressmen of Wyoming have had the courage to defend our people in the halls of Congress. 

All the organizations of the Woodruff Stake of Zion are complete. I have, indeed, been blessed with good counselors — men of wisdom, men of experience, who have been a support to me. We also have a good High Council, which is a help to the Woodruff stake. We also have good Bishops and good people in that stake of Zion. 

There is one thing that was brought to my mind this morning, while one of the brethren was speaking about the young people's moving away from his stake. We find that a great many young men and young ladies from Utah go to the mining camps of our stake, in search of employment. There are many temptations surrounding the young people in those places, which are  to be found in our agricultural districts in Utah and other places. So far as saloons are concerned, I believe we can boast of more saloons in the Woodruff stake than in any other stake in the Church. Every mining town in the stake has from 10 to 15 saloons, and I almost believe the people drink more beer than water; but it is not our people, as a rule. Our people who live there are nearly all temperate. Some of them visit the saloons, I am sorry to say. Some of the young people who go to the mining towns from our agricultural districts in Utah and other places, after getting married, being surrounded by these influences and no longer under the watchcare of their parents and the Priesthood— some of them partake of these influences and fail to attend to the duties that devolve upon them as Latter-day Saints. 

I will say in conclusion, that I have a testimony to bear of the truth of this Gospel. I know that it is true. I was born and reared in this Church, being born in Salt Lake City. I have had evidence, all my life, of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I know that this Gospel is a perfect law of liberty. I was freeborn, and I have been free ever since I was born. I have taken a great deal of comfort and pleasure in seeking the counsel and advice of those who were placed over me, and I want to testify to you, that I have profited in every instance by doing so. I know that those who are placed in the Church to lead us are men of God; they are men of experience; they are men of wisdom, and above all, they are inspired of God. It will be profitable to us as Latter-day Saints not only to take the advice that they may give us from time to time, but to seek for their counsel and advice continually. May God bless us and help us to do this, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER EPHRAIM H. NYE, 

(President of the Southern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I regard myself as being highly honored this day to stand before you for a few moments as the representative of the Southern States mission. 

I will say, in brief, that the Southern States mission was cut down to its present proportions last June. It now constitutes the states of Mississippi, Alabama. Georgia, Florida and North and South Carolina. There are about 100 Elders laboring there — good, earnest, faithful, hardworking men — your brothers, your sons, your fathers, but not many of your fathers. We would like to have more of the fathers. We have some faithful Saints in the Southern States mission. We also have some .good friends, strong and influential. We are concentrating our efforts in the cities, and are meeting with good success. We have the promise of protection by the mayors and chiefs of police, and in most of the cities in which we are laboring-, some 19 or 20, we have the privilege of preaching on the streets. It is true that we have some enemies. 

It has fallen to my lot to be much among the children of men preaching the Gospel, and I have noted one thing to which I wish to call your attention, by way of camparison, between the God we worship and the God worshiped in the Christian world, and their form of worship. I have visited a good many churches and have listened to their sermons. One of the things that strikes me most forcibly is that they are always talking of a "merciful God," pleading His "wonderful mercies," teaching His "mercies," calling for His "mercies." We seldom if ever hear them talk about anything else, but 'the longsuffering and mercies of God." I want to ask you: Do you often hear the Latterday Saints talk about the mercies of God? Have you heard a single word thus far during this confernce, from the servants of the living God, concerning His mercies? No; and why? Because the Lord has given us something 1 better. Not only is the God of heaven, whom the Latter-day Saints worship, a merciful God, but He is something else. I want to speak of that something else in the view that I take of it. He is a God of justice; furthermore, He is a most munificent giver of great and wonderful gifts. I call your attention to some of those gifts: He gave us a Prophet, in- the person of Joseph Smith, to reveal to us His mind and will; He has continued  give us a Prophet to lead and guide us, even to this day. This is certainly a great and wonderful gift. It might well be said among the children of men in the Christian world, "O for a Prophet of the Living God," providing they could only comprehend the great blessing it would be to them. Not only has He given us a Prophet, but Prophets, and further, Apostles; men after his own heart, men of God, filled with the Spirit of God, Prophets of the Mcst High, to guide and direct us. Are these mercies? No; they are grand and wonderful gifts, gifts such as the world" knows nothing of. We are not yet obliged to plead for mercy. Next, we come down to such men as we have been listening- to during the sessions of this conference — Presidents of Stakes. They are grand gifts, as are also their counselors and the Bishops, and all the directing officers in the ministry, at home. They are grand gifts whom God has given us to guide us through the dark ways of life, to lead us out of darkness into the glorious light of eternal truth. These are not mercies, they are gifts, such as we do not always appreciate, perhaps. Perhaps we do not always comprehend how great these gifts are; perhaps we do not always revere or treat those men as we should in their lot and calling. Then we have the various ramifications in the Holy Priesthood, which Priesthood is also a wonderful gift, as are the blessings that we derive through its administrations. 

I also desire to refer to His favors, because He is a God of favors. It Is a favor to be called to the Priesthood as a Teacher, and to be required to labor in that capacity under the direction of any Bishop. It is an especial favor granted to every man who is called to an office in the Holy Priesthood, and to have that Priesthood bestowed upon him. It is a favor from the Lord to be called and sent forth to preach the Gospel in foreign lands, or wherever it may. It is a special blessing that God has given them; and if they will accept it as a favor and feel grateful to the Lord for the same, going forth and magnifying their calling, they will reap great and grand blessings, beyond their present powers to fully comprehend. God bless you. Amen. ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON, (President of the California Mission.) 

When I hear the reports of the Elders of Zion, indicating how she has prospered, how her borders have lengthened and been strengthened, I feel like exclaiming as did Balaam of old when he beheld the multitude of the children of Israel: "How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel!" To know that the wilderness has blossomed as the rose, that the desert has become as the garden of the Lord, and that joy, peace, thanksgiving and melody are found therein; is not this blessed? Should we not be grateful? I tell you, my brethren and sisters, we who have been away from you for some time, who have met with the sinister spirit of the world, are made to rejoice, and our souls are filled with joy. Our spirits are refreshed, and we are built up again in our faith upon hearing the testimonies of our brethren, and again looking into your faces and feeling the grasp of the hands of our brethren and sisters. 

The California mission comprises the states of Nevada and California and the western part of Oregon. The latter, however, has been added to the mission since my presence in Zion, making the mission over 1,700 miles in length. In California, particularly, we have but a few Saints. "We can only make converts fast enough to replace those who come to Zion, in spite of the fact that we do not preach to them to gather. "We would rather have them stay with us to strengthen the branches in that land; but, as President Rich has said, the spirit of gathering comes upon them when they have taken upon them the name of th e Lord Jesus Christ. He has said that He would gather them from the east and from the west, that He would say to the north, give up, and to the south keep not back; bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the ends of the earth, even so many as have taken upon them my name. 

The Californians, as the people of the west, are not a religious people. Our converts are made largely among the foreigners, and among people who have gone there from the eastern states. A  native Californians have come into the Church, whose fathers and mothers drifted away from the Church in early days, when this place was, as it now is, as a threshing floor, and the unfilled grains of wheat are blown away. Some of the sons and daughters have had the faith with them, and have heard the shepherd's voice and have come into the fold. 

Our efforts during the winter were largely hampered on account of sickness. Many of the Elders have had typhoid fever, or smallpox; but, thanks to God, in His mercy He has preserved us, and most all of the members of the Church as well as our Elders now have health and strength.and our prospects are again bright, and our souls have been made glad by a few coming into the fold.  

We were recently strengthened and encouraged by a visit of some 300 Utahns, including 80 or 90 members of the Tabernacle choir. With them, we had the privilege of meeting with about such a congregation as we have here today, in the Alhambra theater, San Francisco, two weeks ago tonight. Not many people get to hear of us this way, and the influence of our visitors does not extend as far as we would like. It is but as a drop in a bucket for fifteen or eighteen hundred persons in a city of 400,000 to hear the testimonies of the Elders. But we are bearing testimony daily on the streets and are distributing thousands of tracts, leaving the responsibility of a testimony of the restored Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ on thousands of people. In addition to doing this, we are making men of the boys who have gone into the field. They are receiving testimonies of the truth, and are contrasting and comparing the completeness of our Gospel with the man-made systems of the day, and noting how unsatisfactory the sectarian gospel is to those who have espoused it, who do not know the truthfulness of the saying of St. Paul, that "the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation." They make money their god, and pleasure its counterpart, not knowing the peace and joy that comes to those who are rich in a knowledge of heavenly things. I think the cause  the disregard for religion by the people of th»* te is largely their pleasant environments and the wealth of that land. Next to this is the individualism of the people, who interpret the Scriptures for themselves and care not for authorit-- for prophets or revelation. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters; may peace be in your homes; may you cleave fast to the covenants you have made, and be true to yourselves, to your brethren and to your God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
