Afternoon
05 04 1903





RULON S. WELLS. 

The Bible and Book of Mormon— Both true — Latter fresh from pen of Prophet — Word of the Lord today Is "get out of debt" — Seventies willing to go on missions — Many hindered by debt. 

My brethren and sisters, I sincerely hope that I may be sustained by your faith and prayers. As one of the presidents of stakes was coming upon the stand this afternoon, after having been invited by President Smith, he stopped and shook hands with myself and Brother McMurrin, and asked that we pray for him. In standing before you hero I feel like shaking hands with the Latter-day Saints and asking them to pray for me, because I believe that the prayers of the Saints are heard by our Heavenly Father, when they are offered up in faith. 

Brother Kimball made reference this morning to the Bible, and I am reminded of an article of our faith, which  that we believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly. We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. While he was quoting this article of our belief, the thought came into my mind, how often has it been quoted in the mission field, and how frequently have our enemies and those who have not accepted our faith criticised us in making reference to the Bible and qualifying it by saying that we believe it as far as it is translated correctly. "O yes," say they, "you Latter-day Saints believe the Bible when it is convenient for you to accept of it, but when it is not convenient, then you fall back upon the provision which says "as far as it is translated correctly." In giving this article of faith the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired by our Heavenly Father. Suppose for a moment that he had left out that condition. The question would at once arise, Which Bible do you Latter-day Saints believe in? Do you believe in the King James translation of the Bible, or do you believe in the revised edition? Do you accept the Catholic Bible, or the one that was translated by Martin Luther in the German language? There are a great many different editions of the holy scriptures; which of these Bibles do you believe in? because in many particulars the translations are at variance, and do not always agree. There was inspiration in the putting in of that condition. We believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly; and when it has not been translated correctly, we do not believe in that. To all intents and purposes, however, the Bible which is common among us is accepted by the Latter-day Saints as the word of God. When you refer to the Book of Mormon, however, you say that the Book of Mormon is the word of God, without any qualification. 

Now, what is it that the Latter-day Saints believe in? We believe that holy men of old spake and wrote as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and that which they spoke and wrote was the word of God; and if that has been handed down to us in its purity, we accept it as being the word of God. The Book of Mormon comes to us fresh from the pen of the prophet, and was translated under the inspiration of our Heavenly Father by one whom He raised up for that purpose. Consequently we can accept it without qualification as being the word of God. We also believe in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, because it contains the predictions of the prophets and the revelations of God delivered unto this people by the living oracles upon the earth in this day and age of the world. We read in the scriptures that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. The Latter-day Saints understand that the Lord will yet reveal many things pertaining to the upbuilding of His kingdom upon the earth. In other words, we believe in learning the will of God through the proper channels, and then to do it. That is our creed, our faith. We have among us the living oracles of God. The mouthpiece of the Lord has spoken to us at the beginning of this conference, and in his remarks he gave unto us the word of the Lord. He gave us counsel upon certain things that' are of great importance to the Latter-day Saints, and we will do well to heed the counsel of God as it is delivered unto us. I take this lesson to myself, and I believe it ought to be the feeling of every Latter-day Saint, to hearken to the warning voice. As Latter-day Saints, we pray unto our Heavenly Father that the President of this Church may receive wisdom from on high, and the inspiration of His Holy Spirit and the revelations of His mind and will, that we may be guided and directed in the ways of all truth. How willing, therefore, and how eager we ought to be to hearken unto his words and carry them out in our daily lives. The great spectacle that I see before me this afternoon is an evidence that the Latterday Saints are eager to hear the words of the servants of God. No doubt, many have come today with the expectation of hearing the voice of the mouthpiece of God. But "what would it avail unto us unless we tried to carry out his advice and counsel? 

Whatever may arise as a hindrance to the work of the Lord ought to be dis with, and that which interferes with the performance of our duty ought to be set aside. The adversary of the souls of men is striving with all his might to thwart the purposes of our Heavenly Father; but in no particular do I think that he has had greater influence upon the people at large than he has in taking advantage of theirtveak nesses by persuading them: to go beyond their means and into debt. It does not necessarily require a wicked man to yield to that influence at times. We are all more or less susceptible to it. Even some of the characteristics of our people which are to be commended— that, for example, of being unselfish and willing to let go of the substance that has come into our hands, have sometimes been a means that the adversary has employed to lead our people into debt. We have received, as has already been stated, a great many letters from the Seventies whose names have been suggested for missions to the nations of the earth, and the great majority of those letters have brought with them the spirit of the Gospel. The brethren have shown a willingness to respond to every call, and many of them have set forth their circumstances, but have closed their letters wtih a statement something like this: "These are my circum. stances. I do not offer excuses. I am willing to go into the mission field, and lift up my voice and cry repentance unto this generation. I am willing to leave my home, because I know this is the work of the Lord." They have thereby placed the responsibility upon the authorities of the Church to decide whether or not they should go. Notwithstanding this, there has been no disposition to work any hardship upon the Seventies or the brethren suggested for missions, and many of them have been excused when we have known their circumstances. Over 100 have been released on account of their financial condition. Thus the going in debt has been a hindrance to the work of the Lord. It has hindered the brethren from going out and magnifying their callings. It has been the means of depriving them of privileges which they might enjoy if they were only free. Those who are encumbered with debt, indeed, know what it is to be in bond. It is a block in the way of their magnifying their calling and responding to a call that would bring to them great joy and blessing. Oh! how willing we ought to be, and how careful to overcome the difficulties that stand between us and the performance of our duty. 

I ask the Lord to abundantly bless His people, and to bless all those who are striving to live by every word that cometh forth from the mouths of the prophets. May the Lord lead us to do His "will and keep His commandments, that thereby we may keep pace with the work of the Lord and do our part in helping to roll it on, is my prayer in i the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM GOFF. (President of Jordan Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters, this is the first time in my life I have been called upon to address so large an audience. I rely upon the Spirit of our Heavenly Father to sustain me; for I realize tha't I am surrounded by some of the best men upon the earth. In arising to represent the Jordan Stake of Zion, I do so with great pleasure. Our stake is yet in its infancy, being only about three years and three months old. It is located in the southern end of this county. Its area is about 15 by 30 miles. We have 13 wards, and I believe all the organizations that we have been called upon to establish are fully organized. I take great pleasure in representing our Sunday schools. They are in a very good, flourishing condition; also our Mutual Improvement associations. Those who have been called upon to pres'de over these organizations are faithful men and women, who observe the law of tithing, and, I believe, the Word of Wisdom; for these are two of the qualifications required of them. We desire those who represent these young people's associations to strictly adhere to these things, that they may set an example to the others. I have had called to my assistance two worthy men as counselors. We are' working together in perfect harmony. Our High Councilors are men of God, who are willing  sacrifice their time and talents topromulgate the Gospel in our Stake. They are- willing, when called upon, to do missionary labor in the various wards, and labor with the people at their firesides, holding cottage meetings, etc. This has proved a great blessing to us, and we feel that great good will come of it. We have many aged people who are not able to attend public gatherings much, and it is our privilege to carry to them the joy and satisfaction that we have in the Gospel. We have many good, faithful Latter-day Saints, and we have some to whom it is necessary to preach repentance. I have taken great pleasure myself in visiting the homes of the Saints in the various wards. I desire to say that we have a good people there, and that we are enjoying the spirit of our religion to a goodly extent. We have what is termed civilization with us. It should be "uncivilization." Out of our 13 wards we have 10 that have no saloons; but I am sorry to report that in the other three we have enough to supply all the rest. 

My brethren and sisters, I take pleasure in testifying to you that I know this is the work of God. I have a testimony of it. When I got that testimony I do not know; for something over 53 years age I was born in the Church, and that testimony seems to have .been born within me. I desire that this testimony may be increased within me, and I know that it will as long as I am on the road of progress and intelligence. The more I learn of the Gospel, the stronger becomes my testimony, and I believe that is the case with all of us. I wish to testify that it is through the power of the Almighty that I am here today; for I know, had it not been for the power of the Holy Priesthood, I should have been gone hence before now. I feel a desire in my heart to testify to the goodness of my Heavenly Father in this line. I pray God to bless the faithful Latterday Saints, and to stir up those who are not so faithful to renewed diligence. I ask these blessings, with all others that are necessary for us to prove true to the end, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER COLLINS R. HAKES, (President of Maricopa Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters, in standing before you for a few moments I earnestly desire your faith and prayers, to the end that we may Be blessed in the time that I occupy. 

For twenty years, the 22nd of this month, I have been connected with the Maricopa Stake of Zion, which is situated in the heart of the Arizona desert — the territory that we called the sunkissed land. I have learned to love that land; I have learned to love the climate; I have learned to love many of the people in that country. While our stake is one of the smallest, if not the smallest, in all Zion, we have many good, staunch, thorough Latter-day Saints in that little stake — men and women who are seeking "first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, - ' and who have faith that God in His mercy will add all things that are necessary. But we are not all of that type. We have others that are not so full of faith and good works. We have the company of almost everything, in the shape of saloons, and orders, and societies that are not of God, to contend with; but the majority of the Latter-day Saints in our little stake get along with the saloons by simply letting them alone, and we get along with our neighbors of the different societies by treating them with kindness and courtesy, but not affiliating with their organizations. As a rule, they treat us in about the same way. We have in that country, I think, one of the most fertile and productive pieces of land that can be found within the bounds of the United States. We are lacking one element — water for irrigation purposes; but it certainly looks now as though that question was about to be solved in our country and a supply of water provided sufficient to make that one of the most beautiful spots of the earth. We have every prospect of having it at an early date. Let me say that while many of our people have within the past few months pulled out of that country and gone to other parts, I feel in my heart that it will be many years before they are any more comfortably situated for making a living for themselves and families than they were in 

Mesa, Arizona. This was the feeling 1 had the other day when I separated from a company of fourteen who came with me as far as Ogden, and who were going into Montana, Canada and Idaho, seeking homes. I hope that they may be blessed, so far as the Lord sees fit to bless them and to give them better places than they have left. We sow our wheat in November and December, and we reap it in May and June, and when we have water we get from forty to fifty bushels to the acre. We put our stock upon the stubble until the middle of July, and then, if we have water, we plant corn and fall crops; and in our second crop we can get just as good a yield of corn as is got in almost any country. But these possibilities are only when the water supply is there. 

I say to the Latter-day Saints that want to breathe good warm air, come down to Arizona. We will give you a warm reception — especially if you come in July and August. I came here a little early this morning, and stood outside before the doors were opened. Some of my friends were admiring the beautiful fresh and bracing breezes that were coming in from these snowelad hills, and I thought that If I only had power to bring down a few thousand cubic feet of Arizona weather and spread it out here, it would be a great benefit. But to me, my brethren and sisters, it does not matter where I live; it does not matter a great deal how long I live; but it does matter a great deal how I live. I believe that God is able to adapt us to the elements of the country where the servants of God wish us to reside; and I believe that the men and women who are filled with the Spirit of God are filled with the spirit of contentment, and that they will seek after the kingdom of God and His righteousness in any land or clime, hot or cold. If you want a healthful clime, we have it in Arizona. I believe we have as many days of sunshine in that country as there is in any land. We will positively agree not to freeze you; but we will give you plenty of good warm air to breathe, plenty of room to labor, and a country that under the blessings of God and the toil of the Latter-day Saints will yield of its fulness, as results to the farmer. 

May God bless all Israel in every Clime, and prosper His work, and bless His servants with the power of the holy Priesthood, that Zion may grow and spread abroad and her borders be stengthened, is my desire and prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER DANIEL HEINER. (President of Morgan Stake.) If the Lord will bless me with His spirit and give me strength, I will be pleased to say a few words in reporting the Morgan Stake. The Morgan Stake is comparatively small. Brother Hakes stated that he had one of the smallest Stakes. I have been thinking that we had almost the smallest in the Church. We live in a very small valley, but the soil is very fertile. The Presidency of the Stake feel that they have a very good people. The Priesthood of Morgan Stake are becoming more united, and the prospect for the spiritual growth of the people is very favorable. The Presidency of the Stake are united. We meet once a week. My counselors understand just about a s much of the condition of the stake as I do. I have two very good counselors. The same may be said of the High Council. Our financial condition is improving. The people are just beginning, I believe, to find out the value of their homes. I think the homes in Weber valley have, in the estimation of the people there, increased in value 100 per cent within the last year or two. It is probably due to the people cultivating the land more thoroughly and making better use of their time and opportunities. The organizations in the Stake, such as the Sunday school, we are very proud of. We feel that there is an extra good work being done in the Sunday schools and in the Mutual Improvement associations. I am happy to say that everything is favorable in the Stake, although we have some people that are a long way off from being as good as they ought to be; but the Presidency of the Stake are encouraged by the prospects." I thank the Lord for a living fpstimony of the Gospel. I thank Him that He blessed me witn gooaiy parents, who taught me the Gospel, and that He gave me faith in the Gospel, so much so that I have a living testimony, which  me all my days. I ask the Lord to bless the people in the Morgan Stake and in the whole Church, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER J. S. PAGE, JR. (President of Nebo Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, for a good many years I have been in the habit of attending the annual and semi-annual conferences of the Church, but have sat in the congregation and looked from there in this direction, and I must confess that I had grown to feel much more at home than I do standing here facing you. At the same time it is an inspiring spectacle to see this large number from among the hosts of Israel, gathered together in the name of the Lord. It gives one some impression of the strength of the work that the Lord is accomplishing upon the earth, and we take strength from one another in thus assembling. In standing before you for a short time to represent the affairs in the Nebo Stake of Zion, I do so in humility and with a desire to have utterance given me of the Lord for this purpose. The Priesthood of that Stake are engaged in preaching the Gospel as recorded in the scriptures, which were written by holy men of God as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. They are endeavoring to realize the efficacy of the atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ, to understand our relationship to Him, and our dependence upon His atonement and labor. We are endeavoring also to honor the Prophet Joseph Smith as an instrument of God, who was called to establish Zion in the last days, and through whom the Gospel was restored, with the authority to administer its ordinances; to also honor those who have succeeded him in the Presidency, and to realize that their words spoken by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit are the words of God unto His people. In addition to this, we are 1 trying to have every man who holds a portion of the Priesthood honor the of. fice and station in which he is called to labor and magnify the Priesthood that has been placed upon him. In doing this we have taken pains that not one young man of sufficient years should be overlooked, but that all should have the opportunity to labor according to their capacity and desire, that they may not rise up in later days and say that the doorway to progress and advancement had been closed in their face by those whose duty it was to open it. The Priesthood are also trying to inculcate the principles of faith, humility, obedience, and a seeking after the things of God, in order that they may have the Spirit of God to be a companion and guide, that we may all realize that light has come into the world, and that we may walk according to that light, and continue to be in companionship with the Holy Ghost. I believe I can say with truth that the very great majority of the Priesthood are striving to labor for the establishment of Zion upon the earth, and to be enabled to give a good report of the work that is placed in their hands to accomplish. This can be said, too, of those who preside over and labor in the auxiliary societies of the Church. As a rule, they are zealous and earnest. The interest of the religion class work particularly comes to my mind at this time. It is something that we have not given as much attention to as some other branches of the work; but with its development in our midst we begin to appreciate the blessing of the Lord in having this established among us, and we look for great good to come therefrom. It is coming to be loved by the people. The Priesthood of the stake are working together in harmony from first to last, so far as I am acquainted, with a desire to be humble, to be led by the- Holy Spirit, and to labor according to the counsels of the Prophet of God and to sustain those who preside over us. That we may be able to continue to do so, and that the blessings of God may be upon all the Church in every part of the earth, is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH M. TANNER. Development of Church school system — Efforts in the direction of manual training — Beneficent effects of technical instruction — Its application to agriculture — A local scientific expert. 

I have enjoyed very much the spirit and instructions of this Conference, and I trust that I may have your interest while I report the work that has been  in my charge. We have an organization which we call the Church schools. Twenty of these institutions are located in Utah, Arizona, Idaho and Old Mexico. They are attended by about 5,000 of our young people, and the increase of late has been quite marked. Last year we had 940 students more than the preceding year. 

I was very gratified yesterday to hear President Smith speak upon some matters of education to the people at large, and manifest to them the same desire that he has manifested to the Church board of education and the ooard of ex. aminers. I am very pleased to say that we are making special efforts to introduce manual training into these schools. In Salt Lake City — and what is true of this city is true of other places— we have hundreds of young men who leave the schoolroom during the summer season, and for three or four months are without employment, left to pastime that leads them into idleness and frequently into frivolous lives. The question arose as to what should be done with these young people during these long summer vacations. If we had in the City of Salt Lake a manual training school, hundreds of our boys within a very few summers might learn much that goes to make up a trade. Looking to these particular needs. President Smith appointed a committee to make investigation and report to the General Church Board of Education the status of affairs in this respect, and also what, in the judgment of the committee, could be done| to remedy the evils that are so apparent among us. A report has not been made, and therefore I cannot give you the findings of that body. But I desire to call your attention to one item of their investigation. After a careful computation of the industrial situation in this state, from the standpoint of the tradesman, it was found, reckoning on a conservative basis, that we are paying out every year something like eight millions of dollars to tradesmen; that our own people are diminishing in numbers in this class; that many of the older <ones are, so to speak, out of date, not having kept up with the demands of the times; that we are gathering few from foreign countries who learn trades in their na_  land, and that we are having few or no apprentices among us. One of this committee (several of which are at the head of industrial concerns in this city) made the remark that during the 30 years he had been in charge of a building firm they had not educated one single apprentice. We feel the necessity of this training. We feel that the people should give it their support. I am perfectly free to say to you this afternoon that many of the Latter-day Saints are overly-anxious that their sons should become bookkeepers. We have 10 young men anxious to become bookkeepers where we have a place for one of them when they are educated. We do not have one 'young man learning a trade where there is and will be a demand for 50 of them within the next few years. So they are preparing in great numbers for that which they are not likely to need, and neglecting that which they ought to have in the course of their education. One of the reasons for this is the sentiment which the parents inculcate in the hearts of their children by encouraging them to pursue some branch of study that is called culture. I 'would like to relate an anecdote that explains much of our educational culture in these times. Some few years ago, when I was at Harvard, the dean of the scientific school said to me that our educational culture was so empty and so worthless that he never used the word "culture" when he could possibly avoid it. Then he related an anecdote of two farmers who were cultivating their land near the town of Cambridge, where the Harvard university is situated. These two farmers came to the partition fence one day, and one of them said to the other, "John, what is culture " 'Why," John says, "don't you know what culture is?" "No," said he; "I hear these school teachers that come by here on to Arlington Heights in the summer time, talking about culture. They say, he is cultured, or she is cultured, or they are cultured, and 'Oh, my, how I do love culture!' Now, what are they talking about?" "Why," said John, "you know what potato culture is?" "Yes, I know that." "And you know what wheat culture is?" "Yes, I know that." "Well, you take  the wheat, and take out the potatoes, and then you have the culture." 

Our education has been provided in a large measure by the state, and it has made its demands upon us, and that education has been almost exclusively confined to books. In some of the eastern states wealthy men are contributing their means for the establishment of technical institutions, where young men can learn mechanism; and these institutions are most interesting. In some of the states the government itself is establishing schools of technical training, in order that the citizens may be more useful. 1 expect to see the day in Utah when the men that are possessed of means will contribute likewise for the establishment of similar institutions in the state and in the Church, that our young people may become more useful in building up the country. For mechanism has in it something that is stable. It educates the judgment, and it gives wisdom to the men and women who are trained to use their hands along with their brains. Its importance to us cannot be overestimated. 

A few months ago I had the opportunity of traveling through Canada and some of the cities of the east. I found in many of those large cities schools of technical training. I found they had a very beneficial influence upon the morals of the people. For example, these schools were kept up from morning until ten o'clock at night. During the middle of the day you would see the bootblack, after his work was over in the morning, wend his way into the school; and the newsboy, after he had sold his morning edition, was going into this technical school, that he might learn him a trade. I am told that some of those boys have already graduated from these schools^ and that instead of blacking boots or selling newspapers they are now mechanics, earning good wages ,and are valuable citizens in the communities where they live. I remember very well when visiting one of these polytechnic schools in Brooklyn, the man took us into a room and said, "These benches and this work are all ready for the men who come here at night." I asked him who these men were. He replied, "They are mostly clerks from the stores and men that are driving teams. After their work is over at six o'clock in the evening, they go home at once to supper, and they are here by seven o'clock. It is only a question of two or three years until their services are demanded in some of the best workshops of the city ,and some of them now are earning large salaries." Many of our young men find themselves compelled to take up vocations in life for which they are not suited. They are clerking in stores when they have that mechanical talent that would make them most useful in that line. 

"We are encouraging some of our young men to go east and work up in these technical schools. One or two are now at work, and it is hoped that others will go as soon as they possibly can, and fit themselves for the demands that must be made upon them in the near future. We not only desire that these schools should be organized in the Church, but it is only a question of time when they will be organized in the state and our Legislature will be as anxious to appropriate money to teach men to be artisans as they are to teach them Latin and Greek and foreign languages that they have no use for; but we can hardly make some of our legislators today realize that manual training and that the artisan is as important to our state as the stuient of Greek and Latin. I desire to say that we shall respond as far and as rapidly as we can to the instructions which our President has given us. We realize only too well the truth of his remarks in this respect. 

One thing more. We have organized in this state an agricultural experiment station. It has given out very valuable information that will make our people scientific and technical farmers; aye, and teach them hew to cultivate the soil, how to raise stock; and our housewives how to produce in this state a million dollars a year more than they do from their poultry. When I was in Canada I was told of the great value to the farmers of that country the bulletins issued by Dr. Widtsoe, of the Agricultural college, had been to them; how many thousands of dollars those bulletins had been in wealth to the people away off in eastern Canada. I asked  the question, How much value have these bulletins been to the people in the state where they are issued? Dr. Truman Allen, of the Agricultural station at Washington, says of them that they are the highest authority in the world on the subjects that they treat of. And Dr. Widtsoe is one of our home boys, and is giving out to the world this information that is doing so many hundreds of thousands of dollars' good to the world, while many of us at home have scarcely gained any value from them whatever! I was very glad when the Legislature set apart something like $12,000 for experimental work in the dry farms of this state; and if you will watch the work of* this eminent scientist, if you will read something of his bulletins, you will gain great advantage, and you may become professional farmers and stockraisers. He is just how finishing a bulletin on irrigation. I understand it will be out of the press soon. I hope that he will isue a popular edition of it— that is, strip it of its scientific and technical terms; for I am sure that when we come to find out something more about irrigation we shall discover that after all in many places it is not more water that we need, but a more scientific and accurate use of the water that we have already. So I am pleased to make these statements to you here, because I feel that by a little attention on our own part, by following the investigations and experiments of eminent men in our midst, and especially by following the work of our scientist, Dr. Widtsoe, we may gain a great deal that is valuable and that will increase the wealth and prosperity of the people. 

Our schools, above all things, aim to inculcate the Spirit of God in our young people, and fit and qualify them for the mission of disseminating the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the nations of the earth. I need not say to you that these schools have accomplished a vast amount of good in this respect, and there is hardly a family in the Church that has not felt, directly or indirectly, the spiritual blessings that have come to their homes from these institutions of learning. 

God bless you. God bless the schools, and all the departments and organizations of Zion, that there may be a har effort through all our labors for the accomplishment of a common good. God bless the man that stands at the head of them all; for I want to testify to you today that I have great encouragement in this work from the interest that is felt by our President, and the Church Board of Education. The students feel it also, and his interest in their lives has been so exceptional and great that they are enthusiastic when he meets them in their schools and takes part with them in their exercises. God bless you all. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Importance of cleanliness — Effects of its opposite — Other and worse conditions — Manual training — Future material development. 

I am indeed pleased, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of addressing this vast audience this afternoon, for a few moments. It seems to me that the spirit of this Conference has been cne of teaching the people concerning the material interests of life, and I know of nothing better to speak of, as such instruction reaches the daily lives of all the people. 

There is a saying that cleanliness is next to Godliness; I hope I may be the means, through the Spirit of God, to bring the attention of our people to the necessity of cleanliness. If I had time, I would like to go into the subject far enough to include cleanliness of the mind, cleanliness of the bo' cleanliness of the surroundings, cleanliness of city and town. I hope that the Bishops, and presidents of stakes, when they go home, will see that the attention of the people over whom they preside is called to this subject. I wish that every family in Zion understood the value of cleanliness in the home. I have often said that a clean home does not, of necessity, mean a mansion; no matter how small the home may be, the father and mother, and particularly the mother, should be interested in keeping that home free from all filth. The father should keep clean the dooryard, the outhouses, the barns, the sidewalks, and all that pertains to the home surroundings. The mother shoul 1 see that the inside of the home, though it consist of but two rooms, is kept scrupulously clean. I can not stop to  you of the thousand benefits that would result from so doing; I know the people would be healthier; children would love their homes more, have more pride in them, enjoy more the beauties of nature, and learn more of the joys of life. I also trust that we can teach all to be clean in person, clean in their associations, and pure in their thoughts. 

I remember, when I was a small boy, President Brigham Young was making one of his tours and arrived at a town in one of the southern counties. He had intended to stop there and speak to the people, but, as he drove along the streets, entering town, he noticed the unclean condition of the surroundings. He drove direct to the Bishop's home, stopped his team and said to the Bishop, who stood in front of his resi denee waiting the arrival of the president: "Why Bishop, I see the same old rocks upon the streets; I see the same old dirty surroundings; I see the same old gates off their hinges; I see the same old broken down fences; I see the same old puddles of mud before the tithing office and your public buildings, just as they were when I was last here; and, inasmuch as I called attention to these defects when I was here before, and it has had no effect upon the people whatever, I do not think it necessary for me to stop this time. Good-bye, Bishop. Tell the people when they attend to these things and rectify them, I will stop next time." 

I wish, my brethren and sisters, that we all could realize what it means to us as a people to keep our surroundings clean and pure. I assure you it is worthy our consideration and attention. 

I read a synopsis of a speech that was made here the other day, by a reverend gentleman, before the Young Men's Christian association. 

He spoke to a large audience, and called attention to what he termed the three reigning sins of this great nation of ours, viz: gambling, intemperance, and moral impurity. I am pleased to state that I can say amen to all that he said in regard to these subjects. But there are other things which I believe are just as much reigning sins as the three he spoke of. We know that these three evils spoken of rob the home of comfort. They rot) the wife of a probable loving- and devoted husband. They rob the children of the necessities of life. They bring degradation and mis. ery into the home.s of millions of people. While I was thinking of these reigning sins, I thought too of other evils which are the cause of many men gambling and drinking, and leading impure lives; upon one of these evils or causes I want to say a few words this afternoon. 

One of the greatest evils of our day is that there are so many wilfully motherless wives. Closely connected with this is another, the wilful laziness of men who do not properly provide for their wives. Psychologists are studying these questions, and trying to solve the problem of why there is so much sin in the world today, so many men devoid of manliness, .so many vicious scoundrels who have no other aim in life than to prey upon mankind. I have thought many times there certainly is a reason for this; and at least one reason is, there are so many children brought into this world by unwilling mothers, the offspring also, in many cases, of equally unwilling fathers. Every child born into this world has a right to a tender and loving welcome. It has a right, by laws of nature, to claim this of the father and mother; but in the world today — and I fear it is creeping- into our midst — mothers and fathers do not want many children. They "do not want to be bothered with them," as it is so often said. Coming home from the east lately, I was conversing with a man on the train, and he remarked to me: "Why, Mr. Smoot, I have one child, and I would not take a million dollars for it; but I 'would not give five cents for another." I want to tell the fathers and mothers of Israel that the first great law God guve to mankind is as binding today upon the world as it ever was, I hope and trust that the people of this nation, and' of this Church in particular, will live according to this law, and not violate it in any manner. Let us, my brethren and sisters, show to the world that we love children more than we do lapdogs. Let us show that we love our offspring more than anything earthly, so that the world may  that what God reveals 'we believe and practice. I promise you that if we live to this law, God will provide for the men and women who, willingly and lovingly, bring children into this world and teach them His commandments. 

You have, doubtless, noticed, of late, that' President Roosevelt has called the attention of the world to the fact that "race suicide" is one of the great evils of the day. I thank God that this nation of ours has a man as its president, who believes it the duty of all married people to become parents. I also rejoice that the wife God gave him is thankful she is the mother of a number of children — not ashamed of one of them. He believes in rearing children, and in making the home an altar for our religious devotion. He believes in bringing children into the world by willing parents, and making Americans of them. I believe that this theory is pleasing in the sight of God. So I say to my brethren and sisters today, and I would that I had the power to say to the world, Stop "race suicide." If you don't want a family, don't get married. I hope that we, as Latter-day Saints, will learn from the experiences of the world the evil effects of "race suicide," and not pass through the experiences ourselves. 

I have indee'd enjoyed the practical remarks made at this Conference. Ever since I was twenty-two years of age, I have said on many occasions that, if God blessed me with sufficient means, I would some day establish a school of manual training. I have noticed the lack of this in our schools for many years. Many, perhaps, have said that I was a crank on this subject. But, I have been placed in a position, at the Provo Woolen Mills, where I have seen the evils that exist in the lack of manual education for our children. I can go to Provo today and put up. a notice for common laboring men at a salary of a dollar and a half a day and the next morning, more than likely, there would bs dozens of applications; but just let me post a notice that we want a competent finisher, head of a department, or a dyer, and there would not be a person in all of the state of Utah make application, that is quali for the position. I desire to say to the people of Utah that we are on the verge of an opportunity for wonderful growth, and, while we may have reverses and hard times at intervals.there will be an impetus come to this state that we little dream of at present. There will be great iron manufactories In the south, and many great smelting plants in different parts of the state. The time will come, and it is not far distant, when the manufacturing interests of this state will be the greatest of her industries. Are we preparing for this? I take it for granted that the smelters we have today can get all the common laborers they want for two dollars or two dollars and fifty cents per day; but, if they require a man who knows the business thoroughly,and who could take charge of it, I guarantee that they can not find him here, but will have to look to some eastern city where people, through necessity, have learned that, in order to get along in this world, they must be thoroughly  in some particular line or calling. 

Before sitting down, I desire to say that I feel grateful to my heavenly Father for His special blessings to me; and I am also grateful to the people of this state for their confidence in me. I know that if we pray to God in earnestness He certainly will sustain us. The danger of our becoming lukewarm is not from without — the danger is ivithin. I hope and trust that God will strengthen us; that He will make us honest, upright and honorable members of His Church; that we will never falter for a minute, nor ever have a doubt this this is the Church and Kingdom of God. God bless us all, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward and the choir sang the anthem: 

"When Thou Comest to the Judgment." 

Benediction by Elder Moroni W. Merrill. \; 