Morning 
02 10 1931

The first session of the Conference convened Friday morning, October 2nd, 1931, at 10 o'clock, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The great tabernacle auditorium and galleries were filled with people who had assembled from all parts of the Church. 

President Grant announced that the meeting would commence by the congregation singing the hymn "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered by Elder LeGrand Richards, President of the Hollywood Stake. The congregation sang the hymn, "O say, what is truth?" 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is a pleasure to again have the opportunity of meeting the Latter-day Saints in general conference. J rejoice in the progress of the work of the Lord. 

It has been my privilege during the last six months since we were assembled here in this capacity, to visit quite a number of the stakes of Zion and to be in a number of the missions of the Church, and to dedicate a great many chapels and recreational halls in different parts of the Church. 

Notwithstanding the great trouble financially all over the world I believe that as a people we are suffering less than are those in other sections of the country, for which I am very grateful to the Lord. 

WORK PROGRESSES 

The work of the Lord is progressing all over the world without any exceptions. We are receiving calls from the presidents of all our missions for additional missionaries. 

Our missionary force has been reduced very materially on account of the present financial condition at home and abroad, but the spirit of the work is progressing splendidly, and many of the local people all over the world where we have missions are engaged actively in missionary work; and in many places local people are being installed in presiding positions, thus relieving many of the missionaries from some of the activities that they have heretofore engaged in. I rejoice in the present condition of the Church and the progress it is making. 

iTSTO NEED TO WORRY 

I do not think that we need to worry the least bit about any of the Latter-day Saints suffering on account of lack of food or shelter during these hard times. I am confident beyond the shadow of a doubt that with our system of fast-day donations and the work that is being done by our Relief jSociety, the bishops in all ,the various wards, with  help of the auxiliary officers, will be able to look after those who are in real distress. j 

I am converted to the fact that if the Latter-day Saints as a people would actually do without two or three meals once a month, as prescribed, on fast days, and give the full equivalent to the bishop, thus benefitting their own individual health and that of their families — if they conscientiously paid a full fast day donation, each and every person giving the equivalent of two or three meals one Sunday jn each month — it would fully take care of those who are in distressed circumstances. 

I rejoice in the fact that from many sections of the country we have received reports that our people, as a rule, who have been honest and conscientious in the mission field, in the payment of their tithes, almost without exception are retaining their employment and are getting along all right financially. 

FALSEHOODS BEING CIRCULATED 

I do not know that the subject is worthy of my notice, and yet it has been suggested that it might be well to refer to the continued falsifying by some people who have been excommunicated from the Church and are going around distributing papers and documents and publishing papers that are as full of lies as an egg is full of meat. I believe that the very best liars I have any acquaintance with are those who have been cut off from the Church and cast out. They seem to be very active at the present time, making statements that our property is being mortgaged, etc., notwithstanding the fact that there is no Church property mortgaged. Any person could go down to the county court house in any of the counties and find out if the Church's property is mortgaged. There is no part of the property of any one of the wards or stakes in our Church, or of the general Church property, that is mortgaged. 

These people talk about the funds of the Church having been used for individual benefit and so on, so I hear. It is only fair to say that I have never taken the trouble to read what they publish in their "New Era." It would be more properly named the "Regular Liar," instead of the "New Era." I have heard that a lie can travel around the world while truth is getting out of bed, but nevertheless truth eventually overtakes the lie and steps on it. 

MONEY LOANED TO SUGAR COMPANY 

The fact remains that the Church has loaned some money to the Sugar Company and it has taken a mortgage for that money, and the loan is well secured. The fact remains that in helping the Sugar Company the Church is helping itself, because the first beet sugar factory ever built in the iUnited States of America with American machinery was built at Lehi, and 'the Church used its credit and borrowed the money to help build it. Yes, the Church had to borrow the money at that time. Now it .does not need to borrow it. The Church is the principal stockholder in the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company, and by lending it some money and taking /security on real estate, it is simply protecting its own property. 

PENALIZED FOR LOYALTY 

I shall be very happy indeed if in the providence of the Lord there shall be a return of prosperity for ( the Sugar Company. We are being penalized today in the sugar business because of the loyalty of the people in response to jthe appeals of the Government when sugar was retailing at 20, 25 and sometimes 30 cents a pound. We built at that time twice as many factories as we can now get beets to operate, and I suppose it is just as well that we could not get the beets during the last year tar two to operate all our factories inasmuch as there is no profit in the business. 

I am sure that whenever the time comes that sugar will sell at reasonable prices, so that the farmers can get a little more money for raising beets, some of our idle factories can be opened, and there will be an increase of prosperity for the farmers and the people generally, if this industry can only grow and increase. 

PERSONAL PROFIT DENIED 

The original sugar factory was built (by jWilford Woodruff and his associates and friends mainly for the benefit of the farmers, so that they might have an increased variety of crops. That was the only object. 

The idea that businesses have been established by the Church for the individual profit of men who are connected with the leadership of the Church is absolutely false. Many of us borrowed money and put it into that factory at the request of [President Woodruff and lost the money that we invested. 

I know something about it individually because I personally borrowed a large sum of money, bought stock, paid interest on it for five years and then sold the stock for less than one half of what it cost. I gained a whole jlot of experience financially out of it and have never recovered, so far as the Sugar Company is concerned. II thought I would make this much of an explanation. 

SATISFIED WITH ,STATUS 

I remember delivering a sermon here nearly a year ago — perhaps it was longer ago than that, I do not remember the exact date — in which I referred to the fact that some people had said that if the Mormons would only do away with their belief in Joseph Smith and his prophecies they might now really, with the progress they are making and the changes they are making, etc., be counted in the Christian family. 

Inasmuch as the Church to which you and I belong is the Church of Jesus Christ, established by the Savior himself through the instru of the Prophet Joseph Smith, I do not think we need to worryabout being admitted into the various Christian denominations. The one thing that you and I need to worry about, and the only thing, is with regard to keeping the commandments of the Lord, living our religion as Latter-day Saints. 

TRUE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I am sure that the man who is honestly and conscientiously observing the Word of Wisdom, who is a full and honest tithe-payer, and attends to his meetings and his family and secret prayers, such a man need not worry about anything that might be said concerning this Church by apostate Mormons or anyone else. 

A true Latter-day Saint is living a life that is above reproach. He is living a life that stamps him in the eyes of all honest, conscientious people as a man worthy of respect and one who can be relied upon, because the true Latter-day Saint believes in God and in Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. He believes in sustaining the laws of God and the laws of his country, and in living a virtuous, true, upright life. No man can be a true Latter-day Saint without being worthy of the confidence of all men, without regard to whether they believe as he does or have any respect for his beliefs. 

CHANGES AMONG GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

There have been some changes made since our last conference. As you all know, Brother Orson F. Whitney, one of the Council of the Twelve, and Elder Rey L. Pratt, one of the First Council of Seventy and president of the Mexican mission, have passed away. They were two outstanding preachers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, men of great ability in proclaiming the Gospel and men of great personal inspiration. They lived lives that brought honor and respect to them and thereby honor and respect to the people that they represented as general officials. 

The Presidency and Apostles have nominated, as you know, although they have not yet been ordained and set apart, Brother Joseph F. Merrill and Brother Antoine R. Ivins to fill the positions made vacant by the death of these two stalwart workers in the Church. The other changes are as follows :  

CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST APRIL 

CONFERENCE 

STAKE PRESIDENTS APPOINTED 

LeGrand Richards has been appointed president of the Hollywood stake to succeed George W. McCune. \ 

Hyrum B. Calder has been appointed president of the Uintah stake to succeed Wallace Calder. 

Peter J. Ricks has been appointed president of the Fremont stake to succeed George S. Romney. Joseph R. Christiansen has been appointed president of the Moroni stake to succeed James L. Nielson. 

We wish to say that Brothers George W. McCune, Wallace Calder, George S. Romney and James L. Nielson have all labored diligently and faithfully in the positions they have occupied and they have been honorably released. 

NEW MISSION PRESIDENTS 

George S. Romney has been appointed president of the Northern States mission to succeed Noah S. Pond, who has been honorably released after having filled a splendid mission. 

Leonidas D. Mecham has been appointed acting president of the Australian mission to succeed Clarence H. Tingey, who has returned from Australia in the enjoyment of health after filling a most splendid mission. I ' .! J! \ 

Francis Salzner has been appointed president of the Swiss and German mission to succeed Fred Tadje. Sister Tadje has returned from the mission and Brother Tadje will undoubtedly come after his successor has been installed. 

NEW TEMPLE PRESIDENT 

William M. Waddoups has been appointed president of the Hawaiian temple, to succeed Castle H. Murphy, who is president of the Hawaiian mission, and who was also directing the affairs of the temple. We considered it wisdom to have Brother Waddoups return to Hawaii, where he has labored for so many years and so faithfully, to preside over the temple there. 

NEW WARDS ORGANIZED 

Burbank ward, -Hollywood stake. Salmon ward, Lost River stake. Elysian Park ward, Hollywood- stake. Pasadena ward, Hollywood stake. 

STAKE PRESIDENT WHO HAS PASSED AWAY , 

James P. Jensen, president of the San Luis stake, Colorado, has passed away after an honorable, faithful presidency there. 

BISHOPS WHO HAVE PASSED AWAY DURING THE PAST SIX MONTHS 

Harold W'interton, Woodland ward in the Summit stake, by an auto accident. ' 

Lawrence Gates of the Antimony ward, Garfield stake. 

THE FOUNDATION OF THE CHURCH 

Coming back to the suggestion that we as Latter-day Saints do away with faith in Joseph Smith, I want to announce, as I stated on the  referred to, that the moment any individual or individuals shall lose faith in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that minute they are not entitled to be called Latter-day Saints. The whole foundation of this Church rests firmly upon the inspiration of the living God through Joseph Smith the Prophet. When I hear the song — 

"We thank thee, O God, for a prophet To .guide us in these latter days," 

I never feel as though it applies to me. I never hear it but that I feel it applies to that man who was the instrument in the hands of God of restoring again to the earth the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation, the pearl of great price, that which is of more value than everything else in all the world, namely, the plan which if you and I live it will bring us back into the presence of God our Heavenly Father, to dwell there in joy and peace eternally. 

TRUTH EVIDENCED 

When anybody talks about Joseph Smith not being a prophet he should look into the great and remarkable prophecies that he uttered. He should read the marvelous and wonderful revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants which the Lord has given to us through him. I am sure when people realize that the war of the rebellion was foretold and prophesied of by him, and that he gave the world a solution, so to speak, of the difficulties which brought about the war, advocating the sale of the public lands of the country to purchase the slaves as England had done, they must recognize that he was inspired of the Lord. 

PUZZLES WRITER 

I remember very distinctly that in the book entitled "Figures of the Past" the man who wrote it said he could not account for Joseph Smith and intimated that he must have been partially insane. He said he had visited a place where the insane were kept, and I suppose he was on a par with the man who said that Joseph Smith received his revelations at the time he was in epileptic fits. Joseph Smith was one of the stalwarts physically. He was an athlete, a very strong man. 

The wisdom of the wise shall be confounded. This same man goes on to say, in paying tribute to Joseph Smith, that of all the men he had ever met, Elisha R. Potter of Rhode Island and Joseph Smith seemed best endowed with "that kingly faculty which directs as by divine right feeble and confused souls looking for guidance." He went on to say that great credit had been given to Ralph Waldo Emerson as being a statesman ahead of his day because of his advocating the sale of the public lands for the purchase of the slaves; but he said, "What shall we say of the Mormon prophet who advocated the same thing eleven years previously, when the heavens were clear and tranquil ?" At the time Ralph Waldo Emerson advocated this course there were war clouds in the heavens. SUPERIORITY ADMITTED 

Wje say that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God and (hat lie gave to the people a solution that would have saved that terrible fratricidal war between the Northern and Southern States. 

He goes on to say : 

"Such a rare human being is not to be disposed of by pelting his memory with unsavory epithets. Fanatic, imposter, charlatan, he may have been; but these hard names furnish no solution to the problems he presents to us. Fanatics and imposters are Jiving and dying every day and their memory is buried with them; but the wonderful influence which this founder of a religion exerted and still exerts throws him into relief before us, not as a rogue to be incriminated, but as a phenomenon to be explained." 

He also says that with hundreds of thousands believing that he is an emissary from the Most High God we cannot dispose of him by ridiculing his name. 

A MIGHTY PEOPLE 

All the lies that are being told about the people today are as nothing in comparison with those that were told about the prophet. He taught the people that we would be driven from city to city, county to county, state to state and finally beyond the confines of the United States, and that we would become a great and a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. He said the day would come when not only a city, a county or a state would be arrayed against this handful of people called Mormons, but that the day would come when the whole United States would be arrayed against them. 

And we have lived to see these statements fulfilled. We have become a mighty people. We have over a thousand wards and independent branches from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south. We have more than nine hundred branches in the missions throughout the world. We have splendid edifices in our wards and branches from Canada to Mexico. We have some magnificent temples that have been erected from Canada on the north to Arizona on the south, and one splendid temple way off in the Hawaiian Islands. 

The work of the Lord is progressing, the people are growing in faith and a love of the truth, in absolute testimony that Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet of the true and the living God. 

DURING THE PAST ONE HUNDRED YEARS 

This Gospel has been proclaimed now for over one hundred years all over the world, in every land and every clime where religious liberty has been granted, and it has gathered out people from every denomination under heaven; and as I have remarked in my public addresses, I know of no missionary in my entire experience, although we have at times had more than two thousand in the field, that has ever returned to announce that he had found that some other religion, in England, in Ireland, or some other part of the world, was the truth, the Gospel  Jesus Christ. Our missionaries have come home during the past one hundred years with increased testimony of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

We have lived to see the issuing of an exterminating order by the governor of a state ,to expel the Latter-day Saints; we have lived to see the army of the United States of America, because of the lies of runaway judges, come against this people. W!e have lived to see the property of the Church both real and personal, confiscated by the highest .tribunal, under the acts of Congress; and I have picked up the paper time and time again during the litigation for the return of our property and have read in bold headlines, "The United States of America versus the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and have laid down the paper and thanked God that the United States had placed the stamp of divinity upon the utterances of the prophet of the living God. 

EXAMPLE QUOTED 

Stephen A. Douglas, believing absolutely that he had within his grasp the presidency of the United States, that he would be overwhelmingly elected, presumed to say that we had destroying angels, that we were in league with the Indians, that we were in rebellion against the government, that we were setting up a kingdom of our own here with Brigham Young at the head of it. Then he was reminded by The Deseret News that the (Prophet Joseph Smith had said to him when he was an obscure country judge: 

"Judge Douglas, the day will come when you will aspire to the presidency of the United States, and if you ever lift your voice; against my people you shall be disappointed in your ambitions, you shall die a broken-hearted, disappointed man, and the conversation of this day will stick to you until the day of your death." 

DEFIES STATEMENT 

He defied that statement. When? He defied that utterance of the Prophet when he felt sure that he would be elected president, and this was at a time when we did not have_a single vote in the electoral college for the presidency of the United States. We were a territory without a vote and there was no occasion for this man to make the speech that he did unless he felt in his heart that he could brand Joseph Smith as a false prophet. But instead of branding him as such he brought forth one of the strongest evidences of the divine mission of Joseph Smith. 

May the Lord bless us during our conference sessions. May the light and inspiration of his Spirit attend us. May we, one and all, seek every day of our lives to fully live up to the requirements of the Gospel. And I can promise you that ,if you do so, peace, prosperity and happiness physically, intellectually, and,above all, spiritually, will attend you. I ask this blessing in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer. Amen. ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have listened with great interest to the remarks of President Grant. He has outlined a course of procedure and attitude of mind and spirit which all Israel should accept and follow. 

TRY THE SPIRITS 

Just as my name was announced I was turning the leaves of my Bible to find the text: 

"Believe not every;spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God." 

It is a wonderful thing to be anchored in the truth. W(hen one is anchored to a testimony that God has spoken in this dispensation, that he has revealed his truth, there is little danger of one's becoming moved from one's place by any false theory, or any half truth, or any false accusation, that may be brought into his life. All such will affect one only as the waves affect immovable cliffs on the shore. But when one is not anchored then one becomes easily moved, at least unrestful and ill at ease. So it is necessary at all times to try the spirits, to make the test. Let the Church, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, be the measuring rod. When things do not harmonize with the truths of the Gospel we can pass them by, or at least hold them in abeyance until either their truth or falsity be established. 

AN EXPERIENCE IN THE MISSION FIELD 

My mind recently has been drawn to the importance of our people testing the spirit of slander, of calumny, and I would like to raise my voice this morning in warning against such a spirit. It is easy to distinguish between the spirit of slander and the spirit of the Gospel. I remember an instance in England during my late mission that may illustrate my meaning. Two Elders had gone to great expense, for them, in procuring a hall, in announcing their meeting, in distributing literature, etc. Their hopes were high on Sunday morning when as they approached that hired hall, they saw a goodly number of persons accepting their invitation. One gentleman who' was dressed in the garb of a Christian divine approached the hall and was greeted by the Elder who was standing at the door. The latter extended his hand, but the minister refused, saying contemptuously, "I did not come here to shake hands with you."; 

"Very well," said the Elder, "you are welcome," and invited him into the hall. 

When the Elder reported this to me he said : "I felt somewhat discouraged and gloomy." 

I said : "You ought to be very thankful for the experience that came to you that morning. That gentleman misjudged you. You know he misjudged you. You know your sincerity. You know what you had in your heart. You know also that he was wrong in his  and in his feelings toward you and your people. Test that spirit and see if you have not more confidence in the work in which you are engaged than you ever had before." 

THE SPIRIT OF SLANDER 

And so, Latter-day Saints, test the spirit of the various accusations that are sometimes hurled against our leaders and against the Church. We have always had lies, calumny and vituperation to fight and the Church of God will always have it. Our only problem is for us to be unmoved from our station. 

The scriptures tell us that, 

"Whoso privily slandereth his neighbor, him will I cut off. "He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house; he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight." 

Slander is defined as "defamation whether oral or written." "A false report maliciously uttered and tending to injure the reputation of another." 

"Slander," says Shakespeare, "whose edge is sharper than the sword; 

whose tongue Outvenoms all the worms of Nile; whose breath Rides on the posting winds, and doth belie All corners of the world : kings, queens and states, Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave This viperous slander enters." 

"Slander is a poison which extinguishes charity, both in the slanderer and in the person who listens to it; so that a single calumny may prove fatal to an infinite number of souls; since it kills not only those who circulate it, but also all those who receive it." 

Diogenes being asked, "What is that beast, the bite of which is the most dangerous?" replied, "Of wild beasts, the bite of a slanderer; and of tame beasts, that of the flatterer." 

The source of slander may be found in a depraved nature. It is a weed the roots of which find richest sustenance in a soul that is seeking to destroy his fellows. In uncultured souls there is a desire to ride on the downfall of another — their souls feed on others' failures. 

It was Emerson who said, referring to this depravity in human nature, that an accident cannot happen in the street but the bystanders will be animated with the faint hope that the victim may die. 

george Washington's experience 

If we look back into history we shall find that great men have suffered perhaps more from this evil than from any other one thing. I ask you to recall the father of our country. We can think of him appropriately on this occasion as the nation will soon celebrate the twohundredth anniversary of his birth. Perhaps the saddest experience of his life was at Valley Forge, December, 1777. His army was in winter quarters, about twenty-two miles from Philadelphia. He had fewer than ten thousand men, three thousand of whom deserted to the British. "The soldiers were thinly clad, some half naked, others with no clothing, hut tattered blankets wrapped around them. So many were sick as the result of privation, and so many were without coats, blankets, hats or shoes, that one wonders how the army held together at all." 

Under this stress of critical, desperate condition it must have seemed to Washington that he was abandoned not only by Congress, then in session at York, but also by most of his friends as well. John Adams had turned against him, so also had Richard Henry Lee. General Gates insulted him by sending reports direct to Congress instead of to Washington, his superior officer. 

As carrions hover around a dying creature, so in Washington's dire calamity came men to seek to crush him — men who formed what has been called the "Conway Cabal," a contemptible attempt to dishonor Washington and to supplant him by a self-asserting, arrogant schemer. Falsehoods 'most damnable appeared in print, and lies fell like froth from unclean mouths. 

In the midst of all this Washington's imperturbable conduct makes his character shine in immortal glory. 

I need not refer to Lincoln who, surrounded by men who attacked him, who accused him falsely, towered as Goldsmith has said of another, 

"As some tall cliff, that lifts its awful form, Swells from the vale, and midway leaves the storm, Though round its breast the rolling clouds are spread, Eternal sunshine settles on its head." 

AN IMPRESSIVE INSTANCE IN CHURCH HISTORY 

One of the most impressive instances in all the world of the dire effect of calumny we have in the history of our own Church. About June, 1844, Joseph Smith, Hyrum Smith and the other leaders of the Church were lied about. Enemies right in the city of Nauvoo circulated some of the worst blasphemous accusations that men could contemplate or imagine. Not only that but they began to publish vituperative slander. You know that there was one issue of the Expositor which so insulted the women and cast reflections on the men that the City Council convened and declared that printing press a nuisance. Later Joseph Smith the Prophet, in speaking to Governor Ford, said : "There is not a state in the Union that would have stood it as calmly as we, that would have put up with it one hour." 

But the Prophet controlled himself and so did his associates, and only legal action was taken. He gave himself up under the protection of Governor Ford, assured by the honor of the State of Illinois that he would be protected and given a proper hearing and a fair trial. After he received what seemed to be a partial fulfilment of this promise he was released; then a false charge of treason was placed against him, and illegally and without shadow of right he and his brother were incarcerated in jail. Then lies continued to circulate. We know what the result was. The best blood of this country was shed in innocence. He knew he was innocent. He knew his rights. So did his brother Hyrum, John Taylor and Willard Richards who were there with him. 

But because of lies, black and damnable, the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were martyred. 

Governor Ford himself tells about the falsehoods that were circulated after the martyrdom, and how the people's minds were stirred up against them. In the midst of it all what was the Prophet's attitude? A calm, Christ-like attitude. Said he, when he was going to Carthage that evening: 

"I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer's morning. I have a conscience void of offense toward God and all men. If they take my life I shall die an innocent man, and it will yet be said of: me, he was murdered in cold blood." 

THE MAN OF GALILEE 

What was Jesus' attitude when they circulated calumny against him? Wherever he went he was pursued by men who were his enemies. They watched him in order that they might trip him. They questioned him in order that they might get him into a trap. 

"How difficult it is |to speak if one is speaking in the presence of people who are watching each sentence, determined if possible to catch the speaker in error. Wherever Jesus went his conduct was scrutinized by eyes that were_ green with envy. Everything he did was criticized, every action called forth a storm of abuse. His enemies gathered around him like a swarm of mosquitoes biting him, like a swarm of hornets stinging him — but he never complained. They nagged at him, pelted him with abusive epithets, sowed the land with lies about him, but he never grew bitter. We have known many a good man to grow sour simply because he had been misunderstood by a few people. Many a woman has grown bitter because of unfortunate experiences with those who were her fellow-workers in the Church. This Man of Galilee knew little but misunderstanding and ingratitude and criticism and abuse; but he never complained, and at the end of the day he was as sweet as at dawn. Long before he came somebody had said that when the supreme man arrived he would submit to tribulation without complaining. As men looked upon this Man of Galilee they were reminded of the great line of the prophet, 'As a lamb before the shearer is dumb, so he opened not his mouth.' " 

Brethren and sisters, what is the attitude, the spirit of the vilifier, as compared with the spirit of the Christ, the spirit of the leaders of the Church, the spirit of every true Latter-day Saint? It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong, and if we as Latter-day Saints will but hold to the truth as it has been revealed all will eventually be well. My brethren and sisters, let me bear you my testimony that in the Gospel of Jesus Christ as it has been revealed in this day lies the hope and the salvation of the human family. I feel it with all my soul. I believe I can prove it to the satisfaction of any who will honestly and prayerfully investigate the tenets and organization of the Church. 

THE TRIUMPH OF TRUTH 

Then let us rally around our President who this morning said, "Hold to the truth, be true to the principles of life and salvation as revealed in this dispensation." 

It has been impressively said that : "A man cannot believe in God without believing in the final inevitable triumph of truth. If you have truth on your side you can pass through the dark valley of slander, misrepresentation and abuse, undaunted, as though you wore a suit of mail that no bullet could enter, no arrow could pierce. You can hold your head high, toss it fearlessly and defiantly, look every man calmly and unflinchingly in the eye, as though you rode, a victorious king, returning at the head of your legions with banners waving and lances glistening, and bugles filling the air with music. You can feel the great expansive wave of moral health surging through you as the quickened blood courses through the body of him who is gladly, gloriously proud of physical health. You will know that all will come right in the end, that it must come, that error must flee before the great white light of truth, as darkness slinks away into nothingness in the presence of the sunburst. Then, with truth as your guide, your companion, your ally, and inspiration, you tingle with the consciousness of your kinship with the Infinite and all the petty trials, sorrows and sufferings of life fade away like temporary, harmless visions seen in a dream." 

God help us to be anchored in the truth, give us power to preach it, and power to live it. Then, when slander, calumny and misrepresentation are hurled against us, they will fall as weakened arrows against an impenetrable coat of mail. 

May we ever carry forward this great work in the spirit of the Master, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel assured this morning that we are to have a. most excellent conference because the Spirit of the Lord has been with us and has dictated the words that have been spoken. I trust that for the few moments I stand here I too may be led to say that which will be pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly Father and beneficial to you. 

TESTIMONY CONCERNING GREAT TRUTHS 

I am grateful for a testimony of the Gospel, for a knowledge that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, the Only Begotten Son of the living God. I know that he came into the world as its Redeemer and as the Savior of men. He brought salvation and exaltation to all who are willing to accept in faithfulness all of his teachings. Moreover, I know that Joseph Smith was called of God and was a prophet, and that he was given divine authority and spoke the truth. To him were the heavens opened. He received a visitation of the Father and the Son and was called to usher in the great last dispensation known as the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. This dispensation was spoken of by ancient prophets and by the apostles of former times. The ancient prophets looked forward to this dispensation for they knew it was to be the time of the restoration of all things both which are in heaven and which are on earth. This restoration was to come through the sending of the Gospel from heaven with the fulness of the priesthood, and all things were eventually to be set in order according to the will of the Lord. 

I am grateful for the Gospel as it has come to us in its simplicity, and in its fulness, with all its power and authority, for the holy priesthood cannot be separated from the Gospel which is the power of God unto salvation. This power has again been brought to men and they have the privilege of worshipping God in spirit and in truth. How grateful I am for this knowledge, and to know that I have been reared in it. All my life it has been my desire to know the truth and to have a testimony which comes from the Spirit of the Lord, and I can say that I know that these things are true. 

THAT WE MAY NOT BE DECEIVED 

Our attention has been called this morning to the fact that there are many spirits abroad in the world, that we are to try the spirits. As I understand this it means that we should prove them to know from what source they come. How are we going to prove the spirits and understand which are right and which are wrong unless we ourselves are walking in the light? Unless we have been studying and pondering over the principles of the Gospel we may be deceived. If we have not had in our hearts the spirit of prayer, of ,faith, of humility, and have been obedient to our Eternal Father, then how are we going to distinguish between these spirits and discover what comes from God and what comes from man or from some evil source? 

The Lord has marked out the way. He has given us a key to the situation. It was never the intention of our Father in heaven to leave men to grope and feel their way in darkness and that without any light to guide them, and expect them under such conditions to find their way back into his kingdom and into his holy presence. That is not the way of the Lord. All down the ages from the beginning our Father in heaven has shown his kindness for his children and has been willing to give them direction. From the earliest times the heavens have been opened, the Lord has sent messengers from his presence to divinely appointed servants, men holding the authority of the priesthood who have -been commissioned to teach the principles of the Gospel, to warn the people and teach them righteousness; and these men have received this knowledge, this inspiration and guidance from these messengers from the presence of God. This is true of our own dispensation. There is no need for men to shut their eyes and feel that there is no light only as they may depend upon their reason, for the Lord has always been willing to lead and direct and show the way. He has sent, as I say, messengers from his presence. He has sent revelation. He has commanded that his word be written, that it be published, so that all the people might know it. 

UNTO ALL MEN 

In the very first section of the Doctrine and Covenants there are some very significant things in relation to this matter as the Lord has given it both to the Church and to the world. This revelation, known as the preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, is the preface by the Son of God himself to this great body of revelation and commandment which has been given to the Church and to the world if they will receive it for their salvation. And it begins as follows: 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, .saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together." 

So you see .in this introduction to this preface the Lord calls the members of the Church, the people of the islands of the sea, in foreign lands, in all parts of the earth, to listen, to give heed to the words which he shall speak, that they might receive his truth and come out of darkness. And then he says : 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated." 

HERE OR HEREAFTER 

We may wonder how that will come to pass because we understand that with the best efforts we can make in sending forth and publishing this word there are many who do not hear it. Our two thousand missionaries who are scattered over the face of the earth preaching the Gospel are very few in comparison ,with the millions unto whom this Gospel is to be proclaimed. But the Lord will reach the hearts of the people, his word will not fail. And I do not understand even from this wording that it is necessary that every heart be penetrated and every ear hear in this life. But if they have not heard, if this opportunity has not come to them through the preaching of the Elders and through the things that have been published in the word of the Lord that has gone forth by revelation, the opportunity is going to come to them and they must, hear it in the spirit world. 

And so the Lord in his kindness and mercy intends to bring these truths of this restored Gospel to every soul living or dead. In this manner every heart shall be penetrated and every ear shall hear. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; ^f or their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days." 

THE LORD'S PURPOSE 

And then farther on in this revelation the Lord declares : 

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon, the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled which was written by "the prophets — 

"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh — 

"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

"That faith also might increase in the earth; "That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

"Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." 

SEARCH THESE THINGS 

I have read from this revelation with the idea of impressing' upon our minds the commandment that comes from our Father in heaven through his Son Jesus Christ who is the author of these words, that it is the duty not only of the eldership of this Church but of all the members of this Church to search, these revelations and commandments, that we might know them. The Elder of this Church no matter who he is who is unfamiliar with the word of the Lord as it has come unto us through the proclamation of his Son and through his servants in these latter days, is not magnifying his calling in this Church. Moreover, it is the duty of the members of this Church to make themselves familiar with the revelations as they have been given, and with the commandments as they have been taught in these revelations, or have been presented in them and given to the people, that we might know the truth which makes us free. And if we will study them, if we will put them into practice, if we will keep the commandments of the Lord, we will know the truth and there shall be no weapon formed against us that shall prosper. There shall be no false doctrines, no teaching of men that will deceive us. There are many cults and many false faiths, there are' many strange ideas in the world, but if we will search these revelations then we will be fortified against errors and we will be made strong. False teachings will have no effect upon us for we will know that truth which makes us free. 

The word of the Lord which he spoke when in his ministry is just as true today as it was then to this effect, that he who will do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine, and he will not be led astray; he will not be enticed or overcome by falsehoods and these teachings that prevail in the world which tend to destroy faith in God and his revelations. 

"whoso treasureth up my word" 

Let me read to you this key that the Lord gave to his disciples when he was in his ministry. Speaking of the last days, the days just preceding his coming he said : 

"And whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived, for the Son of Man shall come, and he shall send his angels before him with the great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together the remainder of his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." 

Now remember, brethren and sisters, if you treasure up the word of the Lord, if you study these revelations, not merely those that are in the Doctrine and Covenants, but those that are in all the standard works of the Church, and you put into practice the commandments that are here found, you will not be deceived in these perilous times, but you shall have the spirit of discernment and you shall know the truth and shall know falsehood, for you shall have power to know the spirits of men and to understand the Spirit of the Lord. 

May we do this I pray, walking in righteousness, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is my purpose to make a few remarks on temperance and upon upholding the Prohibition laws. 

WHAT SAYS THE LAW? 

In Utah it is unlawful to import, advertise, give away, exchange, dispense, or serve liquor in any form. In fact, he who has liquor in his hand, in his home, or otherwise in] his possession, violates the Utah statute. The Federal Constitution prohibits the manufacture, the sale, or the transportation of intoxicating liquors. 

WHAT SAYS LINCOLN? 

Abraham Lincoln has been called our greatest American. He says : "Bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as soon as possible; still, while they continue in force, they should be religiously observed." 

In this day of lawlessness and disrespect for law, my purpose is to appeal to the members of my own Church, as well as to all other good citizens, to support the laws of our state and the Constitution of our country. By disregarding or breaking the Prohibition statutes, we may bring all Jaw into disrespect. 

By taking one glass of beer, leading and influential citizens, those who direct business and are owners of property, are encouraging disrespect for aU law. Just as touching the little electric exciter brings into operation the mammoth dynamo so he who drinks a single glass of liquor ought to realize that he is helping to break down those fundamental barriers which the law provides for protecting him in his rights to his own property. 

WHAT SAYS SCIENCE? 

In this age of science and scientific investigation, it has been demonstrated beyond question that alcoholic liquor is harmful. It has been proved that alcohol is not, as was formely believed, merely a stimulant; it is a poison, it is a dangerous habit-forming drug. Always it produces stupor. It has been shown that alcohol has much the same effect^on the human body and mmd that ether or chloroform haSr i 1 :; 

The great mass of people today accept the teachings of science — that alcohol, even when taken in small amounts, is harmful. Says Professor Sims Wogdhead of Cambridge : "A man under the influence of a small quantity of alcohol (not drunk I remind you) has no right to believe his own senses. He cannot trust them to give him facts, and he cannot Tely upon his judgment for the interpretation of the facts." 

Experiments show that when men have taken alcohol they actually feel able to do more, and think they are doing more; but measurements demonstrate that the work they actually accomplish is considerably less and is inferior. Alcohol deceives. It deadens the power of judgment; he who uses it is no longer capable of drawing correct conclusions. 

WHAT SAY WE? 

Liquor may make tongues wag more freely, but the thoughts expressed are less accurate, less worth-while. Who would care to carry on a conversation even with his dearest friend if that friend were drunk or even tipsy? The use of alcohol is a curse, not only to him who indulges, but to his dependents, his kindred, and his country. To enforce Prohibition, and thus to banish alcohol as a beverage, would produce benefits immeasurable. 

WHAT SAY THE DOCTORS? 

Dr. C. P. Bells of Toledo says that he has in his files more than $11,000 in bad accounts of those who drank and did not pay their bills before 1918. Since that period his loss from unpaid bills has not exceeded $500. 

To users of liquor, Dr. Henry Smith Williams says : "You are threatening the physical structure of your stomach, your liver, your kidneys, your heart, your blood vessels, your nerves, your brain; you are decreasing your capacity for work in any field; you are lowering the grade of your mind, dulling your higher aesthetic sense, and taking the finer edge off your morals; you are distinctly lessening your chances of maintaining health; you may be entailing on your descendants incalculable misery." \ 

And the famous surgeon Sir Frederick Greves remarks that "the best physical condition is impossible if any alcohol is used" — that "no man is at his best who works on even a moderate amount of liquor." 

WHAT SAYS THE CHURCH ? 

At the time, a hundred years ago, when Joseph Smith proclaimed to the Church and the world that strong drinks are not good for man, the daily rations of soldiers included a certain quantity of rum or whiskey. Stimulants were supposed to be necessary to fortify the soldier against fatigue and hardship, to aid him on his tedious marches, and especially to give him courage in battle. In our day, science has demonstrated that alcohol does none of these things, that its effects are the very opposite. Alcohol no longer is served to soldiers, and every effort is made to prevent them from using it. 

WHAT SAY THE PAPERS? 

The successful enforcement of Prohibition will reduce the amount of drunken driving. Look at any issue of the Deseret News, the Tribune, the Telegram; observe how much space is devoted to drunken driving, to the accidents resulting from it, and to court proceedings arising out of it. i 

A recent editorial in the Salt Lake Telegram criticizes drunken drivers and also those public officials who permit these offenders to settle their cases out of court. It scores those "who cast their deadly menace across traffic, thus threatening lives and property, but who, through a streak of good luck, escape a crash." 

In an editorial dated September 27, the Tribune says Utah is bound to recognize the serious problem of drunken driving and fruitless prosecutions. The public, the police, the prosecutors, and the courts have been held intermittently to blame. 

"The public contributes witnesses who refuse to testify, * * * provides the friendly influence which seeks to tamper with officials charged with enforcement; places selfish interests 'above public welfare; and contributes the juror who does not take seriously his responsibility." 

WHAT ACCOUNTS FOR SUCCESS? 

We live in an age of keen competition. There may be but little difference between the work of individuals, yet one succeeds while another fails. He wins who works a little faster, a little more accurately, a little more efficiently. Intoxicants, even in small quantities, produce that little difference which changes work — changes a life — from success to failure. This poison, alcohol, if used in only small quantities, decreases efficiency. 

DO PUBLIC OFFICIALS BREAK TFIE LAW ? 

Do public officials or other leading citizens violate the law in your presence ? 

Some maintain that there is no moral turpitude in breaking a traffic law, for example; but that stealing horses or robbing banks is a very different and much more serious offense. 

Those who steal cattle or rob banks are taking only that which can be measured with money. But when prominent and influential citizens, by their example, lead young folks into a temptation that has wrecked so many human lives, they are taking from young men and women, from their fathers and mothers, and from the Republic, something that dollars cannot measure, that money cannot replace. 

WILL LEADERS LEAD? 

Social and business leaders, being strong characters, are able to resist temptation; to them I make special appeal. The success of our  demands that leading citizens live the law and set examples they desire to have young folks follow. Will they not aid the youth to acquire those sterling qualities which mean success — honesty, honor, dependability, and sobriety? For these the world is always looking, and for these the world stands always ready to pay. 

WHAT CAN EXAMPLE DO? 

In the days of the saloon it was continuously demonstrated that many have not the ability to resist its temptations. So by the example of those who are older, the younger generation is led into a temptation that may mean ruin; to their parents it will mean disgrace. To the nation, if the _great mass of the youth become drinkers, it will mean decay. 

Imagine the condition where a law-breaker has an associate lawbreaker for an arresting officer, another such associate as a prosecuting attorney, and a third on the bench as the presiding judge. What must be the Verdict when the law-breaker is looking into the faces of members of the jury who are equally guilty of breaking the law? Heaven preserve us from such a situation. Under such conditions the life of any nation would be short. Ruin would be certain; the end of the country would be near. 

Nor does it take a great stretch of the imagination to see such conditions actually existing in our own country. 

"At Milton, N. H., one night last week, ("Time", September 28, 1931) an automobile careened down the street and smashed into a telephone pole. Police approached the darkened car, peered in at a bald man, pronounced him drunk, took him to the station house. When they got him under a light and saw who he was they immediately released him, preferred no charges. He was Judge Eri C. Oakes, 42, of the State Superior Court. 

"Ironically, one of the first cases on his docket the next morning was the trial of a drunken driver. A jury found the man guilty; Judge Oakes sentenced him to jail for 90 idays, but did not impose fine or costs, suspended sentence until the man could harvest his crops. * * * The following day he presided at the trial of a hit-and-run driver. As the trial got under way, a court attendant tiptoed up, whispered to Judge Oakes that an assistant attorney-general of the state wanted to See him. 

"With a tragic, white face Judge Oakes returned from his conference. 'I am obliged to call this a mistrial,' he said. Court attendants flocked around him sympathetically, watched him walk slowly out of the courtroom. When he got home he sent his motherless 14-year-old daughter away, climbed into bed, * * * and shot himself through the head." 

For our present, serious wide-spread disrespect for law, many of our well-to-do social and 'business leaders are in part to blame. To their patriotism I appeal, and urge that they obey the law and support the Constitution. If bootleggers were patronized only by the vicious and the wicked, their profits and business would soon disappear. 

WHAT IS OUR ANSWER? 

If you are undecided about whether or not to obey the law, or uncertain as to whether or not it will be wise to participate in no functions where the Prohibition law is broken, ask yourselves (Oral Hygiene, July, 1931): 

1. Does it improve young men and women morally, socially, or financially, to be drinkers of liquor? I 

2. Can you name well-known manufacturers who hire men who drink in preference to those who do not? 

3. Can affidavits be produced from citizens who drink to prove it beneficial to their health and occupation? 

4. Can evidence be produced from bankers that their deposits fell off when the sale of liquor was discontinued? 

5. Will manufacturers testify that it is an advantage to have saloons near their plants? 

6. Do charitable organizations have more families among nondrinkers that require assistance than among those who drink? 

7. Do statistics show that a man who drinks is a better citizen than one who does not? 

8. Can letters be produced from wives or mothers who pray for saloons or government depositories, that their husbands and sons may have places in which to spend their time and money? 

9. Do we desire railroad engineers, chauffeurs, and those who drive air-planes to drink?! 

In civilized and modern America we must preserve the young people of our nation from drunkenness. Even in Russia "tremendous educational efforts are being made to eliminate drinking from the life of the peasant and worker. Everywhere, in every station, hotel, and factory, one sees posters depicting some phase of the drink evil. Most of the younger generation won't touch alcohol in any form, and I have seen the Young Pioneers (the Communist Boy Scouts of Russia) many times attempting to restrain grown-ups from overindulgence." (The Nation, June 3 and 17, 1931.) 

WHY NOT DECIDE WISELY? 

I appeal to you as citizens of our nation, to decide whether you are ready to follow the dignified and glorious example of our Pilgrim fathers, who went to Church carrying their Bibles; or whether you will follow the leadership of the few of our American Legion who recently rode through the streets of Detroit swinging their bottles and shouting for beer. 

I am not speaking of the great patriotic body of the Legion or of its high-minded, law-abiding leaders. I refer only to the drunken few. For the American Legion I have the highest regard. For the men who stood ready and willing to give their lives for the liberty of the world, I have real reverence. But in these days, when the greatest problem before America is lawlessness, I cannot countenance the breaking of the law by even a few members of the American Legion, or a few of any other organization. 

I have before made a solemn pledge, and in conclusion I make  here. Fellow churchmen, fellow countrymen — all who are living in the land of Lincoln, to you I appeal to save our country from destruction because of lawlessness and disrespect for law. This is the covenant I have made : iGod helping me, I promise not to participate in any function, social or otherwise, where the law is broken; and that I will not cast my vote for any candidate on any ticket unless 

1 have reasonable assurance that the man himself lives in accordance with the law. 

The hymn, "O ye mountains high," was sung by the congregation. Elder Peter J. Ricks, President of the Fremont Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

The Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

FIRST DAY 


