Afternoon 
04 10 1931

The closing session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock, Sunday afternoon, October 4, 1931, the attendance being similar to that at the previous meeting. 

President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The Tabernacle Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

Elder Thomas E. McKay, President of the Ogden Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

President Grant announced that the beautiful flowers on the stand in front of the great organ had been sent in honor of Brother Evan Stephens, who led the Choir for the last time one year ago, he having since passed away. He further announced that the Choir would now sing the anthem, "God of Israel," which anthem Brother Stephens considered one of his best compositions. 

The Choir then sang "God of Israel." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

In the first place, my brethren and sisters, I want to offer my sincere thanks and gratitude to ,my Heavenly Father for the privilege I have of attending this wonderful conference. I have never attended one in my life where I have felt the Spirit of the living God so strongly. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

BLESSINGS THROUGH ATTENDING CONFERENCES 

I cannot understand how any person could attend services such as we have had during this conference without feeling at least that God was directing and his Spirit was present at every session. 

It is indeed a privilege to attend these semi-annual conferences, and it is also a privilege to attend the conferences in the different stakes of Zion. My duties as a senator of the United States have prevented me from attending many of them. Since the war my calling has kept me in Washington most of the time and I have had the privilege only a few times of attending these conferences. 

Last night I saw in this building every seat taken by men holding the priesthood. It was a wonderful sight, and the instructions and the spirit present impressed me as I never was impressed before with the duties that devolve upon the men holding the priesthood. I also felt the response that was made at that gathering last night. I could feel it in every word that was spoken and the expressions that followed. I could see that they touched the hearts of the men holding the holy priesthood in this Church, in a way that the labors in the different stakes from which they come would be carried on with a great deal more energy and confidence than they have been in the past. 

TESTIMONY THROUGH PRAYER 

My mother taught me that the way to receive a testimony of this work, and the way to maintain it, is to never cease praying; and she promised me as my mother that if I would follow that course I should always have a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that this work is his work. Brethren and sisters, I have followed that counsel, and notwithstanding the positions to which I have been called that have taken me away from the body of the people, notwithstanding the year before that happened my avocation called me to meet men who actually ridiculed our belief and the question of God ever revealing himself to man, as being unreasonable and indefensible, thank God I have lived through it all. I thank God for the testimony I have that this is his work and that every prediction made by any servant of God in relation to it shall be fulfilled. 

As I see conditions in the world today and contemplate them I know that if the great principles as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were universal in the world no such conditions would ever exist. 

I pray God to "give me clean hands, clean words, and clean thoughts. Save me from habits that harm. Teach me to work as hard and play as fair in thy sight alone as if all the world saw. Forgive me when I am unkind, and help me to forgive those who are unkind to me. Keep me ready to serve others at some cost to myself. Send me chances to do a little good every day, and so grow more like Christ." 

If we all lived strictly to the laws of the Church and the requirements of the Church that prayer would be answered by everyone who offered it. There are no people in the world that I know of who are better capable and more willing and whose numbers are such that the worthy poor among them can be better cared for. 

CONDITIONS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD 

We have had pictures today of conditions existing, not half so bad as they are in the balance of the world. God knows what will come out of it, but I believe with all my soul that the times people are passing through today, not only in our own country but in the countries of the world, will cause them to turn their thoughts to a supreme power, the Creator of the world, the God we worship. 

NOT A PRAYING NATION 

I am afraid that our America is not a praying nation. I do not believe that there is a people on earth, compared by percentages, that pray to God every morning and night such as do the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Wherever I go, outside of the families of the Church and the conferences that I attend in different places in which the Church gathers, there are few places where prayer is offered. And sometimes when I hear prayer in other places it is like a tinkling cymbal and sounding brass. It goes in one ear and out of the other. No power whatever is back of it. It is mere words and nothing else. 

IN CONGRESSIONAL ASSEMBLIES 

I am thankful to my Heavenly Father that the Senate of the United States and the House of Representatives never begin a session without the offering of prayer. As I read history I find that when the first session of our Congress was held, which was in Carpenter's Hall, Philadelphia, September 5th, 1774, the question then arose as to whether it was proper to open that session with prayer. Thank the Lord there was a majority present who had shortly before passed through the horror of war. I think it was perhaps for that reason there was a decision made that every session of the Senate should be opened by prayer. That has continued down to the present time, and I notice, as I have said, that a majority were in favor of it. They were such men as George Washington, Patrick Henry, John Rutledge, Colonel Fulton, Peyton Randolph, Richard Henry Lee, John James, Isaac Law. I am not going to give the names of those who opposed it. The question arose as to whether they should kneel or whether they should stand. My brethren and sisters, I am thankful to my Heavenly Father that that practice has existed down to this day, and it would be a Godless nation if that were not followed. I am sure that the spirit that is asked for many times in the opening prayer is not made manifest a few minutes after the word "amen" is said. But yet it has its influence and I hope and trust that this shall never be a Godless nation. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

NOT IN UNCLEAN TABERNACLES 

I suppose you all know that I am a firm believer in the Word of Wisdom. I have lived it all my life, thanks to the mother who gave me birth. I know, my brethren and sisters, that he who does not abide by that law, he or she who robs his or her mind of good judgment by the use of intoxicating liquor cannot enjoy the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God never will live in an unclean tabernacle. You cannot tell me that a man — and I am sorry to have to say, 'as it has been quite prevalent in the world, or a woman — who imbibes the damnable stuff can have the companionship of the Spirit of God. 

There is no people, according to the numbers, that obey this law as well as do the Latter-day Saints. But I want to say that we are far from perfect, in fact I have witnessed since I have been home members of the Church who have forgotten themselves in this regard. The prophetic spirit was with Joseph ,|Smith a century ago when the Lord announced through him his calling, because of "the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth," and which has come and is coming in our day. The "spirit of prophecy," which is "the testimony of Jesus," also was with him when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was brought into existence. It brought not a new religion, but a restatement of the old, with its divine authority, gifts and blessings, "the power of God unto salvation." 

MORE GODLINESS OR MORE GODLESSNESS? 

And now, what are we Latter-day Saints going to do about it? Shall we awaken to a renewed effort to learn the word of God? Shall we teach our young men and young women more of godliness through actual, intimate knowledge of the scriptures, and less of the godlessness that comes through men's self-glorification in a presumed knowledge which really is not actual knowledge, but which holds the domain of speculation and skepticism? Shall we cling more closely than ever to God-given facts, whether in doctrine, in prophecy or in history? On our reply in practical service depends our own salvation and the salvation of many to whom our precept and example shall come. 

THE SPIRITUAL FACTOR 

Of the religious aspect, Sir Hubert Barker writes in the London Daily Mail : "The spiritual benightedness of modern men is the paramount evil of our age. Man must advance more swiftly on his spiritual side. It is always the spiritual factor that determines man's destiny. If the churches have become a by-word with thinking men, it is because they have turned from religion to ecclesiasticism." 

The wise man said, Proverbs fourth chapter, seventh verse : "With all thy getting get understanding." My suggestion to those who would be instructors is that they lead their students to "get understanding;" otherwise there comes misunderstanding and unbelief. 

Another feature to which our present attention may be called is 115  the prevailing atheistic instruction which permeates our universities, and our schools, and our social and other clubs, is the chief direct and potent cause of the great crime wave of which we hear and see so much in public discussions today. ' Israel's great Psalmist has said (Psalms 14:1 and 53:1): "The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt and have done abominable works." 

The criminals in our land today pursue their vocation in the thought that there is no God. The gangster that sometimes takes charge of things in our great cities and makes the police force seem pitiably helpless, has his chief potency in the thought that there is no God. He may be caught, serve in prison, but when released goes on in his career of crime. When protested with, he says : "What difference does it make? No one can touch me until I am caught at it. And I don't expect to be caught again." His thought clearly indicates by both word and act that there is no God. 

It is the mission of the Latter-day Saints, in their Church designation, that by thought and word and action they testify to the world that there is a God who is mindful of his children if they will but heed his word. Where God lives in the souls and minds of men there is peace and righteousness; but otherwise not. 

My brethren and sisters, God bless us. God prepare his Church and those who are directing the affairs of it that it shall fulfil the destiny that he has in store for it, whether it comes in this decade or in decades to come. It is the duty, and I may say the pleasure, of God's people to bring into the world the light, the life, the teachings of the Master, Jesus Christ. This I pray for, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER NOAH S. POND 

Former President of the Northern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I think of all the surprises that have come to me, this is the greatest one. I have rejoiced exceedingly in what it has been my privilege to hear in the sessions of this conference. 

I am deeply grateful for the blessing that came to me of presiding over the Northern States mission, and I have earnestly desired that I should come home and be as happily engaged in the service of the Lord in the future as I have been in the past. Sister Pond and our sons have likewise enjoyed the blessings of our missionary experiences, in the growth of Relief Society and other activities." 

I can but briefly refer to and give you a faint impression of the feelings that fill the heart of one laboring in the ministry. I know, my brethren and sisters, that all of us at home are missionaries. Responsibility in the Church, membership in the Church, the acceptance of responsibility in the priesthood, constitute us missionaries. But until we go out into the world we do not have a full realization of the importance of our testimonies. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

It has been my privilege to stand where the prophets of God have stood. I have been in those memorable cities where the Prophet Joseph, Brigham Young, Sidney Rigdon, Oliver Cowdery, Orson Pratt, Parley P. Pratt and others of our fine leaders in the early history of the Church have ministered. I have stood where President John Taylor stood when he organized the first branch of the Church, nearly a hundred years ago, in the city of Indianapolis, Indiana, and I thought I could actually feel the spirit of that prophet of God. I remember when that Sabbath occurred. I had referred to the history of the Church for verification of time and place and to know that it was true to history. 

Early in this past year when Justice Holmes of the United States Supreme Court, approaching the ninetieth year of his mortal life, rendered one of the decisions of the Supreme Court, indicative of the power of his mentality, and the statement was flashed over the country that he bore in his body the bullets that were fired into it by Confederate soldiers, I thought : Well, even this remarkable incident is paralleled in the history of our Church. Like Justice Holmes, President John Taylor, when he organized that branch in Indianapolis, carried within his body the bullets that the assassins had fired into it, and that grand President of the Church carried those assassins' bullets in his body to the grave, and died in exile. A beautiful chapel now stands in Indianapolis where President Taylor organized the first branch. Likewise five other chapels have been erected during the past three and one-half years in Detroit, Columbus, Cincinnati, Dayton and Chicago. 

I have seen the sons and daughters, grandsons and granddaughters of those leaders of the Church following in the footsteps of their worthy ancestors and preaching as honestly and as sincerely the principles of the Gospel as they were preached fifty, seventy-five or eighty years ago. I have stood at the doorsteps of the homes of our leaders, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Lorenzo Snow, John Taylor, the P'ratts, the Snows — those brick houses are standing or falling into decay, but they are mute and silent testimonies of the substantial solidarity of the building of our people, even the homes that they inhabited. And those memorable cities of Nauvoo, Illinois, and Kirtland, Ohio, where the Saints erected temples in the name and honor of God, have greatly degenerated. I never could have believed that the hand of God would be manifested so powerfully, so positively upon such spots, people, sections and localities, as 1 have seen in these, the deadest spots in all the world — Kirtland, Ohio, and Nauvoo, Illinois — where temples of God were raised in this century of the existence of our Church and which were so glorious in the beginning of our history. 

I bear you my humble testimony, and pray our father's blessings upon his servants. They are as true and as fine in their prophetic calling and leadership today as were those who were called at the inception of the Church. This is my testimony of the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, in the name of our Savior and Master, Amen. 117 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have called for several of the returned mission presidents a number of times, to come to the stand and speak to us, but they have not been present. I shall not call out again the names of those who have not yet spoken here for fear they are not present. But I would like that at any time any one of the returned mission presidents is in conference, who has not had the opportunity of bearing his testimony, ,he would notify me so that he will not be overlooked. With the exception of two we have now heard from all returned mission presidents. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have selected a text. This is not usual with me, but the experiences of this conference have been such that I would like to refer to it if I am so led. ,1 feel very humble to stand in the presence of this great audience and very much do I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, .that the delightful influences that have pervaded our conference, and the inspiration of the Lord that has been upon those who have addressed us may be with me. 

ABSENT ONES 

These beautiful flowers are the offering of Sister Sarah Daniels, the good woman who kept house for Evan Stephens for years prior to his demise. They were brought by her in remembrance of Brother Stephens who directed the Choir in our conference a year ago. 

I;have been lonesome during this conference for some of the absent brethren who were here six months ago. Since then Elders Orson F. Whitney and Rey L. Pratt have passed to the Great Beyond. They were two of the beloved leaders in Israel and nobody can take their places. Elders John A. ,Widtsoe and Joseph W. McMurrin are also absent in the mission field rendering service. 

LOVE FOR THE BRETHREN 

My heart is tender today and my feelings are subdued as I realize -the bounteous blessings of the Lord bestowed upon me and mine. It is a priceless privilege to live in an atmosphere such as we enjoy in this Church and to associate witli good men and women who are interested in benefiting all mankind. The companionship of the leaders of Israel is to me a blessing, the value of which cannot be measured. These leaders on this stand are representatives of our Heavenly Father and I love them as if they were my own flesh and blood. 

As I associate with the General Authorities, stake presidents, high councilors, bishops, and the leaders in the various departments of the Church, from the depths of my soul I feel grateful for GENERAL CONFERENCE  opportunity that has been mine in life, to have as my companions the kindest, holiest and best men and women that this world knows anything about. 

In I. John, 3rd Chapter and 14th Verse we read : 

"We know that we have 'passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren." 

What a wonderful thing it is to belong to an organization that teaches that very thing, and not only teaches it by word of mouth, but exemplifies it in so many marvelous ways. How grateful we should be to our Heavenly Father that .those with whom we are permitted to associate are dependable, and that we can love them and have their companionship. 

TEACHING THE WORLD 

A number of years ago I was riding with a man in the East. I told him where I was from, that I was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and he asked : "Is that church still in existence in Utah?" I replied, "Yes, and growing rapidly." I thought then: Will it ever be possible for us to convince the world that this is the Lord's work ? Although it .encounters many obstacles it goes forward constantly. It would seem an impossible task to personally contact and teach the Gospel to all people, but with the radio countless thousands, many ,of them living far away, may hear the servants of the Lord teach the truth. I was recently in Winnipeg, Canada, and was there told .that some of the finest programs they hear are those from Salt Lake City. Often they tune in on KSL and hear the sermons that are delivered on Sunday evening. In every case of that kind people have spoken appreciatively of what they are permitted to enjoy. 

We are living in a marvelous age, at a time when the Lord has not only inspired his children to do wonderful things to make our existence more pleasant here, but has revealed his Gospel anew and established his Church to prepare us for the celestial kingdom. It ,is difficult to bring people to an understanding of the fact that this Gospel is not the work of man, but is our Father's work, given to us in this latter day for the blessing of all mankind. 

INTEREST IN THE CHURCH GROWING 

During the year I have visited four of the mission fields of the United [States, /three of them from one end to the other, and in; every mission I have found delightful people who are interested in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

In the Texas mission one young man, who was the religious editor of a newspaper, came to our meetings, and then asked if he might come to the hotel and talk with us. We visited with him. That is less than a year ago now, and only within the last two or three days I have learned that he has joined the Church because of the blessing that he feels will come to him by such a membership. 119 

In some places I found that our chapels are not large enough to hold the conference congregations. In several cities people came in such numbers that we could not make them comfortable, and the audiences, in many cases, were composed mostly of those who are not members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The work of the Lord is going forward. The teachings of our Redeemer are finding a lodgment in the hearts of the children of men. The spirit of prayer is abroad, and I would like to say that it is pleasing to me, as I go into the homes of non-members, to find that many are anxious to approach the Lord in prayer, and the servants of the Lord are asked to pray with them, showing their faith in the power and blessing of prayer. But it seems strange that it is so difficult for many people to understand the plan of salvation. 

TEACHINGS OF THE REDEEMER The discourses that have been delivered from this stand during this conference have been delightful to me. Nothing has been said that anybody could take exception to or that anyone would not be pleased to accept. What ,has been said has been in conformity to the teachings of Jesus Christ our Lord. We believe in faith, in repentance, in baptism by immersion for the remission ,of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. These are the teachings of the Redeemer of mankind, and he has called upon us in this latter day to teach all people these glorious truths and others that have been revealed. 

When ,1 visit the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints in the mission field, and discover how they grow in strength and power and in grace before the Lord, and how they are able in their humble ,way to explain the principles of the Gospel to_ the convincing of many of our Father's children, I am thankful indeed. I wonder if the Latter-day Saints really appreciate what a contribution they are offering ,to the world when they send out these young men, and in many cases young women, who are giving their time and such information as they possess in order that others may enjoy the blessings of which we partake. 

ALL CANNOT UNDERSTAND 

The scriptures inform us that all will not understand the Gospel. (See I Cor. 1:18.) 

"For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but ,irnto us which are saved it is the power of God." 

Is that not true? Has your missionary experience not brought to you that realization, as it did to Paul, that those who refuse the truth are on the way to perishing? They do not comprehend, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ is but foolishness unto them Many are good men and good women, but they cannot understand. To GENERAL CONFERENCE  who have been baptized into his Church and have been obedient to his requirements the Gospel of Jesus Christ is an anchor and brings to you a satisfaction that can come in no other way. 

ANXIOUS TO DIVIDE WITH OTHERS 

As I read the scriptures, not only the Old and the New Testaments, but the >Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, I marvel at the goodness of the Lord to bless those who accept his teachings, for we find more comfort in these sacred records than in all the philosophies of the ages, as given to us by the wisdom of men. 

Standing here as one of the weakest and humblest among you, I feel to praise my Heavenly Father for the testimony that he has given to me ithat this is his Church. Oh, how I wish that the good people of all denominations might really know what we are seeking to divide with them! I meet members of the Catholic, the Presbyterian, the Baptist, the Methodist, and all the other churches, and I find in these men and women virtues that are most beautiful to me. But I find that they are so rooted in the organizations 'with which they are identified that when I try to explain to them what we are doing, they seem mystified; they are not able to understand. One man said to me, "Would you have us give up all that we have had, all these blessings that we have enjoyed, to join your church?" I replied : "Not a blessing, not one good thing would we ask you to give up. But we do say to you, we will be glad to divide with you, if you will permit us so to do, without cost to you, some of the blessings of our Heavenly Father that have been kept from you in the past which are now at your very door." 

It is not the purpose of this Church to make statements that would hurt the feelings of those who do not understand things. This Church is not one that goes about criticising and finding fault with others, but in the spirit of loving kindness and the desire to be helpful, its representatives carry the Gospel message to the nations of the earth. This unusual missionary service is attracting world-wide attention. By the thousands the sons of God, bearing the priesthood, and some of his daughters, have gone to the uttermost corners of the earth, paying their own .expenses, for the purpose of sharing with our Father's children his precious truths which would be so helpful to them if they would but accept them -and make them part of their lives. 

THE WISDOM OF THE WISE 

The scripture that I last read is followed by this : 

"For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and ,will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent." 

And in another place we read : 

"The wisdom of /their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." In analyzing the distressed condition of the world at the present time and realizing that the greatest minds of all lands in studying our problems are utterly helpless to meet the issue, I am persuaded that until they turn to him whose children they are and acknowledge the Father who is so anxious to bless, until they will give him an opportunity to inspire them, they will continue!to grope in uncertainty \and fail to solve the problems that afflict mankind. The difficulties for which we are now seeking remedies are the result of forsaking the teachings of the Lord and depending upon the wisdom of men. 

THE PANACEA 

If I were to voice what is in my heart it would seem egotistical to some, but I say to all men everywhere, examine the teachings of the Gospel of our Lord as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, search them prayerfully, and you shall find the panacea for the ills of this world, and it will be discovered in no other way. 

I believe that, as I ibelieve that I live, and when I speak thus it is with the fervent desire that in some way we may be able to interest our Father's children and bring them to an understanding of his truth, that the errors and mistakes of mankind may be neutralized, that the power of evil may be turned aside, and that his children everywhere may be induced to glorify his name. 

OUR DUTY 

Think of the great and good men who have taught the Gospel of Jesus Christ, from the days of Joseph Smith until the present time, and how often their words have fallen upon dull ears throughout the world. I realize that the time is coming, however, and our Heavenly Father has so decreed, that all shall know. But in the meantime, it is your duty and mine, not only to teach the truth but to let our light so shine, by our conduct in life, that others,' observing our good works, may be constrained to glorify his name. 

It is your duty and mine, as we go to and fro among our companions day by day, to radiate such an influence that they will be led to investigate the cause of the peace and happiness that dwells with those who serve God and keep his commandments. It is not necessary that we be called upon missions for that. Right here at home and in all nations there are hundreds and thousands of good men and women who are not yet touched by the Gospel -of Jesus Christ, many of whom did they but understand what you understand, would be glad to conform to the requirements of our Heavenly Father and partake of his blessings. If in our homes and in our business affairs, if in our lives everywhere, we will go about radiating that love that should be in every heart, that kindness that should possess every Latter-day Saint, (and particularly in these times when condittions are so serious for many) many men and many women will rise up to call us blessed, not only for the creature comforts that we may bestow, but because of the hope of GENERAL CONFERENCE  life that we have been the instruments in the hands of God of placing before them in a comprehensive way. 

Some of the greatest mission fields in all the world are the abiding places of the Latter-day Saints, the towns and villages where we live, and if we would but do what our Father desires us to do, the beauty of the Gospel of our Redeemer would be realized by;the children of men, and we would all be made happier to see our Father's children — every one of them dear to him and precious in his sight — drawing near to him, that they might obtain the blessings that he has promised those who serve him and keep his commandments. 

THE AUTHORITY OF THE LORD 

I know that the authority of the Lord is here. I know that the man who stands at the head of this Church is inspired, and I wish that all of you might know of his willingness to sacrifice for the. blessing of those to whom he ministers. I wish you could all know of the faith and devotion of his counselors, as they sit hour by hour giving the very best that is in their lives, to plan for the good of humanity, not only for us but for all mankind. 

I wish you could be associated as I have had the privilege of being with the good men who lead the Church, the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, the Patriarch, the First Council of Seventy and the Presiding Bishopric, these men whose lives are devoted to the blessings of mankind. I wish you could know them as I know them. I want to say that if you did, no one would come to you with any suggestion of wrong-doing charged against them without being defended by you, realizing that they are indeed the servants of the Lord 

. GRATITUDE FOR BLESSINGS 

I am grateful for my fellowship in this Church. I have never asked for positions of honor. I have always been pleased to work wherever I have been called, and in the mercy of the Lord he has given me strength, thus far, to carry out in part the requirements that have been made of me. I stand here my heart filled with gratitude to him who rules and reigns on high, for the privilege that I enjoy at this moment, being with this marvelous congregation, and of talking to you as I am permitted to do, and I hope that his children who may be listening in will feel the blessing that we enjoy, as this service proceeds under the direction of the Prophet of the Lord. 

god's work 

This is God's work. It 'is not the work of any man. No man or set of men could have carried it forward and made it successful in the face of the opposition of the world. Many times they have felt that the end of the Church had come, and each tim-e by the majesty of his power, the Lord has lifted it up, and it has gone forward from city to city, from village to village, from nation to nation, and here in the tops of the everlasting hills he has fulfilled his revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the people were to become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. 

Our work has only just begun. As I look into the future and realize the possibilities, the prayer that is in my heart is Father in heaven, help us that we may resist evil, that we may banish from our lives selfishness, that we may love one another, and wherever we may go, that those to whom we minister may feel that love' and be touched thereby, that they may desire to be members of such an organization as this. 

I pray that the Lord will bless him who presides over us and bless his counselors, that they may live long to direct us, that they may continue to labor under the inspiration of our HeaVenly Father, for I know that they have labored that way in the past. May we who labor under their direction, we who serve in the various departments of this Church, live so near to him who rules and reigns on high that we will know our duty when the word is spoken by those whom he has called to preside and that we may not be swayed by the fallacies, the foolishness and the philosophies of men. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and his children everywhere in the world, that his power and the inspiration of his Spirit, and the knowledge of his truth may come to them, that ,this world may become filled with the glory of righteousness, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn "Come, let us anew." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

A hundred years ago this last June the Lord Jesus Christ delivered a message to the Church that I consider most important and applicable just now, and I desire to read a portion of it from the fifty-sixth section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for 

your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the 

day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved!" 

The only security that rich men have today comes out of obedience to law and order, and unless there is a liberal giving I am sure that great uncertainty may be experienced by those of great wealth. 

THE RICH MAN'S OBLIGATION 

What should a rich man give? His tenth. That belongs to the Lord, for man is but a steward of it. I do feel to rejoice in my heart that in this Church we do have men of means who give their tenth. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

But, oh, how difficult it is for some to pay an honest tithing when they make much money! They can do it very well when their income is small, but when they get to the point of giving a hundred dollars it is about as far as many can go, no matter what their income may be. 

I wish that throughout the whole length of the land today every man of wealth would feel his obligation to the Lord Almighty for his stewardship, and that he would give one-tenth at least of his income each year for the charity that is so necessary to provide for the hungry. As I have seen in various sections of this country great groups of hungry and idle men who seek work, it would seem to be but a simple thing that they, like in Russia, would reach the point where they would take possession of property unlawfully and illegally. There is only one way by which that may be averted. They must be fed, they must be cared for. 

EVERY MAN A BEGGAR 

There may be an objection, however, that these have been unwise men and are suffering for their own sins. But nevertheless, let me read what the Lord has to say on that subject also, because the people referred to in the Book of Mormon, I presume, had times very much like ours. In the fourth chapter of Mosiah I read the following: 

"And also, ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. 

"Perhaps thou shalt say : The man has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just — 

"But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done he perishetb forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God. 

"For behold, are we not all beggars? Do we not all depend upon the same Being, even God, for all the substance which we have, for both food and raiment, and for gold, and for silver, and for all the riches which we have of every kind? 

"And behold, even at this time, ye have been calling on his name, and begging for a remission of your sins. And has he suffered that ye have begged in vain?" 

Every man needs the pardon of God. Every man is a beggar, because he is pleading for that which he does not have himself, though he may be possessed of all the wealth of the world. One thing the Lord has clearly indicated is that no matter how worthy or unworthy, every one of his children should have food and shelter. Beyond that, however, we may not be able to go. 

A WORD TO THE POOR 

And now, a word to those who are in need, the poor. I am reading again from the fifty-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the balance of that admonition: 

"Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are 125  contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands!" 

Their attitude is equally as objectionable in the sight of the Lord as that of the stingy rich. Let the poor, therefore, not be possessed of the spirit of Bolshevism that would unlawfully take possession of that which does not belong to them. 

I am pleading that the Latter-day Saints will respond to the appeals that are made. Last night the Presiding Bishop of our Church informed the brethren that every bishop in a ward where Latter-day Saints are in a majority should care for the hungry and see that none goes without food or shelter, whether he belongs to this Church or not; and that is why we need the support of your tithes and offerings, that the poor may not lift up their appeals in vain. And the poor who receive these blessings must be patient. This is not the time for them to be possessed of other men's goods. They must be wise and prudent in the future, to store up against such a day as this, and consider themselves fortunate that they are provided with food and shelter during these trying times. They should not become envious and jealous and full of the spirit of anarchy. That is not the spirit of the Christ. 

THE LORD'S PROMISE 

"But blessed are the poor," the Lord continues — and I would add, and I feel sure it is in harmony with the spirit of this text — blessed are the rich too — "who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, and whose spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs. 

"For behold, the Lord shall ,come, and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice; 

"And their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever."; 

Such a promise will be realized and that through the coming of the kingdom of God. 

DEVELOPMENT IN ADVERSITY 

I believe that these experiences through which we are now passing all have their lesson. What is the lesson the Latter-day Saints should learn from the experiences of today? But three or four years ago, in the midst of our greatest prosperity, I was attracted by a question propounded to Mr. C. W. Barron, who owned the Wall Street Journal— I think he has since passed away— one of the greatest financiers of our country. Some man had declared that there would be a hundred years of uninterrupted prosperity in the United States, and to that proposition Mr. Barron answered: 

"Will there be a hundred years of uninterrupted prosperity?" I asked. He shook his head. 

"Why not?" , . . . . 

"I expected him to show me a chart or say something about the business cycle,' or 'economic fundamentals,' or to use some of the other well-worn phrases. But to my relief he took an entirely different approach. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"There will not be a century of uninterrupted good times, because the universe is not arranged on that basis," he said. "What is taking place on this earth is a great experiment in the development of human character. (The Creator is not interested in money or markets, but in more enduring men. 

"Such men are not developed when everything is easy. They never come out of the countries where the sun shines every day. Trials develop them; problems develop them; suffering develops them. As long as the present Divine plans continue to operate, we shall continue to have enough setbacks to keep the race from growing altogether soft. Years ago, Roger Babson made a chart on which one wavy line represented national prosperity and the other wavy line showed church membership. It was decidedly interesting. When money rolls in too easily and too long, men drift away, not only from their churches, but from hard work and simple living; they form extravagant tastes; they take long chances. 

"Then came the panic. Their easy wealth evaporates. They clear their lives of rubbish and start in again on the sound basis of economy, worship and work. Sometime the race may develop to a point where it can stand prosperity all the time, but in our present state hard times still have their needed work to do." 

god's plan to be established 

Yes, I believe there will come a time when we can stand prosperity all the time, and that time will be when that order which God established in the heavens before man lived upon the earth, is set up. 

Upon various occasions in the past the Lord has endeavored to establish that order — in the days of Enoch, as referred to by President Nibley this morning, and in the days of Christ himself while he ministered among men upon the eastern hemisphere and upon the western hemisphere also. He has revealed to this Church his plan for the equitable distribution of the wealth of the world, which is his. We have gone forward marvelously in mass production; and now, brethren and sisters, it is essential that we shall have mass distribution. We will have these recurring periods until the people learn, as learn 1 believe they will in time through these experiences, to let the Lord's plan become established. 

THE LORD'S RENTAL 

I am happy that the Church, a hundred years nearer the solution of this problem than anyone else, is making headway. Sometime after the order referred to was revealed to the Prophet the Lord gave the law of tithing. That is the thing that concerns us now. It is the schoolmaster to prepare us for this greater, this bigger thing. The law of tithing is just and righteous. We need the blessing of the Lord today, of a material character. No man would think for a moment that he was not under obligation to pay rental to the owner for land that he tilled; and yet the owner cannot guarantee that the rain shall fall, that the snow shall come in the mountains, that the moisture so essential shall be provided, that the sun will shine, that the grain will germinate, that the harvest will come. Someone else must provide these essentials without which your farm is of little more value than an ash heap. 

Who provides these other important blessings? The Lord Al127 . Is he entitled to recognition and rental? Yes. The earth is the Lord's. It belongs to him, and we are but tenants. We owe him a rental, and he has enjoined upon us that a just rental is ten per cent of that which we obtain from the soil and from our labor. You expect, I am sure, to live in an eternal world with an eternal possession. How can any man who understands this law hope to have an eternal inheritance in this world, celestialized by the power of Christ, unless he has paid his tithing? It is the law of inheritance. He will establish a right to an eternal inheritance if he has paid his rental. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

The Lord's work, however, is making progress. It is going forward. I am not disturbed by the things that are now occurring. In the beginning of this Church he declared that the time had come when everything would be shaken that could be shaken and that that which he had established would stand. The Lord has been shaking to the very foundation the fortresses of evil, of error, of darkness, of skepticism, and of apostasy. The Lord has been building up the truth by the same process. Just a slight reference to it : A recent report of the census of the United States reveals the fact that in the last decade, of the twenty-three religious denominations of the United States six of them show a loss of membership. This Church is one of the twenty-three, but there is not another one in the group whose percentage of growth is equal to the growth of this Church. 

The Christian Herald of recent issue calls attention to the fact that last year. 1930, the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of this Church, for the first time in one hundred years the Methodist Church of the United States lost membership. Its loss was 42,211 souls. The Presbyterian Church's loss was 22,763 souls, while the great Catholic Church, the largest Christian religion in the United States, had a growth of only 17,526 souls, a growth that this Church exceeded last year. The growth of total membership in the year 1928 in the United States was a million souls, the next year it dropped to 242,000, and the following year, last year, it was 88,000. The Lord Almighty is shaking the foundations of error and man-made institutions, while this, his work, stands all the tests that have been applied to it, the test of mob violence, the test of persecution, and now I am sure it will stand whatever test the future holds for we are founded upon the truth. 

PROPHESIES GOOD FOR ZION 

God help us, my brethren and sisters, to see our glorious opportunity, to adhere more closely than ever before to these Gospel principles. Don't you brethren become discouraged. Don't you leave your farms. This is no time to sell your land, no time to desert your flocks and herds. I prophesy good for Zion if the Latter-day Saints will only serve God and keep his commandments. You shah be delivered financially, delivered from that which oppresses you, but among the wicked there shall be times of trouble. The devil is in the earth to GENERAL CONEERENCE  to reclaim his kingdom. God is here to help the progress of his work, for that glorious day of the coming of his Son must arrive, and the Lord Almighty is at work to that end. 

The Lord help us to be wise and learn the lessons out of the present and profit by them in the future, and listen to the counsels of this glorious conference, for I bear witness that the Lord is here, the light is in the ship. It is with the leaders of this Church. I know it. You have had witness of it this day and during the other sessions of this conference that shall remain with you forever and ever. God grant it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I regret exceedingly that we have not had the pleasure of hearing from President B. H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy, and from Brother Joseph W. McMurrin, both of whom have, for many years at the various conferences that I have attended, lifted their voices in testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. 

The General Authorities and Officers of the Church and the Auxiliary Officers and Boards were then presented, and by unanimous vote of those assembled were sustained in their various offices and callings as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson James E. Talmage 

Reed Smoot Stephen L. Richards 

George Albert Smith Richard R. Lyman 

George F. Richards Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe Joseph Fielding Smith 

Inasmuch as some people say that we always present the name of the person nominated to fill a vacancy in the leading councils of the Church, in a group with those previously chosen and ordained, so that the people do not have an opportunity to vote against him, I shall put this separate motion : All those in favor of sustaining Brother Joseph F. Merrill as a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, filling the 129  in that Council caused by the death of Elder Orson F. Whitney, 

will manifest it by raising their right hands. (All present raised their right hands) The vote is unanimous in favor of Brother Merrill. Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Joseph W. McMurrin 

Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

It is moved and seconded that we sustain Elder Antoine R. Ivins as a member of the First Council of Seventy. All in favor manifest it by raising their right hands. (All present raised their right hands) Contrary, if there be any, indicate it in the same manner. (No hands were raised) 

The vote in favor of Brother Ivins is unanimous in the affirmative. 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Joseph F. Merrill Adam S. Bennion Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer GENERAL CONFERENCE 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Orval W. Adams John W. Hart 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor; David A. Smith, President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edna Harker Thomas, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 131 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

In case any person fails to fully appreciate the plain statement of President Ivins that the book to which he referred is to be considered as the personal opinion of the author and not as having been approved by the Church, I wish all the members of the Church to know that when any book has the approval of the Church St will have the stamp of approval of the Presidency of the Church. Therefore, no agent selling any books is justified in quoting the Church as approving a book that does not carry the stamp of . approval in it. 

I believe that for the first and only time since I became the President of the Church it is not four o'clock when the time has arrived to call upon the choir to sing and for the final benediction to be pronounced. 

It has fallen to my lot on more than one occasion to make a few remarks after four o'clock. We are all willing to stay here after four o'clock, I am sure, to hear the choir in the closing anthem. Therefore, there are ten full minutes left for me, for which I am grateful. 

GRATEFUL FOR CONFERENCE 

First, I am thankful for this wonderful conference. I believe sincerely that today we have had as many if not more in attendance than is usual at our Sunday morning and afternoon meetings. It seemed to me that we were more crowded this morning than at any other time I can remember. 

I am grateful that what to me was the most marvelous sight I have looked upon -in this building was that which I witnessed last night when the building was nearly filled with members holding the priesthood of the living God. Let me say that with all ,our faults and failings I believe we are the best people in the world. It 'Sounds a little egotistical, but I believe every word of it, and I believe firmly that our sisters are better than the brethren, t, haven't any doubt of this, none whatever. There was a magnificent showing here last night of the priesthood, and from the bottom of my heart and in the authority of the priesthood of the living God that I hold I have great pleasure in blessing the men who hold the priesthood of God, the power from heaven, and in blessing our wives who, on an average, have been more devoted, I am sure, to the work of the living God than we have been. 

LOYALTY TO PRESIDENT HOOVER AND ASSOCIATES 

I rejoice in the splendid work of the Latter-day Saints. I desire and $ee\ to pray for the blessings of the Lord to be and abide with the President of the United States and his cabinet in this time of great trouble, in a time when we should be loyal. "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates." Let us be loyal to those who in the providences of the Lord stand at GENERAL CONFERENCE  head of our nation at the present time, in this great time of trouble.. I am >sure nobody will accuse me, seeing- I am counted as a Democrat, of being guilty of mixing politics with religion here; but I believe that no truer, better, finer man has ever sat in the presidential chair than the man who is sitting there today. That is my opinion of President Hoover. 

A STRAW VOTE 

Some years ago for the first and only time in my life I paid some attention /to a straw vote. I do not think such votes amount to a straw; that is my opinion of them. I think that if there is ever any "stuffing" in ballot boxes it is when a straw vote is being taken. I think it is properly named "straw vote." It is as weak as a straw. But I could not resist the temptation way back many years ago, when the Literary Digest asked for a straw vote, and lo and behold, I voted for Hoover. That was my opinion of the man who had >done so much, such magnificent and wonderful work during the war, in feeding the people in Europe. I believe that he is absolutely honest and conscientious and that his heart is as firmly set upon doing the right thing for the people of this country, as the hearts of the Jeaders of this Church are set upon doing the right thing for the Latter-day Saints. 

I am happy indeed in a knowledge of the divinity of the work you and /I are engaged in. I humbly pray for the blessings of the Lord to be with each and all of you, with the Latter-day Saints the world over, and the honest in every land and every clime. God bless you, Amen. 

As a closing anthem the Choir sang the Hallelujah Chorus, by Handel. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Taylor Nelson, President of the Oneida Stake. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Anthony C. Lund, assisted by B. Cecil Gates, conducted the singing of the Choir and congregation at the Conference meetings. Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Edward P. Kimball and Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 

Authorities, Presentation of Ballard, Elder Melvin J. . . 

128 123 



The rich man's obligation, 123 — Every man a beggar, 124 — A word to the poor, 124 — The Lord's promise, 125 — Development in adversity, 125 — God's plan to be established, 126 — The Lord's rental 126- 1 Church growth, 127 — Prophecies good for Zion, 127. 

Leadership of Moses, 104 — Choose whom you will serve, 105 — Faith in God needed, 105 — Purpose of Gospel, 105 — Consideration for others, 105 — Priesthood for guidance, 106 — Demand for a modern Moses, 106 — Inspired leadership in the Church, 106 — Overcome past mistakes, 108 — Critical attitude caused by adversity, 109 — Panaceas suggested, 109 — All things in common, 109 — Church stands for greater equality, 110 — Gospel promotes spirit of consecration, 1 10 — Obey the law of tithing, 110 — Cultivate contriteness of spirit, 110. 

Clawson, President Rudger 75 

Past and present linked together, 75 — The Gospel — indivisible and everlasting, 76 — An incident from the distant past, 76 — A dreadful day, 76 — Destruction of wicked, 77 — Marvelous manifestations, 77 — The coming of Elijah, 77— The word "Turn",— Work for the dead, 78 — By proxy, 78 — The connecting link, 79. 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting . 23 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 128 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 130 

Work progresses, 2 — No need to worry, 2 — Falsehoods being circulated, 3 — Money loaned to Sugar Company, 3 — Penalized for loyalty, 4 — Personal profit denied, 4 — Satisfied with status, 4 — True Latter-day Saints, 5 — Changes among General Authorities, 5 — Changes in Stake and Mission officers since last April Conference, 5— Stake presidents appointed, 5 — New mission presidents, 6 — New temple president, 6 — New wards organized, 6— Stake president who has passed away, 6 — Bishops who have passed away, 6 — The foundaBennion, Elder Samuel O. 

Bluth, Elder John V 

Callis, Elder Charles A. . Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q General Officers of the Church Grant, President Heber J 134 tion of the Church, 6 — Truth evidenced, 7 — Puzzles writer, 7 — Superiority admitted, 8 — A mighty people, 8 — During the past one hundred years, 8 — Example quoted, 9 — Defies statement, 9. 

Grant, President Heber J 49 

Composers of inspired hymns, 49. Grant, President Heber J 117 

Returned mission presidents, 117. 

Grant, President Heber J 128 

General Authorities sustained, 128 — General Officers of the Church sustained, 129 — General Auxiliary officers of the Church sustained, 130. 

Grant, President Heber J 131 

Grateful for conference, 131 — Loyalty to President Hoover and associates, 131 — A straw vote, 132. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 68 

Hart, Elder John W. 74 

Ivins, President Anthony W 87 

Refers to book, 87 — Situated in Egypt, 88 — Governed by stars, 88 — Of great magnitude, 88 — The builders, 88 — Old theory challenged, 89 — The interior, 89- — Conclusions of scholars, 90 — Questions conclusions, 91 — Other sources, 91 — Preceding his second coming, 91 — Exact time not revealed, 92 — The author's own views, 92 — Troubles forecast, 92 — Tribulations evident, 93 — Defends banks, 93 — Trust the Lord, 94. 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 71 

Jones, Elder Miles L 30 

Kimball, Eldler J. Golden 55 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 18 

What says the law? 18 — What says Lincoln? 18 — -What says science? 18 — What say we? 19— What say the doctors? 19- — What says the Church ? 19 — What say the papers ? 20 — What accounts for success ? 20— Do public officials break the law? 20— Will leaders lead? 20— What can example do? 21 — What is our answer? 21 — Why not decide wisely? 22. 

McKay, Elder David 10 

Try the spirits, 10 — An experience in the mission field, 10 — The spirit . of slander, 11 — George Washington's experience, 11— An impressive instance in Church history, 12 — The man of Galilee, 13 — The triumph of truth, 13. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F 34 

A position of high honor, 35 — A key to success, 35 — Men of devotion, 35 — Honored of God, 36 — The young people, 36 — Testimony through service, 36 — Keep young people in school, 37 — By keeping physically fit, 37 — Securely anchored, 38. Moyle, Elder James H 38 135 

Nibley, President Charles W 94 

Ominous signs, 94 — To alleviate distress, 95 — England's navy, 95 — The Lord's plan, 96 — In Moses' time, 97 — Equal possessions, 97 — Not destructive of initiative, 97 — Regard for others, 98 — Selfishness must be overcome, 98 — If conditions mend, 98 — The way of the Lord, 99. 

Pond, Elder Noah S 115 

Richards, Elder George F 99 

Moroni's exhortation, 100 — The revealed word of God, 100 — Men of God, 101 — The office of the Holy Ghost, 101 — A marvelous manifestation, 101 — Our responsibility, 102 — Immortal beings, 102 — Contrary to sectarian belief, 102 — Gospel truths revealed anew, 103 — Marriage for eternity, 103 — Other requirements, 104. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 45 

Tolerant toward others, 46 — Influences that perplex, 46 — Reliance upon reason, 46 — Sympathy in temptation, 47 — The Gospel's greater mission, 47 — Temperate in judgment, 47. 

Romney, Elder George S 85 

Rowan, Elder Charles E., Jr 42 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 68 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 49 

Sloan, Elder William R 44 

Smith, Elder David A 23 

Smith, Elder George Albert 117 

Absent ones, 117 — Love for the brethren, 117 — Teaching the world, 118 — Interest in the Church growing, 118 — Teachings of the Redeemer, 119 — All cannot understand, 119 — Anxious to divide with others, 120 — The wisdom of the wise, 120 — The panacea, 121 — Our duty, 121 — The authority of the Lord, 122 — Gratitude for blessings, 122 — God's work, 122. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 26 

People disturbed over financial conditions, 26 — Faith in the Church and its leaders, 26 — Visitors from many states and countries, 26 — Discerning between good and evil spirits, 27 — Blessings through devotion, 27. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 14 

Testimony concerning great truths, 14 — That we may not be deceived, 

15 — Unto all men, 15 — Here or hereafter, 16 — The Lord's purpose, 

16 — Search these things, 17 — "Whoso treasureth up my word," 17. 

Smoot, Elder Reed Ill 

Blessings through attending conferences, 1 12 — Testimony through prayer, 112 — Conditions throughout the world, 113 — Not a praying nation, 113 — In congressional assemblies, 113 — Not in unclean tabernacles, 114 — More Godliness or more Godlessness? 114 — The Spiritual factor, 114. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Talmage, Elder James E 49 

Sanctity of the Lord's name, 49 — Profanity in speech, 50 — Enormity of false swearing, 51 — Using the holy name presumptuously, 51 — We bear the Lord's name, 52. 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting Ill 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 87 

Tingey, Elder Clarence H 60 

Welling, Elder Arthur 53 

Wells, Elder John 32 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 62 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 79 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 58 

All Students oi the Book of Mormon 

WILL FIND THE BOOK 

An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon 

By J. M. SJODAHL 

To be mighty interesting and illuminating 

"Some of the contents of the book has appeared in the IMPROVEMENT ERA and other Church publications during the last ten years, and friends have been good enough to say, repeatedly, that they would be glad to have those contributions in some form more convenient for reference. Acting on their suggestion, I have collected some papers previously published and others that now appear for the first time, and respectfully submit them in this form to the public. In doing so, it is my sincere prayer that the testimony here offered may be of benefit to the reader, and especially to honest seekers after the truth." 

Price $3.50 

Sunday Night Talks by Radio 

In answer to an insistent demand the 1930 series of L. D. S. Radio Addresses given by Dr. James E. Talmage has now been issued in regular book form under the title of "Sunday Night Talks By Radio." It is printed on a good grade of book paper from type especially set for this edition, and durably bound in beautiful marblex cloth. 

This book will make a beautiful as well as practical and useful addition to the library of any member of the Church. It will be especially valuable to missionaries or prospective missionaries. 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

Send your order now to the 

Deseret Book Company 

"The Home of Good Books" Salt Lake City, Utah 

A veritable epic of empire-building 

The Life Story of Brigham Young 

By SUSA YOUNG GATES AND LEAH D. WIDTSOE WITH A FOREWORD BY HONORABLE REED SMOOT 

"This book presents the life story of a New England cabinet-maker, who, well into his thirties, entered npon a career that made him an empire* builder of the West; the founder of a hundred cities; the governor of one of the territories of the United States; and one of the outstanding figures of the nineteenth century." 

Thus does Senator Smoot begin his enthusiastic foreword to this notable biography. "A graphic, gripping story," he terms it, and every reader undoubtedly will agree with his definition of this life of the indefatigable, indomitable Brigham Young, which was written by one of his daughters and her daughter. The entire record of the great Mormon leader is unfolded from his birth in a little Vermont town to his death at the age of seventy-seven as head of the church, the success of which was due to his courageous and arduous leadership. 

A Special Edition. Beautifully and Substantially Bound in Cloth. 

Only $2.50 Postpaid 

The New Lesson Course For Genealogical Workers 

IS ENTITLED 

'The Way to Perfection" 

By ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Price $1.25 

Descret Book Company 

44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 





