Morning
08 10 1916

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Faith exists among the Latter-day Saints — Devotion to duty, charity, and good order found in the presiding officers and offices — Affairs of the Church of Christ administered with great care by men having deep faith in its destiny. Some things that need careful watching and safeguarding — Prosperity has brought extravagance in expenditures of borrowed money — Inordinate public and private disposition to borrow and bond — A warning for -\the day of reckoning — Mexican affairs — If war comes, let it not be of our making — Ultimate triumph of the work of the Lord. 

Since the opening session of this conference, my brethren and sisters, one thought has been uppermost in my mind. It has been gratitude to the Lord that I am identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; that, notwithstanding my weaknesses and imperfections, I' am permitted to be here with you this Sabbath mornnig in worship, enjoying your fellowship and, I trust, your confidence. 

The Redeemer, during his ministry upon earth, on one occasion propounded this question to his disciples : "When the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?" And that thought came to me this morning, as I contemplated this vast congregation of Latter-day Saints come up here to worship the Lord, not because of idle curiosity, but that they may hear his word and learn to walk in his paths. 

The President of the Church stated, in his opening remarks, that there are now seventy-two organized stakes of Zion. I returned only a few days ago from a protracted trip which took me into and through a great number of these various stakes, beginning with the Alberta and Taylor stakes, in Canada, through Idaho, and Southern Utah where I had been in attendance at conferences of the Panguitch, Kanab, St. George and the Parowan stakes of Zion. I endeavored, as I associated with the people, to determine as far as possible their condition, believing it to be my duty to be informed regarding the spiritual and temporal welfare  the people, and I want to say this to you, my brethren and sisters, that wherever I have gone, from Canada on the north to Kanab and St. George upon the south, large congregations of Latter-day Saints have assembled in all of the meetings which have been held. I have been impressed with the fact, as I mingled with the people, as I felt of their spirit, that faith does exist, that never before in the history of the Church were greater numbers of people gathered together upon similar occasions to hear the word of the Lord. I have been impressed as I have come in contact with the bishops, who preside over the more than eight hundred wards in the Church in these various stakes of Zion, with their faith and devotion to the responsibilities which have been placed upon them. I have been impressed, as I have come in contact with the presidents of these various stakes, with their devotion, with their faith, with the splendid service they are giving to the Lord and to the Latter-day Saints, in the discharge of the duties and responsibilities which have been placed upon them. They are young men in years, many of them young in experience, but I believe as devoted, as full of faith and hope and charity as men have been at any other period of the world's history. 

My thoughts have then carried me a little farther, while I have been considering the proceedings of this Conference, and I want to say the same thing in regard to my personal association, acquaintance, and knowledge of the character of the men who preside over the missions of the Church. They are devoted, faithful, capable men. For years, I have had my desk in the office of the presiding bishop of the Church. 

I have studied carefully, I have been an observer, because I wished to know, I wished to satisfy myself, and to speak intelligently and truthfully, if required to speak — so 1 have studied conditions there. All that I have said and more, if possible, applies to the administration of the affairs of the office of the presiding bishopric in this Church. The spirit of charity is there, the spirit of sympathy is there. No one is turned away without assistance, where it is necessary to render it. The business of the office is conducted in the most orderly manner. 

I have been associated with the First Council of Seventies. I know their devotion to be just as great to duty, to the requirements of their offices, that they are men ready at any moment to go or to come — to be, as far as frail man may be, what the Lord desires them to be, and to go where he wants them to go. It is needless for me to say that this same eulogy applies to the Council of the Twelve, with whom I am directly associated. There may have been more devoted men, there may have been men more united, there may have been men, every one of whom more earnestly desire the welfare of the Church, but if so, it has never been my privilege to come in contact with them. I am becoming an old man, and have been personally acquainted with many, in fact, nearly all, of our brethren who have presided over us in the past. 

I bear this same testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, regarding the administration of the affairs of the Church under the direction of the First Presidency. I have known personally every man who has presided over the Church since the days of the prophet, not, of course, acquainted with him, but I knew President Young, I knew President Taylor, I knew President Woodruff, intimately, every one of them, and President Snow — and I believe that I intimately know our brethren who preside over the Church today. I bear testimony to you that the affairs of the Church were never administered with greater care, they never were administered in greater humility, they were never administered by men possessing greater faith as to the destiny of this work, the, accomplishment of God's purposes, than those men who preside at present over its affairs. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I am not saying this by way of compliment, I am not saying it because it appears to . be necessary! I am saying it because it is the conviction of my heart, and I know that I stand here speaking the truth as it applies to the body of the Church, where I have visited, as it applies to the bishops of wards and to presidents of stakes, as it applies to the men who preside over the temporal affairs of this Church, and men who direct its missionary activities, and the presiding authorities. I thank the Lord in my heart that I can stand here and bear this witness before you truthfully this morning. Those are the observations, the conclusions which have come to me from my observations during this long journey which I have just made in the Church. 

I would not have you understand that every condition which exists is satisfactory, that it is all just as we would like it to be. Not at all. It never has been, and I want just briefly to call your attention now — after referring to those things which seem so encouraging to me, which give me the absolute assur that should the Redeemer come today, he would find faith upon the earth — to some of the things which it appears to me these men who are here before me must safeguard and carefully watch in their various stakes and wards of the Church. Wherever I went I found a degree of prosperity which perhaps has never before existed in the Church. The products of the soil, the flock, and the herd, the products of the factory, the business done by the stores and banks, are greater perhaps than ever before. The prices of commodities are high, and the consequence is that money is coming easy to many people where it came under great difficulties before, and I fancied, my brethren and sisters, that I could see a tendency to the extravagant expenditure of money, a lack of economy on the part of many people which might properly and profitably be corrected. 

I passed a splendid farm; there were large stacks of hay and grain there, and cattle and horses in the pasture. I remarked to a man who happened to be a banker, that those boys, who were acquaintances of mine, would be rich after a little. I said, "Look at their abundant harvest, and the cattle that they have gathered around them." 

"Yes," he said, "it would be all right if it were not tor the fact that so-and-so has a mortgage on their farm, and we have a mortgage on their cattle." How I regretted to hear that! 

I went into one small incorporated city, and in discussing the apparent prosperity of the community, the man with whom I was talking, said it would take five hundred thousand dollars to pay the debts which this community owed to the banks. I went through a series of  fields and farms and the man who owns one of them said to me, "Eighty per cent of these farms are mortgaged." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I refer to this earnestly, and I earnestly admonish you that while this period of prosperity lasts, while money is so easy, see to it that mortgages are lifted from, your farms, and from your cattle,, and that the debts you have incurred are paid, because a day of reckoning is coming! I want to tell you that. This condition cannot always continue. The facility with which money can be acquired because of the great amounts which are accumulated in the banks makes borrowing easy, but it is not so easy to pay back. I don't want you, when that; day of reckoning shall come, to find yourself in bondage to money lenders and brokers. I believe it will be worth your while to pay your debts. I fancied, my brethren and sisters, that I saw this same spirit of extravagance entering into the affairs of the little municipalities that I visited, a disposition to borrow and to bond and to increase the taxing power of the administration, with the result that many little towns are bonded until it| will be exceedingly difficult for them to pay their debts. Don't you know that a bond on the town or city where you live is a mortgage on your home, a mortgage on your own personal possessions? There are times, it is true, when it may he necessary, both in personal and public affairs, to borrow money. I only want to urge the greatest care; I only want to urge consistency; I only want to urge economy in the administration of public affairs to the end that you do not involve yourselves in debts which it will  impossible to pay. I fancied that I had seen that same thing in the administration of State affairs, a disposition to be extravagant in the expenditure of public funds. Twenty years ago this State came into the Union under a constitution which was framed by men who had been carefully selected from every section of it. I know how carefully every clause which went into that constitution was weighed. I know how anxious those men were to throw safeguards around the people which would protect them from excessive debt, limiting the power of legislative bodies to assess and collect taxes. I see a disposition gradually working to break down those barriers. Laws which appear to be very innocent and simple in themselves are proposed by which the constitution of the State in its meaning may be entirely changed, and I have observed that these proposed changes are all in the direction of increased taxation, the issuing of increased bonded indebtedness, and it appears to me the placing of additional burdens upon the people. I only want to admonish you that whatever you do in matters of this kind, you do with the utmost care; that you carefully consider; that you understand before you act; before you change the fundamental laws of this State or before you change the fundamental laws of this Nation, or of the Constitution upon which it is based, — be sure that step is a necessary and beneficial one. True, changes may be necessary and they will come. I am only advising and counseling the greatest caution in matters of this kind which may come before you. I refer to it because I have heard it discussed in my travels. I have heard men who advocate the thought that we are a progressive people, a progressive State, a progressive Nation, and that is verytrue. But we must progress along conservative, consistent lines, taking care not to break away from those moorings which God caused to be fixed by wise men whom he chose to give us the Constitution of this country, and the constitution and laws which govern this State. Now, another thing that came under my observation in this journey. I met men as I have traveled who advocate war, who tell us that our dignity has been injured, our pride has been humiliated, and that the only way that we may obtain redress is to go and humiliate the man or the people who have humiliated us. Three days ago, a man who stands before the American people asking for the highest place in their gift [Hon. J. Frank Hanly] publicly announced, and it has been published in all of the principal papers of this Republic, that if elected, he would immediately intervene forcibly in the affairs of Mexico. In other words, there would be an immediate declaration of war, because that is just what his policy would mean. Now, my brethren and sisters, it may seem a very simple thing to have a war with Mexico, just a handful of people, a few more in number than the inhabitants of the state of New York. Whenever you begin a war, you don't know just where it is going to end. It appeared to he a very simple thing to Austria to go over into Serbia, where a man and his wife had been killed, and to demand and enforce reparation by punishing the perpetrators of that crime, and it was a crime. The result is the death of millions of men, the destruction of property of un value, a condition of degeneracy and immorality established among the people that a generation never can eradicate, — all from that simple, little beginning. 

We might find ourselves lacking in judgment. Some of the lessons, the impressive lessons of my life, have been taught in very simple ways, and this was one of them : In my early life, inj a limited way I was a freighter. The etiquette of the road required that a man going down hill should give the road to the man going up hill; or the man with the lighter load should give it to the man with the heavier load; but there were some men on the road who were possessed of the idea that no matter what the etiquette of the road demanded, the other fellow should always turn out. I remember once a friend of mine driving along a freight road leading to Pioche. He met a team with a -young fellow 'driving it, and they came up pretty close together. Hank stopped his horses and said, "Are you going to get out of the road?" "No," the boy replied, "I can't very well get out, where I am here." "Well, you will have to get out," and one word brought on another until Hank climbed down off of the high seat of his wagon and started over to take it out of the boy's hide. A little later some of us drove along and found him sitting there by the creek washing the blood off of his face. One of the boys said, "What is the matter, Hank?" "Oh," hesaid, "nothing. I just made a mistake in judgment; that is all." 

Well, sometimes nations make mistakes in judgment as well as men. Now, my brethren and sisters, shortly after that affair to which I have referred, I was again on the 1 road. There was a man  there who always carried a gun on the spring seat with him, not a gun around his waist, but a double-barrel shotgun that he could use very quickly. He never was without it, and he was a terror wherever he went. I suppose there are men in this congregation who have met and know him. One day, when I was pulling up a grade, in the mud, after a rain storm, I saw the ears of his big mules flopping over the top of the hill, and when he came in sight about the first thing I noticed was the shotgun, as he drove along down the slope. The etiquette of the road required him to turn out, and when our teams came close together, they stopped. He looked at me through his grizzly beard and said, "Young man, are you going to get out and give me the road ?" I said, "I can't very well get out." He said, "Do you know what I will do, if you don't?" "No, sir," I said, "I don't know." "Why," he said, "I will get out." "Well," I said, "if you will just pull your mules' heads around a little, I will make my horses pull this load out of the road if they can." We both turned out and each, giving part of the road, passed. Now, I have told you that simple story because it illustrates the thought that I want to leave in your minds. Which of the two men was the good neighbor? Which of the two men did the right thing, the sensible thing? — the man who was determined that the other fellow should turn out and who made a mistake in judgment, or the man who might very easily have prevailed and dominated the road, who was willing himself to give half of it and be satisfied? My brethren and sisters, if war comes to this country, let it not be of our mak; let us not advocate it; let us not lend ourselves to it, but stand for the establishment of peace by which a great and a powerful nation may be an example to the world in patience, in long-suffering, kindness, in righteousness, which shall bring men to a condition when that great Confederacy of Nations referred tot during this conference may become possible, and peace prevail on earth and good-will exist among men. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel happy irf, the truth. I bear testimony to the truth of the things that I have named as the result of my observation in the Church. I feel happy in the Lord, happy in the association of the Saints, happy in the character of the men who administer its affairs; and there is no fear in my heart as to the ultimate triumph of this work. God's kingdom has been established upon earth to endure, never to be thrown down, never to be given to another people, but to stand forever, and through righteousness, and not by the shedding of blood, to bring unto it all nations of the earth. 

The Lord help us to keep the faith, and to faithfully and humbly discharge the duties that devolve upon us from clay to day, leaving the past to take care of itself, except in so far as we are, able to profit by its successes or its errors, looking hopefully forward, believing that each tomorrow will bring us greater happiness, will bring us greater strength, and that when this life is finished, we will be on the threshold of another tomorrow, still looking hopefully forward towards that ideal and eternal life to which we all aspire. I pray for these blessings through Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

Prophets have foretold of the judgments poured out on the nations — Power and purity of the gospel not found in the churches which are not in fellowship with the Lord — The people ,of this land in danger of destruction, unless they hearken to the God of the land who is Jesus Christ — The Saints under solemn covenant to keep his commandments — A warning against partaking of the sins rampant in our midst — Extravagant amusements, modern dancing, public dance halls, night carousing, boisterous street conduct, and card playing denounced — The Saints warned against Sabbath breaking — A call to repentance, and an admonition to be true to the teachings of our leaders and to the trust imposed in us. 

My brethren and sisters, I trust this morning that I may be led by the Spirit of the Lord in what I shall say unto you, that it may be in harmony with that which has been said during the sessions of this conference. I feel to endorse most thoroughly the remarks that have been made by the brethren. We have been instructed in the principles of the gospel; we have been taught our duty as members of the Church; we have been admonished and guided and helped, if we will only put into practice the things that we have heard. I know that this is the work of the Lord; that these people here assembled are people who have made covenant with him to keep his commandments and who have come out of the world from among the various nations and have partaken of the waters of life freely accepting the gospel of our Lord. With Brother Ivins, who has just spoken, I can testify that when the Lord will come he will find faith upon the earth. That faith, however, which he will find, shall be  to a very small portion of the inhabitants of the earth. He will not find faith in the nations abroad to any noticeable extent; he will not find faith among the peoples of the earth who have not received the gospel as it has been restored, but there will be faith among those of the house of Israel who have been gathered out from the nations and who have repented of their sins and received the message that came through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I am very sorry that the greater portion of the earth at this time should be in turmoil; that the great nations abroad should be at war and in such deadly conflict. Nevertheless, I realize that these are judgments that have come upon these nations, who have departed from the gospel of the Lord and have not repented of their sins, and will not hearken to the message of the elders of Israel. These judgments now being poured out on, the nations have been predicted by the prophets and they are coming because of the iniquities that exist in the earth. If the people were of one mind, if they were of one heart, if they were living the gospel of our Lord, as he has instructed us to live it, then such conditions could not possibly prevail. The Lord has declared that unless we are one we are not his, and where his gospel has taken hold of the people there can not be such bitterness of feeling, contention and bloodshed, as we find over the greater portion of the earth today. The present condition of the world is an incontrovertible evidence that the power and purity of the gospel is not to be found in their churches and that they are not in fellowship with the Lord. 

I desire to read to you a few verses from the second chapter of the book of Ether, and, if I may be so led, I desire to make some comments bearing upon these expressions. These are the words of the Lord to his prophet, many centuries before the' advent of our Savior in the earth, speaking of this land in which we dwell : 

"And the Lord would not suffer that they" [that is, the people of Jared] "should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people; 

"And he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them 

"And now we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land ,of promise, and whatsoever nation shall possess it. shall serve God, or shall be swept off; for when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity; 

"For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God, or shall be sewpt off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off. 

"And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God, that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you, as the inhabitants of the land hath hitherto done. 

"Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoevet nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus 

Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written." 

These words were recorded by the Prophet Moroni as he testified concerning these things which the Lord declared to the brother of Jared, and in commenting upon them, after the destruction of the Jaredites and also his own race, the Nephites, Moroni wrote for the benefit of the Gentiles, who, in the distant future, were to possess the land, that they also would be in danger of destruction; that they would also be swept off from the face of the land, if they should practice iniquity and refuse to hearken to the voice of the God of this land, who is Jesus Christ. I wish to raise my voice in warning to the Latter-day Saints, and not only to them, but to all the people of this American continent, and to all the world, that these predictions will be fulfilled, providing the people in this land continue until their cup is full, unrepentant in their abominable practices and their iniquity and their opposition to the teachings of the Son of God and his commandments, as that opposition is increasing at this time. We Latter-dav Saints have received the restored gospel and have made covenant with the Lord that we will serve him and accept him as the God of this land. Nevertheless, I want to call your attention to the fact that the ways of the world have crept in among us and are becoming established in the midst of the people of Zion. Right here in this city, which at one time was indeed a city of the Saints, but is that no longer, can be found all manner of abomination and iniquity. ' The ideas, theories, the fashions and ungodliness of the world, their sins and evil practices are to he found within the borders of our cities. Unless we are on our guard we are in constant danger. This people who are under solemn covenants to keep the commandments of the Lord are threatened by the sins and worldly abominations of this generation, and many among us are liable to be led astray, unless we keep a careful vigil and hedge them about by every means at our command. We have been called out from the world into the kingdom of God, and while we are yet in the world, we are not of the world in the sense that we are under any necessity to partake of their evil customs, and fashions, their follies, false doctrines and theories, which are in conflict with the spirit of truth. 

Today is the Sabbath day and yet in this city the theatres, moving pictures and places of amusement are running full blast as they are on every Sabbath day throughout the year, because of the selfishness of men and their disregard of the command of the Lord to obey his law and keep his day holy. We are inflicted not only with these temptations, but they come to us in many other forms, and if we are not aware, there is danger of us losing the Spirit of the Lord and falling into transgression by yielding to temptations that may not appear to us as being of much consequence. But little things lead to greater and step by step we are carried away from that which is right and just, and gradually we become blind to the truth. The Lord has called upon us to be a sober-minded people, not given to much laughter, frivolity and light-mindedness, but to consider thoughtfully and thoroughly the things of his kingdom that we may be prepared in all things to understand the glorious  of the gospel, and be prepared for blessings to come. Let me read a verse from the Doctrine and Covenants. This is the command of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints : 

"Remember the great and last promise which I have made unto you. Cast away your idle thoughts and your excess of laughter far from you." And then again, in the same section, I have read from section 88 :69; I now read from verse 121 : "Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride arid lightmindedness, and from all your wicked doings." This is the word of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. I believe that it is necessary for the Saints to have amusement, but it must be of the proper kind. I do not believe the Lord intends and desires that we should pull a long face and look sanctimonious and hypocritical. I think he expects us to be happy and of a cheerful countenance, but he does not expect of us the indulgence in boisterous and unseemly conduct and the seeking after the vain and foolish things which amuse and entertain the world. He has commanded us to the contrary for our own good and eternal welfare. 

I deplore the fact that these modern dances, some of which had their origin in unsavory places, have come among us. I regret beyond measure the public dance which, in my judgment, in its baneful results, the destruction of good morals and virtue, is second only to the saloon. This evil is growing and taking root in the stakes of Zion, in the communities of Latter-day Saints. There is today an excess in dancing. In some communities one or two  week which is not good no matter how innocent the dance may be. In these public dance halls, which are runi for the making- of money, the people, in some localities without regard to character or standing of the individual,- permit any one to enter without question, if he will pay the price of admission. This is an abominable custom and should not be tolerated by members of the Church in the settlements under their control. 

The world, is drifting. I do not believe, I cannot feel, as I read the signs of the times, ponder over things that come before me for consideration, that this world is growing better; I do not believe it for a minute. I believe that we are drifting. Many things are tolerated today that would not have been tolerated for a moment twenty years ago. New problems have arisen with which we must now contend that we never dreamed of even in the, days of my youth. We have evils in the world now to combat that have been brought into existence through modern invention and discovery, such as the moving picture show, joy riding in automobiles and the rapid means of transportation from place to place as a means of seeking pleasure during the hours of both dav and night. The moving picture should be of the greatest value in the education and instruction of the people, and would teach us history, geography and science, to the very best advantage, if properly presented, but to the contrary, it is largely controlled bv unscrupulous men who give to the public a flood of miserable stuff that excites their passions and appeals to the baser side of man. 

T live on one of the main thor in this city, and at all hours of the night I am disturbed, and my neighbors are disturbed, by hearing the boisterous laughter and ribald jests of carousing men and women as they ride through the street in a drunken condition — I judge that they are drunken because I do not think for a minute anybody in soberness could possibly carry on in such a disgraceful manner as they do. We must contend with all these things. I don't say that these are Latter-day Saints who do this; of course, they are not. I don't say that they are members of the Church, but I want to say that I think the parents in Israel should protect their children, they should have a little more watchcare over them, they should pay a little more attention to them and train them a little more carefully in the principles of the gospel, both by precept and by example. Children should not be permitted to go unprotected and without proper escort to places of amusement, no matter where or how harmless the amusement may be. A little more supervision in this regard would be far better in the homes of Latter-day Saints. I draw attention to these matters as a warning because these evils prevail in our midst, and we are under the necessity of meeting them and overcoming them. Our children will have to be taught to discern between good and evil, otherwise in many respects they will not be able to understand why they are not permitted to indulge in practices that are common with their neighbors. Unless they are instructed in the doctrines of the Church, they will not, perhaps, understand why there is any harm in the Sunday concert, a Sunday theatre, picture show, ball game, or something of that kind, when their playmates, without restraint and with encouragement, indulge in these things forbidden of the Lord on his holy day. The parents are responsible for the proper teaching of their children, the Lord will condemn the parents if their children grow up outside of the influence of the principles of the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. I want to see righteousness prevail throughout Zion. I do not believe that it is necessary in the least for us to partake of all the notions and customs of the world. We should give our attention a little more seriously to the things of the kingdom of God. We are living in the latterdays when, it has been predicted, perilous times would come. These perilous times are here, which fact should cause us thoughtful reflection. 

Let me say that these passages of scripture that I have read from the Book of Mormon are true, and that this nation is not exempt, and the people, if they continue to pur- , sue the course of evil and ungodliness that thev are now treading, shall eventually be punished. If they continue to disregard the warning voice of the Lord, deny their Redeemer, turn from his gospel unto fables and false theories, and rebel against all that he has through his servants in this day declared for the salvation of man; and if thev increase in the practice of iniquity, I want to say to you, that if they do these things, the judgments of the Lord will come upon this land, and this nation will not be saved; we will not be spared from war, from famine, from pestilence and finallv from destruction, as a nation. Therefore. I call upon the people, not onlv Latter-dav Saints, but to all throughout the whole land  repent of their sins and to accept the Lord Jesus Christ, who is our Redeemer and the God of this land. Turn from your evil ways, repent of your sins and receive the fulness of the gospel through the waters of baptism and obedience, that the judgments which shall be poured out upon the ungodly may pass you by. I rejoice in the truth. I am very grateful for the knowledge I have that this is the work of the Lord established for the last time never to be destroyed or given to other people. I desire to prove faithful and to teach others to do the same. 

In regard to these other evils that I have spoken of, my attention is called to the fact that there is another one, the effects of which are very, very harmful. This is card playing, which is indulged in, I am sorry to say, by some members of the Church. We have been taught all the days of our lives, that card playing is not good and is contrary to the order and discipline of the Church. The authorities have called upon the people, and it is published in our magazines, to refrain from this evil indulgence. Notwithstanding all this, we find among us some who look upon card playing as a very harmless pastime. It isn't harmless, but very harmful. It shows a lack of obedience to the counsels of the Lord on the part of members who indulge in this evil, and if nothing more could be said of it, it is at least a most pernicious waste of time that could be employed in some better occupation. I believe in physical sport, I believe in recreation and amusement of the kind that is beneficial to the body and the mind of man, and that play of the proper kind is good and ought to be indulged in at times,  by those whose work is such that they do not get the necessary physical exercise required by their bodies. I do not believe in the waste of good time in practicing anything which is condemned by the authorities of the Church, as they give the counsel as it comes to them through the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. The Latter-day Saints should put their trust in their leaders, and follow the teachings of the authorities of the Church, for they speak unto them with the voice of prophecy and inspiration. The Lord has declared in the very first section in the Doctrine and Covenants, that whether he speak by his own voice or through the voice of his servants, it is the same. Therefore, we are under just as great responsibility and obligation to hearken unto the voice of the one who stands at the head to teach the people, or to listen unto the voice of the elders of Israel, as they carry among the people the message of truth, as we are though the Lord should send from his presence an angel or should come himself to declare these things unto us. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us be humble, let us be faithful, let us be true to every trust, and acquit ourselves as faithful members of this Church and labor diligently in the kingdom of God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

A fulfilment of prophecy — The sure word of revelation compared with the deductions of men — Let God be true though men be liars — The coming forth of the Lost Tribes of Israel. 

I know that I have been in accord with the feelings of the vast multi that have assembled at the several sessions of this conference, in appreciation of the words of instruction and encouragement to which we have listened. The people have been fed upon substantial fare. They have heard the truths of the gospel declared in no uncertain terms. Your presiding servants have called your attention to matters that require your present attention. They have not confined themselves to words of praise unmixed with words of warning, but havti adapted their testimonies, their admonitions, and their instructions to the needs of the hour. 

In the gatherings of the Saints at this time, as on other conference occasions, I find fulfilment of prophecy, and see a working out of the purposes and plans of the Eternal One, a vindication of the prophets ofi God who have spoken in days past, and of the words of the living prophets who minister amongst the people in the authority of their holy office. In this respect, I feel that the Latter-day Saints cannot be too careful lest they be led to doubt the strict and literal fulfilment of the Lord's word as it has been made known to them. There are men in the world who; have set themselves up against the God of Israel, men who have undertaken to measure arms with the Almighty, and to pit their wisdom against the eternal wisdom of God, men who have undertaken to construe, or rather to misconstrue the holy Scriptures, and to declare to' the people that these writings do not mean what they say. Beware of them, Latterday Saints. Stand we firm and steadfast by the revealed word of God and on the words of instruction that are given us from time to time by those whom we sustain before the Lord as his representatives in our midst; and should there come a question of issue between the opinions of men and the word of revelation, I say, as said the apostle, Paul, of old, in his written address to the Saints of Rome : "Yea, let God be true, but every man a liar." Men have made themselves liars before God because they have undertaken to question and even to deny his word. 

Do you lack or do you want illustrations? The restoration of the gospel furnishes one. The words of the Christ himself, the words of the apostles who followed him in the ministry on earth, the words of prophets who had preceded his coming-, were to the effect that in the last days the gospel should be restored, for the reason that it would not be found upon the earth; and yet there were those who said that it had always been upon the earth. But the angel whom the apostleprophet saw coming in the midst of heaven in the last days, has come, bringing the everlasting gospel to the inhabitants of earth; and God is true though men be made out liars by the fulfilment of that sure word. Again, after the restoration, when the words of the prophet declared that the people who had embraced the restored gospel, a mere handful in comparison with those who belonged to each of many so-called churches in the world, would come to the West and would establish themselves in the midst of the Rocky Mountains where they would become a great and a powerful people, the possibility of such was denied by the nation's wise and great ones, by specialists and leaders. Surely, no people could prosper and become a great and mighty commonwealth without ample means of . It was declared by statesmen that this vast domain in the West was a worthless area, incapable of supporting human life on a great scale. One of the greatest explorers and pioneers in that period of American history declared that not a bushel of grain could be raised in this valley. Yet the people came, and the prophet-leader pointed to the valley from the Wasatch barrier and declared it to he the appointed place of gathering. Again God had spoken and again men were proved to be liars. If the word be a harsh one, remember I speak it within quotation marks; I take it from the scriptural record. 

Would you have other instances ? Scientists, psychologists, students of the human mind, have undertaken to analyze and dissect this strange organism "Mormonism," and they have said it arose from delusion; that it has sprung from the seed of deception; that it is the offspring of bigotry and fanaticism; and the man whom we call a prophet of the last days, through whom we say the gospel has been restored and the Church re-established, was an epileptic; and consequently, according to the laws of heredity, which they have diagrammed and set forth in orderly array, the delusion could not persist beyond the third generation, for such would be contrary to formulated law. The world took comfort in that assurance, for it was given by those in whom the people had confidence; but what see we? Under this vast dome here today, are hundreds of the fourth and many of the fifth generation. Yea, let God he true, though every man be a liar. 

Only a few months before the outbreak of the terrible world conflict, to which frequent reference  been made in this session and in earlier sessions of this conference, there stood here in this pulpit, where I now stand, one of the nation's great men, who set forth the results of his study and his investigations regarding certain problems; and who declared, as a result, that the conditions of the nations were today such as to make a great international war impossible. There would possibly be, said he, little uprisings, such as then had already begun in Mexico, but a war between the great powers could not take place. He emphasized by reiteration. The financial affairs of the world, he averred, were such as to link and weld the nations together; and should emperors, czars, or kings declare war, the bankers would veto their decision. I spoke with the gentleman here in this stand, at the conclusion of his address, in substance to this effect: "I wish I could believe you, Doctor." "You don't?" "I do not." "What is wrong with my deductions ?" "They may be logically drawn, but your premises are wrong. You have failed to take into account certain essential factors; you have discarded and ignored the predictions 'of the prophets; and on such a question as this I shall accept the word of the prophet rather than 'the conclusion of the academician, even though he be as distinguished as yourself, sir." I could not discuss the matter at length, but such I said. Within a short span of months after that time, several of the most powerful nations of the world were locked in the death-grapple, which has been tightening with the passage of the years. So, as I read the words of the prophet that war should he poured out upon all nations, and that in this day and dis, in which we live, this the land of Zion should be the only land wherein safety might be found, I said to myself again : Yea, let God be true, though all the world's wise ones be liars. 

With such examples before us, can we doubt as to the future ? How think you the Lord looks upon these "plans of mice and men" that "gang aft agley"? I take it that the contemplation of such developments is his humor; for, mark you, the God of heaven is a great humorist. I read that "He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh; the Lord shall have them in derision." I read in the further word of the psalmist that as the Lord looketh upon the wicked and seeth him in his temporary, seeming prosperity, spreading himself like a green bay tree, "The Lord shall laugh at him, for he seeth that his day is coming." When I see how often the theories and conceptions of men have gone astray, have fallen short of the truth, yea, have even contradicted the truth directly, I am thankful in my heart that we have an iron rod to which we can cling — the rod of certainty, the rod of revealed truth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints welcomes all truth, but it distinguishes most carefully between fact and fancy, between truth;.and theory, between premises and deductions; and it is willing to leave some questions in abeyance until the Lord in his wisdom shall see fit to speak more plainly. 

As; the result of the combined labors of wise men I learn that man is but the developed offspring of the beast; and yet I read that God created man in his own image, after his likeness; and again, I stand on the word of God, though it be in contradiction to the theories of men. This spirit of misconstruction, this attempt to explain away the sure word of prophecy, the indisputable word of revelation, is manifest even amongst our own people. There are those who would juggle with the predictions of the Lord's prophets. I read that in the last days one of the conditions preceding the return of the Christ to earth shall be the gathering of the Jews at their ancient capital, and in the land round about; and that another sign shall be the gathering of the people who have been scattered among the nations; and yet another shall be the bringing forth of the Lost Tribes from their hiding place, which is known to God, but unknown to man. Nevertheless, I have found elders in Israel who would tell me that the predictions relating to the Lost Tribes are to be explained in this figurative manner — that the gathering of those tribes is already well advanced and that there is no hiding place whereto God has led them, from which they shall come forth, led by their prophets to receive their blessings here at the hands of gathered Ephraim, the gathered portions that have been scattered among the nations. Yea, let God be true, and doubt we not his word, though it makes the opinions of men appear to be lies. The tribes shall come; they are not lost unto the Lord; they shall be brought forth as hath been predicted; and I say unto you there are those now living — aye, some here present — who shall live to read the records of the Lost Tribes of Israel, which shall be made one with the record of the Jews, or the Holy Bible, and the record of the Nephrites, or the iBook of Mormon, even as the Lord hath predicted; and those records, which the tribes  to man but yet to be found again shall bring, shall tell of the visit of the resurrected Christ to them, after He had manifested Himself to the Nephites upon this continent. For, as not one jot or tittle of the Law has been permitted to fail, so surely no jot or tittle of the Gospel shall go unfulfilled. 

I have heard it said that the predictions relative to the coming of the Christ are to be explained in a figurative way, that he is to dwell in the hearts of men and that is the second advent. Verily, the Christ shall come in person and shall be seen of the righteous and shall stand upon the earth and reign as rightful King and Lord, and shall send forth the law for the government of the world. 

May we be kept in tune with the word of the Lord, as it hath been declared, is being declared, and yet shall he declared by his servants, the prophets, I ask in the Master's name. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn composed by John Lyon, "Hail, bright millennial day of rest." 

Benediction by Elder S. O. Bennion, President of the Central States Mission. 

The conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


