Morning
07 10 1922

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

This very remarkable conference, with its great attendance, and its pointed instructions has made me think seriously about many important matters. I have been stirred into thought, especially concerning the chief message given us yesterday by President Grant. I have been trying to determine the causes or forces in our civilization that make men obedient to law, or that make us unwilling to obey the laws of God, or of the land. 

EDUCATION AS A FACTOR IN OBEDIENCE TO LAW 

I have been thinking most, I believe, about the part that education plays in training our citizens to obey and to sustain the law and to be loyal in all respects. There is a tremendous power in education. As we are taught and trained in schools, and by those whom we follow, so we become. The late war gave us several examples of the power of long continued education to fasten ideals upon a whole nation. 

We are an education loving people. I was really amazed to note, from statistics gathered by the Presiding Bishop's office, as one of the fruits of this marvelous work known as "Mormonism," that of all the Latter-day Saints between 8 and 18 years of age, only twentytwo have not attended school. I doubt whether such a record can be duplicated by any other people, of the same number, in all the world. Our schools and colleges are crowded to overflowing. I am informed that the Agricultural College of Utah and the University are the two largest institutions of the kind in the United States, when the population is considered. It is proper for this people to be seekers after enlightenment — to be education loving — for the revelations of God declare that we are to "seek out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study, and also by faith." It is also declared that "The glory of God is . intelligence." I have been wondering to what extent this love for education and this use of education may be made to sustain the teachings given us by the prophet of God in his address to us yesterday. The great problem before us seems to be how to direct the tremendous power that resides in our educational desire and activity so that our children may become , well informed men and women, not educated in one direction only, but rather so educated that all their powers are developed and strengthened. 

THE SPIRITUAL NATURE A BIG INFLUENCE IN EDUCATION 

We imagine too often that we can place most of our burdens, with respect to our children, upon the schools; yet, this is not possible, for our public schools are not permitted to teach all that should be taught mankind. As all know, in our free land, there is a provision in the constitution of the United States — perhaps the finest in the constitution — which provides for religious freedom; and in consonance with that constitutional provision, religious instruction is not permitted in our public schools. Since man is not merely physiological, or intellectual, but also spiritual, our schools do not wholly suffice for the full training of man. Yet it is quite as natural for a man to desire religious education as to desire education for his body and mind. This truth is borne out by human experience to such a degree that I have no need to dwell long on it here; but it came to my attention again with renewed force just a few weeks ago. I had the privilege of visiting, in company with two members of our Church, and several who were not members, the great Rainbow bridge, or Rainbow Arch, located in southeastern Utah, not far from the Arizona line. It is one of the most beautiful of all known works of nature — a gigantic, perfectly formed bridge or arch of brilliant red sandstones spanning the canyon symmetrically from side to side. Through the efforts of President R. D. Young of Sevier stake, there was found, in a squirrel's hole, the registration book which had been used since 1909 by the occasional visitors to this bridge. In this book the visitors had written their names and comments that had occurred to them. Some very distinguished names were found in this book. Theodore Roosevelt and three of his sons had been there, I think in 1913, and had written their names in the book. The names of other men and women of national prominence were inscribed in the book. One man of national renown had written below his name : "Here hath the Master wrought with consummate skill." This man, not primarily a religious man, a well known scientist, standing before this marvelous creation of God, this great, wonderful natural bridge, felt himself drawn to God, and left a testimony of faith to all who might follow. Another man, under his signature, wrote, "This is a wonderful work of God. Remain here and worship God in all His glory." He also turned from the physical beauty of the bridge to the great spiritual beauty of the Maker of the bridge. This is the natural and normal instinct of all men. We are spiritual, as well as mental and physical; and our education, to be complete, and fully satisfactory, must take into account the demands of the spiritual nature of man, and provide for religious instruction. The man whose mind and body alone are trained is not necessarily a safe citizen, because such education is no guarantee against a criminal life or a life of lawlessness. Education frequently helps the criminal in his lawless deeds. Spiritual education is the best known means of causing men to use their powers for human good. We are not justified in sending our children to schools and colleges to be developed mentally, with just the barest opportunity for spiritual development during the most critical period of their lives. 

THE HOME MUST NOT SHIFT ITS RESPONSIBILITIES TO THE SCHOOL 

Since religious training is not permitted in the public schools, because it is against the law of the land, the question is how are we to supplement the work done in our public schools, so that our boys and girls may be spiritually developed, and thereby become better able to do the things that have been called to our attention in this conference ? I am dwelling on this for a few moments — realizing that there is no time, since there are many speakers, to develop this subject — merely to call the attention of the Latter-day Saints to the necessity of not placing the whole burden of education upon the schools of the land. Too often, of course, school trustees and school teachers are afraid of doing what they really might do, under the constitution of the United States. This is not a God- forsaken country; this is essentially a Godfearing country, and there is no reason why, in our public schools, we should not teach the love and the fear of God. Since, however, we may not do this as fully as we would like, we must go for help to the home and to the church — the two remaining agencies for the rounding out of education. 

Those who have read the history of recent human thought, will remember that during the last forty or fifty years, the fathers and mothers of our land, having witnessed the wonderful development of the educational system within this country, have gradually placed increasingly much of their responsibility upon the school. The home has been minimized in importance; the school has been made larger in importance than was ever intended by the clear thinkers within the field of education. The home still retains its duty — the duty of teaching and training and developing young men and women spiritually, filling in where the school under the constitution is unable to do its full duty. The home must not, and can not, in safety, shift its responsibilities to the school. 

CHURCH SCHOOLS OF TREMENDOUS IMPORTANCE IN SPIRITUAL TRAINING 

The Church should likewise be of tremendous importance in spiritual training. In this Church we have auxiliaries of various kinds, the chief purpose of which, as I view it, is to spiritually train our school-trained generation. I would like to leave the thought with the Latter-day Saints on this occasion, that the prime purpose of the auxiliary institutions of this Church is to supplement our educational efforts, as made through the public schools. The Church has also provided a system of Church schools — in possibilities, the ideal school of course — in which the child the youth and the maiden may receive , not only out of books of learning made by man, but also out of books of God; where man may be trained physically, mentally and spiritually for complete living, and be better fitted thereby to obey the law and to do all other necessary things in living up to the teachings that are taught in this and similar pulpits throughout this Church, and throughout other churches. A number of splendid high schools, junior colleges and normal colleges are maintained by the Church, to the great advantage of thousands of students. 

SEMINARIES AND RELIGION CLASSES WONDERFUL HELPS IN RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION 

But, it is impossible for the Church to maintain church schools that will reach all the people, nor would it be wise or proper to maintain an educational system, competitive with the public school system, and therefore, we have in this Church a wonderful organization, scarcely understood by the people, known as the Religion Class, which is a definite attempt under the law to correlate religious instruction with the work which the law permits to be done within the elementary public schools. I take the liberty to call your attention to the religion classes, from this point of view, in the hope that all Latter-day Saints may give special attention to the meaning and purpose of this great movement in the Church. Then, continuing the religion class, the Church provides for the same purpose — the development of the spiritual man, so that, educationally, he may be rounded out fully, the Seminaries which are maintained for the religious training of high school students, and in close proximity of the high school, but not in connection with it. In these institutions the young men and women who attend high school, may receive an hour a day, if possible, proper religious instruction. The Religion Classes and the Seminaries provide means by which the training of the boy and girl may proceed symmetrically, step by step — not in mental chunks one year and religious chunks another — but so that each year throughout the whole course of education, we may teach and train all the faculties of man. 

A great university of sound and modern scholarship, the Brigham Young University, stands at the head of the Church school system, and serves students of university grade. It is not able to care for all the students who desire to enter it. The state of Utah maintains a magnificent state university and an equally magnificent state agricultural college, the students of which no doubt will have access, in time, to devices, under the law, that will enable them to secure training toward God as well as toward material things. 

This important subject has rested on my mind since yesterday morning, when I heard our President deliver his ringing message in behalf of obedience to law; and, as my analysis has proceeded, I have come more and more to the conclusion, that through the public school system, and through our religious auxiliaries, we may be able to help accomplish the thing for which President Grant pleaded yesterday. SPIRITUAL AND MENTAL EDUCATION MAKES DEPENDABLE INTELLIGENCE 

In conclusion let me say again, that to be merely mentally trained is to be only partly trained. The man whose mind only has been trained may be likened to the ship with great engines and a huge propeller, ready to drive the ship forward, but without rudder, chart, compass, or definite destination. When we add to the man, so trained, spiritual training, then it is as if we add to the ship, with its wonderful machinery, a compass, a chart, a rudder, and a dependable intelligence which controls the whole machinery, above and below deck, so that the vessel may reach a safe haven, according to a definite purpose. 

A TESTIMONY 

May God bless us in our educational endeavors and in all our endeavors. May he strengthen us to make us able to fulfil our great destiny, to be the great people of the world in virtue and righteousness. I bear you my testimony that I know that the work represented by this Church is the truth; that God lives; that his Son came on earth in obedience to a great plan, to suffer and to die for us; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, who came here to do God's will, in continuation of this mighty and eternal purpose, and that the Church is still directed by God. It is good to be a Latter-day Saint. I thank God for the privilege that has come to me to be a member of this Church, to share in the privileges of the Priesthood, and in the blessings that flow from it. God be praised that he brought this truth to me and to my family and to you and to yours. God be with us always, I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

{Presiding Patriarch of the Church) 

I am very much impressed with the spirit of this conference. We are a record-making people. I have been in parties that have climbed to the top of some of our highest mountains, and I have found there hidden away in monuments or some kind of hidden place, records of those who have made the climb. 

I believe we make our own records, whether it be in our schools, in our homes, in our places of business, or in our fields, or whereever our lot may be cast. 

A NAME IN THE SAND 

Alone I walked the Ocean strand, A pearly shell was in my hand; I stooped and wrote upon the sand 

My name, the year, the day : As onward from the spot I passed, One lingering look behind I cast, A wave came rolling high and fast 

And washed my lines away. 

And so, me-thought, 'twill quickly be With every mark on earth from me : A wave of dark oblivion's sea 

Will sweep across the place Where I have trod the sandy shore Of time, and been, to be no more, — Of me, my day, the name I bore, 

To leave no track nor trace. 

And yet, with Him who counts the sands, And holds the waters in his hands, I know a lasting record stands 

Inscribed against my name, Of all this mortal part has wrought, Of all this thinking soul has thought, All, from these fleeting moments caught, 

For glory or for shame. 

George Denison Prentice. 

There was a time in the. history of this people when it was difficult for us to obtain books in which to keep the records of our work and our doings, but today we have almost astonishing equipment; that is, it is astonishing to our minds because of its nature. It is so convenient, so adequate to our needs. I remember when I was about sixteen or seventeen years of age, my father moved his family from the ward, and when we went to get our transfer we discovered that the record was not complete. The ward clerk had failed to record the dates of baptism of the children. Well, what was to be done? We knew that we had been baptized, we knew that we were members of the Church, because we had kept our own records. My father had kept a record of his family and the bishop and his clerk were provided with the record of the baptism of my father's children, and so when we moved away from the ward we left it with a complete record of our standing and membership in the Church. Well, now I am wondering how many before my day found it difficult to keep a record of the fact that certain ordinance work was performed in the Church, and I suppose that in the early history of this people a great many records were neglected for the want of suitable and prepared material. But today scarcely anything is neglected for the want of suitable material and equipment. I thank the Lord for the many wonderful things that have been provided by way of lightening the burdens of those who keep records. In my experience I can appreciate these material blessings which we enjoy today. I can see my grandfather in the many, many years that he was Presiding Patriarch of the Church, waiting patiently while someone wrote by hand, in longhand, hundreds and hundreds of his blessings pronounced upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. Today nearly all of this record making work that is done in the Presiding Patriarch's office, is done by machinery; a great blessing in the saving of time and energy to all parties concerned. And in my opinion the process of record keeping in the Church was never more satisfactorily done than at the present time. So I speak personally with gratitude in my heart for the blessings of the Lord in providing means of equipment to lighten our burdens, that we may do the work required of us in a pleasing and acceptable way, and not avoid any of it or let it pass unaccomplished. 

I am grateful unto the Lord for the comfortable homes that we as Latter-day Saints possess today. I thank the Lord that he has blessed us with homes and fields and flocks and herds, with the industries that are suitable and needful, as well as some of the best schools in all the world, with some of the best teachers in all the world. I thank the Lord that we have at our disposal such adequate means of transportat'ion, that such a body of people as was seen here yesterday morning could come even in the middle of the week if necessary to meet in general conference at the call of the President of the Church. People from almost all quarters of the world met here at an appointed date and time. 

I thank the Lord for this good weather which makes it possible for us to enjoy this conference, the occasion is a time in my life of rejoicing and thanksgiving. I take the liberty, my brethren and sisters, as an officer in the Church, to acknowledge the hand of God in his blessings to us and to this people; not only in the few things which I have mentioned, but in the many,, many things, even in the detail of our work, in the different responsibilities that come to us who are called to carry on the Lord's work. I acknowledge his hand in the many blessings which he has placed at our very doors. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let me urge that we, both old and young, begin to appreciate our blessings, begin to take notice of the fact that the Lord is blessing us, for I declare to you that the Lord has prepared many great and important blessings, and every one of them, as the Prophet Joseph Smith has declared, is predicated upon obedience to law. There isn't the slightest kind of a blessing, neither small nor great of any kind, that you or I may receive or do receive except we obey tlie law upon which that blessing is predicated. Now, what a grand and a- glorious thing it is when we know the laws upon which our blessings are predicated. They have been taught to us in our own language, revealed from heaven for our own benefit, for the salvation of both the living and the dead. What a glorious thing to know. Let us take advantage of the fact that these blessings and the laws upon which they are predicated are revealed to us, a people who have been gathered into this quarter from every civilized nation under heaven, to bring about the purposes of God in these the last days, to fulfil those wonderful prophecies that were made upon the head of that wonderful progenitor of ours, Joseph, who was sold by his brethren; and as was related yesterday, the great majority of us discover through our blessings that . we are descendants of his chosen son Ephraim, to whom the greatest responsibility was given at the time of his blessing. Brethren and sisters, let us appreciate our privileges and the day and time in which we live, for the Lord has said where  is given much is required. None of us, I suppose, are above making mistakes, but when we discover that we have made mistakes it is a very simple thing on our part to correct them. When we do wrong we know we do wrong, every one of us. What a noble thing it is in us, when we discover that we have done wrong, to do our duty, and correct that wrong. The Lord through his ancient and modern servants has declared that he that is a committer of sin is a servant of sin. When we discover that we have done wrong we know that we have grieved the Lord. 

Therefore, my brethren and sisters, let me urge you to repent of wrong-doing when you discover that it has been done, that we may obey the laws which have been given to us, the laws of the everlasting gospel, the laws of life and salvation. Let us prepare ourselves, through the light of truth that has been given us, that the wonderful blessings which were promised hundreds and hundreds of years ago would be given, may be given to us who live in the very time that the prophet declared they should be, for these truly are the last days, when the Lord has set his hand for the last time to accomplish his work upon the earth, and may we be true and faithful and be able to carry the burdens placed upon us, and with all the advantages and the blessings of equipment of every name and nature that are placed at our disposal, may we not be worldly, but may we remember our blessings and our privileges, and the promises that are made unto us. May we receive those blessings; and may we be spared from the calamities and judgments which may come into our midst or surround us. May we observe to live pure and simple lives, — true Latter-day Saints, and enjoy the blessings of the home and the field and the office, the blessings of God which are surrounding- us. May his blessings continue to be with us and with this people, that we may enjoy his preserving and protecting care, that we may not fall heir through our weaknesses to disturbances and calamities which are prepared for the world. I know, brethren and sisters, that we are very prone through our pride, sometimes, and perhaps through our false education, or perhaps through some other cause, to be very prompt in following the fashions of the world; but let me raise my voice in warning against this practice among us as a people, that we be not followers of the fashions of the world, lest we be followers of those for whom the judgments and the calamities have been prepared. If we follow the fashions of the world, then we place barriers in our own pathway, and prevent our Father from bestowing upon us those marvelous blessings which he has prepared for the faithful. Let me urge you, my brethren and sisters, to remember that we are not of the world, therefore we need not follow the follies and the fashions of the world, but let us be oldfashioned enough to be Saints of God, pure and modest in our conduct, in our dress, and in our social affairs. 

May God bless us that we may have the courage of our convictions, whether we be young or old, to live true to the faith, receive these marvelous blessings, and stand prepared to carry forward the work of God, to be his chosen people and accomplish his work, whether we be reared here in the valleys of the mountains or whether we come from foreign countries. Let us be faithful and the Lord will remember us, for he is a just God and his mercies and favors will be upon us as individuals and as a people if we will only observe to follow the laws and commandments which have been given us, upon which our blessings are predicated. God bless you all, those whom he has called to hold positions of leadership and responsibility, from the President of the Church to the least and last one called. 

I rejoice in having the privilege of being a member of this great conference, in the presence of leading spirits, both men and women. I rejoice in the privilege that I have of going about in the stakes and wards of Zion mingling my soul and spirit with these choice men and women of the Church. God bless you all in your different responsibilities that the Lord's work may be accomplished to his honor and glory, both in this life and in the life to come, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Pearl Kimball Davis sang a solo entitled, "Eye Hath Not Seen." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

My soul is overflowing with deep gratitude this day that in the providences and mercies of the Lord I have been permitted to live upon the earth in this generation, and that I have been so blessed of him, through the obedience of my grandparents, on both sides, to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, to be associated and identified with the Latter-day Saints. I know of no time in all the splendid past when, if I had been given the privilege of coming to the earth, I would rather have come than now. I am therefore grateful for life, for being, for knowledge and testimony that I have concerning the work with which I am identified. 

ANXIOUS FOR RAPID GROWTH AND STEADY PROGRESS 

When I see the future of this people, through the revelations which the Lord has given and through individual inspiration he gives to us, and grasp and comprehend the greatness of this work, I confess that I sometimes almost become impatient in my keen anxiety and desire to see the work go forward more rapidly. I recognize that large bodies move slowly, and while we as a people are not large in comparison with the world, nevertheless we are becoming a body of considerable size, and naturally the progress will be rather slow, but I am so anxious that it shall be a steady progress towards the great and glorious goal God has destined for this people. 

OUR MISSION TO INDIVIDUALS AND TO NATIONS 

I recognize the truth of what was said yesterday relative to our mission being to the world, to men and women in the world inclivid, and also that we have a mission to declare the glad news that the only plan and the only way by which even nations may survive is by and through the plan that the Lord Jesus Christ has devised, and has regiven again to the earth in this dispensation. Recognizing all that, I still realize, as you do, I am sure, that there is a tremendous responsibility resting upon us as individuals to contribute individually to the accomplishment of God's great purpose, in establishing this people, calling them out from the world for a distinct and specific purpose, and I am anxious that nothing, so far as the outside is concerned, or that may arise from the inside of this Church, shall in any sense retard the progress of the work. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS A PECULIAR PEOPLE 

We are not fanatics, as some have thought we are, and some still say that we are a freak people, and believe in freak things. Let them say what they will. If it is freakish to serve God and keep his commandments, if it is freakish for us to observe the Word of Wisdom and abstain from the use of tobacco and tea and coffee, then let us be a freakish people. I would like to be that kind. The Lord has said that this people would be a peculiar people quite unlike anybody else; but while we are in the world we are not to be of the world. We are to be different, we expect to be different, we rather pride ourselves on the' fact that we are different, and I hope the day will never come but that we shall be different from the world generally speaking, but that difference must not be a difference only of view; it must be a difference of life; it must be a difference of standards; it must be a difference in quality and not only in profession. I rejoice when I see the fruits of the work. When I see the progress, slow as it seems to be at times, nevertheless there is progress. I rejoice in it. I am convinced, however, my brethren and sisters, that that progress, so far as the work is concerned, might go forward more rapidly if only we were willing. The Lord is willing, and great and important things that he has in store for Zion, await us on condition of our preparation for their coming forth. If only we had been willing we might have been far beyond where we are; but the Lord is very patient, and I am sure his servants who have led this people have been patient with them, although at times undoubtedly they have been sorely tried to see an apparent spirit of indifference towards vital things to which the attention of the people has been called. But nevertheless the Lord has been patient, and the leaders of the people have been patient and will continue to be, and the Lord is going to take care of this people ultimately, because he has promised it; he made that promise to Daniel of old, that this work should never be thrown down nor should it be left to another people. By and through this people shall these glorious things be accomplished, though many shall fall by the wayside on the right hand and on the left hand. This work shall go forward, this work is not builded upon a single theory, nor is it on a narrow foundation; everything that affects and interests the human family has part and place in this great work. We recognize that while we have received revelations from the Lord for spiritual guidance, and divine truths pertaining to man's salvation here and hereafter, that reach beyond any revelations that have ever been given of the Lord in any former dispensation, nevertheless this people also are a very material people, having to do with material things. 

THE SAINTS MUST BE MATERIALLY AS WELL AS SPIRITUALLY STRONG 

We recognize the fact that this people must be materially strong and prosperous in order that they may attain the fulness of God's work and establish it as he would have it. It cannot be done with a people who are in financial bondage, or who are in distress. I am convinced that the day is coming, indeed it is here, and it will be more apparent to the generations that shall follow us, that the Lord has had just as keen an interest in bringing this people to material prosperity as to spiritual blessings, and spiritual prosperity. He has recognized the need of material assistance in the establishment of his work upon the earth in preparation for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. From the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord has shown forth inspiration in material things for the blessing and salvation of this people. When he led this people to. these valleys of the mountains, he inspired his servant President Young to point this out as the place, and he said it was the place, it was not only the place for spiritual development and for laying the foundation or building upon the foundation that had already been laid for the establishment of God's work in the earth, so far as his Church was concerned, but it was the place for the material prosperity of his people. Yet it was not the place where they could get rich quick. Thank the Lord, that condition never has obtained and it never will* It is a place where there is an abundance, as has often been remarked, that the communities where the Latter-day Saints live are provided with more material blessings and natural resources than perhaps any other community of a similar size in any part of the known globe; that we could be fenced out from the rest of the world and could survive in comfort, for the abundance of the things of the earth are here; but they cannot be very easily obtained. They can only be obtained through great effort, great struggle and through faith and through the bless.ings of the Almighty. 

FAITH AND WORKS REQUIRED 

I rejoice that it has required struggle, that it has required effort to the attainment of these material things. That in itself is a great blessing to the people. Likewise it has always been necessary that there shall be a combination of faith and works on the part of the people who wrest from these valleys and these mountains material resources for their blessing and benefit in a material way. I am glad that that is true, for it does seem to me, that we are in the very place where all the most desirable qualities of the human being — faith,  power, stick-to-it-iveness, devotion, self denial and perseverance, all are developed by the very circumstances with which we are surrounded; and it never will be possible for a lazy people, for an idle people, for a speculative people to prosper in these Rocky Mountain valleys. God will not allow the conditions to alter and change very materially from what they are. They will come by slow processes and through the faith and the diligence of the people. These material blessings will continue to flow untoi them in abundance; but I am pleading now, my brethren and sisters, that the Latter-day Saints shall give just a little bit more thought and consideration in seeking the Lord for material blessings. He is interested in your material prosperity. He is concerned about it, and I am sure that he has heard the prayers of our fathers and mothers long before this day in these valleys, and has made it possible for the wilderness to blossom as the rose. We have given him. credit for it. It is he who stayed the early and the late frosts, it is he who has altered the conditions under the faithfulness and the labors of the brethren and sisters, too, and has brought us this blessed condition that now obtains; but I wish to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that our present material advantages and our maintaining them, all depend on our continual faithfulness. This will not be a land of Zion unto this people except this people shall pay their tithes and their offerings. There are blessings for which we depend upon the Lord. While we are anxious that we shall employ all the skill and the wisdom of man, and physical power and ability, in the accomplishment of these things, all the wisdom of man, all his physical power, all his genius, cannot succeed except God shall bless his labors; and if he shall bless them, and if we shall be diligent, if we shall be anxious to do our part, I am sure the result will be all that is desired. 

THE KEY TO OUR LINE OF CONDUCT 

I would like to call your attention to a line of conduct that I think every Latter-day Saint ought to follow, even in material things, as well as spiritual. The key may be found in the ninth Section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. The, circumstances are these : Oliver Cowdery was translating, for God gave him the privilege, with the Prophet Joseph, to translate the Book of Mormon; and as he proceeded, suddenly his ability to translate ceased. He was puzzled at it, humiliated, bewildered, and wanted to know why, and the Lord gave an answer. I am reading now from the 7th verse of that 9th section : 

"Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. 

"But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right. 

"But if it be not right you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to) forget the thing which is wrong; therefore, you cannot write that which is sacred save it be given you from me." That key can be applied in spiritual and in material things. I know it, and I am asking all you Latter-day Saints to employ just that process in your material affairs. When you contemplate the enlarging of your possessions, when you are studying the question as to what you should plant and what you should do, what you should buy and what you should sell; that is all vital after all, because if this people are wrecked financially it will be an exceedingly difficult thing, it will take a long time for this work to be accomplished, except there is material assistance available for the accomplishment of it individually and collectively. So I am inviting you to study it out in your own minds. Yes, think about it and watch carefully the impressions of the Spirit. 

WHAT BRINGS SUCCESS? 

I have said this also : Success does not come from mind power; the brain does not bring success. It is helpful, undoubtedly, but some of the wisest and some of the brainiest men in the world have been altogether wrong in the last few years. Surely it has been a time when the wisdom of the wise in material things has perished, and the understanding of the prudent is hidden and is not available; because it has not been only the poor who have suffered, but those of large means in the world. The shrewdest bankers in New York miss it entirely, and their wisdom was not sufficient to meet the emergencies. Neither is it physical strength that brings material success and prosperity, for there are physical giants who are paupers, and they may be found everywhere. Neither is it hard work, alone by itself, that brings success. That is necessary; brains are necessary; physical strength is essential, and so is hard work; but all these combined may make a total failure. What is it that really brings success? It is doing the right thing at the right time. That is a very simple thing, surely, and yet it is true. Men in the world who succeed, if you ask them why: "Oh I got a 'hunch' that I ought to do so and so." We do not use that language and yet' we recognize that it is possible for a man or a woman to get an inspiration — an inspiration or an impression from the Lord who knows what is coming. He knows whether that thing is going to be successful this year or not. It is the easiest thing in the world for him to give men and women an impression that this is the thing to do. 

TAKE COUNSEL TOGETHER 

I have said that it is a mighty good thing for brethren to counsel with their wives about their material affairs, although some of us think that a woman does not have any reason for doing what she does do, only she just does it "because." It is usually because she is right, because she gets the inspiration, sometimes much quicker than a man. She does not understand your problems, but somehow in her heart she feels "that is not right, that is not going to come out right," she doesn't feel good about it. It is a mighty good thing to take conusel to. I have said if you do not do' it but go ahead on your own account and use your own judgment and wisdom, setting hers aside, and you make a failure, you will hear about it for a long time afterwards. (Laughter.) 

CONSULT THE LORD AND HIS PRIESTHOOD ABOUT IT 

So that, it is a mighty good thing to utilize all the intelligence, all the wisdom we have in our circle among our boys and our girls. The decision does not rest wholly with father, but counsel is taken, and we study it out in our own minds and then we endeavor to reach our conclusion. Then, when we have reached it, wait a minute; do not go forward yet. My Scotch grandfather used often to quote this Scotch maxim : "Be sure you are right and then go ahead." Now I think we can be sure we are right. If we think we are right, the Lord has invited us to go to him and ask him if the thing we have planned to do, even in material things, is right. "If it is right, cause that my bosom shall burn within me, that peace shall be there, that contentment shall dwell, and I will have the conviction that it is the right thing. If it is not right, let there be a stupor of thought and an uneasiness, and my mind will not be clear on it, my heart will be turned away from it." If you do not get that conviction you would better try again. You'd better study it out again. But I am going to ask you to do something else. This Priesthood does not desire to bring the people of the Church under its direction in material things, but I want to tell you that this Priesthood is under the guidance of God Almighty; I want to tell you that the man who presides over this Church, and those who have presided over this Church, are wiser in material things than any other men in this Church. God has made it so. His wisdom has prevailed and has been vindicated time and time again. Then here is a safe guide for this people : to take counsel from those whom the Lord inspires, and the Lord is the wisest financier: there is none like him, not only in spiritual, but in material things. 

And I assure you my brethren and sisters, that these stake presidents, the bishops of these wards, upon whom the hands of the servants of God have been laid, and who have been blessed and set apart to be watchmen upon the towers of Zion, to be shepherds of the flock, are blest with and enjoy an inspiration for the blessing and guidance of the people that is of great value to them in spiritual and in material things. Go to your bishop, talk with him about it. "Well," one will say, "I will not do that. My bishop doesn't know as much about this business as I do. It would be a humiliation for me to go to him." He may not be very successful himself, but he is able to give you the right counsel and advice, and he will never direct you wrong. I heard "Uncle" Jesse Knight say upon one occasion — and you will pardon me referring to him, because I think he is a shining example in this respect, and you know he was exceedingly successful in mining enterprises — I heard him say that he never went into a venture in his life without going to see his bishop and having a talk with him about it. His bishop knew very little, I presume, about the particular industries that Brother Knight was engaged in; but his testimony was : "The bishop never gave me wrong advice; not once did he lead me astray or give me wrong advice or counsel. 

A RECENT VALUABLE EXAMPLE 

I want to bear witness, therefore, to you, my brethren and sisters, it has been manifest among this people since the last conference held here, that if this people would have listened more diligently than they have done to the counsel of the President of the Church and to the brethren who have visited you in the stakes and wards, this people would have been millions of dollars better off today than they are. 

Some of you think: "Oh, the President of the Church had a selfish motive" when he advised you to raise sugar beets, when he told you it was a good and profitable thing for you. I know that we visited you in your wards and stakes and pleaded with you to do the same thing, assuring you that it was a good thing for the people, irrespective of the industry itself or looking at it from the business investment point of view. Now, was it right? Was it right? You answer it! I tell you again, that if all the people had listened, they would have been, in the aggregate, worth millions of dollars more than they are today. 

Spiritual guidance in material things is a mighty good guidance; I know that. I ask, therefore, brethren and sisters, that you pay just a little 'bit more attention to the Lord and his help and his inspiration, through his servants and to you individually in these matters. Then I want to say to you that you can, if you have with all earnestness of heart paid your tithing and done so honestly and justly, you can go to the Lord with faith and claim his blessings and he will hear you, he will answer your prayers, he will stay the elements for your good, he will bring those blessings in abundance to maintain you and to liberate you from your difficulties, if this people will only listen to the counsel that has been given them. I am very anxious and very jealous that we shall succeed, for I know in the heart of President Grant and in the heart of his brethren is burning the desire that this people shall be prosperous. There is no selfish motive there at all. If it seems to be for one particular interest, after all, it is for the general good and the material welfare and prosperity of this people. 

HOW WE MAY BE SHELTERED FROM COMING STORMS 

I said that I rejoiced that we are here. I rejoice that the Lord has brought this people up unto the right place. He knew all about what was coming. He knows our present needs, he is anxiously waiting, patiently waiting, and is sometimes, I fear, almost disgusted with some of us because of our slowness, because of our stupidity, because we are dull students, and do not learn as fast as we ought to, yet he is patient with us. 

In conclusion I wish to read a few verses from the 115th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which I think I see, again, God's  and providence over this people in providing this place for us and these very conditions under which we live. Addressing the Church, the Lord says — reading now from the 4th verse of that 115th section: 

"For thus shall my Church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

"Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations; 

"And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth." 

Do you not know, my brethren and sisters, that God knew what was coming; that he brought this people into these mountain valleys as a place of refuge when the storm shall come. We only hear the beginning of that storm. Dismal and distressful as has been its approach, while its thunders and its flashings have filled our hearts with terror, it is but the beginning of the storm. Oh, that it were passed, ahd that it were gone; but it is not, it is not! It would pass over the heads of this people and over the heads of the world if only, as Elder Roberts said, if only they would repent; but if they will not repent, how can they escape ? Men in past ages have not escaped, who did not know as much as this generation, — in view of the knowledge that has come into the world of a scientific character, in view of the intelligence which men have, in view of the restoration of the everlasting gospel that has come into the world, and that has been proclaimed upon the housetops by the thousands of elders of this Church from door to door, in the publication of it, broad and wide. Knowledge such as no other generation that has ever lived upon the earth has enjoyed, has been diffused; and this is their condemnation, that light has come into the world. I fear for the world because I say to you that no generation of men who have lived stand under greater condemnation before God Almighty than this generation, and except they shall repent, serious distresses await them. The storm in its fury shall rage; and all the powers of man cannot avert it. Only one thing can save them : their humiliation, their repentance will save them and nothing else can. Therefore we stand in peril, many of us! for do you think that the Lord who has given us greater light and greater knowledge than the world, will pass us by in our sins and our transgressions? I say to you that if we do not live better than the world, if our standard of morality is not in excess of theirs, if we do not observe the law and maintain it better than any other people, we ought to be ashamed of ourselves, and we shall stand under great condemnation before the Lord, because we know more than anybody else. The light and knowledge that the Lord has given to us place us in a very peculiar position, and if we are not careful the judgment of the Lord shall begin at the house of the Lord. HOW TO PREPARE TO ESCAPE THE DAY OF CALAMITY 

Oh may we put ourselves in order, put ourselves in perfect harmony with the instructions of this conference, that we may escape, for I bear witness to you that those who do so, they shall escape in the day of calamity and confusion, as Israel escaped, the lintels of whose doors were marked with the blood of a lamb. So it shall be in these last days with those who do serve God and keep his commandments. May the Lord help us in the resolve and the determination to go forward now and do more than we have ever done to resist that which is all around us. It is in the world, it is seeking an inroad here and there into the communities of the Latter-day Saints. I am not very fearful of our present conditions, but I tell you I see what is coming. I know that it will require the steadfast faithfulness of every man and woman to escape the perils of this generation. God help us to stand as watchmen upon the towers of Zion, to guard well her gates as stewards of the flock, and to watch lest the destructive influences of the world shall enter in among us. Let us continue to be God's peculiar people, and we shall indeed be; not only in time to come,.peculiar, but distinguished, which may the Lord grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

I earnestly desire, my brethren and sisters, that the rich inspiration of our heavenly Father may continue with us during the remaining portion of this meeting, as it has done during the first part of the meeting, and during the sessions that were held yesterday. 

Like Brother John A. Widtsoe, I have been and am intensely interested in education. I should like to talk to you about our religion class work, our seminary work, and our Church School system, but time will not permit. 

REMEMBER THE CHURCH EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS 

We have in Provo, the Brigham Young University. If I had the time I could tell you many good things about that splendid institution. I should like to have you keep this great school in your remembrance. Many of you have a good deal of property. Those who are comparatively rich sometimes wonder what to do with their holdings. I say to you, if you would have your name reverently remembered by the generations of Saints that are to come, you can do lfothing better with funds the Lord has given to you than to make an endowment of some sort to this splendid Church university. 

We have directors of other Church schools here, and they remind me that there are other Church educational institutions. I suggest that you remember all of these when you are disposing of and distributing that which the Lord has given you of worldly goods. 

Y. M. M. I. A. LIFE MEMBERSHIPS 

Not only am I interested in the educational work of the Church, but, as one of the general superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, I am also intensely interested in that great organization. There has been established for young men no institution better than the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. Many have received training in this organization, who perhaps would like to make a slight contribution for its assistance. Some of you may probably not know that we have life memberships in this organization. I appeal to you who have been blessed by attending Mutual Improvement Associations, to join the organization as life members. The charge for such membership is $5. Those who make this contribution give it to an endowment fund. The interest only on this endowment will be expended. This means that those who make this contribution will be helping this splendid organization for all time to come. 

OBEDIENCE TO LAW 

Now, this matter of obedience to law : The Lord has revealed to the Latter-day Saints that he, himself, raised up wise men who prepared the constitution of the United States. We believe it to be a divinely inspired document. Will it endure? Will this country of ours last indefinitely? 

I heard a great historian once say that he has studied ancient history with very great care in an effort to determine whether or not the United States of America, as a republic, will endure indefinitely. He said : "The republics of the past have failed. This republic can only endure, if in it there is some element not to be found in the republics of the past." This historian (Andrew D. White) explained further that a careful investigation shows that we have in this republic one thing only, not to be found in other republics, and that is our great educational system. If after being trained in our, schools, men have the Christian spirit, if there is in their hearts some unselfishness, if they are willing to make sacrifices for the good of others, then this republic may endure. 

REMEMBER THE LORI> — TAKE COUNSEL OF HIS SERVANTS 

On this subject of unselfishness, Brother Ballard has just mentioned the matter of growing beets. He mentioned also the paying of tithes and offerings. What has your experience been in that direction? My experience has been that it is a paying proposition to remember the Lord. If we do this he will remember us. My experience also is tkat it pays to listen to the counsel of the authorities of the Church, to advise with the bishop. Suggestions though not given by Church authorities in a very vigorous sort of fashion, ought to be obeyed. Let me give you a specific case. I did not go to the President for advice particularly, but when we were together, I .named, one, two, three, four, five reasons why I ought to do a particular; thing. "Why," said President Grant, "Richard, I think this is the very time not to take the course you name." 

This was a financial! matter. He did not use a club. He did not talk loud. There was no compulsion about it, but it was advice to me. I took it and for so doing I have received a rather rich financial reward. 

I defy the Latter-day Saints to find anywhere, even in literature, a man more interested in a people than is President Heber J. Grant in your own good selves. Find, if you can, anyone, any man anywhere, who is more unselfish! His first interest, his last interest, his continual interest is in the welfare of the people of the Church. 

CONDITION OF THE WORLD SINCE THE GOSPEL WAS RESTORED 

Now, to come back to our country — the United States. The constitution of this republic was prepared by men inspired of our heavenly Father. Its operations were only well begun when God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ came to the earth and restored this great gospel that is so dear to all of us. 

What has been the condition of the world since that time, since this gospel was restored ? Do you realize that in the methods of transportation there had been no progress in all the history of the ages up to the time the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized? There had been no transportation faster than a man could run or a horse could travel. And what have we today ? The locomotive, the ocean liner, the bicycle, the electric car, the automobile, the flying machine. These all are indications of the great progress that has come since this gospel was established. 

Many of you can remember when, every once in a while, the world was thrown into commotion by some terrible disease epidemic. There were epidemics of cholera, yellow fever, typhoid fever, diphtheria. The whole human family was powerless in the presence of these epidemics. Micro-organisms had been discovered a hundred years before, but not until about 1880 did Louis Pasteur discover the relation that exists between these organisms, these germs, or these bacteria and disease. During this hundred years there had been no progress whatever in the health of the people. The death rate everywhere was in the neighborhood of forty per thousand. What a transformation! Today there are few cities in the world .in which the death rate is as high as twenty. Between 1876 and 1880, in one city, (Munich), 689 out of every thousand babies under the age of one year were taken by death. That shows the condition of the world before 1880. Dirt, ugliness and disease were found everywhere. Since then cleanliness, beauty and health have taken their places. Science has discovered that the mosquito carries yellow fever from one individual to another. Science by destroying the mosquitoes in Panama made possible the construction of the Panama Canal. Some of you may not know that  the mosquitoes killed, with the ravages of yellow fever in that particular neighborhood ended, the United t States constructed the Panama Canal for less money than the French government expended investigating the question. 

PATRIOTISM AND RIGHTEOUS LIVING WILL CAUSE OUR COUNTRY 

TO ENDURE 

And so, too, has there been great progress in education. People are wiser, they know more, they have books and they are studious. This republic will endure indefinitely only if the individual citizens in it appreciate the liberty that has been left to us as a legacy by our fathers. The Bar Association, I have been advised, has suggested that throughout the whole country organizations be effected for the purpose of teaching the people patriotism. Others may desert the constitution of this country, but the Latter-day Saints will do it never. This great government will endure indefinitely if we, its citizens, give a proper value to that liberty which in those early days was purchased with the splendid blood of our glorious fathers. 

THE Y. M. M. I. A. AS HELPS TO GOOD CITIZENSHIP AND RIGHT' LIVING 

An effort is being put forth this year by the Mutual Improvement Associations to place the boy scout training within the reach of every boy of scout age in the Church. Imagine, if you can, what it means for every boy to be trained to be clean, to be obedient, to be gentle, to be frugal, to be honest, to be courteous, trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, brave, clean, kind and reverent. Imagine what it means for all our boys to be taught these great lessons: "On my honor, I will do my best to do my duty both to God and to my country, to help other people at all times, to keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." I urge you, presidents of stakes, counselors to presidents, bishops, bishops counselors and other officials everywhere, to give to this great work your most loyal support. 

We have another equally important class in the Mutuals — the senior boys or young men between the ages of seventeen and twentythree. We are determined as the General Superintendency and General Board to so touch the lives of these young people as to thrill them with ambition. It does not take much in the life of a boy during these years to transform his whole career. We are not doing enough as officials if we only come to the meeting at the meeting hour, and there sing and preach and pray with those who happen to' be present. It is my duty, and yours, as officials, to go out and search for the lost sheep, to go out in the woods, to go out on the hill sides, to go out in the timber in a faithful, fruitful search for those who are unfortunate. It is the widow's son, it is the boy who is fatherless, it is the boy who is brought up in a broken home, it is the boy who is not having a fair chance, after whom we ought to search, it is he that we must find. These are they who need our special attention. These are the boys who need the help if they are to be saved. And so, I appeal to you, in the name of our great Country, and in the name of our glorious Church, to see to it that all boys between the ages of twelve and seventeen are given an opportunity of taking the work we offer in scouting, and that those between the ages of seventeen and twenty-three be hunted up and given the clean manly training offered for them by our Mutual Improvement organizations. These brought together and thus trained we shall have a generation of citizens who will have such love for American liberty, our country, and our constitution that the best in their lives will be given to supporting our inspired institutions, to obeying unselfishly the law of the land and to making our nation live on indefinitely. 

THE SLOGAN OF THE (Jtf. I. A. 

The Lord bless you. I have enjoyed going out into the stakes of Zion where I have been associated with you splendid, clean, glorious Church workers. We have been teaching the Word of Wisdom these many years. We come forward now with a new or another appeal, a slogan. We want all the people, in their hearts, in their lives and in their actions, to be pure. 

We may think sometimes the Lord has deserted us, but really, if we think of our own shortcomings, if we think of how many people there are who drink their tea, how many people there are who drink their coffee, how many there are who do not remember the Lord in secret and in family prayers, who do not pay their tithes and their offerings, ought we then not to marvel why it is we are so richly blessed. It is our purpose to put forth this year our best effort to make our people pure, in their hearts, in their actions and in their lives generally, therefore nearly one hundred thousand strong, the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement organizations are going forth this year proclaiming the slogan : "We stand for a pure life through clean thought and action." I wonder if you believe in this doctrine? I will repeat it and then give you an opportunity to say it with me for the whole Church. In this Church is to be found everything that makes people better, stronger, happier; better citizens, better supporters of our country, its laws and its constitution. I say again, others may desert it but the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will defend it forever. 

I will give the new slogan and I ask you to repeat it: "We stand for a pure life through clean thought and action." 

(The Slogan was repeated by the congregation.) 

The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice." The closing prayer was offered by Elder Heber Q. Hale, president of the Boise stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


