Second Outdoor
08 10 1922

The second outdoor overflow meeting was held at the Bureau of Information at 2 o'clock, Sunday, October 8, 1922. Elder J. Golden Kimball, of the First Council of Seventy, presided. 

The Holiday choir rendered the music and singing, Charles Pike, conductor. 

The choir sang, "Come, dearest Lord." 

The invocation was offered by Elder George W. Lewis, of the Bureau of Information. 

The choir sang, "We're not ashamed to own our Lord." 

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

(President of the Canadian Mission) 

Someone asked Mark Twain if he knew of anything that is worse than to have the earache and the toothache at the same time. Mark Twain said, "I think it would be a little worse to have sciatic rheumatism and St. Vitus dance at the same time." I am quite certain that if Mark Twain had ever occupied a position like this, he would not have given that answer. 

I feel very deeply conscious of my limitations in attempting to speak to this audience on this occasion. I would not make the attempt were it not for the faith that I have that God will sustain and uphold all those who trust in him and seek humbly to do his will. I 159  with all my heart that God will be kind to me while I attempt to speak to you, and that he will give me his Spirit to actuate my utterances, that I shall be able to say the things that ought to be said, and say them in the way that they ought to be said. 

I am thankful with all my heart for my heritage. I am thankful for membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 1 am thankful that God, in his kindness, has given me a testimony of the truth; and that he has written upon my heart by fire of the Holy Ghost a certain knowledge of the divinity of this great work in which we are engaged. I am thankful that in the goodness of our heavenly Father I have been permitted to represent this great Church upon the firing line of truth for over seven years of my life. I am thankful that God has sustained me in this ministry and enabled me, by the power of his Spirit, to touch the hearts of honest men and women by my testimony of the truth. 

During the last three years and three months I have become more strongly convinced than I have ever been in my life of the world's need of "Mormonism." It is my deep-rooted conviction this day that the world needs "Mormonism" more than anything else. Indeed, I am persuaded that the truth, the faith, and the spirit which are found in this Church are the only things that can save this world from going to pieces, socially, politically, and economically. 

Some months ago I picked up a copy of the Literary Digest, and found in it a lengthy advertisement, which had been written by a committee of the World Inter-Church Movement. The advertisement covered an entire page in the magazine. In the very heart of this advertisement appeared this pregnant sentence, ''The world needs a great many things, but it needs most of all faith." I do not know who the man was who wrote that sentence, but I do know that he did pack into a few words a comprehensive, simple statement of the paramount need of this world. Yes, this world "needs most of all faith;" and it needs a deeper faith than the insipid belief which we find resident in the hearts of a great many of our orthodox Christian friends. The world needs the faith that Jesus taught. 

About two years ago I had the pleausre of speaking to a congregation in the great city of Montreal. In opening my discourse I said to the congregation, "We have come to teach you the faith that Jesus taught." I had no sooner made that seemingly trite statement than a number of persons in the congregation laughed almost out loud. I noticed a number of persons turn to their neighbors and whisper something about what I said. I am quite certain that they meant by their demonstrat'on to manifest to me that they had already had the faith that Jesus taught preached to them. But I am quite sure, notwithstanding the demonstration of those people, that there are very few people in all this world today who have really heard about the faith that Jesus taught. 

What was the faith that Jesus taught? The Apostle Paul understood quite fully the doctrines of the. Son of God. He understood the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Christian doctrine of faith. He wrote a wonderful essay on this subject. It is found in the 11th chapter of his letter; to the Hebrews. In this letter, Paul says, "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." 

In this definition Paul tells us, in effect, that to the person who has faith, unseen things are evident, or, in other words, that to the person who has faith, God is evident. The person who has faith has a lively, certain assurance of the existence of the invisible God. I know that that is the kind of faith Paul is talking about here, because in this same chapter he refers to Moses as a man who had this "evidence of things not seen." Of this man Moses, Paul wrote, "By faith," Moses forsook Egypt, "not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible." What does Paul mean? He means that Moses, because of the purity of his life and the integrity of his soul, was so close to God that he could almost see God. That is faith. Nothing short of this certainty is real Christian faith. When you think of faith in this sense, you will understand that it is one of the rarest qualities you will find in human souls. I have sometimes said in great cities in the east, "You do not have a thousand persons in your city who have Christian faith." 

But Paul also tells us that "faith is the substance of things hoped for." He means that faith is the assurances we have that we will receive the things we hope for. And the apostle is not here talking about any ordinary human hope. He is not here talking about the hope that the mechanic has that at the end of the week he will receive his pay. Neither is he speaking about the hope that the scientist has that in the ordinary processes of nature certain things will come to pass at certain times. Paul is here talking about a deep, strong, divine hope. He refers to Abraham as a man who had this "substance of things hoped for." Of this man Abraham, Paul said, "By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead." Notice the words: "accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead." These are wonderful words. They are powerful words. They came from a great, heart. They came from a soul that was pure enough, true enough, and strong enough to trust God, even to the uttermost. One who has this certain assurance of the willingness of God to bless his children, even to the uttermost, if they trust in him, has "the substance of things hoped for." 

It was of this kind of faith that Jesus spoke when he talked about this principle. There were in his day a few souls who were noble enough and pure enough and strong enough to trust in Jesus Christ. One of these rare souls was a woman who had been afflicted for twelve long years of her life. This woman, we are told, spent her fortune upon the physicians and received no relief. One day she was standing in the throng as Jesus came walking along. She had heard 161  the purity of his life and the mighty works which he had performed by the power of faith. As he came into sight, her heart leaped for joy and she said within herself, "If I can touch the hem of his garment, I shall be healed." Did you ever notice those sublime words? Did you ever notice that wonderful profession of faith? Those strong words came from a big heart. They came from a soul that was deep enough, and strong enough to trust God, even to the uttermost. That noble woman, prompted by her sublime faith, touched the hem of the garment of Jesus Christ. Instantly she was healed. Jesus knew that some noble soul had come into contact with him. He turned to his) disciples and said, "Who did touch me?" His disciples had not seen anything. They were not spiritually minded at that time. They were still of that class of whom Shakespeare spoke when he said, "They are only alive in their duller parts." Any person who has not living faith in the living God is not half alive. The disciples said, "The throng press thee and sayest thou who did touch thee?" But Jesus made reply, "Someone did touch me, for I perceived that virtue hath gone out of me." Then the true hearted woman came into his presence, and said, "I did touch thee." Then Jesus made reply and said, "Thy faith hath made thee whole." 

That woman had Christian faith. She had the faith that Jesus taught. She had the faith that he exemplified in his ministry. 

But alas, that faith was driven from this earth by superstition. The loss of this faith to the world is the saddest thing that has happened in the history of man. The turning of faith into superstition after the first establishment of the Christian religion, did not take place in a day. It came about very gradually. The people of that day, soon after the establishment of the Christian religion, discovered that it is easier to trust in something that they could see than it is to trust in the invisible God. So they commenced to thinking that Peter, and Paul and James and the rest of the apostles had a power peculiar to them. They soon concluded that they could not enjoy the same power that the apostles had. Then they commenced to think that if they could just get a piece of an apostle's coat or cloak and wear it upon their person, it would ward off disease and evil spirits. So in a very natural way the practice of believing in relics came into existence. 

A little later they commenced to thinking that there was some magical power in the cross upon which Christ was crucified, and that if they could just have a metallic likeness of that cross fastened about their neck, it would keep away sickness and evil spirits. You know it is so much easier to hold on to a cross fastened about your neck than it is to hold on to the throne of God. 

Then a little later still they commenced to thinking that if they could just have an image of one of the apostles, and kneel before that image and pray a formal prayer before it, they would be able to receive blessings from the invisible God. You know it is much easier to trust in an image right before you than it is to trust in the God GENERAL CONFERENCE  you cannot see. So in a very natural way, the faith that Jesus taught, the faith that the Christ exemplified, was turned into superstition. And error drove truth from the altar. 

But thanks be to our God, he has not left the world without the hope of a better day. Through his prophets, he has made it known to us that the gospel of Christ and its power should be restored to the world in the dispensation of the fulness of times. In fulfilment of those wonderful prophecies, Joseph Smith the prophet restored to this world the faith that Jesus taught. On that beautiful day in the morning of the Nineteenth Century, when the boy Joseph Smith prayed and God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him, faith was reborn. On that day the faith of the Christ came back to this world. The spot on which he prayed that day is one of the holiest spots upon this earth. It is the cradle of faith. 

The story of that boy's triumphant faith, of his all-conquering prayer, has kindled in the hearts of tens of thousands the same faith. 

I recall a beautiful story that I heard in the city of Toronto some months ago, just on the eve of my departure for the city of Montreal. The following day I was in the city of Montreal, and as I walked down St. Catherine Street in that great city, I saw a newsboy with a Montreal Standard. Across the top appeared these big headlines, "The Greatest Miracle of Modern Times." I purchased a copy of the paper and turned to page 16, and read there the story of radio. The writer claimed that radio was the greatest miracle of modern times. But I was just a little disposed to take issue with his statement. I am fashioned somewhat after the Scotch: I do not always believe everything that I hear. So I commenced to thinking, really is radio the greatest miracle of modern times? I did not have to think back very far to be convinced that I had heard of a greater miracle. Just the night before, in the city of Toronto, before I took my train for Montreal, I sat in my room in the mission home and listened to a little English woman tell the story of the tribulation and the trials that came to her shortly after she joined the Church. She said, "I was so greatly tried one day that I rushed into my little room, closed the door, and threw myself upon the bed and wept and prayed for comfort. While I was praying I heard a voice behind me' distinctly say, 'Be patient; be patient; wait.' " 

That is a greater story than the story of radio. It is a wonderful thing to be able to hear a prima donna sing on the other side of the globe. But it is an infinitely greater thing to hear the voice of God speaking comfort directly to your own soul. Where did that little English woman get the faith to trust in God to that extent that she was able to get a definite answer to her prayer? She got that faith from reading the story of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ in our dispensation. That is the most thrilling story in the world except one. It is the story that this world needs to awaken its faith in the living God. For the old story tells about God's power in the world so far back that people are not able to trust in it. What this world 163  is the story of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What this world needs is a down-to-date story of the power of God in the world. "Mormonism" is the only religion in the world that furnishes the world such a story. 

And I know that the story of the restoration of the gospel is true. With all the power of my soul I thank God for this testimony. I value it above the price of rubies. If any one should come to me this very hour with a billion dollars upon a golden platter and say to me, "You can have this if you will give up and surrender your testimony of the truth," I would turn from that gold as if it were dross; for 1 have learned in the furnace of affliction that there are a great many things that you cannot do with money. You cannot knit together the broken pieces of human will with money. You cannot heal the wounds of the human heart with gold. You cannot bring peace to the human soul with rubies. There is nothing in the world that i? true enough and strong enough to bring peace to the human soul but living faith in the living God. 

I love those words of that humble poet Whittier : 

Y.et in the maddening maze of things, 

When tossed by storm and flood, To one fixed stake my spirit clings; 

I know that God is good. 

I know not where his islands lift 

Their fronded palms in air; I only know I cannot drift 

Beyond his love and care. 

I do know that those dear words are true. I do know that this religion of ours is God-given, God-instituted. I know it is the best and truest thing in the world. God give us power to live it to the end of our days, and to do all in our strength to declare its truths, to the end of the world, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER B. S. YOUNG 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

I do not know how successful I shall be in making you hear me. I have not had very much opportunity as yet to do outdoor speaking, and particularly to such a throng of people as is assembled here today. 1 am grateful for this opportunity, my friends, brethren and sisters, although it makes me feel a good deal like the story that Brother George H. Brimhall tells of two fellows who were going into the battle. They were both trembling a good deal, and one of them, who was in the rear, said, "Say, you seem to be awful scared there in front," and the fellow in front said, "If you were half as scared as I am, you would be five miles in the rear and running like — well." And I want to say, brethren and sisters, that sometimes in the timidity of our souls we fail to live up to the things that we know. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

As has been announced to you, I have the honor of presiding over the Northwestern States mission; I have the honor of being temporarily a parent to your boys and girls. 1 wish we had more of them. 1 want to say to you that no sweeter, no finer specimens of boyhood and girlhood can be found in all the broad confines of the earth. They are indeed the salt of the earth. And we are endeavoring to teach them the things that are vital, and they are learning them with a rapidity that is almost startling. We have boys and girls come out into the field who unhappily have had but little teaching at home. 1 do not say that it is the fault of the parents or of the bishop of the ward or of any of those who have charge of the spiritual education of our boys and girls, but the fact is that at whose ever door it may be laid, they are almost unacquainted with the principles of the religion to which their parents have given their unbounded allegiance. It is marvelous how rapidly they acquire a knowledge of the gospel. It seems to be as natural to them to understand faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost — the first principles of the gospel — as it is to breathe. 

We are endeavoring, brethren and sisters, in the teaching of your boys and girls, to make of them good citizens, not only of the Government, but also of the Church; and, as was said yesterday here in the tabernacle by Dr. Widtsoe, the one thing lacking in the education of all people, with few exceptions, is they have not been taught spirituality. We do study the physical; we give great attention and spend almost unbounded treasure on the cultivation of the mental, but the spiritual is almost wholly neglected. We are endeavoring, during their tenure of missionary service, to give them an understanding of the spiritual. 

And what will this spiritual acquisition do for them that the physical and the mental does not accomplish? These boys and girls have been taught in the schools that they should observe certain lines of conduct, largely for the purpose that they may acquire substance. Our whole educational system has for its object the teaching of boys and girls how to acquire material things. When these boys and girls go into the mission, they are brought into a new atmosphere. There are new channels of communication between them and nature that are opened up of which hitherto they had no conception. And those channels are of the most highly developing character, because they give the boys and girls a view of life they had not previously had, and that no men or women can have without having the experience that comes to the missionary. That experience, to my mind and with the thought I have given the subject, is one of the most useful and necessary of anything of which I have conception, for the reason that it gives the boys and girls a foundation upon which to build their future, that they cannot acquire in any other way. 

We have labored, my friends, to give our boys and girls a large patrimony, when we shall have passed on into the great eternity. No matter how hard we may strive, no matter what we may leave them, 165  are placing in their hands, in many instances wholly inexperienced, the opportunity of ruination. But when you have sent a boy or girl into the mission field, you have sent them into a school for the acquiring' of that which is more useful, more necessary, and will be to them what no material possession can possibly furnish; for you have taught the boy or girl, or they have acquired, a faith in God, the faith that Brother Jenson has been speaking of. Do- you know of anything that is more desirable in its possession than faith in God? It is the thing, as has been said, that the world lacks; and if you can give your boys and your girls faith in God, you have supplied them with that which no patrimony, no matter how generous, can possibly confer upon them; because the patrimony is a thing that moths may eat, that rust may corrupt, that thieves may steal; but when you have given them faith in God, or an opportunity to obtain it, you have given them that which nothing earthly can deprive them of, and it will go with them into the eternities. 

We have had boys and girls come out there — I have seen them, although I have been there but a short time — who have been uneducated in the things of the gospel. But send them out without purse or scrip, to do what we term summer work, and they will be gone a couple or three months, and when they come back, note the difference in the appearance of the boy or the girl! Their whole being has undergone a complete change. They are no more like the boy or girl they were when they came out than if they were two different beings entirely. They come back with a faith in God. And when they stand up, you know that they have a faith in him. You can see it in their countenances; you can feel it in the clasp of their hand; you can hear it as the words roll from their lips, as the tears stream from their eyes in their gratitude to God, who has preserved them and blessed them and given them a testimony that he lives, that he hears and answers prayers, that he is indeed our Father. And if you give your boys and girls an opportunity to acquire that faith, you have given them something that you cannot possibly confer if you leave them no matter what treasure of an earthly character. 

Now, we need missionaries. This has been my preface to the statement that we need missionaries, and we need them very badly. I know of instances where there are boys and girls in the mission field who are being supported in some instances by widowed mothers and those mothers have said to me, "I do not see how I can possibly keep my daughter in the mission field, because our crops have no value; it won't pay to dig our potatoes; I have no means of supporting her except that which I borrow and which I must look to her to help me to make good when she returns." That is faith, a living faith, because of the desire to have that daughter acquire this thing to which I have referred, faith in God. My confidence in this community is of a character that if they knew that here is a girl in the mission field, or a boy, or any number of them, who need and who are being supported by widowed mothers, there are men and women who, if they GENERAL CONFERENCE  those facts, would say, "We will support them until their mission is concluded." They are out there looking for, searching for, combing society for' honest souls, and if, as the scripture says, our joy shall be great with one soul whom we shall bring to repentance, how much greater will that joy be if we shall bring many in the presence of our Father — now, if our joy is to be great with one soul or any number of souls, so also great will be our joy if we contribute to the maintaining of these boys and girls who are without means, to help them finish their missions. And I believe that some movement will be started in the communities, by which a fund may be established, so that these boys and girls can be kept in the mission field. I know that you have no accurate idea of the value of those boys and girls in your communities after they return if they keep the spirit of the mission in their hearts. 

I want to appeal to the parents in this congregation and the parents throughout all Israel : If you want to give your boys and girls something that will be vital and lasting, give them the opportunity of a mission, and you will have conferred upon them that which you cannot possibly bestow in any other way. They are beautiful in the lives they lead, and the men and women who see them going about their daily toil have remarked to me when they have known that I am a Latter-day Saint, as they have seen them standing on the streets preaching the gospel of repentance, that never have they seen finer specimens of boys and girls, who radiate! more intelligence, and to whom it has been a greater delight to listen and to know than these, your boys and girls, who are doing service in the mission field. It is a beautiful, a valuable thing, and will be of eternal use to them if you will give them an opportunity of enjoying it. 

And I want to say that we are endeavoring to teach them this great fact, that wherever they are, no matter at what time nor under what circumstances, they are always missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Are you ? That is what your boys and girls will ask you: Are you missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? Are you willing to do the things that they are doing? Are you willing to follow in the footsteps of these beautiful boys and girls, who are teaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you teach it? That is a question for you to ask yourselves. They are teaching it. Are you teaching it? You can be of vast use in this Church if you will teach the gospel. Primarily you have no other business in this world than to teach the gospel that God has revealed for the salvation of his children; and if you will analyze your lives, analyze the object of your being here, you will conclude that you are here for the purpose of furthering his interests in the earth among his children; and I commend to you the suggestion that as you have opportunity, give your boys and girls the chance of a mission. You will never regret it; it will stand eternally to your credit; because you will have saved your boys and your girls, than whom there is nothing more precious in all the earth. That God 167  help us to understand and appreciate our opportunities, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A ladies' chorus sang, "Lift Thine Eyes." 

The general authorities were presented and sustained unanimously, as at the Tabernacle meeting. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD 

{Of the Bureau of Information) 

I do not know how my voice will carry in this large assembly, as I have been suffering with a cold for some days. I am very glad to be with you in this open air meeting and to observe how many there are in this audience who are members of the Church. It is truly wonderful to observe the growth and development of this Church from the beginning. We are distinct from all other people upon the face of the earth, for we are members of a living Church; we have all the authority upon the earth that God ever gave unto men; and with that power and influence, is it to be wondered at that Zion should grow and increase, until, by and by, this block will not contain the hosts of Israel that come to conference. I was asked this morning if it would not be a good idea to build another Tabernacle similar to the one that is now crowded with nearly twelve thousand people, and I remarked to the good brother who made the inquiry that if we wanted to accommodate in meetings all the people who desired to come here, we must roof in the whole block and hold meetings in every corner thereof. 

I am glad to observe the increase in faith and the growth and development of the work, as we see it today. While President B. S. Young was speaking I was contemplating how this work really commenced. Let us briefly review it from the lowly beginning, when the boy Prophet Joseph Smith, between the ages of 14 and 15, went into the grove near Palmyra, New York, to pray. Think of that wonderful demonstration when the Father and the Son appeared unto him and gave instructions to him to prepare for the great mission that had been assigned unto him. It was a marvelous event, and Joseph scarcely realized the important work unto which he had then been called. Subsequently this was impressed more forcibly upon him by the appearance of John the Baptist, who conferred upon the youthful prophet and upon Oliver Cowdery the authority of the holy Priesthood, as recorded in section 13 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Later the heavens again opened, and angelic messengers conferred upon these two men the. authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood with all its gifts, powers, and blessings, and this authority has continued with the Church until the present day. Thus by the direct ministry of angels the Church was fully established. I draw your attention to these marvelous manifestations so that you may understand how God GENERAL CONFERENCE  blessed his Church and caused it to grow on the earth. Do you marvel that the prophet Joseph should burst forth in song when contemplating all that God had done for him? In section 128 of the Doctrine and Covenants, after referring to the restoration of the holy Priesthood, and after proclaiming the opening of a new dispensation through divine ministration, the prophet utters these impressive words : 

"Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great joy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion: Behold, thy God reigneth! As the dews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them! 

"And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment of the prophets — the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light! The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county; and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times! 

"And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels' and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! And the voice of Michael the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam, down to the present time, all declaring their dispensation,, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their Priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth, that which is to come, confirming our hope! 

"Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free. 

"Let the mountains shout for joy, and all y.e valleys cry aloud; and all ya seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods, and all the] trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun,, moon, and the morning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy! And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our .ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers." 

This is how the Prophet Joseph felt when contemplating the wonderful revelations given of the Lord. 

You have heard our brother here speak of the elders and their influence and what they are able to accomplish. These young men and young women, not only in the Northwestern States mission, but 169  every mission of the Church are wielding the same wonderful influence. What is it that gives them this power? What is it that singles them out from the multitude as men of a different class, having different qualifications and different personalities? What is it that impresses the people as they gaze upon these youths and listen to their earnest testimonies ? Strangers upon this block, when entertained by guides, often ask, "What have your young people got that impresses us so much? What is it that distinguishes these young people?" It is the Priesthood of Almighty God, and without that we would be no more successful in missionary work than are all others of the various contending creeds. 

You brethren have received the Priesthood of Almighty God. Our youths hold the Aaronic Priesthood. They are proud of it. They are glad to exercise it. Our elders labor in the authority of the Priesthood of Melchizedek. Look over this audience. I think possibly President Kimball will be glad to know the character of this great assembly. I noticed when we voted sustaining the authorities of the Church that some raised their hands carelessly while others raised their hands high. I feel to bless the man who in a whole-souled manner sustains the brethren. Now appealing to you men in the congregation, a great many of you have received this Priesthood given to us by the revelations of God, by the ministry of angels, as referred to. How many of you in this audience, within the sound of my voice, hold this Priesthood? We want to learn by the show of hands. All of you that hold the Priesthood, raise your hands. I notice nearly all 'of you have responded, God bless you all. 

Now, let me give you a final exhortation. I urge you to magnify that Priesthood; live according to every covenant made with God, and let him feel that you are worthy of this divine power. If the same vote were called for in the Assembly Hall, and again in the Tabernacle, ten thousand hands would readily be raised confirming the thought that upon this block today there are thousands and thousands of men, clothed with the authority and power of Almighty God. May the Lord help us to appreciate and to magnify it, that we may be as lights set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

{Of the First Council of the Seventy) 

Before I say anything else, I have something on my mind I want to get rid of first. I call attention to this picture — you cannot see. it very well at so long a distance. We have on this platform Brother William Jex. He was a great friend of my father's, and if he could not think of anything else to say he began to talk about Heber C. Kimball. This good man is 92 years old. He is a patriarch. He lives in Spanish Fork. I read the notation written under the picture GENERAL CONFERENCE  handed to me. He did not imagine I would read it. This picture shows, "a part of the family" — there is a multitude of Jexes, this picture being only a part of the family "of William and Eliza Jex, taken at their annual family reunion held January 1, 1914." Thirtyeight members of the family then living were not present — (could not get them all in!). "William and Eliza Goodson Jex were married in England, February 22, 1854."' That is one year after I was born. I am now going to tell you what damage they have done since. They embarked on a vessel bound for America. "The family now consists of the aged couple, eleven children, 115 grandchildren, 151 greatgrandchildren, and five of the fifth generation, making a total, on October 1, 1921, of 360 — including 64 who have become members of the family by marriage. Seventy-four of these have died." 

Now the climax comes. "The Jex family has spent altogether 76 years in the foreign missionary service, preaching the gospel, at an expense of $70,000 of their own means, over and above all their time for which they received no compensation. 

I call that faith and works. It puts me in mind of what my father said in talking in early days about this people. He said : "This people will multiply and increase until we will hardly know where to put them." Father told the Gentiles, "You will never be able to kill them off." Brother Jex has taken part in fulfiling this prophecy. 

It is not my purpose to talk very much. I haven't an outdoor voice. I have been trying to be sick for a couple of years, and I have rather fizzled out on it. I feel a good deal like the story I read the other day. "Some fellow was sitting on the pier that reached out into the ocean> — and he fell in, and he holloed, "Help! help! I can't swim." And an old fellow was sitting on the pier fishing, and he said : "Neither can I, but I wouldn't brag about it." I don't want to brag about sickness, because it is a kind of a disgrace to get sick in this Church, and not have faith to be healed. I was talking in one of the stakes of Zion to a bunch of careless Seventies, and I was trying to inject into them a little faith. Some fellow bawled out, "How do you get faith?" Well, it was such a sudden shock to me, I said, "I'll be blamed if I know." I told one of the greatest truths I have spoken for some time although somewhat crude. How do you know how you are going to get it? How do you know when you are going to get it? Nobody does. It just comes. And then it goes, and sometimes we do not have faith. That is about the way I have been since I have been sick. I have not had faith to be healed, and I have been ashamed. But I want to testify to you, and then read something into the record, and then quit. I guess there is a reporter here, isn't there? I am always afraid of those "blooming reporters;" they always get things down as I say it, but it don't sound well. It sounds all right when I deliver it, but it doesn't read well in print. I don't know whether you believe what I say or not, and I don't care. All I care for is to finish my work, deliver my message, get through with this business, and if God can see 171  in his mercy to give me salvation, that is all I want; it is a mighty big thing to ask for — for the greatest gift of God to his children is salvation." My mother started out for a celestial glory. It is too big a climb for me. If I can get salvation, 1 will be happily surprised. Heber C. Kimball said : "If some of you 'Mormons' get salvation, you will be more surprised than anybody else." 

There are some things I know just as well as any Latter-day Saint knows. I am old enough to know a thing or two. I ought to know pretty near as much as some people who haven't had any more experience than I have. My only trouble is that I may lack authority to do and say some things, but I have got! all I can attend to. I have ordained hundred of Seventies. I do not know but it is thousands. Eight hundred and ninety Seventies have been ordained since January 1, 1922. Some of them are little good, but I did my work all right. I have set apart hundreds for foreign missions, and they have come back, many of them, and said, "Everything you promised me came true." 

I have seen the sick healed under my administration. I have witnessed nearly all kinds of diseases cured. And I will say right here, as far as God is concerned, and Jesus Christ, there is no disease that is incurable, if faith is exercised. I know that I have the key, that I hold the Priesthood, and there isn't a man in all the world to make me believe that I have not got it. It may be I do not live up to all the requirements — I will now begin to read into the record. I write books, but I put them in a pigeon hole and lock them up where they cannot do any damage. I feel aroused sometimes and the palms of my hands just itch to take hold of the jaw-bone of an ass and beat these things into dull men's skulls; I would do it, too, if I only had the jaw-bone. This is what I want to read to you. I want you to think about it. It is nothing new. But I want you to think about it as I have thought about it; for I have read it dozens of times, and that is one big reason I am a member of this Church. If I did not believe what I am going to read, I would quit the Church tomorrow. 

These are the Prophet Joseph Smith's words. The Prophet Joseph Smith's words of instructions to apostles, at the last meeting held prior to their leaving on missions. You remember when that was, when they went to England and to other places. He said : 

"Brethren, I have desired to see the temple built. I will never live to see it, but you will. I have sealed upon your heads all the keys of the Kingdom of God. I have sealed upon you every key, power, principle, that the God of heaven has revealed to me." ( You see we received all the keys.) "Now, no matter where I may go or what I may do, the Kingdom rests upon you." [See? He fixed that; he knew something about what was going to happen.] 

President Wilford Woodruff, who was one of the most wonderful men I ever knew — was a man who talked to me occasionally; I never arose after a five-minutes' talk that I did not know that he was a GENERAL CONFERENCE  of God. He made these remarks at a Mutual Improvement conference, held June 2, 1889: 

"Do you wonder why we, as apostles, could not have understood that the prophet of God was going to be taken from us ? Neither could the apostles in the days of Jesus Christ understand what the Savior meant when he told them, 'I am going away; if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come.' " President Woodruff continued : 

"Joseph Smith made these impressive remarks on the same occasion, 'Ye apostles of the Lamb of God, my brethren, upon your shoulders this Kingdom rests; you have got to round up your shoulders and bear off this Kingdom. If you do not do it, you will be damned.' " — And so will the rest of us, if we do not do our duty. 

President Brigham Young said, after the martyrdom of the Prophet, "Thank God, the keys of the Kingdom are here." 

President Wilford Woodruff continued, "The keys of the Kingdom will remain with the Church until the coming of the Son of Man, which means until the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ in the clouds of heaven to reward every man according to his deeds done in the flesh. There have always been manifested among a certain coterie of men, who say that Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, and others who have been presidents of the Church were not the right men to lead the Church." [I have heard that same thing said hundreds of times. I have heard it lately, "President Grant is not the right man." There are a number of men today, and always will be, who feel in their hearts that they ought to lead the Church, that they ought to be chosen apostles. The woods are full of them every time there is a vacancy. This same class of men feel that the Church itself is out of gear and going wrong. President Woodruff made this broad remark.] "I say to all Israel; I say it to the whole world, that the God of Israel, who organized this Church and Kingdom, never ordained any president or presidency to lead the Church astray." I am glad of that, so that we need not worry about the Church. God knows we have enough other things to worry about. Go home and go to sleep; God will never allow them to lead us astray. 

The question has been asked many times [now I have heard this until I am tired and lame all up the back], "Why is it the apostles who are standing as prophets, seers, and revelators do not have revelations?" The answer is given by President Woodruff, and I would like to have this truth soak into you. The answer is given by President Woodruff as follows : "I hold in my hand a book of revelations" [meaning the Doctrine and Covenants], "which contains enough revelations to lead this Church into the celestial kingdom of God." [That is about as far as some of us will ever get!] "Anybody who will obey and live up to these revelations can be saved in the celestial glory." [There are hundreds in this crowd, and you can count me in with them, who do not even keep the Ten Commandments, and then we are hunting for more revelations.] "We are not without revelations," says President 173 

Woodruff, "the heavens are full of them, and so is the holy Priesthood. You will conclude that I do not believe in any more revelation. If you had before you every revelation God ever gave to man, the Church and Kingdom of God could not progress and advance without the living oracles of God." Do not forget that, I do not care how much revelations you have; the living oracles of God have got to have revelation and inspiration and prophecy from above. 

The First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, the Seventies, the High Priests, the Bishops, all need revelation in all their administrations. What can a Bishop do without revelation ? What can the president of a mission do? What can an elder do? Haven't I heard the voice? Haven't I been a stranger in a strange land? Haven't I been tired and hungry, no place to lay my head, and I have heard the voice, "this is the way, walk ye in it." The Holy Spirit softened the hearts of the people, and they fed me and cared for me. I have heard the voice more than once. I heard that voice when I was a young, wild, reckless young man. I did not know what it was. I told my brother Elias, "I hear a voice; it tells me something a hundred miles away." And I knew all about it before my mother knew it, and Elias thought I was going crazy — and so did I. But it was the right voice. I didn't know what it meant then, but I know what it means now. 

I am about through. You are the best outstanding crowd I ever talked to in my life. You know how it is; we get people to talk to inside, and lock them in, so they can't get out! I remember being up north. I said, "All you people that want to go, go;" and they nearly all went, and I didn't blame them. 

"No man," says President Woodruff, "can be a witness for God and lift up his voice and declare that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true without revelation. The Holy Ghost, the Comforter, which is the spirit of prophecy and revelation, is not restricted and given only to 'apostles and prophets.' Do not forget it. It comes to- and goes with all Latter-day Saints, men, and women [thank God they get a little of it, too; they need it just as much as men do] men and women and children, who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ can have inspiration and revelation, for their own guidance." "Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, Let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion, the pure in heart. For behold and lo, vengeance cometh speedily, upon the ungodly, like a whirlwind, and who shall escape? Zion shall escape, if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded you." 

God bless you. Amen. 


