Second Outdoor
07 04 1917

A second outdoor meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information Building, Elder Benjamin Goddard, presiding. The music was furnished by the Latter-day Saints' University choir. 

The choir and congregation sang : "O ye mountains high." 

Prayer by David J. Smith. . The choir sang, "O death, where is thy sting." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of the Southern States Mission.) 

The uppermost thought in my heart, as I face this vast congregation, is one of thankfulness that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The faith of the Latter-day Saints is wonderful, it is sublime; and the day will yet come that it will be acknowledge that the splendid faith of this people has helped to keep this old world from bursting asunder. It is nothing but faith in Jesus Christ and in his gospel that will save this world from moral and spiritual decay. There are many causes for the greatness of this latter-day people, but one of the main causes or reasons is that  are led by inspired men. The Bible tells us that "there were giants in those days." There are giants in this day, and this Church is led by men richly and abundantly endowed with divine inspiration; and as all the holy prophets since the world began have spoken as they were moved by the Holy Ghost, so do the leaders of this Church speak by that same living, divine, all-sustaining power. O may the Lord grant that his fear may be in our hearts all the livelong day. 

We are told by the Psalmist that "the heavens declare the glory of God." That is true; but his will is not declared by his visible creations in the heavens. The will of God is expressed and manifested through his chosen servants whom he hath appointed to lead latterday Israel. We are told that God cannot be known by the reason or intelligence of mankind; and I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that all we know of God comes through the channels of the holy priesthood and of the gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation because, by its ordinances, by obedience to the divine law, we may know God, and thus gain eternal life. "This is life eternal," said the Savior, "that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent;" and the knowledge of God is obtained by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. 

When Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus and desired to know the means of salvation, Jesus said, "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the kingdom of God." Daniel said that the God of heaven would set up a kingdom that should never more be thrown down nor be given to another people. My brethren and sisters, that kingdom cannot be seen, enjoyed, nor its truths absorbed by the souls of men unless they are born of water and receive the baptism of the Holy Ghost. 

I read in the writing's of St. Paul that charity or love envieth not. We know by modern as well as by ancient scripture that in the spirit world we had progressed as far as we could in our spiritual existence; and that God, who is love, who cannot envy, because he loveth his children, ordained that this mortal life was the pathway to lead on unto exaltation, that we might become by adoption, by obedience to his gospel, his sons. _ So, instead of this mortal life being a handicap, as many of us sometimes feel that it is, it is a privilege. A mission is a privilege. You parents, I know, esteem it a joy and an opportunity to sacrifice your sons and daughters who go forth to proclaim the word of the living God. And to the missionaries it is not a sacrifice, it is an advancement, it is a promotion, it is a privilege which will bring them and their loved ones the honor and the pleasure that cometh from God only. 

Now, if God had envied his children, would he have ordained this mortal existence? No. I tell you that men and women are led up to exaltation by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. In this day we hear a great deal of talk about our rights. Why not talk more about our obligations? Why not ponder more upon our obligations to God, to country, to , and to loved ones? If the love of God be in our hearts, there is no envy; in every place a man will meet a brother and a friend, and we will desire the advancement and the progress of our brethren and sisters with all our hearts. And so God, in his mercy,, ordained that this mortal existence should serve as a probationary sphere. Why? God said when he looked upon us in the spirit world, "'We will make an earth whereon these may dwell. And we will prove them herewith to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.'' So this is the purpose of life, to obey the commandments of God; and, as the Apostle John says, "they are not grievous." Wickedness is grievous, wickedness breaks the heart, wickedness breaks the spirit, sin is the sting of death, butthe righteousness of God gives joy and faith and hope to the human heart, and helps us to fight the battel of life with a good conscience and with a stout heart. 

In the Doctrine and Covenants there is a precious promise given by the Lord to the men who stand at the head of his Church in their day and appointed time. Unto the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord said, "And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors." O what a glorious promise, that if the Latter-day Saints live their religion, they will be found sustaining their leader and honoring and revering the authority that God hath placed upon the earth for their salvation and to aid them in obtaining eternal exaltation! Calumny, slander, misriepresentation, black falsehoods, have rolled and surged 127  the leaders of this Church, traitors have borne false witness against them, they have sought to betray them; but true to his promise, God has given his people ears to hear, and they hear and they know the voice of the shepherd and not the voice of a stranger; so tint, with magnificent unanimity, the people of God stand behind their leaders, for they have faith in the Lord's promise that they shall never be turned against the priesthood by the testimony of traitors. We love the President of the Church, and we love the adornment, the authority, that God has placed upon him as the president of this Church. I am thankful because he holds the keys by which we can go into the temples of the God of heaven and there receive blessings that we could not receive if traitors had the power to turn us against our leaders. And so I rejoice in God's promise and in its glorious fulfilment, that though storms may come, yet as a people we shall weather the gale, he true to our covenants, and always be found supporting the men whom God hath placed at the head of this Church for the blessing of this people. 

God help us, brethren and sisters, to live our religion. May he fill our hearts with his love, that there .shall be no envy within us, but that we shall desire the advancement, the welfare of our neighbors. If this love were in the hearts of men today universally, there would be no war, but the love of God would lead his children along the path of advancement to that goal to which our eyes are turned, and to which we and all our children shall be blessed in attaining-, even the goal of eternal life, which as  Father has said, is the greatest gift that he can give to his children. 

I bear you my testimony that I know that the God of heaven is with this people; I know that this work will triumph. I know that in the South, North, East and West the word! of God is expanding; this war is humbling men and women and bringing them to repentance, and the wave of conversion is mounting higher and higher, for the fear of God is filling the hearts of men and women and his goodness is leading them to repentance. And so I thankfully bear testimony that this work is of God, that our leader is his prophet, and that you are the people of God, Israel, led and blessed by great leaders, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER G. E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of the Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, when President Smith, in his opening address, said that in his recent visit through the South, he had come to understand one thing, and that was that he would like to become better acquainted with the people, and have the people better acquainted with him, I thought of the time when Jesus tried to make the disciples understand who he was and what his mission was in the earth. In all his instructions, he almost failed to make them understand him, and he said, "Ye believe in God, believe also in me," and went so far as to intimate that if they could not believe in him, they should believe in the works that he had done. The Lord in all ages has revealed himself to his prophets and leaders, that they in turn may teach GENERAL CONFERENCE.  people concerning the true character of our Father, for to know God and Jesus Christ is life eternal. 

Why, my brethren and sisters, we were placed here upon the earth, and it is the mission of our Father, to bring to pass the immortality of his children here; and he revealed himself to his prophets down to the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and he came as a revelation of his Father to the children of men, and dwelt among them as other men, and was known of them, and tried his best to teach them concerning his Father and the character of our Father in heaven. President Smith seemed to have the same feeling in his heart, to be known and understood by the people. 

I am reminded of a personal experience that came to me. In going to my home town after being away most of the time for ten or fifteen years, I met a little boy, who evidently knew me and had kept in touch with me. I said to him, "What is your name, my boy?" He said, "Why, you know my name." I said, "No, I don't." He said, "Ah. you do, too, know my name." I replied that I did not and asked, "Who is your father?" And he said "Surely you know my father," and in answer to one or two protestations, he said to me, "Why, I know my father just as easy." 

The ease with which the boy knew his father appealed to me while listening to President Smith. You would think he knew and understood his Father and the purposes of God just as easily as the little boy knew his father. Why? Because he has kept in touch with our Father, and the great work that our Father has established in the earth. He seems akin to the Mas who, when he was only a child, said in answer to his mother, "Wist ye not that I should be about my Father's business?" For President Smith has been about his Father's business from boyhood. 

In all the walks and conversations of Jesus the Master it was as if he was well acquainted with his Father, that he knew his will, and understood his own mission in the earth. He tried from the beginning to impress upon the disciples that God was truly his Father and that he was in very deed his Son as well as they his brethren. In teaching them to pray, as missionaries he did it in this sweet and familiar way : 

"Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." 

And again, to Philip's question as to the character of the Father, he made the following answer, as recorded in the 14th chapter of John : "Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip ? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Show us the Father?" It seemed to grieve the Savior that with all his teachings, one of his disciples would ask to see the Father, for he had taught them that he was in the express image of his Father's person, that he had come to do his Father's will and the things he had seen his Father do. When he had finished teaching his disciples and blessing them. he turned to his Father, in the most intimate manner and talked to him as an earthIv son would talk to his father, for he had tried to impress upon his disciples his real character and the  of our Father in heaven as recorded in 17th chapter of John. 

"These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; gLorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee: As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. 1 have glorified thee on the earth: 1 have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them." 

To me that is one of the most beautiful passages I have ever read in my life. After his close association with his diciples, to turn to his Father and talk to him as one man talketh to another! He knew his Father "easy."' 

I believe that Latter-day Saints who live their religion have a right to know God our Father "easy," since it is only a continuation of their childhood idea of God. When one lives in the world and meets men and women of other faiths who are taught from childhood to get such a material notion out of their head and learn to conceive of God as the best in themselves, their 

"highest ideal," or some "great moving power beyond the conception of man," it appeals to me that it is good to be still children, believing in the God that "created man in his own image," the God that hears and answers prayers, our Father who claims us as his children. Some of the learned men in the world have said that we were almost vulgarly materialistic. It seems to me that no man was more of a materialist than the Master himself. He knew his Father from the beginning, and talked with him and conversed with him, and talked about him as if he actually existed. To the Latter-day Saints he is a material God, he is our Father, and we believe in him. We also believe in Jesus Christ the Redeemer of the world, the veritable Son of God, who was sent to earth to point the way, to do the things that he desired all his children to do, that we, too, may be glorified when our earthly missions are ended. 

On the occasion spoken of above he said : 

"If ye love me, keep my commandments , and I will pray the Father and he shall give you another comforter that he may abide with you forever." 

"The works that I do ye shall do, and greater works, because I go to the Father." 

So. my brethren and sisters, I feel that the Latter-day Saints have a mission in the world, and that is to teach the world to return to their chiF'hood faith, to come back and believe in God as they did when thev were little children, for he said, "Fxcept ye be as a little child, ye can in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven" — not children in vears, but children in our honest belief in God our Father and his Son, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Savior of the world. I can bear testimony that it has given me a great deal of joy to see the faith manifested in the life of the young men and young women who have come to the Northern States Mission. I believe that true faith is growing in the hearts of the people of the world. It is my firm belief that had the Christian world a belief in God as they had when they were children, they would not now be engaged in killing their fellow men, in using all the ability that is known to man for the destruction of each other. The mission of the Latter-day Saints, my brethren and sisters, is to bring the world back to believe in God as true and faithful children ought to do, and hasten the day of peace and true brotherhood. 

We have a little advantage over the rest of the world, because our Father has supplemented the teachings in the scriptures by a visitation to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Together with the Savior he appeared manifesting his true character and clearing away all doubt as to their actual existence. This modern day visitation has placed us in a position to know our Father and to know his Son Jesus Christ, and as Latter-day Saints, we ought to praise God for this glorious revelation of the latter days, for it has brought us happiness on earth, it has brought us even a taste of heaven while we dwell here in mortal flesh. 

The mission and responsibility of the Latter-day Saints has been and is to teach these great truths to the world. In doing so they do real service to their fellow man which is described by one man as stepping across the line in to heaven. Selfish work is earthly, while work for  is akin to heavenly things, so '"if you want to go to heaven, step across the line and do things for your fellow man." Latter-day Saints, especially all those who have been upon a mission and all those who are serving as missionaries here at home, administering to the sick, teaching the principles of the gospel, and serving their fellow men, have stepped across the line and are even enjoying heaven upon earth. When the missionaries come home to you, they say it is the best two years of their life. They have enjoyed the spirit and presence of the Lord and a real taste of heaven. Why? Because they have been using all their time and talents in the service of their fellow men. When you are in the service of your fellow man, you are in the service of God our Father. So says the Book of Mormon. And surely, when a man is in the service of God our Father, he can easily be in heaven. 

The truth revealed from heaven has made us free, and, as has been said by some of the speakers, we are a free people, living in a free land, the most glorious land in all the world. We sing and talk about the inspired constitution of the United States. Why was it established? That the Church of Jesus Christ might be established in the earth. Not only that, but this same freedom that we enjoy, the whole world must also enjoy, because the day must come when every man will have a chance to hear the gospel and to decide for himself which way he will go. Else when they come before the judgment seat, they can say to the Father, "I could not be anything else but a Catholic, or a Presbyterian, or a Lutheran, and be true to 131  country, so, the freedom of America must be the freedom of the world, that the gospel may be carried to the honest in heart of all the earth, that they may have a chance to know the true way. 

We did not win this freedom without a struggle. Eight years of war and four years of civil strife is part of the .price we paid. In the revolution we were greatly aided by France, and at the surrender at Yorktown, when Cornwallis marched between the lines, there were 5,500 American soldiers on one side and 7,000 Frenchmen on the other. France not only sent her sons but she sent her gold as well and that too in the very hour of need. We are now called upon to send our sons to battle in the old world that they too may enjoy the liberty that has been ours for so many, many years and likewise the glorious privilege of hearing the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord bless the Latter-day Saints, and help them as well as all our brothers in this nation, to acquit themselves like men and as one man has said, return with victory upon their banner and a wreath of laurel woven out of the evergreen of Russia, the roses of England, and the lillies of France. I pray God that our boys will not only come back with a wreath of that kind, but clean and pure from the sins of the world, come home testifying that God opened the way for them to be great missionaries, not only of liberty, but of the gospel of Jesus Christ, having had their faith increased, having had their knowledge extended, and with a testimony that will make all our hearts ring with praise to God, as we are sending them away. 

God help us, to serve our fellow . God help us to- know not only the leaders of this Church "easy," as the boy said, but our Father in heaven. If we will keep close to our leaders, and know them as they are, we will likewise know God as he is. I pray that the peace and blessings of heaven may be with you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. , 

Elder James Smith sang a solo. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

"The character of a community or a nation is the sum of the individual qualities of its component members." The words I have just quoted are from the opening sentence of a paper supplied by President Joseph F. Smith to a great newspaper syndicate asking him for his opinion about one of the most important themes of the day. The subject was captioned, "Unchastity, the Dominating Evil of the Age." His masterful treatment of that theme showed that a deplorable condition exists in this country, as I presume in all other countries, a condition, too, that none of us, I believe, would attempt to deny. 

It is eminently proper that we look this situation squarely in the face, and that as Latter-day Saints we act accordingly, not only because of the condition as it might appear to us, in ordinary times, but moreso when we face, as we do now, one of the greatest perils and one of the most crucial situations that has ever been known in the earth. Our young men have enlisted or have been called by the thousands to fight for human liberty. We GENERAL CONFERENCE.  joined some of the great powers of the world to that end, and this country must stand at some time or other as the great adjudicator between the nations of the world. It will be up to this nation to decide what is best to be done, and how best to do it to settle the well nigh insurmountable difficulties that have arisen, and to do ,so justly we must be just and ethical ourselves. Shall it be said that our young men went away from their homes chaste and pure, and that they returned contaminated with immorality, and with disease in their systems ? This will be true unless they themselves have been taught in their youth to be moral and chaste, and unless they remember the words of their parents and teachers when they face the critical temptations as they come to them from time to time. 

Do you know that more men of one of the great nations were put out of commission because of sexual disease than by bullets or swords or dynamite or any other thing, in the first year of this world war? Since that time, they have begun to correct these evils. We want to correct them before they go too far. We want all our young men to know, and those associated with them to know, that they should set the example and tell other men what it means to respect womanhood. No man should presume to take a liberty with any woman that he would not be willing for some one else to take with his own mother, his wife, or his sister. We should remember that "real happiness must be earned, like every other good thing. It can only be deserved when its price has somehow been paid." If we are going to be supremely happy, if we  going to be content, we must sacrifice, we must live a moral life. We should in all reason live above reproach. I mean that not only for soldiers, but for every son and daughter in Zion. 

One of the great poets had this to say on this matter, and entitled, "The Price He Paid" : 

"I said I would have my fling, 

And do as a young man may, And I didn't believe a thing 

The parsons had to say^ And I didn't believe in a God 

Who gives us blood like fire, And flings us into hell 

When we answer the call of desire. 

And I said, Religion is rot, 

And the laws of the world are nil, And the bad man is one who is caught 

And cannot pay his bill. And there is no place called hell; 

And heaven is only a truth When a man has his way with a maid 

In the fresh, keen hours of youth. 

But money will buy us grace 

When it falls on the plate of the Church, 

And money will neatly erase Each sign of a sinful smirch. 

For I saw men everywhere Hotfooting the road to vice, 

And women and preachers smiled on them 

So long as they had the price. 

So I had my joy of life, 

And went the pace of the town, And then I took me a wife 

And began to settle down. I had gold enough and to spare 

For all the simple joys That go with a house and a home 

And a brood of girls and boys. 

I married a girl with health And virtue and spotless fame: 

I gave in return my wealth And a proud old family name. 

I gave her the love of a heart Grown sated and sick with sin; 

My deal with the devil was all cleaned up, 

The last bill was handed in. 133 

She was going to bring me a child, 

And when in labor she cried, With joy and fear I was wild, 

And now, I wish I had died. The son she bore me was blind, 

And crippled, and weak, and sore; The mother was left a wreck; 

It was so she settled my score. 

I said I would have my way, Arid they all knew the path I would go, 

Yet no one told me a thing Of what I ought to know. 

Folks talk too much of the lives From heavenly joys debarred, 

And not enough of the babes unborn, By the sins of their fathers scarred. 

Do not forget, my brethren and sisters, that if we sow in iniquity, in corruption, in lust, and in wickedness, we will reap the whirlwind, and the price will somehow and inevitably be paid, and every one of us will suffer — not only for our actual deeds, we are told, but perhaps for our thinking as well. 

Wise men say that the source of everything wicked can be traced back to the philosophic thinking of the doer, just as bitter water is traced back to the poison spring; and that as individuals or nations think in the heart, so will they do in the life. I believe that firmly, and I believe that there is every necessity for the mothers and the fathers in Israel to see that their sons and their daughters are protected, and that when they are old enough to- know the things they ought to know, that they should not hesitate to tell them frankly and plainly what they have to meet, and let young men understand that they should try and maintain the same kind of morals that are demanded of their sisters. That is the kind of ethics we have been teaching and preaching; it is a part of the  teaching of "Mormonism." 

I wonder how far the criticism aimed by President Smith in his article is true pertaining to this intermountain country. Should it be said that even one portion of it could be laid at our door, then let us remember our duties to our children in that regard. The illustrious Goethe said, "What we wish for in our youth comes in heaps upon us in old age." You know as well as I know, that that is true. If we are not careful in early manhood and womanhood, we will reap the consequences in later life, and life will become a living hell on earth instead of a heaven as it ought to be. 

God grant his blessing to be with Israel, to be with our boys who are going away to fight our battles, to be with those sons who are in the mission field and those who are left at home, that we may continue to raise the standard of morals in this community, and thus benefit by our action aud our words, the moral uplift of the world, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I am not accustomed to speak in audiences out of doors. I have always had them closed in where they could not get away. (Laughter.) Brethren and sisters and friends, I want to bless you people, in the name of the Lord, for he surely ought to bless a people who hunger and thirst after righteousness enough to stand up as you have stood and listen to the word of the Lord. 

I bless you, as I have blessed hundreds and hundreds of elders GENERAL CONFERENCE.  have gone on missions. I have had many of them come back and say, "Brother Kimball, every promise you made has been fulfilled." One of the easiest things to do in the Church in our ministryis to bless an elder or a missionary sister who goes out in the service of the Lord and does his will and keeps his commandments. I have never been afraid up to date to promise them that they would go in peace and return in safety. 

Why fear .death ? That is what I am talking about to myself all the time. People have been looking for it in every case for a considerable length of time, but I have fooled them up to date;and I am trying to learn not to fear death. A great man said when he went down with the ship, "Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure of life." He must have been exalted by a spiritual enthusiasm such as elders have when they go out into the world in the service of the Lord. They feel as Christ felt when he said, "Think not of your life, of what you shall eat, or of what you shall drink, nor of your body what you shall put on." I want to say, on the side, that is about all we are thinking about, at least some of us. 

My brethren and sisters, the short time I occupy I want to say to you, my knowledge is very limited, and it does not take me very long to tell it, but what I do know, I know as well as any man in this Church from the least to the greatest. Why do I know it ? Because I have learned it through the things which I have suffered. We have to suffer .sometimes to find things out; until our hearts are twisted, before we are meek and humble and have faith in God. 

I remember reading a story. The incident happened during the civil war, when a large committee of Christian ministers came to Washington to wait on President Abraham Lincoln. After they had performed their duties, one of the Christian ministers turned to President Lincoln, and he said, "I hope the Lord is on our side." That is what all these nations are hoping, that the Lord is on their side. And President Lincoln said, "Well, I am not much concerned about the Lord being on our side," which was quite a shock to those ministers. "I am not concerned about that. What I am most concerned about is whether we are on the Lord's side." That is what I want you to be concerned about, you men who hold the holy priesthood; you want to remember, in this great rush and hurry, not to be too much taken up with man's business, but you want to be exercised more about "our Father's business." 

You have listened to three presidents of missions — the Southern, Northern, and Western States Missions. I know just about as much about missionary work as they do. I spent five years in the Southern States, and filled my first mission, in 1883, when they killed elders. I was with Elder Roberts, and I know all about that experience. I never got much notoriety out of it, but I know something about it, just as much as anyone who was there. I know what it means to smell powder, and I am glad of it, and I thank the Lord I did not run. I guess I would have done so, but I had no place to go. (Laughter.) These brethren that have been talking to you have been in the Lord's service, they are soldiers of the 135 

Cross, and they are too old to go in the army of the United States; and so am I. But I would like to touch off a 13-inch gun anyhow. (Laughter.) I am a great believer in the United States, but my service is first for God, for our heavenly Father. Do you remember when the Savior, Jesus Christ, was of the age of twelve? I think it was quoted at this meeting. He was in Jerusalem talking with those learned men and hearing and arguing with them, and his mother came back for him very much concerned. He said, "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" That is what we want to be concerned about. 

I think you recognize the fact that I am the son of a prophet of God. And I am mighty proud of it. Heber C. Kimball, a short time before he died, often said to the people, "O, the test, the test, the test — who will be able to stand? And the answer comes back, 'Only those who know that Jesus is the Christ.' " Don't go off and forget it. There is a great test on, and it is only those who know that Jesus is the Christ that will be able to stand. I want to say to you brethren that if it is the last time I speak in the flesh, I feel that I am greater than a king on his throne, I am so much bigger than the Kaiser that I would not mention him in the .same breath. (Laughter.) Why? Because I hold the priesthood of God, because I am a servant of God, because it is my right and privilege when I keep the commandments of God, to testify under the spirit of prophecy and revelation of this great truth. 

I am going to ask you a few questions, and will let you answer them. Tf you don't know enough to an them, then you don't know as much as I do. (Laughter.) I am going to ask you this question, Do you know of anything — you can think about your money, your wives, and children, and everything else — but do you know of anything in all this beautiful world more important than human life? If you do, just hold up your hands. 

I am going to ask it in another way : "Do you know of anything in all this universe that is dearer to the Father than a human soul? You don't. 

I am going to ask you another question : Do you know of any gift in all this world, or blessing, that is greater than salvation? No, because God said in the revelation that "salvation is the greatest gift of God to his children." These are reasons why you ought to be in the service of the Lord. That is why these presidents of missions and elders are blessed, and that is why we are able to come home as I did from the South in 1884 — and it is one of the greatest truths I ever told in my life — although I never had as hard a time in all my life as I had in the South, and when I think of it now, T actually shudder; — and yet T came home to you people, and I looked you in the face and I told you it was the happiest time of all my life, and I never lied, either. That is what you get for being in the service of the Lord. 

I will conclude by reading to you from the Book of Mormon. It has impressed me very much, and I want you to think about it just as I have been doing. 

Therefore may God grant unto you, my brethren, that ye may begin to exercise your faith unto repentance, that ye begin to call upon his holy GENERAL CONFERENCE. , that he would have mercy upon you; 

Yea, cry unto him for mercy; for he is mighty to save; 

Yea, humble yourselves, and continue in prayer unto him; 

Cry unto him when ye are in your fields; yea, over all your flocks; 

Cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household, both morning, mid-day, and evening; 

Yea, cry unto him against the power of your enemies; 

Yea, cry unto him against the devil, who is an enemy to all righteousness. 

Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them; 

Cry over the flo.cks .of your fields, that they may increase. 

But this is not all; ye must pour out your souls in your closets, and your secret places, and in your wilderness; 

Yea, and when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your welfare, and also for the welfare of those who are around you. 

And now behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need; I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold, your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith; 

Therefore, if ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as dross, which the refiners do cast out, (it being of no worth,) and is trodden under foot of men. 

Try and remember that, will you ? 

As a servant of the Lord, I only want to repeat what the servants of God have said : "These are the last days, spoken of by the prophets, when perilous times shall come;" and you know, as I know, by what we read, that the most striking feature of this world war is the great destruction of life, which  its success, if there be success, to the employment of almost all the science of the world, except the numerous discoveries in surgery and medicine which is freely given, ar.d the physician, as a physician, knows no difference between races and nations, between friend and foe. 

This is the biggest thing that physicians ever did, and I pray God to bless them in their efforts to save life. 

There has never been a time such as the present in the history of the world, when men ought to be talking big things, thinking big things, doing big things and overcoming their selfishness. It is a day of destruction, and leaders must be raised up who are constructive. Constructive work sometimes means destructive — you tear down to build up — you change the old for the new. Leaders must have a knowledge of mankind in order that the Lord's plans may be carried out. 

The German nation is one of the greatest nations today, when we consider her social and industrial condition, although it is founded on militarism. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it has been organized through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is more perfectly organized and greater than any organization upon the earth. 

When you contemplate this great organization you find prophets and inspiration which is not founded on militarism, but brotherhood, fraternity, and "love-one-another," which is in accordance with the teachings of Jesus Christ. The great test was : "By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another." 137 

If you have not love for one another you have not the spirit of the gospel. 

May the Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(President of the Bureau of Information.) 

My brethren and sisters: This brings our conference to a close, in connection with the other meetings" that are now being held. While I have sat here and also in the tabernacle, I have wondered what the result of this great conference will be. Have we come just to listen and go home in the same condition that we came ? There may be some, but the great mass of the people, I trust, are inspired by the exercises of this conference to go home and live according to all the teachings that have been given. "Let your light so shine that others, seeing your good works, may be led to glorify our Father which is in heaven." 

Upon this block we entertain the strangers from all parts of the world. During the past week, a gentleman entered the building here, a perfect stranger, coming from the state of Ohio. He wanted to learn about our people, and after he had been entertained, he said, "I have working for me at my home a member of your Church, and I want to say that if all your members are as honest, as true, as devoted, and as trustworthy as that man, you need to be proud." 

Well, we are proud. With all our shortcomings, we may be proud of our people; and I trust that the record we are making will continue. 

Brother Herrick referred especially to the necessity of training  youth in virtue, in godliness. I visited a southern stake of Zion, just recently, in conection with our Church work, and met a poor widow there, who had raised to manhood and womanhood a^splen<"id family, and when she was speaking to me, she said that the remark of one of her boys had been worth all her efforts. "Last Christmas," she said, "I did not have the means to distribute the tokens to my children that I would like, and to my youngest son, who was married, I said, 'My boy, O my heart aches that I cannot give to you and to the rest of my children some substantial token at Christmas time of my love for you.' And the young man stood there looking his mother in the eyes, and said, 'Why, mother, you have given unto me something more than all the Christmas gifts that I could possibly obtain. You have given me a good training, a good education, and more than all, a clean body — and, mother, I thank you for that precious gift that has come unto me. urd I want to live to be worthy of such a mother.' " 

May God bless us, my brethren and sisters. Let us go to our homes with renewed determination, as a result of this conference, to serve God, to be honest, true, chaste, virtuous, according to the declaration in our Articles of Faith, doing good unto all men. God bless you. Amen. 

The authorities of the Church were sustained unanimously as in the Tabernacle meeting. 

The Latter-day Saints' University choir sang a chorus, "Victory." 

The choir and congregation sang : "O ye mountains high." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder B. Cecil Gates. 


