Overflow
07 04 1917

An overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., presided over by President Seymour B. Young, of the First Council of Seventy. The singing was by the Jordan stake choir. 

The choir sang, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Soren Rasmussen, of the Jordan .stake presidency. 

The choir then sang the anthem, "Come let us sing unto the Lord," 

ELDER S. E. WOOLLEY. 

(President of the Hawaiian Mission.) 

I rejoice in meeting with you this morning. And I bring greeting from the Saints in Hawaii to the Saints gathered here in conference. They are very much interested in the work here, as they are there. And they love to get the reports of conference and to know the mind and will of the Lord given out in these assemblies for our guide. They love to read the .sermons when they are published, to keep in touch with the work as it  in the earth. I rejoice with them in having the privilege of meeting in this conference, and listening to the servants of the Lord, his anointed, give us that bread of life that all Latter-day Saints should hunger and thirst for. For we read in the scriptures that faith cometh through hearing the word of the Lord, and that is the object of our meeting together from time to time, that our faith may be renewed and strengthened. 

I have rejoiced from the beginning of this conference up to the present moment in the testimonies that have been borne. This to me has been a wonderful conference because of so many faithful, humble, honest testimonies borne. I believe that we need more testimony in the Church. I believe that our young people need the testimony of those who have had more experience. I have noticed in my experience for a number of years that when teaching classes, and we fail to get the attention of the class, if we will turn and bear testimony to that which we know, we get the attention of the class, because when we bear testimony, under the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord, it enters into the hearts of the children of men. 

It has been my good fortune to labor most of my days among the Hawaiian people. I went to Hawaii in December, 1880, under the instruction and call of President John Taylor. I remember well President Joseph F. Smith set' me apart to that mission, and among other things he promised me that I should learn the language, and that the food of our people in that land would be sweet to me. And should I tell you that when I went to Hawaii, just turned 21 years of age, 

I weighed 119 pounds, and now, nearly another hundred above that? The food of that land has been sweet to me, so you that have boys and girls, young men and young women called to that mission, do not worry about the food. It is good and wholesome. I wish we had some of it in this land. 

I have labored among the Hawaiians mostly since 1880. I have presided over the Hawaiian mission a little over twenty-two years, and I feel that I am in a position to speak of that nation or people. I know them and they know me, and I love them because of their integrity, their love for the truth, their honesty of purpose, their faith and devotion; and oftentimes I envy some of our local elders in their prayers, both in the family prayer and in their devotional exercises, because I feel that they get near unto the Lord in prayer. They are a prayerful people; they worship the Lord. It is true that there are many who are weak, as we find in all other nations; but as a nation they are a God-fearing people. And they believe in God; they believe in prayer, and they are devotional in their natures, sweet and lovable, and I love them, too, because God loves them. 

We may go back to the history of that mission to when President Young sent a company of elders there, in 1850, only a short time after they came to the Valleys of the Mountains. Among them was George O. Cannon, the boy of the company. The Lord raised him up and made him mighty in that land, and the people of today speak of him as one of the mighty men, because of the work that" he did in that land in that early day. The Lord through him gave that people the history of their forefathers, the Book of Mormon. We find among the different nations where the Lord has raised up men to translate the Book of Mormon, under the gift and power of God, while others have been allowed to translate the Bible. The Book of Mormon was brought forth through the power of God by Joseph Smith the Prophet, who when young was made equal to that task of translating and giving that book in English. The translation of the Book of Mormon from English to Hawaiian is almost as perfect. The translation is perfect, but there are a few typographical errors in part of it, but very, very few indeed, not nearly so many as we find in the Bible, showinsr the care taken in handing that book down through the 'different nations of people. It is wonderful to me how the Lord has raised up men to do this work. President Cannon received the language so that he could sneak fluently to the people within .three weeks or thereabouts after arriving. President Smith was able to talk Hawaiian, administer the c acrament, conduct meetings, baotize. confirm and oHaiti. and preach to the people within ninetv davs. p"d about two weeks out of that time he was sick in bed with a fever. Men in that nation as well as in other nations have been raised no to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

When President Cannon first went to Hawaii a dissatisfaction had arisen among: most of the eh'ers. Thev had thought that they were eoine; to an English-sneaking people, but thev found so few foreigners the President of the mission decided to vacate and to sro on to some other land, which he and other elders did. The president  to Elder Cannon, who was then upon Maui, one of the islands of the group. In going to those islands, in passing that island of Maui, he said in his heart, "I hope I am assigned to that island," and when they drew lots he drew Maui; and upon that island, at the little village of Lahani, he received the letter of the president of the mission saying he might return. He went up into the woods back of the home where he was living, and he poured out his soul unto the Lord, to know what to do. He felt g-rieved in spirit to think of returning or leaving the land when the President of the Church had called him to go there. While thus prayin? the voice of the Lord came to him. and spoke to him as one man soeaketh to another, and told him that if he would remain and be faithful the Lord would lead him to a people who would receive his testimony. The next day he went around on the west side of the island, a long journev on foot ( there were no horses in those davs upon the islands, or verv fewL and as he neared the town of Wailahu he fell into the stream. Those of you who knew President Cannon knew him as a bashful man, and I presume verv bashful when a younar man. And he felt so ashamed to think he was all wet that he decided to return to Lahani. and as he went out of the stream that same voice told him to keep on his fournev, and not return, that the Lord would lead him to those who would receive his testimony. And he went, after drvine his clothes in the sun : and as he came into the village of Wailahu a voting ladv was crossing the street, and she said in Hawaiian. "Here is a foreigner." or "Here comes a foreigner." It was no un thing to see foreigners then because that was headquarters for the whalers of the north, where they put in for winter, and it was remarkable that she should single him out and call to her father, "Here comes a foreigner.'' And it brought the father, who was a high chief, and his two attendants out to the gateway. And when President Cannon saw those three men. he knew them; they were the three men he had seen in vision, and who, the Lord had shown, would receive his testimony. And then began the work in the Hawaiian mission. President Cannon informed the president of the mission that he could return if he wished to, but he. President Cannon, would remain and do his duty, which he did. And at the home of this young man, Nefele, (who was the first Hawaiian that ever came to Utah and received the blessings in the Endowment House, went back and died there, a good, faithful Latterday Saint), the work began in that land. The Lord opened the way, and the Lord was desirous that President Cannon, the youngest of the company, should be the instrument in his hands of opening the mission in that land in that early day. Since that time there have been converts made by the thousands and tens of thousands. President Smith, who has been interested in that mission always, went there when he was a young boy, and performed his first mission; learned the language and earned the confidence, love and respect of the people. 

In the administration, too, of President Joseph F. Smith, the Lord moved upon him to build a temple in that land, as you have already heard. Now that temple is  completion, and I believe it is in fulfilment of the promise that the Lord made to Lehi who, as you will read in the Book of Mormon, in blessing his son Joseph, promised him that all of his seed would not be lost. I believe the Lord led a part of the Nephite people, or a colony of them, to those islands. When some of the Nephites were migrating to the north under Hagoth, the great Nephite ship-builder, some of their vessels were lost, he reported. They may have been swallowed up in the deep or they may have drifted out to other lands, but were never heard of since. Now T believe the Hawaiian people were a part of that colony of Nephites that were migrating to the north, and the vessels became disabled and the natural current of the ocean carried them to Hawaii. Then we have the tradition of the Samoans that they came from Hawaii to New Zealand. So I believe that the Lord hid. them up there, and in his own due time he sent his servants there in an early day in our history, because he loved them, and to fulfil his promises, which he always does. 

We feel very grateful that the Lord has moved upon his servant, the President of the Church, to build a temple in that land, and that is a fulfilment of prophecy, because when that land was chosen and decided upon as a gathering place for that people of Hawaii there was a committee chosen consisting; of President Joseph F. Smith, William W. Cluff and Alma Smith, and they reported favorably upon the island of Laie. However, as Brother Cluff was walking down the seashore early one morning; while upon that mission, the Prophet Brigham Young appeared to him and said to him, "This is the place, and upon this land we will build a temple unto our God." That was away back in 1864. I am thankful that that temple is now nearing completion. I am thankful that I have been called to labor there so long, and that through our carefulness we have been able to build that temple out of the funds that we have gathered from time to time. I want to say in favor of the good people of Hawaii that they have now raised over $30,000 toward the erection of that building; and at the headquarters at Laie — most of the people think it is a city, it is only a little village, about 450 all told — in that village alone the little Primary organization which numbers a little over 100 has raised over $1,000 toward the temple so far, and the Relief Society has raised over $1,250 — between that and $1,300. Organizations of the other branches have done well. The branch of Honolulu has raised perhaps between $4,000 and $5,000. Thus the spirit of this work is moving upon the people, and notwithstanding this large amount of money that they have collected for the building of the temple the tithing has increased about 30 per cent during the last nine months, and they have met every other obligation. And they dress just as well as you dress, and they appear just as well, and they are progressing. They love the truth, and I hope when that temple is finished and dedicated and accepted of the Lord that they will be prepared to go in ' and receive their blessings. W e are trying to teach them along these lines, and they are growing in wisdom, in faith and in the knowledge of the truth, and therefore we love them for their integrity. 

Now I want to say to the fathers  mothers who have boys and girls there upon missions, Don't worry about them, they are in a good land and among a good people. Rumors get out sometimes of little isolated happenings, and the people imagine that they are a common thing, while they are not. You know some people like to publish things that are uncommon, and forget all about those things that are common. I was talking with Brother Jenson just before meeting about some of these things. If there is an accident we notice it; we never think of the tens of thousands of people who never have an accident. Tf we are sick a day, we ever remember it, but we forget those days in which we enjoy health and strength. These little things are impressed on our minds, and I can say that sometimes people in writing about those things that are not common occasion a wrong impression. Any way, the Hawaiian people are a hospitable people, and have given the elders the best they have, and they have a warm soul that makes you feel welcome. They are kind hearted in the extreme. Therefore your missionary boys and girls are all right, and their parents here do not need to worry about them. We are trying to take ?ood care of them, and guard their health, and instruct them how to live so that they will be efficient and be able to accomplish their labors. 

I rejoice in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I rejoice in the testimony that I have. I am not tired of the work. I expect to go back to Hawaii, and continue there as long as the brethren want me. I started out that way when I was a little boy, and I hope I will have the integrity and faith to continue. It is the desire of my heart to keep  commandments of God. I know they are true. They came from God. They are for us or they never would have been revealed in this dispensation. It is for us to keep the commandments of God, to walk in the path of virtue and righteousness, and to uphold and sustain the principles of the gospel, because they are the power of God unto salvation. There is no other way, no other road, to eternal lives except the road that the Lord has marked out; and when he says, "Come, follow me," it means that you and I should follow him, not only in faith, not only in repentance or in baptism, but in all other things that we are called upon to do, even if we are called upon to lay down our lives. If we give our lives to the service of the Lord, we are following the Christ, the Lord. That is what I want to do. We should be faithful and true and honest before God that we can look one another in the face without being ashamed. 

I believe that we are gaining ground in Hawaii. We are gaining prestige as in every other part of the world. This work is going on; no power can stop it. It will continue to go on until it fills the whole earth, and we ought to be satisfied in our stations. If we are called to go to Hawaii, let us go and be faithful and true. Some say it is an awful sacrifice that we are making. I do not feel that way. I feel that it is a grand blessing. I appreciate it. I appreciate the confidence of those who have called me. I appreciate the support of President Smith, which he has always given me since he set me apart to that mission, and to every mission that I have been called to fill so far, J rejoice that I have tried  do my duty, and I rejoice that we are doing so well in Hawaii, and I hope that the Lord will continue his blessings with the pgople of Hawaii as well as all other peoples. The Lord is no respecter of persons. We have some Chinese who have joined the Church, who are good and faithful and true. They are just as lovable as any other people. We have a few Japanese also who have become members of the Church, and they are true and faithful. We have many half castes, half Chinese and half Hawaiian, who seem to be among our very best, faithful and true; and I fee! that we are doing a good work. We have a number of Japanese employed upon the plantation at Laie, and their children are attending the Sunday school, the Primary and other organizations. Some of them have been baptized, and are true and faithful, and they weep to think that their fathers and mothers cannot see the truth; but there will come a time when these little children who have joined the Primary, and finally have coaxed their parents who were out of the Church to consent to their baptism; and after a while they will bring their fathers and mothers to be baptized, fulfilling the scriptures that "a little child shall lead them." So we rejoice in getting the people's children into the organizations, because after a while their hearts will be converted. There was a time in in Hawaii when the wealthier children, and those of the old "missionary" stock were very sarcastic, and they used to turn away from us; they would hardly speak to me. These people take their hats off to me now, and say, "How is your work progressing? How is the temple getting along?" Wherever we have built a temple in the Church it has softened the hearts of the people, and it is so in Hawaii, and I look for an increase of conversions in the near future, because people are becoming more favorable, and they want to know, as they put it, "What do you, people believe in ?" We have gone along quietly. A few years ago we were building some permanent improvements. One prominent man, with whom I had done considerable business, came along and said : "Mr. Woolley, it looks like you are preparing to stay." I told him, "We will be here after you are all gone." He said, "It looks liks it." It is true, the Church lias come to stay. The Lord has promised it. It is his work, and. it will go on forever and ever. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, and bless all, help us to be faithful and 'urn our hearts towards the truth, that we may all live the truth. I want to bear my testimony to you that the people of Hawaii are of the pure blood of Israel, and they ire a good, faithful, pure people, and when you hear any other thing said of them, don't believe it. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful and true, I ask in the name of jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Church Historian.) 

This has been one of the most interesting conferences to me that I ever attended. Perhaps I can consistently assign as a reason for this that so many historical events have been alluded to and so much has been said concerning record-keepinsr that has appealed to me; and I feel impressed, after listening to the  and interesting discourse of President Samuel E. Woolley of the Hawaiian mission, to say a few words in regard to history-making and record-keeping, and explain briefly, if I can, how we all are indebted to history for what we know concerning God, our eternal Father, and his dealings with mankind in times that have passed. 

I hold in my hand one of the standard works of the Church called The Pearl of Great Price, and I find that this little book gives us some important historical information concerning the creation of the world and other things, in ad 'ition to that which is containe'1 in the Bible. In the second chapter, (in the Book of Moses), I read concerning- the creation of the world the following : "And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Behold I reveal unto you concerning this heaven and this earth; write the words which T speak." The Lord then proceeded to reveal to Moses the history of the earth upon which we live, and Moses wrote it. Bv this means not only Moses, but all of us who are permitted to read the words that Moses wrote after the dictation of the Lord himself, came to an understanding of how the earth was formed or created, and later on why it was formed. It tells us that we were intelligences or spirits living with God our Father, and that the Lord looked out into space and said : "We will go clown, for there is .space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these [God's children] may dwell; and we will prove them herewith to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them" (Book of Abraham 3:24, 25). That was  beginning of the earth on which we live. 

Take the Bible, both the New and the Old Testaments, and you will find that it is the historical part of it that makes us wise unto salvation, as much so, perhaps, as that which we call the Prophets or the Psalms, or anything else contained in the books : for this reason, that if we were not posted historically, and did not know under what circumstances these sayings were made, we would never comprehend them, and they would consequently do us but very little good. Through reading Bible history we learn something about the children of Israel, how they spent forty years in the wilderness, and how they finally crossed the Jordan and reached the promised land. Reading further, we learn something about the statutes and commandments which the Lord gave unto ' the children of Israel, and how they prospered for a season in the promised land. Thus knowing their history we understand the meaning of the predictions of their prophets and their fulfilment. 

Next we may consider the Book of Mormon. Here we find that the very first line written in that sacre ' volume is history commencing as follows : "I Nephi having been born of goodly parents," etc. And so Nephi commences to tell about his parentage and the beautiful history of his father Lehi who had "'dwelt in Jerusalem all his davs," and how Lehi was commanded by the Lord to lead his family to this land (America), whence even the Hawaiians have come, of which we have heard something todav. The historians among the Nephites were very diligent' in keeping records. Yet, on a certain occasion Christ  drew attention to an important omission in their records. I will read the following from the Rook of Mormon (3 Nephi, 23, 7 to 13 inclusive) : 

"And it came to pass that he [Jesus] said unto Nephi, Bring forth the record which ye have kept. 

"And when Nephi had brought forth the records, and laid them before him, he cast his eyes upon them and said, 

"Verily I say unto you I commanded my servant Samuel, the Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the day that the Father should glorify his name in me. that there were many saints who should arise from the dead, and should appear unto many, and should minister unto them. And he said unto them, were it not so? 

"And his disciples answered him and said, Yea, Lord, Samuel did prophesy according to thy words, and they were all fulfilled. 

"And Jesus said unto them, How be it that ye have not written this thing, that many saints did arise and appear unto many, and did minister unto them ? 

"And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written. 

"And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be' written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." 

Referring to modern revelation given in our own time we learn that when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, on the 6th day of April. 1830, with six members, the very first thing God told his servants after the organization was the following: "Behold, there shall be a record kept among you" (Doc. and Cov. 21:130). The Lord did not neglect the importance of record-keeping. I have sometimes thought that on that occasion he remembered the important history of the past, and the apparent neglect in recording events at the time they took place in the days of the Savior. We cannot, of course, tell exactly what was originally written by those who were associated with the Christ in his ministry in Galilee, Samaria and Judea, but this much we do know, that Matthew, Mark, Luke and John did not write the histories or gospels attributed to them until forty or fifty years after the events narrated by them had occurred; and for good and sufficient reasons learned men in the Christian world have during the past eighteen hundred years been trying to harmonize these four gospels, which in quite a number of instances seem to be more or less contradictory or inaccurate. The narratives were apparently written from memory many years after the events recorded took place. Consequently there is in the gospels mentioned a lack of important dates in relation to the ministry of the Savior and the early events connected with the Christian Church. In opening the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times in our day the Lord seems to guard against the repetition of what was an apparent neglect centuries before, for the very first commandment the Lord gave to his Church as an organized body in our day was, as stated, in regard to recordkeeping, and Oliver Cowdery was appointed to be the first recorder of that Church which by divine command and authority was established upon the earth through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith the Prophet. When Oliver Cowdery subsequently was called to another work, a special revelation was given through Toseph the Prophet calling John Whitmer. one of the eight witnesses to the Book of Mormon, t.i be a regular Church historian. He was commanded to write and  a regular history and assist Joseph Smith in transcribing "all things which shall be given you" (Doc. and Cov. 47:1-4). And the Lord said further: "And again I say unto you that it shall be appointed unto him to keep the Church records and history continually."- Had this not been a matter of great importance, the Lord, it seems to me, would not have commanded it. 

If it were not for records and historians, we would have no Bible, we would have no account of the ministry of John the Baptist or of Jesus Christ. We would have no Acts of the Apostles. We would have nothing except vague tradition in regard to Christianity as it was established upon the earth 1800 years ago. If it were not for historians, we would never have had the Book of Mormon. We would not have known much that could be relied on as truth about Joseph the Prophet. We would have had something handed down to us in a more or less vague and unreliable form. With all respect to our old veterans with their grey hairs, and their unquestioned honesty — those who try to relate interesting narratives concerning Joseph the Prophet and the early days of the Church — -can not. with all their endeavors relate facts iust as they happened : they find it impossible to do so correctly, when it comes to details. Their memory does not permit them to tell the perfect, accurate story. But we can use their stories by comparing them with the records of the Church written by Oliver Cowdery. John Whitmer, Willard Richards. George A. Smith and many others, down to our own day. 

I refer you to this, my brethren and sisters, because there has been  in our day an apparent neglect in record-keeping. Interest seems to have been lost to a great extent at present in regard to the history of this most wonderful people, the Latter-day Saints. Let me here interpolate that there has never been another such a people upon the earth since it was first created. I make no exception to this far-reaching assertion. We have read about the Israelites in the Old Testament, the early Christians in the New Testament, the Nephites upon this continent in the Book of Mormon, and many other peoples who have dwelt upon the face of the earth in various ages. All these people had their experiences in their day and generations, but they are no more in existence; history tells us that their activities at length came to an end. But the dispensation to which we belong will, according to promise, he continued forever. We shall as an organization remain in existence throughout all time to come, and it will be just as President Woolley has said that we shall be here after every other religious denomination shall have ceased to exist. Earth itself may pass away, or undergo a radical change, when cleansed by fire, but the Church of Jesus Christ shall no more pass out of existence, for out of this Church organization shall eventually grow the kingdom of God, over which Christ shall reign as the King of kings and Lord of lords. 

And now I desire to say a few words in regard to the labors performed of late years at the Historian's Office, and give a little additional information on the matter which President Anthon H. Lund alluded to in his address delivered in the first session of this general conference. We have been very  at the Historian's Office, and also on the outside, gathering together and putting into shape that which will form the basis of the authentic history of the Church. Some of us have traveled in all parts of the world gathering historical information for that purpose, and during these journeys most important data have been collected and thousands of records have been perused. Records have been kept from the beginning both at Church headquarters, in the different missionary fields, and in the stakes of Zion, but in many instances they have been kept imperfectly. Even John Whitmer, the first Church historian, was not faithful in his special calling very long. He apostatized and when he left the Church he refused to give up the records he had kept to the proper Church authorities; hence for a number of years we did not have the full records concerning the days of Kirtland and Missouri. On one of my special missions to the East I was prompted to go to a certain place in Missouri, where I found the old Whitmer record. I succeeded in obtaining a complete copy of the same which contains some important data in addition to that which the Church already had. The Whitmer record is not very lengthy, but it covers a period of Church history of which we cannot learn too much. I may here add that we have obtained from other odd sources of information many things of a historical nature which ha^e since proved to be of great value. For this I feel truly thankful, because the sources of such information are now in some instances closed. Many of those who were alive forty or fifty years ago, and who could give us valuable information then, are with us no more, and in other instances records from which we made gleanings a long time ago have since been destroyed or lost. 

We have endeavored to go back to the beginning. We have live! long enough and labored long enough to be convinced of this fact, that events which originally seemed trivial and unimportant at the time they happened have, as years rolled on, become matters of the greatest importance, owing to the great results that in many instances came from small beginnings. Referring to the beginning, for instance, there wasn't much stir in the Unite 1 States when six men quietly assembled in the attic story of Father Peter Whitmer's log house in the little obscure village of Fayette, Seneca county, New York, on that now memorable day, April 6, 1830; but look at that event now in the light of history. How many thousands of people are not now deeply interested in that little meeting in which the Church to which we belong was first organized ? When the Church was very small, even its early members did not pay much attention to a number of commonplace incidents that happened. When Brigham Young became a convert to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph, no one except those immediately concerned paid any attention to it, but as the Church grew and President Brigham Young became one of the greatest pioneers and leaders that the world has ever known, then we began to look' at President Brigham Young's conversion to "Mormonism" as a matter of unusual importance, and so with many other things because of the great results that followed. Conse we historians of a later day naturally go into the history of the Church deeper than those historians who have preceded us. We have gone over the same ground that was covered by Willard Richards, George A. Smith, and other historians, and have added a great many details that had been overlooked by them, or considered matters of so little importance that they were given no place in Church history. Thus we have, from the earlier records kept in the different branches and organizations of the Church and from thousands of letters and documents on file, culled a vast amount of historical information that had not hitherto been considered worthy of record. We have gone over some of these old records repeatedly and have also entered into the study of the records kept in the various organizations and branches of the Church in its missionary fields, throughout the entire world, and in some instances we have had to lay the very foundation historically for some of our missions. For instance, when I visited Hawaii, in 1895, I did not find anything at all in the shape of official documents pertaining to that mission for the first ten years of its existence. All the public records which had been kept prior to the Gibson episode had been lost, but with much patience and labor we went to work gathering from old letters, and the files of the Deseret News, material which, when put together, forms a very acceptable record pertaining to the founding of the Hawaiian Mission. We have at the Historian's Office already upwards of 700 large volumes, of manuscript history completed. We do not expect any one of you ever to read all of these lengthy manu histories, but they are all very important as works of reference. These volumes and the many that hereafter will be added may consistently be termed the "fathers" of the new dispensation, and be classed with the so-called "fathers" of the early Christian Church. We have recorded nearly everything that has happened since the organization of the Church, in 1830, under proper date; and we are still recordingevents as they occur daily, just as regularly as the sun rises and sets, and as the Church is now represented in nearly all parts of the world it may be said that we historians make a journey around the world once in twenty-four hours, not physically, of course, but in our minds, and in our researches. This compilation of historical events is what we call the Journal History of the Church. 

In addition to that we have gone into the great world-field, as it were, and have undertaken to write a separate history of every mission that has been established in any part of the world, together with its conferences and branches. This has meant for me personally two complete trips around the world. Once I went west and returned from the east and thus lost a day of my short span of life; and when I had occasion to go around the globe a second time I started east and came back from the west thereby regaining the day I had lost on my first tour of circumnavigation. My journeyings were chiefly in the interest of Church history. Following in the wake of the missionaries who had preceded me, I succeeded in obtaining much valuable information from many different sources, and in addition to that I gathered up thousands of records which had accu in the various missionary fields and sent them to Church headquarters, where they are now safely stored in the Historian's Office. Many of these records are in my estimation worth their weight in gold to the historians and also to the Church at large. 

We have also gone into the different stakes of Zion for historical purposes, and we have gathered material for and written the history of every stake more or less completely, commencing with the organization of the stake at Kirtland, Ohio, the stake in Missouri, the stake in Nauvoo, Illinois, etc., and we have continued this work down to the present time, but more particularly to the close of the Nineteenth Century. Even all the stakes of Zion as they are now organized have had attention. And we have done more than that. We have gone into the details of every bishop's ward in the Church, and as we now have about eight hundred such organized wards in the different stakes of Zion, the work is immense, and we have paid attention to all of them, particularly the older ones. Thus we have written the history of every settlement of the Saints in the Rocky Mountain country, extending as they do from Mexico on the south to Canada on the north. We have visited every nook and corner in the mountains and have gathered and written something in the shape of history of everything that has an existence within the meaning of Church organizations. I believe I can say truthfully that no organization dating back to the Nineteenth century has been entirely neglected, though in some instances we have been enabled to write much better histories than in other cases, owing to the difference in the sources from which we have obtained information. 

In most of the wards we have also written histories of the Relief Societies, Sunday Schools, Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, Primary' Association, Religion Classes, etc., not to speak of the various quorums of the Priesthood, bringing the historical thread down to the close of the century. Thus we have been enabled to give proper credit to the faithful members of the Church who have labored in the different quorums and auxiliary associations from the beginning. In doing this vast labor our chief aim has been to obtain accurate data and write histories that are absolutely true and reliable in all their details. But we shall not be satisfied with our labors until we have made one more visit to all the stakes and wards throughout the Church for the purpose of reading to the old settlers, and all others who are interested, that which we have written, in order to insure accuracy and correct all possible errors that may have crept in. In this our next visit we look for a full-hearted response and co-operation on the part of all the people. Let no one, no matter how busy they may be with other things, let the opportunity pass, but meet with us and become convinced, so far as they are able, to lend aid and assistance, that the histories made concerning them and their settlements are correct. 

In our work of revision we desire to guard particularly against errors in names. I have frequently said that my hair turned grey because of the difficulties I met with in my historical labors in finding out the correct names of the breth and sisters concerned in the histories that I was writing. My hair from my childhood days being somewhat flaxen in color, I did not anticipate that it would ever turn silver grey, but it did, and I think it was partly due to the fact that I met so many people in my travels, — intelligent people, too — who did not seem to know their own names. 

Let me explain further. The whole history of the Church is as a matter of course based upon the actions and experiences of men and women who have taken more or less active parts in public matters, both at home and abroad. We have tried to give these faithful men and women due credit in their own names, and have endeavored to rule out nick names, pet names, abbreviated names or initials, misspelled names, and names of foreigners who on their arrival in this country have anglicized their original names and thus have become known as different individuals. The changing and corruption of names have been a matter of much annoyance to the historians, as we often have met with men who while filling missions abroad would be known by one name and while filling positions at home in the wards and stakes of Zion would be known by some other name. Now, this is all wrong. A person should endeavor to have everything he does in the interest of his own as well as the public good credited up to his own name, and not alienate himself from the works of his life by giving credit to some myth or to something that cannot be identified. Let me suggest to you, brethren, when you fill a mission, that you fill it in your own name. When you pay your tithing or donations, pay it in your own name, and when you fill any  or position of any kind whatever, see that your own name is given the credit for the same. We may need all the credit we can get when we appear before the righteous judge of all. There should not be the least deviation in the writing of names for historical purposes, and let me say to all : Do not go through the world with a pet name or a nick name; use your real name invariably, especially for public purposes — the name you had given you when you were blessed by the elders of the Church as little children, which name at that time undoubtedly became a matter of record. This means more to you than you perhaps imagine, though you may think it is merely a technical matter; but let me assure you that it means your very identity as an individual, historically. If you insist to go through life with false or corrupted names, you will undoubtedly regret it. For historical purposes "Harry" should never be substitued for "Henry," nor "Lizzie" for "Elizabeth," "Bob" for "Robert," "Dick" for "Richard," "Polly" for "Mary," etc., and family names should be scrupulously guarded. We do not like to see the beautiful Swedish name of "Soborg" changed to "Seamountain" nor "Jorgensen" to "Yorgason." Natives of Germany, Scandinavia, Holland and other foreign countries should retain the original way of spelling their names, and also, if possible, the pronunciation; otherwise their identity may become lost and be ruled out of history altogether. No matter how many positions you have filled in the Church, or how much good you have done in life, it will not count to your credit in the records kept in mortality, un you do what you do in your own name. We cannot afford to falsify the records. Yet in some instances this has been done to such an extent that I sometimes wonder if the angels themselves will know who we are. 

In conclusion I desire to impress you with the importance of keeping individual records. The public records are in many instances well kept and preserved, but in other instances they are imperfectly kept and not preserved at all. In such instances the parties interested may lose their credit, unless they have kept individual records, to which reference can be made. If we have been called by the Lord to labor in his vineyard, and thus been privileged to take part in this great Latter-day work, it is but proper and right that history should give us credit. I therefore suggest to you all, brethren and sisters, that you be not afraid or be too modest to make records of your own. In saying this I appeal to all of you who are old enough to understand what I say. Remember the old saying, "that what you do yourselves is sure, but what you trust to others may prove disappointing;" also "if life is worth living, its deeds are worth recording." So let us keep individual records. If you cannot keep a daily journal, like some of us, who have kept journals nearly all through life, then write at least some of the most important events of your lives. Some of you old veterans that I now see before me will, like myself, pass away before very long, but before going to the great beyond write down some of the experiences you have had in your life with good ink and on good paper, that it may be left for your posterity. This will serve a better purpose to perpetuate your memory than a costly stone monument, and by doing this it may be said of you, as was said of Abel of old, "though dead, he yet speaketh." 

Among our many other 'duties, brethren and sisters, let us therefore remember this essential duty of record-keeping. In the midst of our busy lives do not let us be too modest nor too negligent, to record some of the things the Lord has permitted us to do in connection with his great latter-day work. I believe it would be perfectly right for us to overcome our modesty or negligence to such an extent that we record something about ourselves, and not rely altogther upon the angels above us "who are silent notes taking of every action," remembering that we mortals do not have access to the records made above. 

Joseph Smith the Prophet, in one of his letters to the Church, said : "Whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven; and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not be recorded in heaven" (Doc. and Cov. 128:8). While this was written originally in reference to baptism for the dead, it can apply, I think, to record-keeping altogether. 

Then, brethren and sisters, endeavor to make records for yourselves, and aim to become true and accurate historians at the same time, not forgetting that we should all live lives and perforin deeds worthy of recording. God bless you. Amen. 

Selma Pearson sang a solo entitled, "Let ,us have Peace." 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of the Eastern States Mission) 

To be privileged to attend this conference has been the opportunity of my life, I am so thankful for the spiritual blessings that have been poured out in the instructions that we have received during this conference. When I left New York 1 thought, Well, I am going to the service station now where my spiritual batteries shall be recharged. I think of all features associated with these gatherings, the most important and essential is the spirit of which we partake, and which we are expected to take, not only to the stakes and wards of Zion, but out to the frontier, in the missions of the Church. 

It is not enough to draw inspiration from the congregations who have gathered together; but I sincerely ask an interest in your faith and prayers, that if the Lord has any message to deliver to you through me, his humble servant, that we shall not be disappointed. I feel incorhpetent to occupy this position by virtue of the innate stability which I may possess, but rather I feel like Joseph, that son of Jacob who, when he was taken from the dungeon to interpret Pharaoh's dream, bowed his head in meekness before his Maker and before King Pharaoh, and said, "It is not in me, yet God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace." 1 find in holy writ accounts of great men whom we regard as having lived very close to their heavenly Father, men who have enjoyed the abundance of inspiration from God our Father. They, too, have felt the weakness which I sense this . Jeremiah, that great prophet whose record has been handed down to us in the Old Testament, prayed thus : "O Lord, 1 know the way of man is not in himself. It is not in man that walketh, to guide his steps aright." I also find Enoch, who was very faithful before the Lord at all times, uttering these words after he had been' called to a very important ministry : 

"A,nd when Enoch had heard these words he bowed himself to the earh before the Lord, saying, Why is it that I have found favor in thy sight, and am but a lad, and all the people hate me; for I am slow of speech, wherefore am I thy servant? And the Lord said unto Enoch, Go forth and do as I have commanded thee, and no man shall pierce thee. Open thy mouth and it shall be filled, and I will give thee utterance, for all flesh is in my hands, and I will do as seemeth me good. Say unto this people, choose ye this day to serve the Lord who made you. My spirit is upon you, wherefore all my words will I justify; and the mountains shall flee before you, and the rivers shall turn from their course, and thou shalt abide in me, and I in you, therefore walk before me. And the Lord spake unto Enoch, and said unto him, Anoint thine eyes with clay, and wash them, and thou shalt see. And he did so. And he beheld spirits that God had created; and he beheld also things which were not visible to the natural eyes; and from thenceforth came the saying abroad in the land, a S-eer hath the Lord raised up unto his people." 

It was, perhaps, this same feeling which possessed the boy whom we have learned to regard no longer as a "boy prophet," but rather the great American Prophet Joseph Smith, when, before he was fifteen years of age, he felt his incapability to serve God in and of himself. Retiring to a wood not far distant from his father's home, looking around him to make sure that he  unobserved by curious eyes, he knelt down and for the first time in his life uttered a solemn though simple prayer to God for light. His soul had been stirred by religious sentiment through attending revival meetings which were carried on in his neighborhood. And as he knelt and prayed to God, the power of darkness attacked him. He was thrown violently to the earth until he despaired of his own life. By superhuman, aye, that spiritual, power which was accentuated by the assistance of his heavenly Father, he prayed that the powers of darkness might be dispelled. And so it was, for he saw at noonday, coining through the trees of that sacred grove, a light surpassing the brilliancy of the sun, in which shaft of light he saw God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Then, with a childlike appeal, he said, "Which of all the churches and denominations shall I join?" The Father of the spirits of all men, pointing to the younger personage, said, "This is my beloved Son; hear him." Such was the command given by God at the scene of transfiguration when, through spiritual ecstasy, those who accompanied the Master in the mountain, said : "Let us build three temples, one for thee, and one for Moses and one for Elias." The voice of God spoke and said : "This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." If the world would heed that injunction of God the eternal Father there would be but one Church upon the earth today. They are not hearing Jesus Christ, but they are prating about "believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou and thy house shalt be saved." 

Isolated texts have been taken from the scriptures upon which creedal religions have been based, while the greater part of the scriptures have been brushed aside as being worthless, and only parts of the religion of Jesu/s Christ Iretained. We, too, believe and hold that sincere belief in the Lord Jesus Christ is essential, but if that is all that is essential, as many aver, then 1 ask our Protestant friends, Where is the excuse for your existence as a Church? because I understand it has been an essential teaching of the Catholic church that belief in the Lord Jesus Christ is necessary, and if that is all that is necessary all of the added ceremonies, the ,>omp and show of the Catholic church which became so heavy that it broke of its own weight, is atoned for in the acknowledgment of Jesus Christ. But something else is needful. Those who claim that belief in the Lord Jesus Christ is all that is necessary, are making a claim which I am prone to believe they do not believe themselves. Martin Luther broke from the rule of the Catholic church because of a difference in something else than belief in the Lord Jesus Christ, and yet we have various sects and denominations claiming that belief in the Lord Jesus Christ is all that is necessary. What would you politicians, if there are any here, you Democrats, what would you think of a member of your persuasion who says, "I believe in the principles of democracy," and yet who refuses to give his support to the party by going to the polls and voting? What would you Republicans think of such a man who has no more faith and devotion to his party than to say, "I believe these principles are the true principles of civil government, but I refuse to vote"? 

We believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as no other people upon the earth believe in him. He himself proclaimed the utter uselessness of that individual who said, "Lord, Lord," and did not the things which he said. 

How shall we apply that principle of belief in the Lord Jesus Christ? How do you say that it is essential? It is the measurement, not the thing measured. It is the schedule, but it is not the train. It is the formula, but it is not the mixture. For example : Questions arise respecting baptism, one saying that sprinkling is baptism, another that pouring is baptism, another, that one must be baptized three times kneeling in the water, and going down face foremost; and another, that baptism by immersion, both standing in the water, is baptism. Now in this maelstrom of contention which shall we believe? Athenasius, the father of the Athenasian creed, John Wesley, the father of the Methodist church, John Calvin, the organizer of the Presbyterian church, Henry VIII, the founder of the Episcopal church — which are we to believe? 

Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, what he says of it, and you shall be saved. When Paul and Silas were miraculously delivered from that Philippian jail, and the jailer was about to commit suicide, fearing that he had lost his charge and would be censurable before the king, told what he must do after earnest inquiry, to be saved; he had his own philosophy, the pagan philosophy. He was worshiping false gods, and when he fell at Paul and Silas' feet, and was about to worship them, he was enjoined to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ,  upon Paul or Silas, not upon pagan philosophies. 

Let that be the beginning — the rule by which all disputes shall be settled, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and not make it the end of our faith. Make it the rule by which we shall measure our faith and integrity to heaven and heaven's law. When the word came to the Prophet Joseph Smith, "This is my beloved Son, hear him," it spoke volumes as to what should come. God is the God of revelation, and that he speaks by the voice of truth, and that men and women whose lives are ever actuated by that Spirit of God which has been so abundantly poured out in this conference, that they, too, shall have the revelation of the Lord. 

The world look upon us Latterday Saints as being children led by a Pied Piper to destruction, and that we have not minds to think for ourselves. I want to tell you that there is no people upon the face of this earth with whom I have come in contact in all my eight and a half years of missionary work who are as free to think and act for themselves as are the Latterday Saints. I really believe there is a shiver runs through the nether regions when some of our Christian brethren begin to think for themselves. 

Instead of being led astray by creeds and by man-made religions, let them stand upon their dignity and hear what Jesus Christ says. 1 maintain that the spirit of revelation is to be enjoyed not only by the prophet, seer and revelator of the Church, but by all faithful members also. Inasmuch as revelation comes by the Spirit of God — by the Holy Ghost that was to testify of 

Jesus Christ, and that Spirit is in the hearts of all the faithful children of God, if they are faithful, and if actuated by that Spirit of revelation which directs the life of the prophet, seer and revelator of the Church, they, too, will have the authority to give the word of revelation in things pertaining to their charge. 

When the President of the Church speaks, revelation comes to us, our souls are surcharged with that Spirit, and we say amen to whatsoever the Lord speaks. 

My soul is glad in the opportunity that I have in attending this conference, and of mingling my testimony with such grand, good men as those who stand at the head of this Church. I know, too, that they are men who are upheld and sustained by the power of the true and living God, and that those who criticize them can compare in no measure with the lives of those who stand at the head of this dispensation. I used to think, when a child, what a pleasure it would have been to associate with the Prophet Joseph Smith, with Brigham Young! I had the pleasure when a child of meeting President John Taylor, and have been acquainted with every president of the Church since. To be associated with this great missionary movement and feel that I am willing to give my life for it, if need be, along with such men as President Joseph F. Smith, and President Anthon H. Lund and President Charles W. Penrose with whom I stood shoulder to shoulder and preached the gospel in Great Britain, I assure you is an unspeakable pleasure to me. I wonder if my children will be appreciative of their father's association with these men who have presided over the Church when the greatest advancement of this people have been achieved. 

I bear you my testimony that I know as I know who is my father and mother, that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. I know that they are my father and mother because of the fatherly and motherly love that they have extended toward me in my childhood and all through my life, the wholesome counsel and advice that they have given me, as I also know that the gospel is true because of the application of the laws and the savingpromises made through obedience to the gospel, by which I have been brought to know more and more of the transcendent joys brought to my heart, than even those that have come through my earthly father and mother. To prove my love for God's work I am willing to leave father and mother, houses and lands, wife and children for the kingdom of God's sake. 

I hope that the youth of Zion may realize the responsibility that rests upon them in carrying the gospel to the nations of the earth, for there are thousands who are praying, Cornelius-like, for the truth. 

My experience in the Eastern States mission has led me to believe, and I bring this to you, that there are thousands of men in governmental affairs, as well as men in financial and other prominent positions of trust who are thoroughly converted to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I count them among my dearest friends, and when T have needed friends, they have extended their hands to me and said, Brother, I will help you. 

May you carry the spirit of this  into your homes. May we all rejoice in being permitted to be born in this day and age of the world when the cornucopia of heaven has been poured out and the blessings of heaven both temporal and spiritual, have been showered down upon us all. 

May the blessings of the Lord be upon us, and in our hearts. May our greatest sermons be spoken in our daily lives. God bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(Late President of the Mexican Mission.) 

I realize, my brethren and sisters, that the time is far past, and I merely desire to bear testimony to the fact that I know that the gospel is true; I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. 

I testify to you that I know that Joseph F. Smith is inspired of the Lord for the work that he has to do. 

May the Lord help us follow the counsel of our leaders, these men of God, and to live according to the gospel, and have a burning testimony of it always in their hearts, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem, 'Mighty Jehovah." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Rey L. Pratt. 


