Morning
05 04 1917

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

GREETING 

I feel extremely grateful for the privilege of once more standing before such an audience as this assembled here at the opening session of our eighty-eighth semi-annual conference of the Church. I hope that I may have the Spirit of the Lord to assist me for a few moments to express my feelings and hopes, and my gratitude to the Lord for the inestimable privileges that we enjoy today. It is almost marvelous to me to look upon the vast sea of intelligent faces, beaming with joy and happiness, and with the consciousness of right, as I have the privilege of doing this morning in looking upon this vast congregation. I am sure that the Lord is well pleased with your presence here in honor of this semi-annual meeting of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I certainly feel very grateful for your presence, for it is an indication of the union of feeling and of heart pervading the Latter-day Saints, and the honor in which you hold the work in which we are engaged. It is an evidence that the Spirit of the Lord is with you, that the love of truth is in your hearts, that your faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ is not abated, and that you are here to honor your membership in the Church, and the positions which many of you hold as presiding officers over the various 'organizations of the Church. In this vast attendance at the opening session of this conference you have indicated your loyalty to the cause of Zion and your love for the work of the Lord, and your confidence in your brethren whom you have sustained, from time to time, as presiding officers in the Church, and I welcome you, one and all, in your presence here this morning, and I sincerely pray that the Spirit of God may descend upon us during this session, and throughout the succeeding sessions of the conference, until we shall finish the work we have in hand to do. 

OUR HOPE OF SALVATION FOUNDED ON THE TRUTH 

I desire to say to my brethren and sisters what I have often said, and which is still true, that the work of the Lord is progressing on the earth, and there is no power beneath the Celestial kingdom that can prevent its progress; for so the Almighty has decreed. I bear this testimony to you. I feel in every fiber of my soul that it is true; and, indeed, if it were not true — notwithstanding the hopes we have, notwithstanding the faith with which the Lord has blessed us, notwithstanding the prosperity that has attended us here in our labors in the valleys of these mountains, in harmony with the purposes of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — if it were not true that the Almighty is at the helm, and has been at the helm from the beginning, and will continue to the end, our hopes and our anticipations for present and for future life would be in vain. This work is the power of God unto salvation, and nothing else will do, nothing else can compare with it. Even error, as it has been said by one, may become venerable with age, and may become popular by  number of its votaries; but neither error nor the popularity of numbers will avail for the salvation and redemption and exaltation of the children of Almighty God. 

Our hope of salvation must be founded upon the truth, the whole , truth, and nothing but the truth, for we cannot build upon error and ascend into the courts of eternal truth and enjoy the glory and exaltation of the kingdom of our God. That cannot be done. 

Then I bear testimony again to you, my brethren and sisters, that the foundation of the cause in which we are engaged is the gospel truth, and it is a glorious thing to know that so many — and yet so few in comparison to the vast aggregation of humanity — have learned the truth, learned the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation, and that it must of necessity be the truth, for God has never devised error for the redemption of his children, nor for their blessing and exaltation. He has never given to the children of men falsehood and error to lead them back into his presence. The Almighty, in the beginning, never devised a plan for the redemption of his childern that was not true, that was not efficacious, that would not be effectual in the accomplishment of his purpose to bring to pass the final exaltation into the kingdom and the enjoyment of his presence, of all his children who would obey his laws and keep his commandments. 

THE INTEGRITY OF THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH 

I testify to you, as I know and feel that I live and move and have my being, that the Lord raised up the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, and endowed him with divine authority, and taught him those things which were necessary for him to know that he might have power to lay the foundation of God's Church and kingdom in the earth. Joseph Smith was true to the covenants that he made with the Lord, true to his mission, and the Lord enabled him to accomplish his work, even to the sealing of his testimony with his shed blood. His testimony is now, and has been, in force among the children of men as verily as the blood of Jesus Christ is in force and a binding testimony upon all the world, and it has been from the day it was shed until now, and will continue until the winding up scene. 

I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, of the divinity of the mission and work that was accomplished by President Brigham Young and his associates in fleeing from the wrath that threatened in Illinois and Missouri and other places, into these peaceful vales, which was done by the will of heaven and by the guiding power of the Holy Spirit. President Young and the pioneers were enabled to lay the foundation of a commonwealth, the equal of which is scarcely to be found within the borders of our glorious land, and it was done, not by the wisdom of Brother Brigham, nor of Brother Heber C. Kimball, nor of any of their associates, grand men as they were, true servants of the living God as they were, faithful and true to their callings, grand as was their integrity to the cause of Zion — but back of them, behind them, above them and below, and all around them, was the power of God, leading and directing them, and thus consummating his purposes through their instrumentality. We give the honor to our Father in heaven, and we also honor and bless the names of those great and good men whom the Lord chose to accomplish his purpose, and through whom he did accomplish his purpose without failure. 

I bear my testimony to the integrity of John Taylor as one of the purest men I ever knew in my life, a man clean from head to foot, clean in body and clean in spirit, free from every vulgar thing, so common among the children of men. I know whereof I speak, for I was with him day and night, month after month, and year after year, and I bear my testimony of his integrity. He was a martyr with the Prophet Joseph Smith. He suffered more than death with Joseph and Hyrum, and the Lord preserved him and honored him by calling him to take charge of his work for a season in the earth, thus exalting him to that most glorious and most responsible position that any man could be called to occupy in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I bear my testimony to the faithfulness of Wilford Woodruff, a man in whom there was no guile, a man honest to the core, a man susceptible to the impressions of the Spirit of the Lord, a man guided by inspiration in the performance of his duty, far more than by any gift of wisdom or of judgment that he himself possessed. 

I bear my testimony to the work that was accomplished by President Lorenzo Snow, although it was brief, yet some of the things which were left for him to do were absolutely necessary in order to relieve his successor and others that may arise in time to come, from mistakes and errors that had crept in before. 

As to the present administration of the gospel and of the work of the Lord I have nothing to say. Let the work speak for itself, let the people and the voice of the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints say what is being done by the Lord, let it not be said by me, nor by my counselors and my associates. The Lord forbid that I should ever imagine for one moment that we are of any great importance in this great work of the Lord. Others may be raised up, and the Lord can shape their minds, he can qualify them and can humble them, if need be, to fit them for the duties and responsibilities that may be required at their hands. I believe that Zion is prospering, and that so far as our spiritual life, our spiritual growth, and our faith are concerned, as well as our temporal condition, we are prosperous, a^id all is well in Zion today. 

BENEFITS OF VISITS BY THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

We made a short visit not long ago to some of our southern settlements. It is something that we should do oftener. I am conscious of it now, more so than I have been in times past. I am satisfied that the authorities of the Church should visit the people. It is not enough that the teachers in the wards should visit the Saints, and the stranger within our gates, and understake the work, or at least carry on the work of teaching the people the way of righteousness and of truth, and union, and love. That is not sufficient. It is not sufficient that the bishops should  the people of their wards and keep in touch with them and become acquainted with the people, and let the people know who is the father of the ward, — this is not enough. It is not quite sufficient that the presidencies of the stakes of Zion should visit the people, and should understand the necessities of those who dwell in their stakes, and be known of them. For it is also necessary that the Presidency of the Church, the Twelve Apostles, the Patriarchs, the Seven Presidents of Seventies, the Presiding Bishopric, in fact all the general authorities of the Church, should visit as far as possible, and see the people, and be seen of them. We want to keep in touch with and know one another. So far as I feel at present, I know of nothing that I would not like you to know concerning me. I want you to know what I am, what I am like, whether I am a man or not, whether I am trying to magnify my calling or not. I want you to look at me and know something of what I am doing; I want you to know me and I would like to know you. And so I can speak for my brethren. We have nothing that is not in common with the Latter-day Saints. We know nothing, and we will preach nothing to the people except that which the Lord God has revealed, and we advise and counsel those who are in authority, and whose duty and business it is to teach and preach the principles of the gospel to the world and to the Latter-day Saints, to confine their teachings and their instructions to the word of God that has been revealed. There is a great deal that has been revealed that has not yet been lived up to, I assure you. There is a great deal yet remaining to be learned. There is a great deal that is yet to be taught in the spirit of instruction, and there is a great deal that has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph and his associates that the people have not yet received in their hearts, and have not yet become converted to as they should. When we obey and are capable of observing the precepts of the gospel and the laws of God and the requirements of heaven, which have already been revealed, we will be far better off and nearer the goal of perfection in wisdom, knowledge and power than we are today. When that time comes, then there are other things still greater yet to be revealed to the people of God. Until we do our duty, however, in that which we have received, until we are faithful over the things that are now committed into our hands, until we will live our religion as we have it now. as the Lord has given it to us, to add commandments, to add light and intelligence to us over that which we have already received, which we have not yet fully obeyed, would be to add condemnation upon our heads. It is enough for us to live in the light of present inspiration and present revelation and for each individual member of the Church to keep the commandments of the Lord and labor in the Church as the Spirit may give him and her guidance in the performance of duty. Every soul of us is entitled to inspiration from God, to know what is our duty, and how we are to do it. We have not learned it yet, not all of us, but we are in a fair way to learn. The Lord is still patient : he is longsuffering; he is full of love and graciousness towards all, and we are doing a little better all the time. I believe we are a little more faithful in the performance of our duties than we have been in the past; yet there is great room for improvement. IMPORTANT COMMANDMENTS TO BE KEPT 

One of the important commandments of God is to honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Many of our people neglect that commandment; they don't do it, and many of us permit our children to go loose on the Sabbath day, instead of curtailing, teaching, and curbing them within the boundary of the gospel requirements. The law of God is that we shall love one another. If we could learn to do that, then amen to bishops' trials and bishops' courts, or, to the necessity of them. If we only loved one another so that we would do good to others as we would have them do unto us, there would be no bickering, contention, quarreling, strife, bitterness, or evil in the hearts of neighbor against neighbor, and all would be peace and happiness. If we loved God with all our hearts more than we love the world, our houses, our lands, our flocks, our herds, and our gold in the banks, I say, if we loved God with all our hearts and minds and strength, there would be no necessity for prisons, no necessity for courts of justice in the land. There would be no necessity for the occupation of lawyers and pettifoggers to dispute and contend over differences and disagreements among the people. All these things would be as things of the past, relegated to uselessness. Men would then know the truth, they would love it and would walk in its light which shines from the presence of the glorious Father, because then we would show that we love him and are willing to keep his commandments. W e have much to learn, too, in relation to these things. 

SIMPLE BUT VITAL TEACHINGS TO BE OBSERVED 

The Lord has given us a little simple word, so simple that the weakest of all that are or could be called Saints, should be able to observe and obey it, and yet some of the very strongest of us do not do it, but neglect to keep it. We have much to learn yet, in that simple little Word of Wisdom that the Lord has given to his Saints for their health, vitality and strength, but not all of us observe it. 

The Lord has given to us the law of tithing, by which we are to furnish, by our tithes and our' offerings, the revenue necessary to carry the gospel to the world, to gather the Saints, and to gather the elders after their missions are completed, from their mission field, and build temples and conduct the work that is necessary to be performed in the temples for the living and for the dead. Not all of us observe that law. and yet. I am happy to say to you, that this year shows a very material increase in the fidelity of the Latter-day Saints in their observance of that law. Our tithes this year so far have been better than at any other time previously. That is a good indication, and yet it may be improved very materially. 

A YOUNG MAN IN AN OLD BODY 

Now, there are many other things, but I cannot tell them all to you. I begin to feel that T am geetins: to be an old man, or rather a young man  an old body. I think I am just about as young as I ever was in my life in spirit. I love the truth today more than I ever did before in the world. I believe in it more firmly now than I ever did before, because T see it more clearly, I understand it better from day to day by the promptings and inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord that is vouchsafed to me; but my body gets tired, and I want to tell you, sometimes my poor old heart quivers considerably. 

I feel admonished now to bless you, and I bless you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

SOME HISTORICAL ITEMS 

I have just a few little items that I would like to announce : Since our last conference, the Tintic stake of Zion has been organized, being a part taken from the Nebo stake, with E. Frank Birch, president. 

The following wards have been organized, an indication of what I have said to you that Zion is growing, increasing, progressing: 

Wards Stakes 

Davisville Idaho 

West Warren branch. North Weber 

Hunt St. Johns 

Lovell West Big Horn 

Logan Ninth Cache 

Logan Tenth Cache 

Aberdeen branch Blackfoot 

Gooding branch Boise 

Vernon St. Johns 

Wards Stakes 

Owendale branch Shelley 

Hazelton branch Boise 

Acequia . . Boise 

Beaver branch Bingham 

Springfield branch Blackfoot 

Upalco Duchesne 

\rcadia Duchesne 

Jordan Salt Lake 

The following bishops have passed away : 

John I. Gledhill, Vermillion ward, Sevier stake; Benjamin Argyle, Spanish Fork, Second ward, Nebo stake; John Stevenson, Diamondville ward, Woodruff stake; Robert Heber Beesley, Sunset ward, North Davis stake; Franklin L. Gunnell, Wellsville ward, Hyrum stake. 

The following brethren laboring in the mission field have passed away : 

Elder Peter Okelberry of Hazel, Idaho, died in the California mission, at Santa Anna, on May 22, 1917, of hemorrhage of the brain; Elder Enoch Coleman Hunsaker, of Honeyville, Box Elder county, Utah, died September 27, in the Eastern States mission. 

There are now existing 797 wards of the Church and 38 independent branches, 74 stakes and 21 missions. 

RELIEF SOCIETY PENNY FUND 

In addition to these little items, I desire to mention the fact that some little time ago a number of the sisters of the General Relief Society Board inaugurated the idea of asking for a penny subscription per week or per month, as the case might be — I don't know exactly, but I think it was a penny a week — from the sisters of the Relief Society throughout the Church, a contribution to be used to assist in the erection of the two temples now under construction, one in Canada and one in the islands of the Pacific Ocean. In an almost incredibly short time this penny fund has accumulated a sum equal to twelve thousand seventy-four dollars and some cents. It has not been missed by any of the sisters, and it will just add about a little over $6,000 apiece to the two temples, to help pay for the workmen. This principle of the penny fund was inaugurated first in the City of Nauvoo, at the time the temple at Nauvoo was under construction. The suggestion came from Mary Smith, the wife of Hyrum Smith, and was seconded by her sister, Mercy Rachel Thompson. Through the sanction and permission of Hyrum Smith and the Prophet and others, they inaugurated this penny fund. The invitation to contribute was extended to all the branches of the Church then known in the United States and in Great Britain, and I only need to add that all the cash that was ecessary to pay for all the nails and the glass used in the temple at Nauvoo was furnished by this penny fund. 

IMPORTANCE OF THE GREAT LATTER-DAY WORK 

Now, the Lord bless you, and may the work of the Lord continue to grow in your hearts and in your love. There is not anything in the world, nor beneath the Celestial kingdom of God today that is of equal importance to this latter-day work that you are engaged in. Receive that from me as my testimony. It is not mine only; it is the testimony of the Lord, and his word that cannot and must not be broken, and will not fail, and, therefore, I repeat it unto you and admonish you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ, to keep the commandments and observe the laws of God, ' for they are the greatest things on earth to us. Amen. 

A solo, entitled, "Storm and Calm," was sung by Edna Godfrey. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

I am sure the testimony borne by our President this morning has touched every heart present, and he has given us the key-word for our acts and conduct of life, namely, to love God and one another, and show it by keeping the Lord's commandments, not neglecting those things that have been required of us. By following these instructions he said we will be blessed, and I bear test'mony to this. 

PROGRESS OF THE CHURCH, SPIRITUALLY AND TEMPORALLY 

The Church, since last we met, has made much progress. The people in Zion have been blessed this year with bounteous harvests. The Lord has promised that he will remember those who pay their tithes  offerings, and the President has testified to this being fulfilled in temporal blessings that the Saints have received, and still more in the spiritual blessings bestowed upon them. 

On our trip south we enjoyed meeting the Saints and witnessing the spirit that they possessed and we were much gratified by seeing the love which they exhibited towards the President of the Church and h : s party. I believe also, as he said, that it would be good to do more of this visiting. 

TEMPLES AND TEMPLE WORK 

I would like to talk a little on the activities of the Church. You know the Presidency have the directing affairs as far as the Church in general is concerned. Temple building is going on. Our two temples, in Hawaii and Canada, are progressing towards completion. It will take some time yet before the Canada temple will be finished, but the Hawaiian temple is approaching its dedication very fast. Temple building is a characteristic of this .dispensation, and this will not be at an end by building these two additional temples. We look forward to the time when the land of Zion will be covered with temples, so that the great work may go on, both for the living and for the dead. I am pleased to state to this congregation that the Saints are alive in this work. Our temple here in Salt Lake City is filled almost to overflowing. They are doing a splendid work in Logan, and in the other temples, showing that the people of God are anxious to go to the temples to receive their blessings. We want to encourage them in this work. We know the faith-promoting influence it has upon the living when they are performing this un* selfish labor, coming, at great expense to many, to the temple to do work for their forefathers, and hence we commend their efforts in this matter. It : s not that they expect any reward here, but their hearts are turned to their fathers, and they feel repaid for all that they are doing in coming to the temple, by getting spiritually refreshed, and their testimony strengthened. 

BUILDING MEETING HOUSES AND ATTENDING MEETINGS 

We are also continuing the work of building meeting houses. When the Lord has blessed the Saints with means, they ought to show, their gratitude in performing the different duties required of them, and one of these is to build houses of worship to God, so that both old and young can go there and receive instructions and blessings, both by hearing those who speak and by renewing their covenants in partaking of the sacrament. 

The President enjoined upon us to remember the Sabbath Day. We should all feel that it is our duty to attend meetings in the house of the Lord, to go there and listen to what is said, and with the rest enjoy the Spirit of God, and show this example to our children also, that they may look upon the Sabbath as a holy day that should be spent in visiting the house of the Lord and in meditation on the things that pertain to godliness. 

The Trustee-in-Trust has spent great sums of money to help our brethren to build meeting houses in different parts of Zion, also in the missions. He feels impressed with the necessity of doing this, and we are pleased that the Saints are responding so heartily in the matter of building good houses of worship. 

THE CHURCH HISTORIAN'S OFFICE AND RECORD KEEPING 

I am thankful that we have our new office quarters completed, and we would like you to come and see them. I am especially glad that we have had the Historian's office moved into a fire-proof building from the place where it has been so many years. I have often been anxious about the precious documents, letters and books that we have in the Historian's office. If we should have been unfortunate enough to have had a fire and to lose them we could never have restored the loss, and I am therefore happy now that we have these splendid collections of historical matters pertaining to the Church placed in a safe building. We would like you to visit that department also. 

You may not know what we are doing in the Historian's office, and yet a great work has been performed there. Record-keeping was recommended by the Lord from the very beginning. On the 6th .day of April, 1830. a revelation was given in which the Lord commanded -that a record should be kept. We know the importance of records. When Lehi and his family left Jerusalem and through the commandment of the Lord were going to a strange country, he understood by the inspiration of the Lord how necessary it was to have with him the rec-  ords of the laws and prophecies then extant, or at least a copy of them, and Nephi and his brethren were sent back to Jerusalem to obtain them. They found that Laban who had these records in his possession was not willing to give them up. They offered to give him great wealth which they had left in Jerusalem if he would g've them the records that he possessed. Laban thirsted after their wealth, but was not willing to give them the records. Nephi at length obtained them and brought them back into the wilderness to Lehi, who was very much pleased.' He knew that if they had not the records of the Lord's hand-dealings in the past it would be much harder for his descendants to continue in the fa : th and to retain the knowledge of God and what he desired his children to do. Because of the loss of the records afterwards, we find that the people dwindled in darkness, ignorance and unbelief. Now the object of keeping records is that the people may know the commandments of the Lord and what he has done in former ages and in this age as well. 

THE CHURCH HISTORIANS 

Oliver Cowdery was the first h'storian of the Church. Afterwards the Lord, in revelation, appointed John Whitmer as the historian. John 

Whitmer was one of the eight witnesses of the Book of Mormon. He was very zealous in helping the prophet. In the later days of the translation of the Book of Mormon he acted as scribe, and afterwards he helped the prophet in preparing the revelations to be printed, and he went to Missouri for that purpose. He felt how important the work was that the Lord had commenced, and if he had only kept that spirit with him he would not have met the fate he did, that of being excommunicated from the Church. But love of worldly th : ngs took possession of him and he left the Church. But I want to say this to his credit, that though he left the Church and was angry at the brethren, yet he never denied the testimony which he subscribed to when the Book of Mormon was printed. Once when he was in company with a lot of Missourians, enemies of the Church, they brought up the question of the Book of Mormon. He boldly .declared that he knew the contents of that book to be true, for he had seen the plates from wh : ch it was translated. And shortly before his death he testified to John C. Whitmer, a nephew of his, that he knew the book to be true. Still he died outside of the Church, but what he had seen he could not deny, and the fear of men did not cause him to waver in his testimony. And we can say the same of all the witnesses of the Book of Mormon. Several of them were not faithful to the end, yet they were always ready to bear testimony to the truth of that to which they had subscribed their names as witnesses. 

John Whitmer was released to go to Missouri, in 1835, and we have Oliver Cowdery again as the Church historian, and in a short time afterwards George W. Robinson, John Corrill and Elias H'gbee became Church historians. In 1841 Robert B. Thompson was appointed Church historian, and he did faithful work in the office, but his life was cut short. He died ten months after his appo : ntment. Brother James Sloan then took the place of historian, but he was called to go to Scotland, and Willard Richards became the General Recorder of the Church, in 1843; and in 1845 he became both the historian and general recorder, and kept this position until his death, in 1854. George A. Smith then became the General Church Historian and General Church Recorder, and ably conducted the affairs of these offices during a longer period of time than any other incumbent up to that time or since. In 1871, owing to his duties as one of the counselors of President Young and the Trustee of the Church, he was released from his pos : tion as Historian and Albert Carrington took his place. Three years afterwards Orson Pratt became the Historian, and kept the office until his death in 1881, after which Brother Wilford Woodruff was sustained as Church Historian until 1889, when he was chosen President of the Church. Franklin D. Richards then became the Church Historian and remained in that position until his death, which occurred December 6, 1899. The double office of historian and general Church recorder was first bestowed upon Willard Richards, and the double office has been kept ever since by the one that has been sustained as historian. There have been several brethren sustained as assistant historians in the Church. The first one was Wilford Woodruff; others were Albert Carrington, Franklin D. Richards, John Jacques, Amos Milton Musser, Charles W. Penrose, Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and A. William Lund. President Joseph F. Smith also devoted much time in the Historian's office and did a splendid work. 

THE WORK OF THE HISTORIAN'S OFFICE 

Now, as to the work that has been done in the office. We have seven hundred manuscript books that contain a great deal of historical matter that has been collected during these many years. In fact you can find .something for every day in the years that have passed. They are chronologically inserted, in an elastic binding, so when we find more historical material it can be inserted without having to add other volumes, and information can be quickly found when we know about the time the event took place. The indexes of persons and events are very extensive also, enabling us to answer without difficulty inquiries made in regard to Church affairs in the stakes, wards and missions. 

Brother Roberts edited the history of the Prophet Joseph Smith, or, as it : s called, the History of the Church. It was written by the Prophet, or under his direction, day by day, and Brother Roberts added elucidating notes as well as a very interesting introduction to each volume, setting forth the main things treated of in the volume. I would advise the Latter-day Saints to obtain these books, as they are of great value, and are sold at cost in order to give all an opportunity to obtain them. 

Brother Roberts has also written a history of the Church which has been published in an eastern magazine, The Americana, which brings the history nearly up to our time. It has been an immense labor, and I hope that the Church will some time be enabled to publish it so that all can enjoy the contents of this work. 

Brother Andrew Jenson has also written a good many things of great value, and is continually giving his mind to the work of collating and collecting data and facts concerning Church history. When he finds a new fact or a new date that he didn't know before, he feels as happy as the placer miner who finds a nugget of gold in the first pan that he washes out, and it is no wonder that Brother Jenson estimates the value of the Historian's office at a nr'llion dollars! It is indeed a valuable collection, which cannot be estimated in dollars and cents. Brother Jenson has charge of the department of recording events of the nineteenth century, and hopes to finish that task. Joseph F. Smith, Jr., has charge of the department recording the events for the twentieth century, and the assistants in each of these departments are busily engaged in collecting, arranging and indexing historical facts. 

The history of the missions, of the stakes and of the wards is attended to, and you who want a history printed of your ward or city will not be able to make it complete unless you apply to the Historian's office, and you need not pay out h : g sums of money, as some have done, 1.3  get histories written of their cities, which after all are not complete and not entirely correct. We are trying to prove every date that we give. I want to .say concerning Jenson's Chronology, a work that has cost immense labor, that we would like to see the Saints buy these books. We have a large supply on hand, that belongs to the Historian's office, and the book should be useful in every family. If it cannot be bought by every family, I think that every association throughout Zion ought to have one for reference. 

But I am taking too much time. I want to bear my testimony to the truth of the gospel. I can say yes and amen to the testimonies borne by our President. Joseph Smith was sent of God to establish his work, and the gospel that we believe in is the gospel of salvation. Let no one shake your faith in it, but be steadfast, brethren and sisters, that you may obtain the blessings that the gospel promises. And may God bless you all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

I rejoice exceedingly in once more having the opportunity of meeting with the Latter-da}' Saints in general conference. I have never been present at any of the conferences, during the past thirty-five years, but what I have rejoiced exceedingly in the teachings of the servants of the Lord; and I have been fed, as you no doubt have today, the bread of life by what we have heard. 

INTEGRITY OF THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH 

I endorse every word that has been spoken regarding the divinity of the mission of the men who have presided over this Church. President Smith stated that he had nothing to say regarding the present administration, but appealed to the people for the : r verdict. It has fallen to my lot to labor now for thirty-five years, lacking a few days, with the Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles, and T can bear witness that I know, as I know that I live, that during all this time the inspiration of Almighty God has attended all of the men who have occupied the positions in the Presidency of this Church. I bear witness that at no time within my knowledge has any President of the Church had more of the inspiration of Almighty God, and more .of the love of h : s associates in the Presidency and of members of the Council of the Twelve, than has President Joseph F. Smith. I bear witness to you that each and every man chosen to occupy a position in the Council of the Twelve during - the presidency of Joseph F. Smith has been chosen by the inspiration of Almighty God. I bear witness to you that from my knowledge in visiting among the people that there is a love and a faith and a determination to serve Cod existing today, the equal of any period during the past thirty-five years. 

I rejoice beyond expression in a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, the Redeemer of mankind; that he has spoken from the heavens; that he has established upon the earth the plan of life and salvation, his gospel. I rejoice in knowing for myself that all the men who have succeeded Joseph Smith the Prophet, who stands at the head of this last dispensation, have possessed the inspiration of the office which they have held, and that they have in very deed been men of God, inspired of him. 

I rejoice in knowing that all the Latter-day Saints with whom I have come in contact for tlrrty-five years, who have been tithe-payers, who have been observers of the Word of Wisdom, who have attended their fast and sacrament meetings, who have attended to their prayers and have suplicated God for the guidance of his Spirit, have just as an abiding testimony and as firm a knowledge and conviction of the divinity of this work, and of the inspiration which has attended the men who have presided over it, as I possess. 

GIFTS AND GRACES ENJOYED BY THE SAINTS 

I rejoice in the fact that each Latter-day Saint who has embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and who has kept the commandments of God, day by day, year by year, has grown, as our President says that he has grown, in a knowledge of the truth, in a testimony of it, and in a love for it. I know that there are no gifts, no graces, no author'ty, which were possessed in the days of the Savior by his apostles which are not possessed today by the people of God. I know that the gift of tongues and the interpretation thereof exist in this Church of Christ. I know that the. healing power of Almighty God is in this Church. I know that but for the healing power of God it would not be my privilege to stand here before you today. I know that there are living monuments of the healing power of God among this people. If we had a record of all the wonderful blessings of the Lord which have come through the Priesthood since the establishment of the Church upon the earth, it would be a record far larger than the New Testament. I know that those who go out to proclaim this gospel, who keep themselves sweet, clean and pure before God. who keep their bodies and their minds in such a shape of .purity that they are entitled to the revelations of the Spirit of God, I know that they do receive the revelations of the Spirit. 

THE STABILITY AND FAITH OF OL'R MISSIONARIES 

Men have proclaimed this gospel now for eighty long years, and during that period, although the world say we are mistaken, although they say Joseph Smith was a false prophet, the Book of Mormon is not true, and claim that the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants are not revelations of God. yet in e : ghty long years men have gone out to proclaim this gospel, and have come home to testify to you that God has given them an individual knowledge of the truth of the Book of 

Mormon, of the truths contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, and he has given to them an individual knowledge that he lives, and that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was in very 'deed a prophet of God. During all these eighty years no single missionary has ever returned home to announce that he has found the truth in Scandinavia, or in some other part of Europe, or in South Africa, or in Canada, or in any of these United States, or in Mexico, or Central or South America, or upon the islands of the Pacific, Men and women by the hundreds, yes by the thousands and by the tens of thousands, have received the testimony of these missionaries during eighty years, and have borne witness that they know that they have had the truth to deliver to them, and yet all the wisdom of all the world, all the study of all the ministers of the various denominations claiming that they have the truth, have failed to give the ability to convert one of the missionaries who it was claimed was preaching error. Why, it is absolutely ridiculous, it is absurd, to think that men of honesty, men of integrity, men with prayerful and humble hearts, men living virtuous, upright lives, and bowing down dailv for eighty long years and supplicating God for the guidance of his Spirit, that the Lord would never show one of those Elders the error of his way and lead him to the true path of rectitude and right and the plan of life and salvation. Why, if we did not know that the gospel was true, do you think the Latter-day Saints would expend in money and in loss of time about two million dollars a year to proclaim it? Do you think that fathers and mothers would rejoice more in sending out their sons to proclaim the gospel than in having them make a fortune? Do you think for one minute that if there was any lack of faith, or a lack of knowledge on the part of the Latter-day Saints, that they would dare send out their boys to preach? Why, they would be frightened to death; they would be afraid of losing their boys. Have we any fear that all the knowledge of all the world, that all the learning and study and all the doctrines of the world will convert one single, honest Latter-day Saint boy? Not a bit of it: not a bit of it! We know, as we know that we live, that they cannot convert our boys. Why? Because the boys have the truth to proclaim. Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigr'on told the truth when they sa : d: 

"Now. after the many testimonies which have been given of him. this is the testimony last of all which we give of him, that he lives, for we saw him even on the right hand of God. and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father; that by h : m and through him and of him the worlds were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

The world may say, "We don't believe it." but it is a fact that these men did see the Savior. It is a fact that Oliver Cowdery and Joseph Smith, in the temple in Kirtland. did see the Savior, and that Moses and Elias and Elijah did appear, and that all the keys of the gospel of every dispensation were conferred upon them, and the fruits of the gospel of Jesus Christ have been enjoyed by those who have rendered obedience to its truths. The growth, the strength, the power of the gospel proclaims the truth of these things. The failure of the wisdom of the world to turn away from the truth those who have received the witness and the testimony of the gospel from' our Heavenly Father, also bears strong witness to every thoughtful, intelligent man, of the growth and the power and the strength of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

REASONS AGAINST FURNISHING TOBACCO FOR OUR SOLDIERS 

I want to say just a word or two of counsel to the Latter-day Saints. There has been some agitation in the papers advocating that men and women show their generosity and their loyalty to the young men of Utah who have volunteered and offered their lives in defense of their country, by supplying those young men with tobacco! They are arguing in the papers that it is not particularly harmful, that it is very mild, and so on; that our tobacco is better and milder than the tobacco of France, etc., etc. As Latter-day Saints we have received a revelation from Almighty God not to use tobacco, and it behooves us each one to use his or her influence to the uttermost to see that our boys keep this commandment of the Lord and pay no attention to the soph : stries and the ideas and the reasoning of men in favor of the use of tobacco. The end of all controversy has been reached for every true Latter-day Saint because the Lord has said, "Tobacco is not good for man." Tt is suggested that the tobacco sellers are advertising their wares. I want to read to you — and the book has opened at the place I want without my hunting for it — what the Lord promises if you and I will refrain from hot drinks (which the prophet of God said were tea and coffee), and from liquor and strong drinks of all kinds, and from tobacco. Fie says, "And all Saints who remember to keep and to do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones, and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; and I, the Lord, give unto them a promise that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

He might have added, "And I the Lord do not give a promise unto those who fail to obey these commandments, that the destroying angel shall pass by them and not slay them." 

I find in this same book that when the Lord commands, and men obey not his commands, then they fail to get the blessing. Then men say that the promises of the Lord are not true and fulfilled; but woe unto such, for their reward lurketh from beneath, and not from above. 

I find in this hook, among the revelations of the Lord to you and to me, that when we do the things that the Lord commands, he declares : "Then am I bound." As Latter-day Saints we want to set our faces as flint against any proposition or any propaganda of any kind which will so affect our children, if they follow that propaganda, that they will not he entitled to the promises and the blessings that come from keeping the commandments f the Lord. GRATITUDE FOR A KNOWLEDGE OF THE GOSPEL 

I thank the Lord again for a knowledge of the gospel, for a testimony of the divinity of it, for a love of the truth, for a desire to labor for it. There is no labor in all the world that has ever brought to me that same joy, that same happiness, that same exqui.s : te bliss as has come to me by being able to testifiy to all the world of my knowledge of a Redeemer, and of my knowledge that Joseph Smith was his prophet, the true and the living prophet of God, and that he did establish the truth, and that it will grow and increase and prosper and that it will triumph. The only fear that I have ever had has been that I might fail because men w'th greater knowledge, with far greater wisdom, with greater power and inspiration, who have had more testimonies and more wonderful manifestations given to them than I have ever had, or ever hope to have, through failure to live the gospel have fallen by the wayside. But I know that if you and I can be humble, prayerful, full of love of God and love of our fellows, that we shall stand firm and faithful, and shall endure to the end, which may God grant is my prayer, and I ask it in humility, and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : by President Frank Y. Taylor, of 

''We thank thee, O God, for a the Granite stake of Zion. prophet." Conference adjourned until 2 

The closing prayer was offered p. m. 