Afternoon
07 04 1917

The Tabernacle choir and the congregation sang the hymn : "Z'on stands with hills surrounded." 

The opening prayer was offered bv President Wilford Day, of the Parowan stake of Zion. 

A tenor solo, "An Hour of Peace," was sung by James H. Neilson. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

Are there few that be saved? — Christ's provisional and incomplete answer in the meridian dispensation — Carried forward in the later dispensation — Another illustrative instance — Sermon of the shepherd and the sheep — Lay hold on eternal life. 

At this closing session of the general conference, it is possible to look in retrospect over what has been said in the earlier meetings. I have followed with interest the remarks of every speaker and, as each one closed, I have felt that had I then been called to speak I could have taken up the theme of the discourse and carried it on, having the spirit of it and feeling the genius of it, so full of suggestion and instruction has been every address. 

I listened with particular and peculiar interest to the remarks of the brethren this morning relating to science, falsely so-called, and to the truths that have been revealed  man and his position in Nature; and as I have given that subject some attention through many years I was prepared to say something; but I shall content myself now with a simple expression of perfect accord and agreement with the spirit of what was said. We learned from the addresses given this morning a little regarding the origin of man — whence he came; and we have heard through other addresses much as to where he is going. I feel rather inclined to dwell briefly upon the subject of his present duty, the duty of the day and the duty of the hour. 

In that regard I remember a very significant question that was submitted to the Christ. We all know how he was subjected to questioning on many occasions, the purpose of the questioner sometimes being to entrap him, if possible, in some incautious word, or to lead him to some overt utterance or act, whereby it was hoped to find excuses for accusation. Some of the questions, however, seemed to have been inspired by worthy intent, and of this kind is the one to which I ask your attention. 

As I read in the 13th chapter of Luke, beginnig with the 22nd verse — Christ was on his way to Jerusalem, the last journey he was to take through the provinces and up to the capital, for although there were some brief interruptions, this was in effect his march to the cross and to the tomb. He traveled slowlv, teaching in the towns, on the high-ways and in the by-ways, wherever people would pause to listen. Tn the course of such ministry the following incident occurred, as he went through the cities and villages teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem : 139 

"Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved?" 

Consider the question. It is just as important today as it was then. It is recorded in the short, lapidar style of the scriptural record, terse, concise, condensed. Putting it into our modern speech, it meant this: Lord, tell us, of the thousands and millions living upon the earth and of the untold myriads that have lived and died and of all that are to come into the flesh, will there be a majority, many, saved, or only a few? Hasn't that question presented itself to you individually ? I believe it has come up in the heart of every earnest student of the gospel, of every prayerful investigator of the truth. "Lord, are there few that be saved," or will the most of us be saved and only a few be lost? Note his rejoinder — response — it is not an answer : 

"Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, 

"Strive to enter in at the strait gate; for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able. 

"When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer 'and say unto you, I know you not whence ye are. 

"Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. 

"But he shall say, I tell you, I know you .not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. 

"There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out. 

"And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. 

"And behold there are last which  be first, and there are first which shall be last." 

I ask your attention to a very grievous mistranslation in that scripture. The error is expressed by misleading punctuation. This division of the scriptures into chapters and verses, is, as you know, a comparatively modern innovation and it has been made by the best skill and wisdom of men, but men's skill sometimes fails and men's wisdom may come to naught. The error in question is none the less grievous because it is one of punctuation only rather than of wording. Here is one of the errors against which we protect ourselves in our declaration of faith when we say, "We believe the Bible to be the word of God .as far as it is translated correctly." We do not follow the mistranslations. This is not peculiarly or particularly "Mormon" criticism. Scholars, theologians, philologists of the day admit the mistake but there it stands. I want to read to you again the passage as it is, and then read it to you as it should be, according to the best authority we have. Christ said to them in response to their question : "Strive to enter in at the strait srate, for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in and shall not be able." There endeth the twentv- fourth verse, and the twentv-fifth verse, beginning a new sentence, reads : 

"When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door and ye begin to stand without and to knock at the door," and so forth. Now, there should be no period there; there should be no division in the verses and the passage should read in this wise : 

"Strive to enter in at the strait GENERAL CONFERENCE. , for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not b,e able when once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door." 

Do you see the difference in meaning? One is an indicative statement only, however great its portent; the other brings in the time element and the fact that there is opportunity which will pass — Strive to enter in now because many will come seeking to get in and will not be able when once the master of the house hath risen up and hath shut to the door. It is all in line with the tenor of the scripture, with the words of Paul and the other apostles. Do you call to mind the urgent behest — Lay hold on the kingdom and on eternal life while you can. Don't procrastinate. And that in harmony with the voice of the Book of Mormon prophets — Don't procrastinate the day of your repentance, or you may find it impossible to repent when you would. I commend this .scripture to you, as recorded by Luke; but coming back to the question : 

Didn't you feel a little disappointed at the fact that Christ did not give a plain answer to that question ? I did : I felt disappointed when I first read it, when I first pondered it so far as I can remember, and I have had a little disappointment many times since. Oh, if he had only answered that squarely and definitely, how much more satisfied or dissatisfied, as the case may be, we would severally find ourselves. Will many or only few be saved? Suppose he had answered, Oh, most of you, most of vou, there will only be a few lost. Wouldn't we have taken license from it, wouldn't we have given way to carelessness even more  we do? Suppose he had said — Only a few will be .saved and all the great majority will be lost and be forever condemned and be thrust out into outer darkness. What a gloomy picture it would have been. But why didn't Christ answer the question? It seems to have been put in earnestness, it was not a trick question, there does not seem to have been any trap concealed in it: "Lord, are there few that be saved?" Would it not have been an easy matter for him to answer it in a direct way? But he evades it, and gives us a sermon, a verybeautiful and encouraging sermon, it is true, one embodying great truth, but it does not answer the question directly, and why? For the reason, the very same reason that operated to cut many another sermon of his so short. Have you not read his sermons and time and time again been disappointed because he closed so abruptly? 

Let me digress a moment and illustrate by another incident. Read for yourselves, for I have not time to read it, in the 10th chapter of John, beginning, at the 16th verse. He was delivering at the time there referred to that splendid discourse of his concerning the shepherd and the sheep. He was explaining the difference between a shepherd and a sheepherder, a vital difference, and in the course of his remarks, he paused to tell them that there were other sheep not of that fold. Picture him discoursing about himself as the shepherd and about his followers as the sheep. He says in the 15th verse : 

"As the Father knoweth me, eyen so know I the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep." 

Now comes the interpolation : 141 

"And other sheep 1 have, which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." 

And now, mark you, that is all he says about that phase, that particular topic. He goes right back to the subject broken off in the earlier verse: 

"Therefore doth my Father love m.e, because I lay down my life." 

Now, haven't you wished, when you read that, that you could have heard more? The question naturally arises in our minds, Didn't he po.ssibly say more, which was left out by the recorder? No, he did not. That is all he said about that subject at the time. If you want to read the rest of that sermon, turn to the 15th chapter of the third book of Nephi. That is where he picked it up again and carried it on. Like many another of his sermons, this was begun on one continent and carried on on another, as we find some of his sermons begun in one dispensation and carried forward in a later one. Now, in the 3rd book of Nephi. 15th chapter vou will find that Christ picks up the theme of that discourse where he left it off in Jerusalem. Christ there tells his Nephite disciples and the people generally that he had been teaching in Jerusalem according to the commandment of the Father, and he says : 

"And not at any time hath the Father given me commandment that T should tell it unto your brethren at Jerusalem; 

"Neither at any time hath the Father given me commandment that T should tell unto them concerning the other tribes of the house of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land. 

"This much did the Father command me, that I should tell unto them, 

"That other sheep I have, which are ,not ,of this fold; them also must I bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." 

The next verse explains why he had not said more to the people at Jerusalem : 

"And now because of stiffneckedness and unbelief, they understood not my word; therefore I was commanded to say no more ,of the Father concerning this thing unto them." 

Read the intervening verses for yourselves and then note this in the 21st verse : 

"And verily I ,say unto you" — these are his words to the Nephites — "That ye are they of whom I said, other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold and one shepherd." 

In the next chapter he carries the same sermon regarding other sheep a little further, and makes plain that there yet are other sheep of still another fold to whom or to which he was then about to go. Thus we find these splendid addresses ofttimes divided up — one part in one volume and another part continued in the next. 

So it was with this particular sermon regarding the sheep, the shepherd and the sheep-herder, and so regarding this question again, "Lord, are there few that be saved?" He answered it in part, giving the questioner and hearers very direct warning, telling them to enter in at the strait gate while they had a chance, because after the Master of the house hath arisen tip and shut to the door they will knock GENERAL CONFERENCE.  vain, and when they plead that they have known him, he will answer that he has never known them. He warns them against assuming that because they had citizenship in Israel they would be saved thereby, and tells them of the dire consequences of their neglect, when they shall see the prophets enter into the place prepared for them and they themselves shut out, when they shall see others coming from the east and from the west and from the north and from the south to sit clown with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and yet and still and nevertheless, they themselves shut out. 

But, as said before, he did not answer the question fully, "Lord, are there few that be saved?" The reason was precisely analogous to that which prevented him from carrying on his sermon regarding those other .sheep, because of the people's unbelief, stiffneckedness, and inability to comprehend. Those Jews had been brought up in all the traditions of the law and the thousand and one rules that had been attached to every feature of the law. They believed in a heaven which they called Abraham's bosom, and in a hell, and in no habited space between. Every man, they thought, would go either into that heaven of supreme bliss or into that hell of dire torment; and they were not prepared to know the truth. Now, suppose that Christ had said unto them, "Many will be saved, most of you, will be saved." They would have taken that to mean that many of them, the mo.st of them, practically all of them, would attain that place of bliss to which they referred is Abraham's bosom. If he had told them only few, they would have undertsood him to mean that the greater part would be consigned to  with all its torments. He could not finish the sermon, he could not answer them directly because of their unbelief, because of their wilful ignorance, because of their inability to understand him; and you will notice that Christ, the Master of masters, the Teacher of teachers, followed scrupulously the instruction he gave unto his apostles — not to cast pearls before swine nor to throw the great truths of the gospel into the mire, at the feet of those who were not willing to understand. 

So, with masterful skill we find bim here turning the occasion of this question to good account and preaching a very instructive sermon in connection therewith, but does he never answer the question? Does he let the inquiry go by the board; was it ever to remain unanswered? Not at all. You will find that he has answered that question very fully. Turn to the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants and there you have it in full, a sermon begun in the meridian of time, carried forward during the apostolic age through inspiration, for Paul preached a paragraph of it when he referred to the bodies celestial and the bodies terrestrial, one compared to the glory of the sun and another to the glory of the moon, and then referred to other bodies which are to be compared in glory to the stars, though Paul had not learned the name of that third kingdom or degree of glory; and then the sermon is carried forward in this dispensation, as you will find recorded in the section referred to. Therein the Lord makes plain- the fact that salvation as we call it, or being saved, has a relative meaning. That section tells us of the awful state into which shall enter the sons of perdition, those who have sinned against 143  and knowledge, those who have been instigators of the shedding of innocent blood. All of this is pointed out, and then the condition of those who attain the very lowest or least of the so-called king'doms of glory receives attention. The one that Paul had no name for we have learned to be the telestial glory; and we are definitely told just who are the inhabitants or inheritors of the telestial glory. The condition of those who attain the next higher or the terrestrial state is plainly set forth and then the condition of the supremely blessed, those who are permitted to dwell with the Father and with the Son, the Christ, in the celestial worlds throughout eternity. 

Now, those who are saved in the telestial glory are saved from the horrors of perdition; those who attain the terrestrial glory are saved from the lower state, in the telestial; and those who attain the celestial are saved from all lesser conditions and the lower glories of the telestial and the terrestrial. Those Jews, including even the twelve apostles, could not comprehend that condition of affairs and therefore the Christ did not answer the question directly but let it go with a very brief and incomplete answer. 

I say aeain this is one of the sermons continued through the ages; and we are able today to comprehend the meaning of salvation in a greater measure than ever before. Tn this respect be it known the theological world is following the lead r-f "Mormonism" so-called, not only; n this particular but in many others. "Mnrmonism." that svstem of revealed truth which constitutes the charter of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints, is pioneering the way and going before  a bearer of light; and the thinkers of the world are following it today, although many of them are loath to acknowledge and confess the fact. The doctrine of a single heaven and a single hell, separated by only a narrow strip, and into one or the other of which every soul shall surely go, ofttimes as the result of very close calculation of his account, that horrifying doctrine has been practically abandoned by thinkers generally, by the theologians at the present time, just as they have abandoned the infamous .doctrine of the utter condemnation of babes who die unbaptized. It was thought, you know, but a short time ago, that hell was figuratively paved with the skulls of unbaptized babes, that babes who died without baptism were 'doomed to condemnation that should last forever and forever. And now what find we? That doctrine was taught by an apostate church. It was proclaimed as the result of the absence of light. It was preached as a .dogma of men, not a doctrine of Christ. But today we find even the Roman Catholic Church permitting its members to believe that babes who die without baptism enter into a state of rest though they are denied the supreme bliss of beholding the face of God. or as thev set it forth, of having the beatific vision of God — a wonderful improvement. I hope that they will come to the whole truth some day, p ven as the Lord hath declared it by his own word; and so in these respects the revealed word of God is leading- and "Mormonism" is pioneering- the way for the modern theology. 

It was mv privilege but a few months a°"0 in addressing - a rather distinguished bodv constitutine a philosophical society, comprising GENERAL CONFERENCE.  men and women, to virtually throw down the challenge in this way in effect, though not in these words : Tell me one instance of advancement in matters theological since 1830 in which the churches have not been following ''Mormon" lead. And no instance was produced. I bear my testimony that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is all its name professes to be, all that its name affirms it to be. It is leading the way, it is the gospel of Christ, and we find the sermons of the earlier c'ays carried forward. 

"Lord, are there few that be saved?" In the dispensation of the fulness of times the words of the prophet relating to what was shown are thus recorded. "And behold and lo, we saw the glory and the inhabitants of the telestial world, that they were as innumerable as the stars in the firmament of heaven or as the sand on the seashore." Herein lies the significance of the Lord's words to those who asked that question. "Strive to enter in at the strait gate for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in and shall not be able when once the master of the house is risen up and hath shut to the door." 

My brethren and sisters, let us lay hold on eternal life before the door is shut. This I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo based upon the 91st Psalm was sung by Irene Cummings. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

President Wilson's message on the Bible to American soldiers — Some of the accomplishments of the Latter-day Saints that will redound to their blessing and insure them life eternal — The splendid work of the 

Priesthood and the auxiliary organizations — Security and safety in observing the laws of the gospel and the counsels of the servants of God — Our hope for the people of Zion. 

I think, my brethren and sisters, that I have never heard so much scripture quoted to such good purpose as I have heard from our brethren during the .sessions of this conference. I hope that their example will be heeded by the Saints and that scripture-reading may become a more prevalent custom than it has'been and is today. I note that recently twenty-seven thousand copies of the Bible were, by one Bible society, placed into the hands of American soldiers. In each copy was inscribed a short letter from the President of the United States, and the sentiments expressed in that letter are worthy of our attention. The letter read : 

"The Bible is the word of life. 1 beg that you will read it and find this out for yourselves. Read not little snatches here and there, but long passages that will really be the road to the heart of it. You will not only find it full of real men and women, but also of things you have wondered about and been troubled about all your life, as men have been always, and the more you read the more will become plain to you what things are worth while and what things are not, what things make men happy — loyalty, right-dealing, speaking the truth, readiness to give everything for what they think their duty^, and most of all the wish that they may have the real approval of the Christ, who gave everything for them, and what things are guaranteed to make men unhappy — selfishness, cowardice, greed, and everything that is mean and low. 

"When you have read the Bible you will know that it is the word of God, because you will have found it the key to your own heart, your own happiness and your own duty. 

"Woodrow Wilson." 

T believe, my brethren and sisters. 145  in the scriptures are to be found words, counsel, and admonition that are suited to every circumstance and every condition of life. I hope that we will read not only the words of the Bible, so highly commended by the President of the United States, but that we will read the words that have come to us in modern revelation, and the words of the prophets that have been recorded in our Book of Mormon. 

I desire to read a little scripture myself as a premise to the few thoughts that I would advance to you at this time : 

"When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: 

"And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: 

"And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats o,n the left. 

"Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 

"For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: T was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger and ye took me in : 

"Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. 

"Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee, or thirsty, and gave thee drink. 

"When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? 

"Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? 

"And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily, 1 say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. 

"And then shall he say also unto th em on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: 

"For 1 was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty and ye gave me no drink: 

"I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. 

"Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison,' and did not minister unto thee? 

"Then shall he answer them, saying. Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least ,of these ye did it not to me. 

"And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal." 

I gather much of encouragment and comfort from that scripture, for the Latter-day Saints. Without boasting, only in a spirit of grateful acknowledgment, I would recount a few of the accomplishments of our people which, it seems to me, will tend to lead them to life eternal and to the blessings which our Father has in store for those who have served him by serving his children. 

We have among us organizations designed to minister to the care and the comfort and the upbuilding of the children of men. Among these organizations there is one composed of women, the sisters of the Church. That organization has a record of which any people in the wide world could be most proud. You know what it does. I want, however, to mention a few items accomplished by this great organization in ministering to the children of men. 

During the last year. I gather from the secretary's report, there were 21,985 days spent with the sick, more than sixty years of one person's time devoted gratuitously, willinging, lovingly and unselfishly to the care of the unfortunate. There were 88,140 special visits to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  sick where relief was administered, encouragment given and good done beyond computation. Why, don't you know if we had to pay for the services of the physician at the usual rate it would have taken more than a quarter of a million dollars to have paid for the simple, loving service devoted by this organization to the relief of the sick in our midst last year only. There were 6,803 families that .directly received the help of this beneficent organization. Two thousand one hundred and ninety-three bodies of the dead were prepared for burial without cost, without compensation for service, as a mere gratuitous offering on the part of these good sisters. There were spent in temple work 26,201 days in doing vicarious work for the dead by this organization alone. Assistance was given to missionaries and their families to the extent of $2,735.35 in cash, aside from the great amount of assistance that was given in work and in caring f or the families of missionaries that in many instances needed the care of these ministering angels. 

Our sisters have done that which the Lord prescribed as one of the means of obtaining enternal life. They have ministered unto "these, the least of my brethren," they have cared for those who were sick and afflicted and in need of care. 

Then the other organizations of our Church, which I haven't the time or opportunity now to recount, have likewise administered to the health and succor and the uplift of all the children of God that have been members of the Church, or not being members of the Church, who have been willing to accept of the'ir assistance. Don't you know that there is an army of twenty thousand 

Sunday School teachers laboring every Sunday in the year, preparing themselves during the week days, unselfishly and willingly giving :heir time and ability to feed the children of God the bread of life and help them to imbibe at the fountain of truth, that they may live in the ways of God and walk in his righteous paths ? There is a comparatively large number of faithful servants devoting themselves to the care of the young men and women in the Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church. In addition to these we have great numbers of men and women unselfishly devoting themselves to the work pursued in our Primary As sociations and in our Religion Classes, attempting as best they can to administer to the good of mankind and to feed them in the way that God wants them fed for their upbuilding and for their proper growth and development. 

And behind and above, it seems to me, all of the work that these good auxiliary associations are accomplishing are to be found the men who sit in the fore part of this building, who, for years and years have given their lives, their service, their thought, their prayers to the nurture and the care of these the children of our Father who is in heaven. These presidencies of stakes, noble men, shepherds of the Father, caring for his flocks, as only the loving shepherd can care for them. These bishoprics of wards, fathers of the people, caring for them as only loving fathers can care for their children. O, what a grand and noble service are these men performing-. A.s I go among them in the ministry in which I am engaged, as I meet them and understand their spirits and recognize 147  devotion to the cause, I feel mighty humble in their presence. They are men of experience, they are men of wisdom, they are men of integrity, they are men of a great big love for God's children; and my prayer constantly is that I may be worthy to work with them, worthy to help them in the great work to which they are so steadfastly devoted. These are the men who have brought forth the sons of the .states that have now responded to their country's call. These men and their good wives are the men and women who have implanted within the hearts of these boys, standards of truth and virtue and morality that will make them stand out prominently among all those who come to serve this great nation. I was not surorised when the Secretary of the Interior stood on this stand the other evening and said — and I believe it was not flatterv — that in all the demonstrations that he had seen in this country his heart was never so touched as when he saw the bovs of Utah and the surrounding states march past the reviewing- stand clad in their uniforms, prepared to serve their country and respond to its call. T was not surprised, because I do not believe that the eminent secretary can sro anv place in this wide and good land and find as manv bovs who have within their hearts the love of truth, who are as firmlv and steadfnstlv adherine to the principels of truth and the commandments of the Lord, and who hold to such high standards of virtue and honor and morality as these same boys. I believe that one of them, if he will remain steadfast and true to the testimony of the gospel, is and will be worth a half dozen of any who are  true, who are not worthy sons of God. 

These men — these men here, are responsible for them; and I give my honor and esteem to them for the splendid and great work that they have clone and are doing in this land. 

We all seek after eternal life. It is the greatest gift that God can give to men. We pray for it; we work for it; and I believe, my brethren and sisters, that we are doing the things that will bring it to us. Our lives are being conformed to the life of the Master. There is encouragment wherever one goes in the land of the Saints. On every hand are the evidences, the indisputable evidences of the love of men for God, in the love of men for men, and it is our service to these children of men, no matter how humble they are, no matter how insignificant in the world they may seem to be, that will be accepted by God as our service for him. We can't help him. He is beyond any help that we can give to him, but we can help his children; we can work for them; we can love them; and we can persuade them with the help of God to live good lives and to come nearer to him, that they may eventually come back into his presence. 

That is our work, as I understand it. That is the mission of the Priesthood of God. The Priesthood of God means to me only the right to serve, in the name of God, God's children, and he who serves God's children in God's name is doing the greatest service for the Master that can be done. I see only success, onlv prosperity, only happiness ahead for the people of the Latter-day Saints, if they will but obey the commandments that have GENERAL CONFERENCE.  given to them. If they will but listen to the counsel and admonition that come from our head, if they will follow the guide of the Priesthood, I know they will be safe. 

And do you know, throughout all these troublesome times, when men have found it a very difficult thing to make up their minds regarding the important matters that have come before us since the declaration of war, I have always carried in my own soul a deep feeling of satisfaction in this thought, that every man who will live the principles of the gospel will receive inspiration telling him what to do for himself, and the additional and still greater thought that if ever there should be required for this people any especial direction, any peculiar guidance suited to the condition of the times, we have the man of God to give it to us, and I have felt in that, security and safety? I think we are entitled to that feeling as a reward for our attempt to do Gods' bidding and to keep his commandments. 

Only a few weeks ago I happened to stand in the majestic corridor of the great city hall of San Francisco, a gigantic, beautiful building erected upon the ruins, or near the ruins of the former building that stood there. I read an inspiring inscription carved in solid granite, testifying to the great hope within that people for the future of their city. If I may paraphrase that inscription it will express, in some degree, my hope for the people of Zion : 

"O, Zion, thou glorious city of our God and our hearts, thou who hast been tried and not found wanting; go thou forth to thy glorious future," Amen, 

Anthony C. Lund and the Tabernacle choir sang a solo and chorus : "The Lord hath brought again Zion," the music by Arthur Shepherd, a Utah composer. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

SHALL THE CHURCH PURCHASE LIBERTY BONDS? 

I have a matter that I desire to present to the conference, as the Trustee-in-Trust of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When the subject of Liberty Bonds was broached and presented to the people, a number of my brethren submitted to me their views and their desires that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as ,such, should contribute some means in aid of our Government, in the purchase of these bonds with the tithes of the people. As Trustee-in-Trust, not a dollar of the tithings of the people has ever been diverted out of the regular channels of the Church, by myself; and the funds have been expended by the common consent of my counselors and of the Twelve, and as a general thing also that of the Presiding Bishopric. I did not feel that I had the authority or the right to divert fhe general funds of the Church from the usual channels in which all have agreed, and all have consented for it to be used, without submitting it to the general conference of the Church. Therefore, the Question that I wish to present to the conference is : Will this Conference, this General Conference, authorize the Trustee-in-Trust of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to use a certain amount of the funds of the Church for the purchase of Liberty Bonds? 149 

And in order that the matter may be brought a little more clearly and extensively to the attention of the conference, I will ask President Lund to express himself on the subject. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

A MOTION TO PURCHASE LIBERTY BONDS. 

This does not mean a donation, but simply that we buy bonds and thereby help our Government. I think that everybody present feels that we must do everything we can to sustain the Government, as we have declared that we are willing to do. We cannot shirk the duties that devolve upon us as citizens of this State and this Nation. We want to sustain the Nation, to sustain the Government, in the pursuit of obtaining a victory for the right; and I move that we authorize the Trustee-in-Trust to negotiate for such an amount of these bonds as he shall find that the means of the Church can stand, not to exceed a quarter of a million dollars. 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE 

SECONDING THE MOTION TO PURCHASE LIBERTY BOND,S. 

I arise to second the motion presented by President Lund. Perhaps you did not all hear it distinctly. The resolution is that this Conference, representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, authorize the Trustee-inTrust to negotiate for the purchase of Liberty Bonds, in aid of our great Nation and Government to defend the principles of constitutional liberty, and to wage a war of defense against oppression and  in all the world, for the purpose of aiding in spreading light and truth and freedom to all nations, and that the President of the Church, the Trustee-in-Trust, be authorized to enter into this negotiation for the purchase of honds as circumstances will permit, and not to exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. I second the motion with great pleasure, believing that it will be for the right, and that it will be supported by the Latter-day Saints who are true in the faith, everywhere. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

UNANIMOUS VOTE TO PURCHASE LIBERTY BONDS. 

Brethren and sisters: You have heard the motion which has been seconded. Are you ready for the question. (Voices: "Question.") I hope that eveiry Latter-day Saint will feel his own right and freedom to vote as he feels would be right before the Lord. All in favor of the motion will signify it by raising the right hand. ( Apparently unanimous response.) The contraryminded, by the same sign. (No response.) The vote seems to be uanimous, as I have not perceived a single hand raised in opposition. 

Under the circumstances, and with the sanction and approval of this vast body of the Priesthood, and of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we, your brethren, entrusted with the care of the funds of the Church, will use them as economically and wisely as we know how, by the help of the Lord. 

We will now have presented before us the general authorities of the Church. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

President Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, which were unanimously voted upon by the great assembly, as follows : 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Heber J. Grant, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., James E. Talmage and Stephen L. Richards. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball. Rulon S. Wells. Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his First and Second Counselors. 

Toseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Tesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church His and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Hyrum M. Smith. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen and Guy C. Wilson. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign and B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductors; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists : George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; and all the Members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Emmelihe B. Wells, President; Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor; Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, Secretary; Susa Young Gates, Corresponding Secretary; Emma A. Fmpey. Treasurer; Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musical Director; Edna H. Corav, Organist; Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Emilv S. Richard,s. Julia P. M. Farnsworth. Phebe Y.'Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas. Pris151  P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Edna May Davis, Sarah M. McClelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Jeanette A. Hyde, Sarah Eddington and Lillian Cameron. 

General Board of Deseret Sunday School Union: Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; David O. McKay, First Assistant Superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, Second Assistant Superintendent; George D. Pyper, Secretary; John F. Bennett, Treasurer; Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John M. Mills, Seymour 

B. Young, Anthon H. Lund, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, Charles B. Felt, George H. Wallace, Howard R. Driggs, Nathan T. Porter, Milton Bennion, Charles W. Penrose, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., Hyrum G. Smith, Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne, J. Leo Fairbanks, J. W. Walker, E. G. Gowans, E. Conway Ashton, Adam S. Bennion, Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : loseph F. Smith, Superintendent; Heber J. Grant and Brigham H. Roberts, Assistant Superintendents; Moroni Snow, Secretary; J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Willard Done, LeRoi 

C. Snow, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Lewis T. Cannon, Beniamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson. Lvman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart. John A. Widtsoe, James H. 

Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund, George F. Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor, Charles W. Penrose, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Nicholas G. Morgan, Claude Richards, John F. Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardley, Preston D. Richards, Osborne J. P. Widtsoe and Brigham S. Young. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association: Martha Home Tingey, President; Ruth May Fox, First Counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom, Second Counselor; Clarissa A. Beesley, Secretary; Joan M. Campbell, Recording Secretary; Alice K. Smith, Treasurer; Margaret Summerhays and Mabel Cooper, Music Directors. Aids : Maria Young Dougall, Adella W. Eardley, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Emily Caldwell Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy Woodruff Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovesy, Laura Bennion Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor, Sarah Richards Cannon, Lucy M. S. Carter, Charlotte Stewart, Lucy Grant Cannon, Emily H. Higgs. 

General Board of Primary Associations : Louie B. Felt, President; Mav Anderson, First Counselor; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; Francis K. Thomassen, Secretary; Genet B. Dee, Treasurer; Ida B. Smith, Librarian; Isabella S. Ross and Ann Nebeker, Physical Directors. Advisors to the Board: Hyr.um M. Smith and Anthony W. T vins. Aids: Matilda W. Cahoon. Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Aurelia Rogers, Eliza S. Bennion, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Edna Marker Thomas, Laura L. Foster, Edith Hunter Lambert, Eleanor R. Jeremy, Ella S. Capener, Georgina F. Richards, Vilate S. Chambers, Helen Davis, Marion lielnap Kerr, Nellie A. Talmage, Cordia H. Smith. 

General Board of Religion Classes: Anthon H. Lund, Superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant Superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, Second Assistant Superintendent; Edwin S. Sheets, Secretary; Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jensen, Willard Young, James E. Talmage, N. Andrew Jensen and Guy C. Wilson. 

General Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah : Anthon H. Lund, President; Charles W. Penrose, Vice-President; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Secretary and Treasurer; Joseph Christensen, Librarian; Anthony W. Ivins, Hyrum G. Smith and Heber J. Grant. 

Edward H. Anderson, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all named were sustained by unanimous vote of the people in the position designated. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

ADJOURNMENT. 

I desire to thank you, my brethren and sisters, one and all, for your continued presence and goodly at which you have given to that which has been said and done. I also desire to express my appreciation and gratitude to the Choir and to those who have made music for us during the conference. I wish to extend my hearty good will and best wishes to all the Latterday Saints, throughout the world, and to all people; for our mission is to save the world from the errors of men, from the .darkness of superstition and ignorance, and to bring them to the light of Truth; that they may walk in the light as God is in the light; that they may have fellowship with him, and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanse them from all sin. 

After the benediction, this conference will be adjourned until next April. 

The choir and congregation sang the Doxology. 

Benediction was .pronounced by Elder Edward H. Anderson. 

Conference adjourned for .six months. 

Prof. Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing in the Tabernacle. Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball, and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken in the Tabernacle by Elder Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Clyde Rasmussen and R. W. Gallacher; and in the Assembly Hall and Bureau of Information, by Elders Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. Edward H. Anderson, 

Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 

Compiled by the Church Historians and Published by the Church 

IN SIX VOLUMES COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by R. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per Vol.. .$1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per Vol......... 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per Vol. ..... 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge^ per Vol. 4.00 llllll!ll!llll!llllllll!ll!lllllll!!lll!in!!H!!ll[H 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiinM^ 

The Restoration of the Gospel 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, with an introtroduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Twelve. Adopted by the Priesthood Outlines Committee as a TEXT BOOK FOR THE PRIESTS' QUORUMS the year 1918. Bound in cloth, 75c postpaid. 

TWO BOOKS THAT EVERY L. D. S. FAMILY SHOULD HAVE 

The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, for 

histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25. 

Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. 

$1.25 and upward. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized History of the Church, and arranged accordiug to subject in alphabetical order. Price, 75c postpaid. 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiinnnoiiM 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN S

