Morning
07 04 1917

President Smith announced overflow meetings to be held in tne assembly Hall this morning, under direction of President Seymour B. Young, of the First Council of Seventy; also an open air meeting a* the Bureau of Information, under direction of Elder Benjamin God,dard of the Bureau of Information; and this afternoon, under direction of Elder Joseph W. McMurrin, of the First Council of Seventy, and Elder Benjamin Goddard, respectively, both for the accommodation of people who could not find room in the overcrowded Tabernacle where every seat and all available space was occupied. 

The Tabernacle choir sang: "Hear me, O Lord." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, President of the Deseret stake of Zion. 

Eveline Thomas sang a sacred contralto solo: "Eye hath not seen." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Faith, devotion and good works of the Saints in general — A few are filled with doubt and disbelief —  These, like Korihor, follow doctrine destructive of faith in God — Some observations on the theory of evolution — The doctrine of the Church contrasted — l 'ow far we believe in evolution — Tendency of all things left to chance to dissolve, decline and deteriorate — All development leading from lesser to greater  is the result of the intelligence of God — The strong testimony of a noted writer — God is the author of all intelligence and wisdom — The speaker's testimony to the restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

"Now it came to pass that there were many of the rising generation that could not understand the words of king Benjamin, being little children at the time he spake unto his people; and they did not believe the traditions of their fathers. 

"They did not believe what had been said concerning the resurrection of the dead, neither did they believe concerning the coming of Christ. 

"And now because of their unbelief they could not understand the word of God; and their hearts were hardened. 

"And they would not be baptized; neither would they join the Church. And they were a separate people as to their faith, and remained so ever after, even in their carnal and sinful state; for they would not call upon the Lord their God." 

Since the last general conference of the Church, in April, I have visited many of the organized stakes of Zion. I have been in Canada on the north, and to the extreme limits of this state in the south, and it , affords me great pleasure and sincere satisfaction to testify before this large congregation of Latterday Saints to the faith, the devotion and good works of the great majority of the Latter-day Saints wherever I have been. I have found, however, in all of these different localities people who aopear to lack faith, who are indifferent to the doctrines of the gospel as taught by the Church, they do not believe, or least doubt, that the spirit of man existed before coming to this world, that it lives after leaving it, or that there will be a re-union of the spirit and body in the resurrection from the dead. To them this life is all there is of human existence. In searching for the cause which led up to the unbelief of these young people among the Nephites, to whom the scripture which I have read refers, I discovered, to use the words of those who kept their records, that there appeared among them men of cunning device and flattering words, teaching doctrines which were destructive of faith in Go:l. Prominent among such men was Korihor, from whose words I now wish to read : 

"Oh, ye that are bound down under a foolish and a vain hope, why do ye yoke yourselves with such foolish things? Why do ye look for a Christ? For no man can know of any thing which is to come. 

"Behold, these things which ye call prophecies, which ye say are handed down by holy prophets, behold, they are foolish traditions of your fathers. 

"How do ye know of their surety? Behold, ye cannot know of things which ye do not see; therefore ye cannot know that there shall be a Christ. 

"Ye look forward and say that ye see a remission of your sins. But, behold, it is the effect of a frenzied mind; and this derangement of your minds comes because of the traditions of your fathers, which lead you away into a belief ,of things which are not so. 

"And many more such things did he say unto them, telling them that there could be no atonement made for the sins of men, but that every man fared in this life according to the management of the creature; therefore every man prospered according to his genius, and that every man conquered according to his strength: and whatsoever a man did was no crime. 

"And thus did he preach unto them, leading away the hearts of many,  them to lift up their heads in their wickedness; * * * telling them that when a man was dead, that was the end thereof." 

As I read and reflected upon these words, I thought how like the past the present is, when applied to this question. Recently, in one of the stakes of Zion which I visited, a man professing great learning, before a public gathering, with cunning device and flattering words declared to those to whom his remarks were addressed that their ancestors hung from the branches of the forest trees by their tales. With boldness he advocated the theory that man had gradually evolved, without conscious effort, from the lowest type of created life to what he now is, and that as his past had been a continued process of change so is his future to be. 

In this, I thought, he is at least consistent, for if man was not always what he is now, if it is true that he has gradually come up from the lower order of created things, what changes may not the future ages bring to him! I took occasion to question the theory advocated by this man, to point out what appeared to me to be its inconsistencies, with the result that a request was made that I read certain books which treated the subject of evolution; some of them, it was said, were in very general use in our common schools. I did so, with the result that my conclusions, long since arrived at, were more strongly confirmed than ever before, and my faith in the revealed word of the Lord strengthened, if that were possible. 

The doctrine taught in these books takes you into the realm of , teaches that this earth and all things wich are upon it are the result of chance, it leaves you bewildered regarding- the past, uncertain of the present, and without hope in the future. The truth, as revealed from heaven, teaches the plan of an infinitely wise creator, designed for the accomplishment of a divine purpose. 

I know it will be claimed that I am not capable of discussing this question, that I am not a learned man, that I have no college degree, and consequently am incapable of rendering intelligent judgment. I admit that I have not passed my life behind closed doors, reading books written by uninspired men, and accepting their conclusions without reserve. I have not passe 1 it in an effort to produce, by cross breeding, a new species of guinea pig, or by selection and intensive cultivation a new variety of pea; but I have read some books, have been in close contact with nature, unspoiled by the hand of man, have been an observer and student of my surroundings, until I have reached conclusions which satisfy me, and seem to justify my faith, and so I am, going to assume to tread upon this ground made sacred to men of so called learning, and express to this congregation the result of some of my observations. 

This modern theory of evolution suggests that at a period in the past, so remote that it is almost beyond conception, by some spontaneous action, the earth came into existence. By degrees life appeared upon it; it gradually changed under some natural process until what in the beginning was a very inferior form of vegetable and animal life evolved into what the world now is,  man representing its highest development. 

I take it for granted that if this theory is admitted it must logically follow that this evolution from an inferior condition is still in process of development, and that just as man at present has no association or affinity with the source from which he is said to have sprung, so as the ages pass he will be as unlike what he now is, as he is now unlike what he once was. 

In contrast to this theory we have the doctrine taught by the Church that the earth, and all that is upon it, were created by God's fiat, or decree. That the earth, the vegetation, and all life were created in successive periods, and lastly man, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. The only created thing which was in the image of God, the only created thing endowed with reason, and in a degree with the intelligence of the Creator. And God gave to man dominion over the fishes of the sea, the fowls of the air, and every other created thing. Because of transgression a curse came upon the earth, and it was decreed that thorns and tistles should be its spontaneous product, that the natural tendency of all created things should be toward decay and dissolution, and that redemption from these untoward conditions could only come through the application of the intelligence with which man had been endowed, and the effort which he put forth to subdue the earth and redeem it until it should be restored to its paradisiacal glory. 

I desire to ask advocates of this theory of evolution without conscious effort, to point me to a single instance where, within the known history of the world, any living thing- has, without application of the intelligent effort of man, which is the application of the intelligence of God, changed from what it was to somthing else, where a thing has come up from an inferior to a superior condition. On the other hand my own observation has taught me that the moment the most highly developed thing is left to itself, left to chance, without the intelligent application of the intelligence of man, it immediately reverts from what it is to an inferior condition, just as the Lord decreed it should. 

I am a believer in evolution. I can very readily believe that my ancestors may have lived in a cave or in the rudest kind of habitation, whereas, today they live in palaces. I can very readily understand that these primitive, simple homes may have been warmed and lighted by fire that was produced by the rubbing together of sticks, where today it is produced by the application of those scientific means which have been revealed to man through the Spirit of God by which they have been enabled to apply to their convenience the elements with which they are surrounded. I can very readily believe that whereas they cultivated the earth with the most primitive agricultural implements and fought their battles with weapons made of stone, they now cultivate the earth by the application of the most scientific methods and that their battles are fought by processes unthought of an:l unknown to primitive man. I can readily understand that they gathered from the beds of the rivers and chisled from the rock the native metal which they hammered into ornaments and used perhaps  circulating medium, whereas now the ores are mined and the metals extracted by the most intricate chemical process. In this I see the most marvelous progress, the most wonderful evolution; but I see in it all, my brethren and sisters, not the result of chance, but the development of the mind of man, which is after the order of the mind of God; that, as he grew, his observation taught him that there were better ways of doing things than the way in which he was doing them, and that as he reflected and thought and studied, God gave him wisdom to go on and to thus perfect the primitive thought which he originally had. I have seen the most beautiful things in the vegetable world that the hand of man and the wisdom of all these ages has created, left to itself "for a short time, left to chance, almost immediately revert to wild condition. I have seen horses and cattle bred up to the very highest standard left only for a short period of time to themselves, become degenerated, illustrating just what God's word declared, that the natural tendency of all that pertains to this earth is towards decline, towards 'dissolution, not to go on and on without intelligent effort until perfection is reached. But one of these learned men said to me when I illustrated my though in this way, "Why, that is natural, that is because of environment; those horses degenerated and became mustangs because that was the very best condition that they could be in to adapt themselves to their surroundings." That may be true, but the argument does not hold good, because I took those very same horses, eating the same grass, drinking the same water, exposed to the same storm  sunshine, and by the application of my own intelligence, my own judgment, I began to bring them back to the condition in which they formerly were, but that did not occur to those which man had neglected and to which he had given no attention. 

So, my brethren and sisters, I have reached this conclusion, and that is the thought which I desire to leave in your minds, that whatever of development there is in the world, whatever of evolution has come, leading from lesser to greater things, from worse to better conditions, are the results of the intelligence of God, as it is represented in the only created thing that stands in his image in the world. 

' Desiring at one time in my life to know something of the rocks, of the earth upon which we live, as its conditions have been determined by scientific research, I went to a book store and purchased this little book, "Steele's Series in the Natural Sciences, Geology," a work written by J. Dorman Steele, author of works in chemistry, physics, zoology, botany, astronomy, physiology and geology, a simple exposition of the scientific truths known to the world at that time, a book which has been used in thousands of schools, a book with which many of my hearers will be more familiar than I, because I have never studied it under the direction of a teacher, but I read and studied it with very great interest by myself. I did not expect at the conclusion to find what I discovered. I shall never forget the impression that the words of this man made upon my mind in his conclusion of this little work, and I want to read them to you because they are entitled to weight, coming as they do from a  of profound thought and great learning : 

"We have traced in the dim light of the past the history of our earth and its inhabitants. Everywhere we have found a Divine Hand shaping and moulding to accomplish a Divine ideal. 'In the beginning God.' We can add nothing to the old Hebrew declaration. We have gone back to the origin of man, and there, too, we have rested on that sublime truth, 'In the beginning God.' We have winged our imagination backward to the time when our earth was 'without form and void,' and here again we have felt the force of that same statement, 'In the beginning God.' 

"Was man created directly by God's fiat, ,or by some intermediate process of secondary causes? 'Alas for the impotence of science and the scope of our finite intelligence!' We bring the subtlest agencies to the accomplishment of our designs — heat, light, electricity — but when we seek to develop from them even the intangible forces which clothe the decaying rock with verdure, or mantle the stagnant pool with slime, failure inevitably waits upon us. In vain do we seek to associate vital manifestation with electrical action, we may resolve the vital organism into cells and granules and nuclei, but the life eludes our proudest philosophy. If, under certain conditions, inorganic matter assumes organic form, those conditions and the laws which govern them are alike unknown to us. And so we pause on the threshold of created life, and, standing reverently aside, lay humbly down our little wisdom as we recognize the unfathomable greatness of the one all-wise Creator." 

My brethren and sisters, the thought which I wish to leave with you is this, in your search after knowledge, in your desire to become profound, in your study of philosophy, do not lose sight of this one thought that God, the Creator of heaven and earth is the author of intelligence and all the light, and knowledge, and wisdom which has come to man or which will ever come to him emanates from that source. Do not allow yourselves, because of the words of men, of cunning device and flattering words — they are here just as they were among the Nephites, to delude you and lead you away from the eternal truth, that we must recognize God our Father, who is the author of all things, the Creator of heaven and earth, to whom all men owe .deference, and allegiance, and service, whether they render it or not. Do not deny the atonement wrought out by his only begotten son. Do not become obscessed with the thought that this life is all there is to human existence, because it is a fallacy. I bear witness of it to you in all humility. I have tried to understand, I have studied, I have sought the Lord from my youth until the present time when 1 am growing old. I find from my own observation, my own study, and the testimony which God has given me, the eternal truth of these things growing stronger and stronger, if that were possible. He has restored the truth to the earth through the agency of the Prophet Joseph Smith; the fulness of the gospel is here; it is the power of God unto salvation and has in it everlasting life to all of those who believe and obey. 

May the Lord preserve us from delusions which are abroad in the land, fix faith firmly in our hearts that we may hold fast to the iron rod which is the word of God, and it will bear us safely through, until we find our way back into the presence of our Creator, and then we will understand. Yes, there has been evolution, evolution will continue until we shall become like him, knowing as we are known, seeing as we are seen, and comprehending  in all these wonderful works that are around us, the wisdom of God is manifest and that the laws by which they have been accomplished are simple, and will be simple to us when we come to understand them. 

The Lord preserve us all in the truth, keep us from the delusive snares of the adversary, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A bass solo entitled : "Two men went up into the Temple to Pray," was sung by Everard McMurrin. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

The things of God understood by the Spirit of God — The question of the origin of man — The glory of God is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man — Theories of men and the word of the Lord contrasted — Scientific theories, so called, on the origin of man, have no more right to a place in the school room than the principles of the gospel, nor half as much — Discoveries of modern times due to the inspiration of God — Protest against poisoning the youth with false doctrines on the origin ,of life. 

"But as it is writen, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart ,of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. 

"But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. 

"For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. 

"Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. 

"Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teach; comparing spiritual things with spiritual" (I Cor. 2:9-13). 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I suppose I also belong to that class of individuals to which Brother Ivins belongs, and perhaps it will be considered, by those who think they know, that I also am incapable of expressing intelligent thought in regard to that same subject, the origin of man. However, I have great confidence in the word of the Lord and I accept, without reservation, these passages of scripture which I have read. I have also concluded that one can learn more and get nearer to the truth by heeding the testimony of the servants of the Lord and hearkening to the teachings of the Spirit of the Lord, than one can possibly clo by following the commandments and the teachings of men who have received their understanding and their learning in the spirit and in the wisdom of man. Therefore, I put my trust in the Lord, and what I speak I believe I speak bv the Spirit of God, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. I believe that man is the offspring of God, that he was created in the beginning in the image of God and is in very deed his son, so far. at least, as the spirit is concerned. I wish to read in connection with this which I have iust read, a few verses from the Pearl of Great Price on this same subject : 

"And behold, the glory of the Lord was upon Moses, so that Moses stood in the presence of God, and talked with him face to face. And the Lord God said unto Moses: For mine own purpose have I made these things. Here is wisdom, and it remaineth in me. 

"And by the word of my power, have I created them, which is mine Only Begotten Son. who is full of grace and truth. 

"And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten. 

"And the first man ,of all men have I called Adam, which is many. 

"But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto you. For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them. 

"And it came to pass that Moses spake unto the Lord, saying: Be merciful unto thy servant, God, and tell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens, and then thy servant will be content. 

"And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. 

"And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come and there is no end to my works, neither to my words." 

From this we learn that there has never been a time when worlds were not created and when heavens did not exist. And, furthermore, that the creation of heavens and earths by our eternal Father from the beginning, whatever that may mean, and throughout eternity, has been and is for the one grand purpose which is explained in the next verse following this which I have just read : "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to r>ass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

There never was a time when there was not a world; there never was a time when that world was not peopled with beings who were created in the image of God — his children fashioned after his own likeness. Life is not spontaneous upon this earth. It did not have its origin here; it was planted here in its varied forms. This idea that everything commenced from a small beginning, from the scum upon the surface of the sea, and has gradually developed until all forms of life, the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air, the fishes of the sea, and the plants upon the face of the earth, have all sprung from that one source, is a falsehood absolutely. There is no truth in it, for God has given us his word by which we may know, and all who are led by the Spirit of God can understand through that Holy Spirit, the truth of these things. We know, for our Father in heaven has revealed these things unto us, that life has always existed. Tt existed long before it was planted here, and this earth, we understand, is passing through a probation such as other worlds have passed through, and when it completes its earthly mission and fills the measure of its present creation, for it keeps the law that was given to it, it shall be sanctified and exalted. When that time comes it will be removed out of its present place as other worlds have been removed when they have filled the measure of their creation, and then another world will come and take its place. This procession will sro on, worlds without end; so I understand from the reading of these scriptures. 

How foolish, how narrow, how contemptible it is for men professing to be men of intelligence and possessing scientific knowledge and wisdom, to declare that all life upon this earth is spontaneous, and to confess that they know nothing of any life upon any other world. Moreover, to declare that the life here has all developed from the  single, simple source. It is true that all life does come from the same source, but that is not the scum of the sea, a jellyfish or a pollywog. God, our Father, is the creator of life and he placed life on this earth in varied forms, and also on other worlds. He will continue his work on this earth and upon other planets, or worlds, which will take the place of this earth when it has been exalted and gone on to its celestial glory. He will continue to bring to pass his purposes by peopling worlds and bringing to nass the immortality and eternal life of his children. Now I think this is a noble thought. I think it is something that will enlighten th° minds of men and buoy them up. Tt will strengthen our faith and give us encouragement to continue on in well doing, because it gives us hone of better things, even immortality and eternal life as the sons an 1 ^daughters of God. But this false theory, which prevails in the world so extensively, is one that is debasing and not ennobling nor uplifting. 

Here is another passage of scripture I wish to read from the Doctrine and Covenants, section 76, known as tbe vision — a vision given to Joseph Smith and Sidney Ri^don on the 16th day of February, 1832 : 

"And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; and saw the holy angels, and they who are sanctified before his throne, worshiping God, and the Lamb, who worship him for ever and ever. And now. after the manv testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of him, that he lives: for we saw him. even on the right hand of God. and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Onlv Begotten of the Father — That by him and through him, and of him the worlds are and  created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and . daughters unto God." 

This they beheld in vision, and it was revealed unto them that all mankind upon the face of this earth and other worlds are the offspring- of God in the .spirit, but that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son in the flesh. Now, this to me is consistent, it is reasonable; it is logical and it is true. The first life created for this world was not placed upon it at the time it was created. Let me read again; this same thought is found in the account in Genesis in the Bible, but not ,so clearly expressed as it is here, therefore, I will read from the Pearl of Great Price : 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that these are the generations of the heaven and of the earth, when they were created, in the day that I, the Lord God, made the heaven and the earth. 

"And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air." 

Now, I could continue to read — I shall not take the time — and show you that the creation that was made spiritually was in the same likeness of the creation that was later made temporally, when man, beast and plant were placed upon the earth. All were created before the foundation of this world was prepare' — created spiritually— and existed in the kingdom of God. When the  was formed and ready to receive them they were clothed with bodies that were physical and thus not only man, but the animals and the plants upon the face of the earth, became living souls, because they were composed of the spirit and the body combined. I like to believe this. 1 know it is true. It appeals to my reason, it appeals to my spirit, I accept it as the truth which God has revealed, and I rejoice in the knowledge that I have received regarding it. There is no theory in the world that can compare with it. These ideas of men, their foolish doctrines regarding the origin of life which are taught in many of the schools and against our protest very largely — and I am sorry to say, in too many cases without our protest, for I believe we ought to protest against these things — constitute the wisdom of uninspired men an r l must perish. I do not believe that the falsely called scientific theory of man's origin has any more right to a place in the public schools than the principles of the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ have — and not half as much! 

Now, it may be true, and it is true, that Abraham as he sat in his tent, coukl not receive the news of the world published in the daily press and have it delivered to him at his door; he could not push a button and turn on the electric light, but is that saying that Abraham was less intelligent than men are who dwell on the earth today? The truth of the matter is that these things were not intended for Abraham's day, and they would not be known and utilized today if the Lord had not revealed them to men and had not inspired men to make the discoveries which have been made, by which we are able to receive the news as it is gathered from the telegraph and from wireless telegraphy and have it printed by machinery which is run by electricity. We can sit in our comfortable homes and turn on the light by pressing a button; we can read the public prints, and we will know what is going on today in all the world; but does that prove that we today are more intelligent, or that we have greater understanding than Abraham, than Moses, than Elijah, or any of the prophets of those early times, pertaining to those things which are most essential to the salvation of mankind? Not by any means! I read in the scriptures, if I understand them correctly, that many of the prophets of old had opened to their vision scenes pertaining to the history of the children of men down to the end of time, and the Lord revealed unto them the conditions that would prevail in the earth in this generation. They saw, if I understand the matter correctly, our automobiles, our railroad trains; they saw, very probably, the communication that was taking place upon the face of the earth so wonderfully by wireless communication, or by means of wires by which news is conveyed. They saw, I believe, the airplanes flying in the midst of the heavens, because we can read in the prophecies of these ancient scriptures many things that indicate that these things were revealed unto those ancient prophets. But these wonderful discoveries and conveniences were not intended for their day. They could not sit in an automobile and travel from city to city, or in a railroad train, and ride comfortably, nor could they ride in a modern carriage drawn by , but upon the back of an ass would they journey from place to place, or walking by the side of their beast of burden they would travel a few miles each day and call it a day's journey. 

And yet the prophets saw the time in the latter days when an ensign should be lifted up that those gathering to Zion should come with speed swiftly; they should not be weary, neither should they be under the necessity of slumber, nor the loosing of their girdle or the shoes from off their feet. But these advantages were not for their times and the customs and conditions which prevail now were held in reserve, not because we are any better or more worthy than the Saints of former tim.es, nor because we have greater intelligence, but because we are living in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, when the Lord is gathering all things in one and preparing the earth for the »reat millennial reign, and, it is necessary now that all these discoveries, these wonderful inventions and conveniences should be made known to the children of men. 

Those who make these discoveries are inspired of God or they would never make them. The Lord gave inspiration to Edison, to Franklin, to Morse, to Whitney and to all of the inventors and discoverers, and through their inspiration they obtained the necessary knowledge and were able to manufacture and invent as they have done for the benefit of the world. Without the help of the Lord they would have been just as helpless as the people were in other ages. Abraham knew far more in his day regarding the planets and the great fixed stars out in space than the greatest astronomer knows today. 

How did he get his knowledge? Not through the telescope; not through the spectroscope; but through the opening of his vision by the Spirit of God. He was taught by the Lord himself who revealed unto him all these things and explained the great heavenly bodies and their workings, also the earth, in a manner that never has been approached and cannot be approached by the scientific man with all his instruments to aid him and inspired by worldly learning, and don't yon forget it! These ancient seers and saints were just as intelligent as we are. They were just as full of inspiration. They had the Spirit of the Lord to guide them and were directed by it. They hearkened unto those things which God taught and they understood the truth and knew far more of that which is essential, in a minute, than some of these so-called scientists, who declare that life is spontaneous and commenced upon this earth, know in a year. 

Now this is my testimony. They may say I am incompetent. What do I care, as long as I know I have the truth, as long as I know that God has revealed unto me that these things which I have declared are true! What do I care what they teach, so far as my knowledge is concerned? I do care so far as the poisoning of the minds of the youth of Israel is concerned, and I protest against it. I have protested from this stand, and I expect to continue to protest, whether it does any good or not, at least with the desire to stir up the Latter-day Saints; and I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that it is your duty to seek for the light and the truth and the wisdom and the inspiration that come through contact with the 

Spirit of the Lord, that you may understand and know the things pertaining to the kingdom of God, and see things spiritually and compare spiritual things with spiritual. By so doing we may* understand all things which our Father in heaven has reserved for those who obey him. 

May God bless you, and all Israel and help us to walk in the light and seek the knowledge that we may lay a foundation in truth which cannot be overturned by the follies and theories of men, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

Three practical sermons — Save enough wheat for food and seed — Avoid speculators and invest your surplus in Liberty Bonds — Congregational singing, and selecting suitable songs. 

I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference more, I think, than any previous conference that I have ever attended. There are two or three items that I would like to briefly touch upon. 

We have been blessed with seed time and harvest and the earth has yielded in rich abundance, which is now being gathered by the farmers of our land. The Government has fixed the price at which wheat shall be sold. The Government has also issued instructions that no great amount of wheat shall he stored to be held for future use. But I believe it is the part of wisdom that our people should be counseled that they .should not dispose of all the wheat they have, but save at least enough for seed for the fall and spring planting and also sufficient quantity for bread, at least until another harvest. If we are not careful, pretty much all of the wheat that we have raised will be shipped out of the country, and before next fall we will probably be importing flour from Minneapolis — if we can get it. So, my brethren and sisters, see to it that you retain enough of the wheat you have raised, for seed, and for food, that not only you yourselves may be fed by it, but that you may have sufficient to feed the communities in which you reside; so that if you have an extra loaf or an extra pound or two of wheat more than you yourselves need, it will provide food for the poor, or for people who have to buy from you, and I feel sure the Government would not wish you to do otherwise than to care for those of your own household and of your own community. Probably that will do for one sermon. 

One other point. People this year, in every activity, whether on the farm or the ranch, in sheep or cattle or who are merchandising, have been blessed with unexampled prosperity in a temporal way. Brother George Albert Smith called attention to that fact last night in the priesthood .meeting, and very wisely advised the people to take care of what the Lord is now giving them, that which he is putting into their hands, and not allow it to be wasted in foolish speculations. He called attention to the fact that speculators would be after you in great number with every sort of scheme to allure you to investing money whereby you are sure to get rich quick. The oil man will show vou where there are great fortunes in oil, and the coal man will make you rich from coal, and the rubber man has got fortunes for you in rubber, if you will only listen to him, and the gas man can prove  are millions in natural gas; and it is a fact that that kind of a promoter usually has a good flow of natural gas himself. So there are fortunes for you everywhere if you will only invest in these wild schemes, part with your money and get rich quickly. We read that the fellow who parts quickly with his money is not very wise. 'The fool and his money do not stick together very long; they are soon parted, and all these promoters, so many of them coming around now in this year of your greatest prosperity, to separate you from your money. Well, don't you let them do it. And you sisters take my advice — as the phrase is, "take it from me" — don't allow your husbands to separate themselves from their money and put it into something they don't know anything about. But if you have a little surplus money — and you will have it with the prices now paid for grain and hay and potatoes and sheep and cattle and wool, and for all products of the soil, you will have considerable surplus — let me tell you what to do with it. If you have $100 surplus, buy a Liberty Bond. You can't lose on that. That is good for all time, and if you want to go to a bank you can borrow money on it more than you can in proportion on your own farm, because on your farms the insurance companies and other loaning companies, including the banks, will not loan more than about 50 per cent, of the land's value. But if you have a little surplus money and put it into Liberty Bonds, the banks will advance you a much larger percentage than they will on your land. So I repeat the good words of advice offered by Elder George Albert Smith last night. Don't allow these men to separate you from your . Hang on to it. Put it into something- that you know will do you some good. Put it into something that you yourselves know something about. That is another sermon. 

Now just one minute more. I would like to encourage the idea in our wards and stakes of this Church, and also outside of the Church, of that which is being encouraged in the east very extensively, and that is community singing, congregational singing. I do not object to solos. We had some here this morning — never any better anywhere in the world. They were very fine. I love to hear them. But solos may be overdone. As a rule people love to sing. There is something in the spirit of song when you can get the people to join in it, even though some of us can't sing so well, that gives forth an inspiration which cannot be otherwise found. When we all sing together there is a spirit, an influence and a power— an inspirational power — that goes with it, that fires the soul in a way that it can't otherwise be touched or fired. So this spirit of comradeship, which the war is very largely responsible for in the east, has taken hold of the people, and they are getting together all classes of nationalities, blending together their voices and singing patriotic songs and other songs. 

Especially in our congregations of the Saints, we .should have more of congregational singing. We should bring our hymn books to meeting with us and then sing, have everybody sing, and .everybody will feel the better for it. And let me advise our leaders of choirs — if I may presume that much — to try when they do have selections in "Mormon" meetings, that they  such selections as fit the occasion. A number of the leading brethren attended a meeting some time ago, at which meeting I was present, and the brother who was presiding had a slip of paper in his hand. I happened to sit next to him. There were these prominent brethren of the Church at a Latterday Saint meeting, although there were quite a number present who were not Latter-day Saints, but it was a "Mormon" meeting for "Mormon" purposes. I looked over his list of songs on the paper that he held in his hand, which had been handed to him by the choir leader, and not one of them had the least reference to "Mormon" thought, "Mormon" ideas, or "Mormon" anything about it. Well, I don't believe that is just right. 

I have seen, too, some of our brethren, leaders of choirs, select a soloist who will come forward — someone with a good voice, who is capable of good singing — who will get up in a "Mormon" meeting and commence to sing "My Rosary." Well now, "My Rosary" is fine music and a good song for a Catholic meeting, but it is entirely out of place in a "Mormon" meeting. That song recites how "I count my beads and kiss my cross," and all that so.rt of thing. Well, I don't do either, I don't believe in doing either, and you don't believe in it. So a song like that is entirely out of place in a "Mormon" meeting, as much so, I think, as it would be to sing "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, to guide us in these Latter days," in a Catholic meeting. 

Then I have heard a soloist brought in who would sing a song entirely at variance from our religious thought. Perhaps it would be the song "Without One Stain," the idea being that "Jesus has done everything; he has cleansed me; I haven't done anything myself, but I am going right up without one stain." I have thought: Yes, you will! Not if He knows it, you won't. There are too many stains on people who have not by sincere and heartfelt repentance cleansed themselves from stains. Such a song, therefore, is entirely out of place in a "Mormon" meeting. And you will hear, as one of the brethren suggests, the song about "The Beautiful Isle of Somewhere." Well, yes, that is in line with the same thought. They do not belong and should not have place in our meetings. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, my time is up, I see, and this is my third sermon. Let us have more of community singing, congregational singing. Let us sing songs of Zion. They carry with them a spirit and an influence, not only in "Mormon" meetings, but in others, that cannot be found anywhere else, and they thrill the soul as nothing else will touch it and thrill it. Invite our neighbors to our meetings that they also may enjoy the spirit of song with us. God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH 

PRIMARY EXHIBIT 

I am reminded that the Presidency and the Twelve were invited, yesterday, by the Presidency of the Primary Association, to visit the exhibit of the handiwork of the little children for the benefit of afflicted soldiers. The exhibit is placed in the upper, large room of the Bishop's building, and I am sure Sister Felt and her associates will be pleased to have any of the breth and sisters who desire to see what is being done by the children, in the Primary work, to call and visit them. 

A duet and chorus was sung by Sarah Hood and James H. Neilson and the Tabernacle choir, entitled, "I waited for the Lord." 

The closing prayer was pronounced by President Richard W. Young of the Ensign stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


