Overflow
06 04 1913

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly 

EDGAR YOUNG. 71 

Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sundav, April 6th, 1913 The services were presided o'ver bv Elder George F. Richards. 

The Thirty-first ward choir rendered the musical services, under direction of H. E. Dewsnup. 

-The choir sang the anthem, "Hark, hark my soul." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Nathaniel V. Jones. 

Thomas L. Doxy and choir sang the anthem, "Crowned with the tempest." 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I hope that what is said this morning may be dictated by the Spirit of the Lord. I have been very greatly impressed with the services of this conference. There is one phase of the meetings of yesterday and day before that, to me, is a study in social intelligence. I think you were all impressed in the same way. When a man of the type of President Joseph F. Smith as "leader of this Church, can stand before an audience of eight or ten thousand people, and call men from the congregation to the stand, in a magnificent building like the tabernacle, and have those men come forth and speak with the intelligence that they did, I say that it is a study in social intelligence which should impress everybody greatly. It is a known fact that in the Christian world there are few men, comparatively speaking, who can -give any reason for their lives, for the hopes that they have, for their attitude toward the higher life, and I doubt if you could get as many men in all of this country to speak on the spur of the moment, as we can get within the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am this morning impressed with the thought, that "Mormonism" finds its power and efficacy after all in the human heart, that it is directed and inspired by the best that is in life and the best that can come from the throne of Almighty God. 

I can speak to you but a few moments, but I want to leave this message with you. If there is anything needed today in the world, it is a knowledge of Jesus, the Christ. I believe that after all the only salvation for the social, political, economic and religious conditions of "he world today is through the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

We hear a great deal of what we call the philosophy of "Mormonism." It was only yesterday that I was asked this question : Of what I believe to be the philosophy of the social aspect of "Mormonism?" I did not know what the question meant. It was indefinite. But I wish to make this reply to it: If people would only hark back to the simplicity of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and get that simplicity in their hearts, first, last and all the time, there would be no time whatever for idle gossip, idle talk and idle thoughts, if you please, concerning the meaning of this religion and the meaning of life. We are becoming, I sometimes think, too complex. We are growing out of harmony with all that is best in life, because of our trying to cope with what I call the mechanical fads and fashions of the day. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Sains rests upon the teachings of the greatest Soul, yet the simplest Soul, in expression and in thought; it rests upon the thought of the Redeemer of the , whose every act, whose every word, was so simple, so childlike, so clean, so enlightened, that kings would bow to him. And we are told by tradition, in the Talmud, that little children kissed his hand.' Now there is a thought there that we must not forget, and in this day and age of the world, in this confusion of life, all of us are working very, very hard to make life full of meaning, and to get out of it all that is best. He lives best who thinks best; he acts best, who loves best; he becomes the greatest light, the greatest influence in his religion of the pure Christ, when he passes on through life honestly, and when his whole body and soul in activity vibrates to the simplicity of the gospel of Christ. Now I say I was^impressed with this thing on yesterday, and it is a study of social intelligence. 

. 1 am proud of this people. I believe we are already taking the leadership of intelligence and morality in the world. That is my candid belief, and I have a right to say it. I believe that we have already set the pace for the solution of the social problem. I think we have set the pace for the solution of all the problems that concern the human race. I believe in the efficacy and in the power of men who hold the priesthood of God, because it is only through the priesthood that these problems will ultimately be solved. Another thing that I think has been impressive in this conference is this fact — you know, by the way, we all go home asking ourselves what lessons we have got out of the meeting; we should certainly do that — this meeting will do me and you no good unless you and I carry into our hearts a real, good reason, thought and suggestion to put into  lives tomorrow and the next day and all the days to come. 

Now I say another thought has impressed me very forcibly in this conference thus far. It is the fact that there is a difference between priestcraft and priesthood. Priestcraft is the hierarchy of a man-made government; it is a result of man's force and energy. Priesthood is the expression of the power of Almighty God in the soul, the very being of men who bear that divine calling. Historically, socially, religiously, there is a difference between priestcraft and priesthood. 

My brethren and sisters, we are living in a very great age. I believe that we are all going to be more or less agitated at times in our feelings concerning things that are said and done towards us and said about us. But the glorious thing about this Church, if we are living our religion, is that nothing in the world can hurt us. You know nothing can injure truth. Truth has, it is quite true, but one enemy, and that is untruth. Untruth has two enemies, truth and itself. And my faith is that truth in any line will always become  pre-eminent, predominant, and will always win out in the end. If we are living our religion as best we can, nothing from outside can ever injure us. The injury would come from our own hearts, our own activities, our own passions. So I say it behooves us as Latter-day Saints to study very hard, to think very accurately, and to allow our activities and our words to become mere expressions of our inner souls, and lives. 

We ought to have ideals. We ought to have greater ideals every day. We ought to have greater dreams. I claim there never has been anything accomplished by a  unless he dreamed dreams and had visions of greater things. I glory when a Latter-day Saint says to me: "I dream, I have my vision of greater things," because that is pre-eminently the gift of God to man, and when men do dream, when men have their visions, then will men have their ideals, and will strive to carry these ideals out and make of life the greatest, the glorious thing that God had intended it to be. I love the man or the woman who goes from day to day, staking his whole being upon the fact that in his life there is but one sum and substance, and that is work. 

Recently, in an interview, a man asked when these "Mormon" men and women found time, for joy or fun, for, he said, "it seems to me that the men and the women vou have here are all working, working." It is in our work that we find our joy. It is in our work that we find our light and our happiness. It is in our work that we discover our lives. So we must work and never become discouraged. We must study and look up to the higher light, for there is always a higher light. God pity the man or the woman who has never seen it. We must learn to live ideally and idealistically. We must learn not always to say things that are practical in the sense of being materialistic. We must become practical but we must get away from the materialistic at times, and live the spirit which comes of God. That is practical. Some people get the idea, you know, that if any one lives a spiritual life, he is not practical. That is another thing that has impressed me in this conference, that men say by their lives that they are spiritualistic, and yet they make life real, practical, and true. We should then study the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We should study the Holy Bible. We should study that equally great book, the Book of Mormon. We should find our rest, our peace, expressed in the Doctrine and Covenants. I want to say here — and every man has a right to believe what he wishes and to hold what he wishes to be true — T want to say to you, Read the book, the Pearl of Great Price, and read the Book of Abraham. The Pearl of Great Price I hold to be one of the most intelligent, one of the most religious books that the world has ever had; but, more than that, to me the Pearl of Great Price is true in its name. It contains an ideal of life that is higher and grander and more glorious than I think is found in the pages of any other book unless it be the Holy Bible. It behooves us to read these things, understand them; and I thank God when they are attacked, because it brings to me, after a study and thought, back to the fact that what God has given He has given, and He has nothing to retract. 

God bless you in your work, and may we be united as a people, for in unity there is strength. Let us learn. Let us learn to look up. Let us learn that God made the stars and the sun and the moon for us. Life is too big, too noble, too true for us to stoop to low things. We have not time to talk about our neighbor. We have not time to speak unkind thoughts. We should be so active that every moment counts for the better life, and our dreams and our hopes and our ambitions should be lodged in the light of God, and our verv activities should be making for His Kingdom. This applies to us all. And so let us take from this conference great thoughts. Let us  in it the kernel in the nut. Let us see to it that we carry these great thoughts home with us, and as much as possible weave them into our lives, that our lives may be made more resonant, more fruitful, that we may harmonize our very beings with the light, and with the will and the kingdom of God more each day. Then will the world sav of us, that our light, the light of "Mormonism," so shines that it becomes the ideal for the world to follow. 

The gospel is true, every word of it. Jesus is the Christ. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and the revelation of God to his children will make it known better and better every day and every hour. God bless you. Amen. 

A double quartet of ladies, of the Thirtv-first ward choir, rendered a selection. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have greatly rejoiced at the testimonies, teachings and spirit of this conference, and I trust that by the blessings of the Lord the feast may continue. 

The Constitutional Convention, over which the late lamented Prest. John Henry Smith presided, declared that "a frequent recurrence to fundamental principles is essential to the securitv of individual rights and the perpetuity of free government." I think that truth is equallv apolicable in the Church, and that it was altogether timely and appropriate for the Presidency of the Church to refer to the fundamental principles underlying the organization of the Church and the practice of the priesthood, so that  exceptional, justifiable under exceptional circumstances, might not tend to crystalize into the established rule of practice. Like others of the speakers, I am not afraid that the third, the fourth and subsequent generations in the Church will forsake the gospel, if they are only properly indoctrinated in the principles of the Church. The danger is when they do not know the truth. 

I met, sometime ago, a young student from the East, of "Mormon" parentage, who was a little adrift and had his doubts, because so called evil exists in the world. His attention had not been called to the doctrines of the Church in reference to that subject, which poets and philosophers have wrestled with. The poet Pope discussed the question when he reached the conclusion that, 

"All nature is but art unknown to thee, All chance, direction which thou canst not see; 

All discord, harmony not understood, All partial evil, universal good." 

A familiar song declares that, "There is no song within our glad heart singing but has an echo of some minor strain." That amid the leaves of the most beautiful rose, a thorn is to be found; that the brightest, day closes in shadows and in darkness, etc. 

The poet Holland, in his beautiful poem entitled, "Bitter Sweet," considered the question in a very deep and thoughtful way, and when faith came to him, finally concludes : 

"Evil is only the slave of good; 

Sorrow the servant of joy, And the soul is mad that refuses food 

Of the meanest in God's employ. The fountain of joy is fed by tears, 

And love is lit by the breath of sighs , 

The deepest griefs and the wildest fears 

Have holiest ministries. Strong grows the oak in the sweeping storm 

Safely the flower sleeps under the snow; 

And the farmer's hearth is never warm Till the cold wind starts to blow." 

The poet Tennyson considers the question also, and concludes, or exclaims : 

"O yet we trust that somehow good Will be the final goal of ill, That nothing walks with aimless feet, That not one life shall be destroyed Or cast as rubbish to the void, When God hath made the pile complete; 

That not a worm is cloven in vain; 

That not a moth with vain desire 

Is shriveled in a fruitless fire, 

But subserves another's gain. 

I can but trust that good will fall 

At last — far off— at last, to all, 

And every winter change to spring." 

But I know of no literature that discusses the question more intelligently or philosophically than it is discussed in the Book of Mormon. Lehi, in speaking, to his son Jacob, says : 

"For it must needs be that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness, nor misery, neither good nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one. Wherefore if it should be one body, it must needs remain as dead, having no life, neither death nor corruption nor incorruption, happiness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility. Wherefore it must needs have been created for a thing of naught. Wherefore there would have been no purpose in the end of its creation. Wherefore this thing must needs destroy the wisdom of God and his eternal purposes, and also the power and the mercy and the justice of God. And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness; and if there be no righteousness, there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness, there be no punishment nor misery. And if these things are not, there is no God. And if there is no God, we are not, neither the earth, for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon. Wherefore all things must have vanished away. And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things for your profit and learning. For there is a God, and He hath created all things, both the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon, and to bring about His eternal purposes in the end of man, after he had created our first parents, and the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and in fine all things which are created, it must needs be that there was an opposition; even the forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree of life; the one being sweet and the other bitter; wherefore the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself. Wherefore man could not act for himself, save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other." 

My young friend would really have done away with the free agency of man, if the universe had been planned after his order. Everything would be on the dead level of sameness; no extreme of cold, no extreme of heat, the temperature always being medium; no darkness in contrast with light, no evil in contrast with good, no sorrow in opposition to joy, etc. These opposites, as we are clearly informed in the Book of Mormon, really go to the question of free agency in this world of ours. 

Some of the speakers commented upon the fact that we might expect, or that it was a little strange that there were not, larger numbers in the world flocking to the standard of "Mormonism," in view of its glorious principles. One reason there are not greater numbers converted is that the "Mormon" people  been misunderstood and their doctrines misunderstood. We have been to the world as "ships that pass in the night," as Longfellow gives us the figure in his Tales of a W ayside Inn : 

"Ships that pass in the night, 

They speak one another in passing, 

Only a signal shown 

And a distant voice in the darkness 

So on the ocean of life, 

We pass and speak one another. 

Only a voice and a glance, 

Then darkness again and a silence." 

Individuals living even under the same roof do not in all respects understand one another. Some of the most serious tragedies that have come to my attention have been on account of a misunderstanding even by those who were very close to one another by the ties of kinship and affection. If those beneath the same roof may not understand one another aright, is it to be expected that those living remote from us should not have a misconception of our ideals and doctrines? Those brethren who responded yesterday, and who gave such strong testimonies to the truth of the gospel, were men who probably have not had the direct call of a heavenly messenger. The voice does not come to all as it came to Moses in the burning bush; not always as it came upon the Mount, amid the thunderings and lightnings; not always with cloven tongues of fire; and yet the silent call of the still small voice, the call of the divine, led these men and tens of thousands of others into the Church, in many cases in the face of contumely, scorn, sarcasm, and disinheritance; but the call was so potent to them, the call of the divine in their souls, that they were willing to bear ostracism of society, the disinheritance  their parents, to devote their lives to the truth, although it might mean, in a certain sense, a life of hardship, toil and trouble. Yet joy unspeakable came to them, the supreme joy of knowing that their lives were in harmony with the Infinite, and that they were responding to the silent call of the divine voice. 

I must not occupy more of your time. May the Lord bless you, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A quartet of ladies, of the Thirtyfirst ward choir, rendered a selection. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Church Historian.) 

As I picked up the Bible in the commencement of our services for the purpose of finding a certain passage in Jeremiah, I opened mechanically to another part of the Sacred Volume, to find myself looking into that part called the Apocrypha, without knowing that the books known by that name were contained in this particular edition of the Bible lying here on the stand. But finding myself looking into the second book of Esdras, a passage occurred to my mind, which I will read : 

"And whereas thou sawest that he gathered another peaceable people unto him. These are the Ten Tribes which were carried away captives out of their own land in the time of Oseas, the king, whom Salmanaser, the king of the Assyrians, took captive and crossed them beyond the river; so were they brought into another land, but they took this council to themselves, that they would leave the multitude of the heathen and go forth onto a further country, where never man dwelt, that they might keep the statutes, which they never kept in their own land. And they entered in  the narrow passages of the river Euphrates, for the most High then showed them signs and staid the springs of the flood till they were passed over; for through the country there was great journey, even of a year and a half, and the same region is called Arsareth." (2 Esdras 13:39-45.) 

A few years ago I had occasion to visit the land of Palestine, and having made a very interesting little tour to the top of Mount Tabor, and to the Sea of Galilee, and had also visited Cana, in Galilee, where Jesus turned water into wine, I found myself back in the little city of Nazareth; thence turning my face toward the south, I commenced a journey of about eighty miles through the heart of Galilee and Samaria to Jerusalem. On that journey I crossed the plain of Esdraelon, and passed by the village of Nain, where the widow's son was raised from the dead in the days of old by our Redeemer. I also passed by Endor, where the woman with a familiar spirit lived in the days of Saul, climbed up the slopes of Mount Gilboa, where Saul committed suicide and his sons were slain, and passed through Dothan, where Joseph was sold by his brethren to the Ishmaelitish merchants, who took him down to Egypt and there sold him. .1 next found myself passing through Samaria, the old capital of the Ten Tribes. Turning thence a little toward the east, I came to Shechem, and a little east of that I found myself on the plains of Moran, where is situated the well of Jacob and the tomb of Joseph. Changing again my course of travel toward the south, I traversed the plains of Moran in their entire length, and from the south end of the plain I found myself climbing the mountains until I reached the town of Bethel, where Jacob, the grandson of Abraham, had a peculiar dream, in which he saw angels passing" up and down, as it were, on a ladder that seemed to connect heaven and earth. And turning my face toward the east a little, I beheld a town situated about half way between Luz and Bethel and the Jordan River, and that town I was told by my Arabian companion was known as Ephraim. At once it dawned upon me that I stood in the midst of the mountains of Ephraim, and that here was the land where the Ten Tribes dwelt, particularly the strongest of all those tribes, the tribe of Joseph or the tribe of Ephraim. I could not then help thinking of this passage that I have just read. When I looked toward the east, I imagined that I could see far away over the plains of Syria into the land of Chaldea, where Abraham once dwelt, and where he was told by the Lord to leave the land of his fathers and come to live as a stranger in the land of Canaan. I thought of how his children, or his descendants. subsequently went down into Egypt, where they dwelt several hundred years, and afterwards came back under Moses and Joshua, and took possession of the land of Canaan, which was then divided between the twelve tribes, and how still later, when the children of Israel did not keep the commandments of God, they divided up into the Northern and Southern Kingdom, the tribe of Judah and part of another tribe onlv remaining loyal to the house of David, while the Ten Tribes revolted, and chose another king. In this divided condition the children of Israel lived for a number of years, until the wrath of the Almighty was kindled against them, because they  not serve the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, but worshiped strange gods, and the consequence was that Salmanesar came over from Assyria and took them over the river Tigres some seven hundred miles from Samaria. Here we come to the events narrated in the passage which I have read, where it says that the people counseled among themselves, and as they did not like to live among the heathens, they took their goods and chattels and started on a long journey, disappearing in the lands of the north. From history we do not know anything more of them than that. That is where history ends, if we can call the apocryphical writings of Esdras history. There are undoubtedly many things in Esdras that are just as reliable as things found in the scriptures that are called canonical. 

We are at the present time commencing investigations from the other end. We are looking very deep into genealogy. We have genealogical societies organized. Among others we have the Genealogical Society of Utah, of which a number of you perhaps are members. Genealogical societies are trying their best to hunt up all the information they can about our forefathers, and in a private way we are endeavoring to go back as far as we can to know from whence we sprang. 

It is a source of great pride on the part of many Americans who live on this side of the Atlantic Ocean, to trace their ancestry back to some ship, commencing with the "Mavflower," that brought the Anglo-Saxons over to America. It is a source of pride, I say, for them to trace back their ancestry to that ship, or some other ship, that came  to this land bringing immigrants who laid the foundation of this great commonwealth. In tracing our genealogy we soon find ourselves on the other side of the water among the English people — not among the descendants of the old Britons, as a rule, but among the English people. And the question is then : Whence came the English people? We understand, of course, the close relationship between those on this side and those on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean; and we are pleased to note that the two great Anglo-Saxon nations are the banner-bearers today of liberty and the equal rights of men. I take unusual interest in this proposition, because England is ruling her colonies with the same degree of liberality as that which governs the States of our own Union on this side of the Atlantic. This you can find out personally if you visit Australia, New Zealand, and other English colonies, as well as Canada, where the people are enjoying freedom and liberty, the same as we are in the United States of America. But whence came the Anglo-Saxons ? Going back into English history, we read of the Danish and of the Norman conquests. But before that, we read about Horsa and Hengist, who came over the North Sea about 449 years after the birth of our Savior, and took possession of England. We need not look into the details of the history of the wars, though we naturally think of how the Vikings fought with the Picts of Scotland and afterwards subdued the Celts or Britons, and introduced what we call the English language in the British Isles. 

In the northern part of Europe we find a strong race of people, known as the Germanic race. We  notice as a branch of the Germanic race the Scandinavians. The ancestors of the Germans, the Swedes, the Norwegians and the Danes subscribed to a universal mythology, and have to a certain extent a common history, and when we read their histories by different authors, all agree in stating that the first inhabitants of those northern countries migrated to the north from the central part of western Asia. This is especially true of those who dwelt in ancient Saxony — not the present Saxony, where Dresden and Leipsig are located, but the old Saxony which was a part of the present Hanover, Mechlenburg and Holstein, etc., and the Angles, who lived in a country a little further north known as Schleswig and Jutland. It is universally understood that the early inhabitants of the Scandinavian countries came from Asia. Take up any history that traces the Scandinavian and German peoples, and they will agree that tradition points to the fact that these early Scandinavian and Germanic races came from the very part of Asia where the Ten Tribes were lost. 

This to me is a most interesting study. Referring again to the mythology of the Scandinavians and Germans, what do you find? A religion of good morals. I venture to say that if modern Christianity, corrupted as it is today, is a remnant of the true Christianity introduced by our Savior; if the Free Masonry of today is a remnant and corruption of the true signs and tokens of the Priesthood revealed in the days of Solomon, when the Temple of Solomon was built, then it is easy for us to understand and believe that the mythology of the north is simply a corruption of the true Jehovah-worship, as Abraham knew it and taught it to his children. It is an easy thing to understand and believe this, because the mythology of the north is so godlike, chaste and morally pure, that it is almost heaven compared with the voluptuous worship which was known and practiced in the South. I refer particularly to the Latin and Greek mythologies, and those worships that were adopted by the people of the South or the lands bordering on the Mediterranean. 

A great deal could be said in regard to this most interesting theme. We can approach the subject from the earliest dawn of history down the stream of time as far as we can reach; and then we can proceed the other way, going back from ourselves as far as we can, and we meet the proposition in Scandinavia and Northern Germany that the Anglo Saxons, the Germans and the Scandinavians are greatly mixed up with the remnants of the House of Israel. We can scarcely come to any other conclusion. Then we naturally spring another question: Why have the Latter-day Saint missionaries met with much more success among the Anglo-Saxons and the German and Scandinavian races, than among any other races upon the face of the earth? The answer is : We are, in fulfillment of the predictions of the ancient Prophets, gathering Israel. Why do we have so much to say at the present time, and at this conference, about the second, third, fourth and fifth generations of Latter-day Saints? It is the most natural thing in the world. If we are of Israel, our genealogy must assume a shape like that, for the children of Israel, if not corrupted by en, will naturally worship the God of their fathers. And we are of Israel; there is no doubt of it, and we will find that when our genealogy is revealed in detail, it will lead us back from America to England, from England to Scandinavia and Germany, and from there to the country lying between the Caspian and the Black Sea, that part of Asia where the Ten Tribes were lost. We can then easily trace it back to Palestine and Chaldea; we have the history completed from the Bible. 

I rejoice that so many faithful men and women have believed and embraced the gospel as it has been preached by the Latter-day Saints during the last eighty years. I repeat, that when we have turned our attention to Latin or Oriental countries, we have met with but little success. If we have preached the gospel successfully in Australia, it is perhaps because the people there are mainly of English origin, and the same can be said of New Zealand, as to the white population. And if we speak of the Hawaiians and the Samoans and the Maoris, then they are simply another branch of the House of Israel, and that is undoubtedly the reason why we have met with success among them. Study the history of our missionary career ever since the Church was organized and I will venture to say that we hitherto have made very little progress among any people except those who come, as we claim, either pure or mixed from the House of Israel. We have not had success among the Latin or Oriental races, or among the Chinese or Japanese. There may be some of the blood of Israel among them, but so far we have discovered but a very little. Then I say, let us study  matter intelligently, when we endeavor to trace our genealogy and seek to complete the chain connecting us with Father Abraham. The subject is certainly a thing of immense interest to us. 

I rejoice that the amalgamation of the Latter-day Saints of different nationalities takes place so beautifully and completely. People who have come from different climes soon become one strong and united community. The way we associate and affiliate, and the way we destroy all differences that naturally would and do exist in many other parts of the would between the Americans and the Germans and the Scandinavians, ought to be a lesson to all others. All differences seem to be passing away and disappearing in a single generation, and thus we are fast becoming "one nation upon the mountains of Ephraim." 

Brethren and Sisters, God bless yon. May we understand onr privileges and live up to them; may we rejoice in the many blessings that we receive almost daily, and appreciate the privilege we have had to be assembled in a splendid conference. The many glorious testimonies, to which we have listened, are certainly calculated to make the heart of every Latter-day Saint rejoice. That we may go away from this conference renewed in our determination to serve God more perfectly hereafter than we have done hitherto, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Obedience a heavenly and eternal principle. — Essentials to salvation. — The Redeemer a perfect exemplar of obedience. — Duties to be learned, and diligently fulfilled. 

My brethren and sisters, I suppose this congregation is made up in  proportions of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and there is one principle which I desire to impress upon your minds this morning, in the few minutes that -I shall occupy, — and that is the principle of obedience. 

I call your attention to the 20th chapter of Exodus, the Ten Commandments, which were written by the finger of the Lord upon the table of stone. One of these commandments, in part, reads: "For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and seas and all that in them is." The Apostle Paul, in his epistle to the Hebrews, tells us how this was done. He says : "Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear." If the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear, what must they have been made of but the elements of which they are composed? which elements are eternal. God commanded the elements, and they obeyed, and out of chaos came forth order, and the earth was formed, and the waters were separated from the earth, and the light from the darkness, and the sun was placed in the firmament to give light by day and the moon and stars to give light by night, and vegetation was placed upon the earth, grains and fruits and flowers and grasses, and all things which are necessary to beautify the earth and to sustain the life of men, animals, fowls, etc. Animals were also placed upon the earth, and' these all were for the benefit of man. Order, then, follows obedience unto the commands and the laws of God. The law by which the universe is governed, is the law of God. We may call it the law of nature, but the law of nature is the law of God, and all His creations excepting man are obedient, hence the beautiful order which we see in all nature. If they were disobedient, as man is disobedient, there would be universal confusion, disorder and annihilation. Afan only of all the creatures of God disobeys His command, and disregards the law which He has framed for our guidance and government, that order and perfection might be established. This, because of man's agency. This is the point which I desire to call to your attention, that the law which God has given to us for our government is a divine law, and just as perfect as are the laws by which the universe is governed. And if we would be as obedient as are the elements, and His other creations, we would be perfect, and all would be in harmony and order. The difference between the Gospel law and the manner of our observance of it, represents the things which we have to repent of. 

Repentance is a divine principle, a principle without which we cannot be saved and exalted in the kingdom of God, because we have exercised our agency in unrighteousness, we have not been strictly obedient unto the Lord's commandments, and therefore we have need to repent and to put ourselves in order. These are provisions the Lord has made in his gospel for our salvation; and we Will not repent, we cannot repent, if we have not faith; hence faith is a principle of the gospel, a necessary principle of life and of salvation. The ordinances which the Lord has established as a part of the gospel law, for the salvation of the children of men,  be obeyed and we must add to our faith virtue; and to virtue godliness, brotherly kindness, charity, etc, thus making ourselves as Godlike as it is possible. We are His children in very deed, having been born of Him in the spirit, and we have inherited the very attributes which he possesses. They are in us, and they make us God's embryo, We believe that as we are now God once was, and by the practice of virtue and righteousness, by obedience unto law and authority, He has become what He is, and as He is, man may become, on the same principle. 

There is no perfection of salvation and exaltation in. any other way than this, by observance of the laws which God has given us for our government. Christ, our Savior, is the great prototype of mankind. He gave Himself a ransom for our sins, that we might live again after death, thus redeeming us from the effects of the transgression of our first parents, and also that we might be redeemed from the effects of our individual sins through accepting Him and His mission, and yielding obedience unto the principles of the gospel. We stood with Jesus in our former estate, when by His power Lucifer, who was the arch enemy of God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, and who has ever since sought to lead the children of men clown to his level, was cast out of heaven, we stood upon the same platform, and that is why we are here, and privileged as we are today, because of our integrity and faithfulness in that former estate. We kept our first estate, and if we will do as Jesus did, keep our second estate, we will be "added upon forever and ever." Jesus kept the covenant which He made on the  side for that covenant pertained to this life, as well as the previous life. "Thy will be done, and the glory be thine for ever," characterized his whole life's conduct. It should be so with us. It should be only necessary for us to know what our Father would have us to do, and with all our might, mind and strength we should go to and try and do those things. The beautiful song, so beautifully rendered yesterday by President Ballard : 

"I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, 

Over mountain, or plain, or sea; I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord : 

I'll be what you want me to be." 

That is the principle which should actuate us, whether it be great things or small which may be required at our hands, whether it comes direct by the voice of God to us or through His servants whom He has called, it matters not, for the Lord has said "Whether it be by my own mouth or the mouth of my servants, it is the same." That which comes through the mouth of him whom God hath called and sustained in his position God recognizes as doctrine, as law for the guidance of His people. That individual Prophet of God who thus speaks is responsible for what he says, and those who hear are responsible for their course, whether they accept and yield obedience unto those things, or whether they reject them. When the authorities of the Church have established an order in the Church, for instance, that one day in the month we shall abstain from food and drink, fasting and praying, giving assistance to the poor, that is all that should be necessary, even as it was all that  necessary for Adam to know that his Father commanded him that he should offer burnt offerings and perform sacrifices. It was sufficient for Abraham to be commanded of God to go and offer up his son, an offering on the altar, which he was told would be acceptable unto the Lord. It ought to be sufficient for us, my brethren and sisters, to know that these things have come to us through the servant of the Lord, all the commandments, all the laws and ordinances of the gospel, and we should observe them with all our hearts, yield obedience implicity and without reserve. I want to tell you that nothing short of this, is pleasing and acceptable unto God. Therefore let us learn our duties. Let us learn where the Lord would have us to go, what he would have us to do, how he would have us to speak, and let us do these things, regardless of what other men or peoples might think of us. Unless we have the courage to do right, to act conscientiously before God, we will not be accepted of Him. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. I feel to thank those who have made music for us on this occasion, and these our brethren who have taken part in the exercises, and you for your faith and attention. I thank the Lord, and pray that all that has been said, and the inspiration of His spirit which has been felt by us on this occasion, may be sanctified to our good and profit. 

And now I bear my testimony, that I know that this gospel is true, that it is the power of God unto salvation, and there is no power outside of this gospel that is the power of God unto salvation, if we will keep the commandments of God, and will be honest and sincere in our purposes, that we will know the truth of these things, that we will love the truth, and that we will rejoice in sacrifices that we will have to make in order to fulfill the law of God. May the peace of the Lord be upon all Israel, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang a hymn, commencing "Here, by Babylon's way." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John N. Pike. 


