Morning
05 04 1913

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come let us anew our journey pursue, Roll round with the year, And never stand still till the Master appear. 

Pis adorable will let us gladly fulfil, And our talents improve, By the patience of hope and the labor of love. 

Prayer was offered by Elder John W. Hart. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

O ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky 

Arches over the vales of the free, Where the pure breezes blow and the 

clear streamlets flow, How I*ve longed to vour bosom to 

flee. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Satisfying comparison of "Mormonism" with all other religious bodies. — Saints should manifest appreciation of the Gospel by living according to its principles. — The righteous will veritably inherit the earth. — Profitable lessons may be derived from calamities. 

I esteem it a privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be here on this occasion when much of the strength of Israel is assembled in general conference. For several days I have been looking forward to this gathering. I have thought of the class of people who would be present upon this occasion, and have compared the lives of the members of  Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with those of our friends who are not of our faith, many of whom I have had the pleasure of meeting in the last few months, and the comparison is favorable to us from almost every viewpoint. The conclusion is irresistible that "Mormonism" has done much for us in four generations. The gospel, with the blessings of the Priesthood, is priceless, and for it we ought to be a grateful people. The teachings that come with authority, which plant in our hearts faith in God that cause us to feel that we know of a surety that He lives, are beyond price. 

We meet very many good men and women in the world, who have high ideals and are striving from their viewpoint to do good, and occasionally we find them with an understanding of religion similar to what we have; but there are few who have a satisfactory assurance that this life is a part of our Heavenly Father's plan for the development of His children, and that the truths we acquire here will remain with us in eternity. Surely we ought to appreciate the knowledge that the gospel brings, and we should evidence our gratitude by living up to the light of truth and teaching it to others. "Mormonism," so-called, is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, consequently it is the power of God unto salvation to all those who believe and obey its teachings. It is not those who say "Lord, Lord," who enjoy the companionship of His  but those who do His will. If we are not more perfect in our lives, if we are not more righteous than those who are not of our faith we will be behind them in receiving the blessings of our Heavenly Father; but if we obey His commandments, if we keep ourselves clean, pure and unspotted from the sins of the world, His power will rest upon us, and the vitrues of the third and fourth generations of the Church will be builded upon by following generations, and the purity of their lives will establish a race that will people the earth. 

It is this that impresses me. We should not feel anxious about our political power; nor should we feel concerned about our worldly possessions, but remember this admonition, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all other things will be added." It is to this point that I direct your attention today. If the Latter-day Saints will keep the commandments of God, they will be happy, if they will keep themselves pure and unspotted from the sins of the world, "Mormonism," so-called, will redeem the earth by right of its superiority, and by reason of the perfection of its manhood and womanhood. While those who are selfishly .devoting themselves to the ammassing of wealth and the seeking of high positions, ignoring or violating the natural laws of God in their pursuit of pleasure, sowing the seeds of dissolution by allowing their baser passions to rule them, will not only be unhappy but will wither and pass away, and a race more worthy will inhabit God's footstool. 

My brethren and sisters, it is not a matter of concern to me what will be the outcome of this work, but it  this : keep yourselves clean and pure and you shall inherit the earth, for your Heavenly Father has ordained that it will be so. Let your light so shine that the purity of your lives will evidence your faith in the gospel of our Lord. Let us bear witness in our daily acts, as well as in our conversation, that we believe this is the Father's work and joy inexpressible will come to us, and the children that grow up in our  homes will increase in faith and humility. They will be added upon, and be given power to turn aside the shafts of the adversary that are directed towards them, and in place of the distress that has afflicted the children of men, because of sinfulness, there will be comfort, peace and happiness, and a race of men and women will inhabit this earth who will have strength of character to put aside the evils of life, by reason of their birthright. 

God grant that we may be worthy of our birthright; grant that we may be worthy of the blessings that He places within our reach; grant that day by day we may say within our souls, "Father, show me Thy will, and I will perform the labor." If this be our desire, if this is what we live for, then will our children be lifted up to higher ground upon which they may build, and from generation to generation there will develop a stronger race of people — a people who can draw ever nearer to our Father in Heaven. These things appeal to me, my brethren and sisters; it is a natural condition and I am grateful for the hope that they inspire in my bosom. I am grateful for the purity of the lives of the men and women who belong to the Church of our Lord, and I am thankful that throughout the world there are those who, seeing the effect of a sinful life, are striving in earnestness to avoid its terrors, and who encourage others to do likewise. They are indeed preparing for Eternal life. 

Now may the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters; may His peace be in your hearts and may His light illumine your pathway, that day by day you may know the way He would have you go. May each of us, in our prayers and in our lives, sustain the men whom God has chosen to preside over and direct us, thereby serving Him who was the Redeemer of the world. May His Spirit and blessings be upon all Israel and may the prayers of the Latter-day Saints ascend on high that the hearts of men may turn from the evils of this life; that they may desire to turn unto God and keep His commandments. May the lessons that we learn by reason of the havoc that is wrought by the elements in commotion in this world, from time to time, be lessons that shall turn our hearts heavenward, and that will make us kinder and more charitable toward our fellow men. 

I pray that the man who stands at our head may have his strength continued unto him; that he may live in the future, as he has in the past, in the favor of our Father in Heaven. I pray that he and his counselors may be inspired of the Lord, and physical strength and power given to them to perform their great and arduous labors, and discharge their duties in the cause of the children of men. God bless them forever is the prayer of my heart; and God bless all Israel, and all men and women everywhere who strive to do right and do good to their fellows, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I have been very much pleased, my brethren and sisters, in the sessions of this conference that have foeen held, in listening to the remarks of my brethren. I was especially pleased with the remarks made by President Smith yesterday morning, for the reason that, to me, it was the same as any commandment or section in the book of Covenants; I regard is as the voice of the Lord unto the people. It covered a point that has been of vital importance to me, in the short period of time that I have labored in the ministry, for without that principle of loyalty and fidelity to the cause here upon the earth, there would be absolute failure. 

The missionary in the field who does not put his heart into the work, and who does not sustain his missionary companions, by his faith and prayers and actions, and his conference and mission presidents, does not make a success of his work, and does not carry with him that power and spirit of stability that goes with the man who has in his heart an unyielding determination to serve God, and labor earnestly for the children of men. In my mind the principle of loyalty is one of the greatest that the Lord has implanted in the hearts of the children of men. In any capacity where men may be called to labor, the man who works with unyielding determination to succeed will surely do so and if he manifests that characteristic in the work of the Lord, as he probably will, success is sure to follow. 

We pray and labor for the success of this work, and we pray for our fellow men. We pray for the  of nations and for men of influence, that their hearts may be softened towards this work, that they may kindly receive the elders who are sent to them, and that they may understand the reason why the Lord has sent His messengers to the earth again. I believe that the Lord' loves His children with a greater love than it is possible for any father to love his earthly children. No matter where thev mav be, in any land or clime in this earth, all are the children of God, and His love embraces them, even as the sun shines alike on all. As the Lord said, while in the earth, that His mission was not to the whole but to those who needed the physician: "I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance." For that reason He has again visited the earth and revealed the true gospel of salvation to Joseph Smith, and placed the people of this world upon a' new basis. 

In times past, the mention of Joseph Smith's name has almost been, in some places at any rate, sufficient to arouse a mob, to day it is safe to stand upon any corner in any city in the United States and preach the gospel the Lord has revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Joseph Smith's name is now held among the children of men in greater reverence than ever before, because of the unyielding truth, spirit of loyalty that has characterized the Latter-day Saints from the very beginning. Through the men who devoted their lives to the testimony of Jesus, who labored deligently and established churches and branches throughout the countrty, where ever they were sent, there has been erected in this land of ours, in the valleys of the mountains, a monument" of faith. Here we are in  numbers, in strength and power, having many of the gifts and blessings of heaven that the world does not realize or know of. We ought to be willing at all times to respond to any call that is made upon us to assist in the establishment of God's purposes in the earth. Take away from a Latter-day Saint the gospel, if you could, and nothing of real worth remains. 

No man ever apostatized from this church and gospel, who had a knowledge of it, who could ever truthfully deny that it was the church of God. Whenever I have listened to them, I have noticed they shield that part of it all they possibly can, and they work along lines of persecution and try to destroy what the Lord builds up. Brigham Young once said — so I am informed — that you cannot hurt Mormonism it is like a rubber ball; every time you kick it the farther it goes. It is my experience, and is history, that where men persecute the church, or the principles of it, and those who preside in Israel, they often make friends for the Latterday Saints; I tell you, honest men are looking for the truth everywhere. Men and women throughout this land will yield obedience unto the gospel of the Redeemer of the world in their day and time, and that time comes to them when they seek for light of our Father in heaven and as a result of their faithfulness. The Spirit of the Lord is in the earth among thousands of men and women who are good and true, according to the light that is within them, and when they become so well acquainted with the principles of truth that they are able to discern truth from error, they will yield obedience unto the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. - People are not looking', not many of them at any rate for the gospel to come through the "Mormon" church; they think that it will come from some other source. Those people who were looking- for the Christ in His day expected Him to come in pomp and display. They never looked for Him to come in the manner that He did. They were not prepared for Him. and so they were easily led astray by that evil power which was opposed to Him from the beginning, and their faith and confidence was destroyed in the hearts of the children of men. 

We pray for the success of this work, and unless we also work to that end, my brethren and sisters, we shall not have success. The man that comes into the mission field such as that wherein I am more closely assocated at the present time with the work of the Lord, and who in his heart firfhly resolves to carry the gospel message into the homes of the people, receives power from God that is not enjoyed by the sons of men outside of that work. He appears among his fellows and is kindly received by the honest among them for the truths that he teaches, and which the Lord is the author of. God gives unto us all, the power and blessing that we have ever received in this life. 

Here at home, in this land of ours that has been prepared by the Almighty to sustain this great people, here are men and women who are qualified to preach the gospel to those who are in darkness. Our fathers and mothers laid the foundation for this great commonwealth. They gave their lives for the testimony of Jesus, and for the permanant establishment of this community. Thejjr wished 'for 'peace and prosperity, and worked early  late for it. They had to work hard in order to secure a livelihood, but today it is a much different proposition. It may be said that the youth of Zion have never seen a day, or have never had a dream that would give unto them an idea of the sufferings of our fathers and mothers that paid the price for the pleasure we now enjoy here. 

We young men and women ought to yield absolute obedience to the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. A man in his ward ought to hold up the hands of his bishop, and faithfully perform his church duties, that his bishop and stake president may know that he is reliable and true. In all my experience, I have never learned to love men like I have those who have proven themselves loyal and true, men you could rely upon to perform the work they were called to do, that would go from you alone hundreds of miles and do their duty, men who would stand for right and truth, for liberty and justice. Such men would stand for the gospel, and for those who preside over them, and when others criticise the leaders of the church they were ever ready to defend them. They would never sit down and listen to any man, defame or say things that were untrue concerning the Church of Jesus Christ, or the Latter-day Saints. 

This people are greatly blessed in having men at the head of the church to-day who have been with the church practically from its inception, who know the ins and oute of the past, who can correct error, and who can say from their own experience, I know thus and so. There will come a time when men who have known the prophets Joseph and Hyrum personally shall no longer be among us. We shall only  the testimonies of men who have known those who were acquainted with those prophets, but who did not have the privilege of seeing themselves. So I feel that I am blessed in the fact that our Father in heaven has permitted me to know men and women who can speak to me in the flesh and say, "I knew Joseph Smith; I have seen him, and I give you my testimony that he lived, and that he told 'me that he received a visitation from the Father and the Son, that he received messages from angels, and that he associated with other heavenly beings." I tell you, my brethren and sisters, these facts shall be matters of history in just a few short years. When we realize and know what it means to talk face to face with a man, and then merely have the testimony from one who has seen that man, there is no comparison. 

I feel to praise the Lord, and to love the Lord's work here upon the earth, and to labor, whether at home or abroad, for the purposes of the Lord, as well as I can. To a man who thinks that it is an easy thing to go in the mission field and stay for a number of years, and leave home and friends and all behind you, let him who thinks that it is an easy thing try it. Let him who believes that it is easy to take the part of one of these brethren of the general authorities, who I know labor earnestly proclaiming their testimony of the truth, for no earthly reward, but because they have been called to that labor through a servant of the Lord, let them try it. The men who have the privilege of laboring at home and of acquiring the things of this earth that give pleasure, who think they are not in a position to go into the world on ac of their occupation, let them leave their affairs and go on a mission, and I tell you, they will soon cheerfully (hold up the hands of these men and women who preside in Israel, from President Smith down to the least of these authorities, they will sustain them in any position in the church, abroad or at home. 

That is the principle that makes us strong. This is the word of the Lord unto me as it came from the President yesterday morning, and I rejoice in it, and I shall rejoice in reading it, for it is true doctrine, and it is worthy the consideration of all Israel as a guide unto us in this day in which we live. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, you who are before me were not converted through the wisdom nor learning of men, and it would be impossible for me to foist upon you any of the vain philosophy of men; if I should attempt it, you who have been in the Church for years would easily discover that it is of man, for you have been founded upon the rock of revelation. Our Father has given you a testimony for yourselves, and you know. In standing before you I do so with fear and trembling, least I may not be an instrument in the hands of God to impart unto you the bread of life. 

I rejoice in the testimony that our Father has given me concerning this great work, the work that has been established in the earth for the salvation of mankind. It is mv experience, in traveling in the world, that this work has grown in importance a thousand times more than is represented by the number that have been baptized into the Church. The principles of truth that were revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, have influenced the people of the whole earth, they are "leavening the whole lump," and the members of the religious world today are beginning" to inquire concerning this greater light that has been restored to the earth. Not long since, Dr. Henry Sloan Coffin, one of the prominent Presbyterians of New England, declared in one of his sermons that they did not consider any of the churches of the world as divine, or their organizations divinely appointed, he said Presbyterians were doing, as a church, more than any other Christian denomination to bring about a church union, and if that could be brought about, or if thev could have the organization that they desired, it would be more efficient and do away with much of the overlapping of their work, and would bring about a greater missionary force in the earth, a missionary work that would bring all the members of the churches under the influence of the Spirit of God. He said that they were ready to serve under any organization that worked better than their own. Now. while they have not discovered th^t organization, it is in the earth to day. God our Father has placed it here, and they will some day discover that its influence and power have been felt even in their own organizations. 

The Lord Jesus said to » His disciples on one occasion, after telling them that He was the vine and thev were the branches, and that thev should abide in Him in order  bring forth fruit to the glory of the Father: "Ye have not chosen me but I have chosen you and ordained you and sent you forth that you might bring forth fruit." Following that He told them to love one another as He had loved them, and as He had loved the Father. In talking to a Sectarian minister the other day, on the train, who has been in Utah a long time, I said, "My brother, the reason you have not been successful in the state of Utah, even among the wayward of the children of the Latter-day Saints, is because you have not sufficiently followed the admonition of the Lord Jesus to love the souls of men. The majority of the ministers who come here to convert the Mormon people, and lead them to acknowledge the God that they worship, have never had love for us in their hearts. They have sought for thorns and briers, and information to be taken back into the world and used for the collecting of money to Christianize the 'Mormons.' " He replied, "I tell you, Mr. Ellsworth, that is too true, some ministers have not had sufficient love in their hearts for the souls of the people who dwell in these valleys." 

It is the experience of the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, w 7 ho have gone to the world, that they must have a love for the souls of men in their hearts before they can do real missionary work; they must forget in part, or rather learn that they have' not left in their mountain homes all that is near and. dear to them, but that the honest in heart everywhere should also be near and dear to the soul of the true missionary. We must love them, and show that we  truly interested in them, and that we have their welfare at heart, before we can really do successful missionary work. Where this feeling exists, the spirit and the power of God rests upon the elders, and the honest soul discovers in them the divinely appointed shepherd. 

This is my testimony, that Jesus gathered together His disciples and organized His Church, and that men were divinely appointed to preach the gospel and represent the Lord Jesus. That organization continued until, through the wickedness of men it was done away with. Since then, only tradition has been handed clown to guide the Christian world. But, in this age. the Lord Jesus, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, has again sent the Priesthood with a divine appointment, and commission to the world. A divinelv appointed organization has been re-established in the earth, it is in perfect working order, and the men and women who receive the truth have a mission to proclaim Christ and Him crucified, and to show to the world, through their righteousness, and by the sweet influence they have, that they are indeed born of God, and have the light that will lead men back into the kingdom of our Father. The Latter-day Saints have received this divine authority and organization. Upon their shoulders rests the mission to preach Christ and Him crucified. The doctor, the lawyer, the farmer, the carpenter, the blacksmith, and men of every other vocation in life among the Latter-dav Saints are missionaries. It is our duty to teach the people of the world that the organization that thev are seeking after today is in the earth, an organization that bringsin touch every one of its members with 

God and Christ. There is no overlapping nor crowding for place but a place for every man in the divinely appointed organization. 

I am thankful that it has been my lot to be a Latter-day Saint from my birth, that my father and my grandfather were members of the Church of Jesus Christ. They were converted, not by the wisdom of men, neither "by the learning of the world, but by a revelation from God My feet have been planted upon that rock, and I know for my self that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the Church of God has been established among men. It has been established with apostles and prophets, seventies and elders, priests, teachers and deacons. They have a divinely appointed mission in the earth. Every man throughout the world who will hear their testimony, and receive it in their hearts, may have a part of that ministry, and feel God's spirit in them, from the crown of their heads to the soles of their feet, and learn to know God, and' feel His influence by working for the salvation of their fellow men. The man-made ministers preach for monev. and divine for It ire; there are but few of them working unselfishly for the uplift of mankind. Their organizations have not the power to bring men and women in touch with God. Jesus has not chosen them, neither ordained them. They cannot bring forth fruit because they have not followed the doctrine of Christ. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterdav Saints every man, from the greatest to the least, has a right to the revelations of God for his guidance. God can bless the honest in heart through the ministry of His humblest servant even though his language may be faltering, and his logic poor. If, from the time the light of God has come into the life of a man, he will magnify the priesthood, and honor the priesthood in others, the Lord will magnify him before the world, and honest hearted men and women will raise up and bless his name, and praise God that he came jwithin their circle. 

May God bless us, my brethren and sisters, and help the Latter-day Saints to honor the divinely appointed men that our Father has placed in the earth. Let us rejoice that we are associated with the divine organization that gives every man and woman a chance to receive an experience under the influence and power of God. May we honor the priesthood, and all men who bear it, and in the end be prepared, by the experience that we have received in the Church, to associate with God and Christ, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I have pleasure in saying that the brethren who addressed us yesterday afternoon and this morning so far, are the presidents of the various missions, the Eastern and Southern States, the Northwestern States, the Northern States, and the Central States missions. Brother Herrick, who is the president of the Western States Mission, is absent today attending the funeral of one of his brothers. Brother Rev Pratt, the president of the Spanish Mission, is not present. 

"I will go where you want me to go," a tenor solo, was rendered by Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 

ELDER MOSES W. TAYLOR. 

(President of Summit Stake.) 

How do you do? I am glad to meet you. You all look good to me. 

I am going to tell you the part of President Smith's talk yesterday that made a great impression on me. It was that we should talk about the good things, and not all the time be talking about evil things. You know some people think it is a virtue to be sick. I met President Duckworth yesterday with a big rag around his neck and told him to take it off, it was a sign he was weak, and we want people to look beautiful and strong. I believe in people looking beautiful, and fixing themselves up. I often think of my father. You know he filled many missions in the world, and met many great men and many rich men, among others he met Baron Rothschild. One time Rothschild was traveling around the world and he came to Salt Lake City. Father was just about as poor at that time as he ever was in his life, but he had an old carriage and he got the boys out and we had to polish it and fix it up just as good as we could. He bought thirty cents worth of oil to black the harness, and we blacked the harness and worked at the old carriage and harness for about a day. Finally Baron Rothschild called on him. Father had a big black cloak and a silk hat that he had got in France. He had them cleaned and fixed up, and when he and the Baron walked out of the house to the carriage father looked better to me than Baron Rothschild. (Laughter.) 

Now, I believe in appreciating what you have got. I believe in seeing the good in all men. Out in  stake where I live they say that everybody looks good to me, and they do. We have got the finest lot of Saints out there you ever saw. I like such songs as "Count Your Many Blessings," and I want to relate this on myself. I went home from here one day, got up early in the morning, and thought, Now I am going to count my blessings, and began to count them, and began to think : I have about fifty chickens at home and every one of them is trying to lay an egg today; I have got some pigs, and "it seems like I can't get rid of them, they increase so fast; I have some cows and they are increasing in number, and horses, and everything that I possess the Lord is blessing, including a large family of children. Then I began to think of how I have been blessed in the Church, that I had been called upon to preside over one of the best stakes in all the Church, and live among the best people, and I began thinking of one blessing after another, and the first thing I knew I was home walking in the house, and when I entered, one of the children, (one of the blessings), had done something that displeased Sister Taylor, and she told me about it, and I started to laugh and said, "From the sublime to the ridiculous, I have been counting my blessings." Then she laughed, we both laughed, and we began to count our blessings together. 

Now, I believe absolutely in sustaining the authorities of the Church. I believe in doing what the Priesthood tells me, whether I like it or not. I never set my judgment up against the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterdav Saints. It is good enough for me and by following their counsel I have never failed. I believe in  men. Don't believe in going around from house to house speaking of the ills of my neighbor. I had an experience recently. I had to go out and visit a large ranch with a man. When he went into the band of horses that we were looking at, "Why," he said, "just look at that beautiful stallion. I never saw a finer stallion in my life." Then he went over and looked at a beautiful mare ,and then another one, all the time seeing the beautiful. The ranch owner who was selling the horses and his men were perfectly happy, and the man himself who was seeing the beautiful things was happy. I went out a few days later with another man into the same band of horses. He did not see that stallion, he did not see those beautiful animals, ' but went around and found one horse with a crooked foot, and another one with a spavin. There were one hundred fifty head of the most beautiful horses I have seen in my life, but those two were all that he had seen and all he talked about, and everybody on. the ranch was unhappy till he got off it. Everybody loved the first man, but the other man went away without anybody loving him. 

The missionaries were talking about the man that speaks the good all the time. He is the successful missionary. The missionary that goes out into the world and begins to tear down the beliefs of others, trying to destroy everything, does not convert anybody. You have got to make friends before you can convert people, and it is a very great blessing, my brethren and sisters, to see the good and to count the things that you have got as blessings from the Lord. Now may the peace and blessing of heaven be with us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER JOSEPH R. MTJRDOCK. 

(President of Wasatch Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is rather a surprise to me to be called to address you this morning. I think that I am probably not quite so experienced in talking to so many of my brethren and sisters as Brother Moses Taylor. I have felt perfectly satisfied in the past in listening to the testimonies of my brethren, and my heart certainly felt in tune with the remarks that were made by them during this conference, when they referred to the fact that their parents and grandparents were members of the Church. I felt to say in my heart, thank God I can make the . same statement. 

I have taken pride, many times, in referring to the fact that my mother walked across the plains to these valleys of the mountains, and I feel that I shall never forget her faith and endurance; and that my father, when thirteen years of age. drove a wagon and some cows and horses across the plains. I am proud of that, and of the fact that their fathers and mothers, my grandparents, had received the gospel in the eastern states, and I rejoice in it. I have rejoiced in the gospel from the time that I first began to understand it, at eight years of age, and I have had testimony repeatedly, from that time till the present, that the Lord hears and answers my prayers and the prayers of the Latter-day Saints. I have had no occasion to find fault with the authorities. They always placed so much good before me and never any evil that I know of, that I have felt perfectly satisfied with their teachings. When things have come  that I did not understand I have said in my heart, I will wait till I learn all about what I have been told before I begin to take exceeptions to things I have not yet learned. It has only required a little time to make me fully understand, and appreciate, that all that has been advanced by those whom the Lord has placed in charge of His great work, in this dispensation, was for the interests of Zion, and for the uplifting of the work of our Father in this dispensation. 

I rejoiced in hearing the testimony of Brother Taylor about his good stake of Zion. I don't doubt it, it joins ours, therefore it could not be otherwise than good. My stake is about 5500 feet above sea level ,and his is only 400 or 500 feet lower elevation. That accounts for it, perhaps, the higher you get the better it is. (laughter.) The Latter-day Saints of the Wasatch Stake of Zion are striving to serve the Lord, and mind their own business. I want to say, for the credit of those who do not belong to the Church, who live in that stake of Zion, they are perfectly willing we should do so, and they are not nor have not been putting any obstacles in our way, nor trying to interfere with us from serving the Lord as we understand : t, and there is harmony existing between us. Those who are members of the Church and those who are not. We are attending to Religion Class work in that stake of Zion, and no one is trying to prevent us. Our Religion Classes are as well attended as our Sunday Schools, and we are accomplishing a good work. We do not think there was any mistake made when the Religion Class work was started. Some of our schools are holding more than one session a . I have heard class teachers testify, in metings of the Religion Class workers, that they would not want to teach school unless they could do so in some place where they would be allowed to teach Religion Classes after school hours. Well, we are willing they should do so, and there is no one up there that is objecting to it, and we hope they won't. 

We are striving to serve the Lord, and to obey the teachings of His servants, and keep in harmony with the instruction that we receive from time to time. While we are pretty wejl elevated as before stated, we are not trying to take advantage of the situation and dictate affairs to our brethren and sisters. We are willing to let all of the other stakes alone, and follow their own inclinations, and the counsels which they receive. It takes us all our time to attend to the work that we have, and follow out the teachings that are imparted unto us from time to time in our conferences, and in the general conferences of the Church. Zion is growing in the Wasatch Stake of Zion, and the work of the Lord is increasing, and faith in the hearts of the people, and harmony between the people and those who preside. We feel that the Lord is with us as He is with His Saints throughout the length of the earth. 

My earnest prayer is that Zion will continue to prosper, for I know the gospel is true; I know that it will "bring peace, happiness and contentment unto the children of men everywhere throughout the land if they will only accept it. I pray that truth may spread abroad from city to city, from state to state, and from nation to nation. 7 fully appreciate the fact that this nation has an im work to perform in the world. It has accomplished a great amount of good already, and I believe it is only the beginning of what this great nation will do. It is the greatest nation and the best country on earth, and the best men have ruled the nation. We do not want any better than those who have - occupied those positions from time to time. The Lord gives us the best as occasion requires, and He will continue to do so and will inspire the great men of the nation with the love of freedom and the rights of humanity throughout the earth, and this nation will seek to protect the rights of other nations and influence them in the lines of liberty, and open up the way that the gospel may eventually go forth throughout all the world, as it has spread in this nation, without hindrance, with no one to prevent it. This people have a great work to d5 in connection with this nation, because we have the truth. We have the gospel which God has revealed, and, though it may be crushed for a time, it will arise and Zion will shine, and thousands in the nations of the earth will understand the fact that the once despised handful of people in the Rock}' Mountains have the truth, and they are teaching the truth, and they have pure minded men and women who are defending it, whose example is worthy of the imitation of any people upon earth. 

I pray that God will bless this people, that their course and example in life may continue to be exemplary, and that their children may be well taken care of and brought up under the teachings of the gospel, and possess the spirit of our fathers and mothers who acccpted the truth and went through many trials and hardships for the gospel's sake, that we may carry it on from generation to generation, spreading the gospel abroad until the people of the earth will enjoy the blessings that the Latter-day Saints enjoy. I feel in my heart that there is no other people, no other place on earth where there is more of the spirit of freedom in the hearts of the people, and contentment and satisfaction that the Lord is on their side. The Lord is with them and the Lord hears and answers their prayers and they enjoy it with thanksgiving. It is the blessing which we would like to have all people partake of. We are not selfish. We send our elders out by the thousands and invite all of those who will come to come and partake of the waters of life and receive a testimony of the gospel, that God lives, that we are the children of our Father in heaven, in very deed, that we are not a mishap or a mischance, and something that they know not what, but we are literally the offspring of God the Eternal Father and we are worth saving and worth loking after, as are all of the children of men. 

We are the friends of humanity, but they do not seem to understand it. We would do them good, we would inspire them with faith in God and with the truth, and to teach the truth. We would inspire every one on earth with the principles of morality and sobriety and honesty, if they would only let us. Well, let us continue faithful, my brethren and sisters. The Lord has this matter in hand, and eventually will bring Zion off triumphant, as He will all truth, which is my earnest desire and prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

You see we even have gray headed third generation men — men of the third generation who have gone gray in the service. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY. 

(President of Deseret Stake.) 

I sincerely hope, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to partially calm my fluttering heart, and be led for a few moments by the inspiration of the Lord. I have enjoyed every moment of the conference from the very beginning, and I have been able to heartily say "Amen" at the conclusion of each address in this conference. While my brethren were talking of their respective stakes, a passage of scripture came to my mind : "He that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted." The Deseret Stake of Zion is down along the lowlands of the Sevier River, the youngest child in the family of stakes, I believe, but she is growing, and we expect, after having taken that humble position, to have them say: Come hither and occupy this honorable place. 

I too am glad to be able to bear testimony of my father and of my mother, of my ancestry, of their faithfulness in the kindgom of God, and I cherish the hope that I can follow faithfully 'the example of my parents. I give them first credit for having taught me the gospel of Jesus Christ, and taught it to me so faithfully and earnestly that I have never been beset with doubts. I thank them for. the teaching they gave me in reverence, and in reverencing the authorities of the 

Church. It was the spirit of my father, somewhat like John the Baptist when he beheld the Savior aproaching, when he said. "Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world." In my father's home, when the authorities of the Church visited us, we reverently looked upon them as men of God. I thank the Lord that that spirit has remained with me unto this day; that I reverence my brethren as men of God, for I never have yet received in all my life any teaching from any of the authorities of this Church that has not been for my good. 

I thank the Lord for a gospel which puts restraint upon me, which demands of me that I keep myself free from the sins of the world; which demands of me that I take care of my tabernacle, that it shall not be defiled with liquor nor with tobacco, nor with tea nor with coffee; which demands of me that I shall not blaspheme, that I cannot excuse myself if I become angry and take the name of God in vain, that I shall reverence the name of the Lord, and never speak it only in devotion and in the deepest reverence. I thank the Lord that the gospel demands of me that I shall not wrap myself up in selfishness, but that I shall give, that I shall give in tithes and in donations, that I shall impart unto my fellow men, and for the work of the Lord. I thank the Lord that the gospel demands of me that I shall not be so selfish that when I have a truth I shall keep that truth to myself, but that it is my privilege and my duty to bear testimony of this to those who know not of this restored gospel. I thank the Lord that I am associated as I am with the people who serve the Lord. I hope and  that our people do so live that the stranger who comes among us — and strangers are multiplying in our midst — that they discover, as they associate with us, that it is no idle statement when we say that we believe in being honest, chaste, virtuous, benevolent, and in doing good unto all men. 

I thank the Lord that this spirit that has come down to me from mv father has also made itself manifest in our children, and I hope that I will not be charged with speaking in any personal way but only as all fathers feel, I believe. When we came out of a priesthood meeting the other day, where a call had been made for missionaries, my son a young man but eighteen years of age, when I came home said, "Papa do you think I am old enough to go abroad and proclaim the gospel ? I would like to accept that mission." My heart was melted with joy when that boy made that voluntary offer. "I will go abroad and proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ." I said to his mother, "Is he old enough, Mama? Can we spare him, or will he not be more efficient in a year or two?" I don't know, right now, what I ought to do, but yet I thank the Lord for the spirit that prompted the boy to proffer to go abroad and proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ, to feel in his youth that it is the truth. I believe that the gospel demands of you and me not that we wait till our age is advanced and then give our service, but that we give the strength of our youth, the strength of our manhood, the best that we possess, all that we have and all that we are for the Church and kingdom of God. If this gospel is anything it is everything to us, for the Spirit of God hath borne witness to our spirit until we know; we know we speak the truth when we say that God has spoken again in this day and age of the world, and revealed His everlasting gospel for the redemption of the world. 

I thank the Lord that we do not have to wait entirely for our reward in the life to come, but that every honest Latter-day Saint who serves God and keeps his commandments receives his reward day by day in the inspiration of the Almighty which comes unto him, and in the satisfaction that he receives in his soul. Xo man serves God that does not feel the influence of the Spirit of God, the Spirit testifying unto his soul that his course in life is approved of the Lord. I bear testimony that I know that the gospel is true. The Lord has revealed it to me, and I hope and pray that I shall live so humbly that this testimony shall never leave me. 

I believe that I have discovered, and that I know that no man ever loses the faith so long as his life is in harmony with the requirements of the gospel. In our stake of Zion, whenever you hear a man complain, or a man who has doubts, you only have to look around and make a little inquiry and you will discover that that man has grown lax in his duty, or has done that which has bereft him of the Spirit of the Lord, and then he is affected with doubt and fault-finding. I said to one of my missionary companions, one of my associates, after a lapse of a few years, "I want to speak. to you, my brother. Where is the faith, where is the testimony that you bore when you first came home?" "Oh, Brother Hinckley," he said, "it is different with me now. I do not have that testimony, I do not feel as I did." I said, "Why not?" and he answered, "I am ." I said, "Are you broader ? 'Did you not feel good when you bore that testimony?" "Yes." "Was it not an honest testimony?" "Yes." "Then tell me, brother, answer mc a few questions honestly. Are you living as you should? Do you remember your prayers? Are you observing the Word of Wisdom? Do you pay your tithing? Do you go to the house of the Lord on the Sabbath day and keep it holy, and do you worship Him?" "No," he replied, "I do not. I do not pray. Once in a while I take a cigar. Once in a while I drink a little beer," an 1 he added "You have got too narrow." My brethren and sisters, I am pleased to bear this testimony to you that, after saying this, perhaps three years, that same man narrowed in from this, as he called it, broad view, he repented, he ceased to smoke, ceased to partake of the glass of beer, he again sought the Lord in prayer, and today he bears the testimony which he bore when he first came home from his mission. 

Our safety is in a life of service, and the danger that comes to us is in the first neglect of a small duty, which leads to greater neglect and finally to the loss of the Spirit of God. The Lord bless us, and help us to be true and faithful from now and henceforth, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Our God, we raise to Thee Thanks for Thy blessings free 

We here enjoy; In this far western land, A true and chosen band, Led hither by Thy hand, 

We sing for joy. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Mark Austin. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. 


