Afternoon
04 04 1913

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m.. President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer — 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Joseph R. Shepherd. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

O, say what is truth? 'Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; And priceless the value of truth will be when 

The proud monarch's costliest diadem Is counted but dross and refuse. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, my soul was rejoiced and instructed this morning by the remarks of President Joseph F. Smith and President Anthon H. Lund. They indicated to us our bearings, as it were, and called us back to first principles. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that it is well to return to first principles, and to learn our duty so that we may be more effective as preachers of the Word. 

The Lord said unto His servants, in the Doctrine and Covenants, ' 'And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples whom I have chosen in these last days, and they shall go forth," the Lord said, "and none shall stay them." There has been no power that has been able to resist or even impede the onward march of truth. The Prophet Isaiah says, in the 55th chapter and 11th verse of his book, "So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth; it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it." It is a remarkable fact that however humble the elder is, when GENERAL CONFERENCE.  speaks by the power of the Holy Ghost, his words go to the hearts of the children of men, and it is a mighty encouragement to the young elder to know that God is behind him, and that there is a power behind his words which the power ofman cannot resist. 

The Savior declared that before His coming there should be fearful sights in the earth, that there should be wars and rumors of wars, that there should be earthquakes and commotion, and that men's hearts should fail them for fear, and in this clay the Lord has said, "For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes. * * * And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and all things shall be in commotion," and surely men's hearts shall fail them. We are living, my brethren and sisters, in this day when these prophecies are being fulfilled. The voice of the tempest, the voice of the earthquake, the voice of the thunderings and the lightnings is following the testimony of the elders of Israel. We do not sit in judgment upon our fellow citizens. We do not boast of great judgments, for the Lord has commanded us not to do that, but we do know that the Lord declared that these things should precede His glorious second coming. We do know that He has said that it is our duty to warn the people, to preach the Gospel, to cry repentance unto this generation, and to say with the prophets of old, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 

It is well to remember, mv brethren and sisters, that it is by the preaching of the Gospel that men are saved, and that men are warned. 

We believe that the souls of men are precious in the sight of God. I believe that the words of the President of the Church this morning, when he exhorted the Priesthood of God to assume the full responsibility of their office, are timely, they are inspired, they apply to us. Think of the sad case of Absalom. He sat at the gate of the city, and when people went up to judgment to the king this false counselor said, "If I were the king I would do this, or I would do the other." He knew in his heart that he could not have done those things in righteousness, and I wonder sometimes of we, instead of bearing responsibility as we should do, do not encourage people to ask foolish questions by referring them to somebody Just to relieve ourselves of the burden of bearing that responsibility which God expects us to bear humbly and honestly in His sight. When the tragic end came, when Absalom's disobedience ended in rebellion and he was slain, King David sat at the gate, waiting for the news from the battle field, and from afar, as the runner came. King David said, "Is the young man Absalom safe?" His thoughts were not with the result of the battle upon which the future of his kingdom rested, but his thoughts were with the young man, and when the melancholy news was bioken to him that Absalom had perished, David's great heart almost broke, and he said, "O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom, would God I had died for thee." What did David's kingdom weigh in the balance of the loss of his son ? His son was dearer to him than all the kingdoms of the world, and so are our children dearer to us than all the wealth of the world. Their souls are precious, and let us, my  and sisters, stand up like men and women in Israel and assume the responsibilities of our callings, let us 

"Dare to be a Daniel, 

And dare to stand alone. Let us dare to have a purpose firm. 

And let us dare to make it known," 

and when people want counsel, if we are able to give it, let us give it in the spirit of humility and of righteousness. 

The scenes now in Ohio and in the south are harrowing in the extreme. In Tennessee a terrible tornado or cyclone went over part of that state and eighty lives were lost as a result of the destructiveness of the storm. In Ohio, in Louisville, in Memphis, the floods are spreading and many lives are being lost and millions of property are being destroyed. I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, in the face of these warnings, in the face of these terrible things, how can we sit in idleness? A man that fears God is afraid to be idle. The man that loves God will seek to save his fellow creatures. Now, when the world oppose us, in what manner shall we retaliate? Not in the kind of opposition they level against us, but when they oppose us we will preach the gospel of love, for our souls go out to the children of men. We will preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus unto them. We will preach faith, repentance and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Ah, it is well to remember that when Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus Christ and asked Him what he should do to be saved, it was not man that said, "Except a man be born of the water and of the Spirit,  cannot enter the kingdom of God." It was the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer, the Savior of the world, the Author of eternal salvation unto all those that obey Him. This was the being who gave that command; this is the Being that gives His commandments to His disciples in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, and when men elect to disobey that command they incur a responsibility for which they will have to answer unto the Lord our God. We are promised the gift of the Holy Ghost. Do you know what that means? I think you do. God be praised, this Spirit has given me a testimony of the Gospel. It has revealed to me and to you that, as the Prophet Joseph said, in order to gain an eternal exaltation in the kingdom of God Ave must obey the fulness of the Gospel; not one principle, not two principles, but the fulness of the everlasting Gospel; for Jesus said: "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God." The gift of the Holy Ghost teaches me that not only is baptism and repentance and faith essential to salvation — and true — but it teaches me that the pre-existence of spirits, the resurrection from the dead, the doctrines of eternal judgment and the other glorious principles, including the doctrine of eternal progression, are true. They are of God and essential to the upbuilding and exaltation of the saints of God. Now this is our duty. I know the Latter-day Saints will prove true. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that our mission and our destiny is as high or higher perhaps than that of any other people that has ever existed on the face of the earth. In the south of Georgia a short time ago at a Presbyterian convention one minister declared that the church that controls America will be the dominating factor in the evangelization of the world. Well, if he means by that that America will be controlled by the church having the fulness of the Gospel, I then will agree with him that that church will be the dominating factor in the evangelization of the earth. It is good to behold that men in other churches are beginning to realize that America has a destiny and that from this land was to go the fulness of the Gospel, and that from this land was to be fought the battle which would end in a complete victory for Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today, as it ever has done, is teaching the fulness of the Gospel. In Chattanooga a few weeks ago the great Baptist church of the south met in convention, and before thev adjourned they passed a resolution that the doctrine of tithing was of God, that it was a proper means of raising revenue, instead of the manner of collecting that now obtains, and each and every delegate pledged himself when he returned home to pay an honest tithing. That great church in the south, instead of depending upon its paid ministers to preach the gospel, is enlisting the aid of its laymen — the masons, the brick-layers, the carpenters, the miners, the clerks, the lawyers, the doctors — all these laymen are being pressed into the ministry, and yet a few years ago they laughed at the ministry of the "Mormon" Church, and declared that its ministry was an uneducated one and therefore would not be of much force in the promulgation of the Gospel. Thus  the world beginning to see that the doctrines of the "Mormon" Church are true. It bears testimony to this mighty fact, that Joseph Smith preached the Gospel, gave utterance to the thoughts that the souls of men were longing to speak. So if this then is to be the rule as to which church controls America, not by force, but along principles of righteousness, it follows then that this Church, preaching the fulness of the Gospel, is to be the dominating factor in the evangelization of the world, and I am proud to be a member of that Church to which that high and holy calling has been committed. Brethren and sisters, let us stand erect in our faith, let us be firm and constant and steadfast, let us determine to do our duty, and then with that spirit, with the help of the Lord, we will struggle on through danger, through storm and through sunshine, until danger's troubled night is o'er. We will preach the Gospel until the nations have been warned. We will preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ until He comes in glory and in power to reign on the earth as King of kings and Lord of lords. Even so, blessed Lord Jesus, come quickly. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President Northwestern States Mission.) 

Perhaps the most important event that is before the Latter-day Saints and the world is the coming of the Son of God to live among men in the flesh. The signs He said should precede His coming are appearing upon the right hand and the left. Those who have eyes to see, and hearts to understand, can easily dis the preparation that is going on in the world, and we can also discern that the Lord is working' in the midst of the Latter-day Saints for the fulfillment of that glorious event. I desire to call attention of my brethren and sisters to that particular phase of the work which is devolving upon us. The Lord is working among the nations according to His good pleasure, but He has given special commission and labor to the Latter-day Saints to prepare a people, a place and a condition for His coming. I am asking myself am I preparing, and I ask, are the Latter-day Saints with whom I am associated preparing themselves to meet the emergency, or shall we disappoint the Lord and ourselves when He comes? 

It is a most pretentious claim the Latter-day Saints make. They say they are fulfilling the vision of the prophet who forsaw the stone cut out of the mountain without hands rolling forth and filling the whole earth. The Latter-day Saints claim that they are now fulfilling that prediction of the past, that while this is but the work in embryo, vet it is rollnig forth to the accomplishment of that mighty purpose. It is growing at a pace, perhaps, that we should be entirely satisfied with, since this work is increasing in numbers, in influence and power in the world. I believe that last year showed the largest increase in history of the church. I do not knowhow it has been in other sections, but in our district we had the largest number of baptisms in any year in the history of that mission, although we had fewer elders than heretofore. Generally I believe that the Church is ^increasing in number of baptisms from year to vear, and that is a gratifying thing. 

We have obtained such growth that, grouping all large churches, such as the Methodist, Presbyterian and so forth, we are rated as the eighth in number of members, in the United States. That is some distinction, and yet, when I look at it from another point of view, I wonder why this Church does not grow faster than it does when I know within my soul that it is the true Church of Jesus Christ, that it stands the test of reason, of argument, of scripture, or any other kind of test tb"* be applied to it. 

I marvel why, just as our fathers and grandfathers did when they were converted, why the world does not receive it gladly, and why hundreds of thousands do not ioin with us, instead of thousands only. I have wondered why the Lord does not cause it to grow faster, but in my contemplation of this question I have found a good deal of comfort from my observation of the facts of history and science. I discover that the physical organism which is calculated to live through a lengthy period of days, or years, seldom comes to maturity quickly, it grows slowly; and that form of life, whether it be vegetable or animal, which is calculated to last but a short period, as a rule, comes to its majority quickly, and soon passes away- The oak does not reach its height in the first year while the sunflower, for example, may lift its head above the oak in the first season, but, when the test of winter frosts is applied to it, it falls, while the oak twig remains, and each succeeding season becomes stronger and greater, and remains through ages to become the monarch of the forest. Those governments that have been destined to endure through long periods of time were, as a rule, very slow in their growth : Those that grew rapidly ordinarily passed away quickly. And so, I believe that God's hand is manifest in preventing a too rapid growth of His Church. That may seem a strange way to look at it, and yet I believe it is evident that the Lord is staying the too rapid growth of this work. 

There have been many difficulties in the way of men and women receiving the gospel; one being the gathering to Zion. If the members of the Church had remained in England, Scotland, Ireland and other places where they received the message of the gospel in early days, and would have built churches there, it is probable that there would have been hundreds join the church that never did come into it, because of the prestige that a local strong membership would have exerted. The fact that men had to gather from their native land to America, and go through the hardships of a long pilgrimage, an ocean voyage in the olden style sailing vessel, and then a long journey across the plains, was such a discouragment that it is likely there would have been thousands more join this Church if that sacrifice had not been required of them. It is doubtless true that if the Latter-day Saints could have remained in Missouri or Illinois, without molestation, there w ould have been a great many more belonging to the Church than there are today. Many of those who undertook the ocean voyage, stood that hardship but could go no further. Others faltered in the wilderness, "put their hands to the plow then turned back," and remained in various sections of the United States, they, and their descendants, hundreds who could not muster courage enough to go all the way. 

These were difficulties in -the way of the growth of this work. 

It is doubtless true also, that if it had not been, and if today it were not required of those who receive the gospel, that they should observe the Word of Wisdom, and abstain from the use of tea and coffee, tobacco and liquor, hundreds who are not now united with us would have been. I know some who are outside of the Church because they cannot make the sacrifice to give up the coffee, tea, or tobacco that they have been used to for years. Indeed, if this test were applied, this one simple thing in the requirements the Lord has made, were required of any other religious denomination outside of the Latter-day Saints, if men had to accede to that one law among us known as the Word of Wisdom, it is doubtful whether they would maintain one-half of their membership. It is probable there are thousands who would have joined the Church had it not been for the requirement of the Lord in the law of tithing, they are standing aloof because they have not courage enough to join us since the Lord has asked us to donate a tenth of our income for the intrests of this Church. It is true that there would be many come in if it were not for the fact that they are afraid they would have to go upon a mission. 

I could enumerate other things connected with the growth of membership in this Church which seem to be a hinderance, and yet when I look at this whole question from another point of view — and I would like to see it from the Lord's point of view, for He is able to remove all these difficulties if necessary. — when I look at it from what I think is His point of view, I confess that the Lord has done it just right, and 

I would not want to change or alter it at all. Of what value and worth, after all, would a large membership of the Church be, if the men and women would or could not meet its requirements? The Lord is building the most splendid institution the world has ever seen, in this work of the Church preparatory for the coming of the Son of God. The kindgom that is to be built up and established from this work is to be the grandest thing the world has ever seen, and the Lord cannot make it out of material that is not full weight, full measure, full capacity; and so these tests are applied to eliminate that material which is unworthy to be used in the building of this structure. The man or woman who cannot leave father and mother, house and land, for Christ's sake and the gospel, is not worthy of His favor : and so the gathering from the nations of the earth is a test and those who stand the test, they and their children, can be used in the accomplishment of this work. Those were rejected who faltered bv the wayside, who could not endure tests of Missouri and Illinois, tests essential in God's program for the building of the Church in this country. I believe that the troubles, sorrows, and diffieulities experienced by the Saints in Missouri and Illinois were necessary, and that the men and the women who came to this country would perhaps, not have remained true if they hadn't passed through those troublesome days. There were even greater troubles after they left that land, and the Lord was only preparing them for these. That was onlv as a schoolmaster to prepare them for greater sacrifices that they were destined to make. 

The Lord intends to make this  not only a people intellectual, but a people the physical superiors of any men who have lived upon the earth. In making the sacrifices that our parents did, they were laying the foundation for physical health of manhood and womanhood that shall ultimately produce a perfect race. In my heart I thank God that three generations ago my grandparents left off using tobacco, liquor, and tea, left those objectionable things in the old world, and haven't transmitted the taint or desire of them into my blood. I want to preserve that blessing, and pass it on to my generations after me, that this may produce a perfect race of men and women. Woe to me if I lose two generations of struggle and effort, and we turn back to the use of the harmful things that my parents and grandparents left. , 

We have not finished the work, my young brethren and sisters. God laid the foundation through the labor of our fathers and mothers, and the superstructure is just beginning to rise. If we shall be counted worthy to be used as material in the building of that which God intends and contemplates, we shall have to maintain all that our fathers maintained, of faith, and virtue, and all the qualities of honesty and integrity that were so abundant in them, and we must add unto it or we cannot be accepted of the Lord. Israel Zangwill, the Jew, spoke of glorious America as the melting pot in which he saw the various nations of the earth absorbed, through the genius and spirit of American institutions; and he contended that, after a man has become an American citizen, he should no longer be called a Jew, or an Irishman, but an American. The great question is, can America absorb the hordes that come to her shores and transmit to them the ideals of the fathers who founded this government? Zangwill is hopeful this shall he the case; I trust it may. It is wonderful what America has accomplished through mixing the blood of various nations, she has produced a new type of men and women, a physical type of manhood that excels in most international athletic events, a type of physical beauty that excels the rest of the world. Oh, in that I can see another of God's purposes in gathering men and women from the nations of the earth. 

In our gathering places we have not been receiving hordes promiscuously, like the country at large has. but we have been selecting the stock, "one of a city and two of a family." They have not been from the ranks of the lowest society, nor the highest, but they have been, as a rule, from the choicest of the nations of the earth, the blood that is purest and best. These have been selected and brought here to a "melting pot" where men and women are being purified as gold seven times tried, the most perfect race of men and women the world has ever seen. That "melting pot" is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterdnv faints, wherein the best blood of the various nations can mingle and oroduce not only the best race physically, but a race that shall continue to uphold standards of purity and qualities of life that shall ultimately make the cleanest and best people in all the world. Now T can see the wisdom of the Lord in bringing these people from Scandinavia, and Germanv, and other nations, who have a like faith and belief, that their children may intermarry with each other and  maintain the ' advantage of such union, add unto it and carry it into future generations. 

The Latter-day Saint boys and girls who do not intermarry with those of their own faith and belief, counteract to a large extent, the benefit of the sacrifices made by their progenitors and nullify, to some degree, the purposes and object for which God has gathered us here. Latter-day Saint boys should marry Latter-day Saint girls, and Latterday Saint girls, ought to marry Latter-day Saint boys. I regret to say I have met scores of' heartbroken, disappointed "Mormon" girls scatttered over the northwest, who fully agree with me that they have made a failure, and a serious mistake in undertaking to live their ideals associated with men without these ideals, and without faith at all. 

God is building here an institution that is going to be, as T have observed, the most excellent of all the world, and we are not going to be discouraged if, after two generations, we have not accomplished it. If it shall take three, four, five, or six generations we won't be discouraged. We shall seize the advantages that our fathers have given unto us, we will hold it up before the eyes of our children as an unfinished work that God has called us to do, that may take ten or twenty, generations, but it will be completed through God's help, if we only do our part. Our eyes may not see the consummation, but we are expected to do our duty and leave the result with our posterity who, may the Lord grant, shall follow our example as we should follow the example of those who have preceded us. That the Son of God may come soon, and live among men in the earth, is my prayer and desire in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"My friend, Divine," a soprano solo, was rendered by Miss Tena Rasband. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. EOBINSON. 

( President of California Mission.) 

While I stand before yon, my brethren and sisters, I sincerely desire the inspiration of the spirit of truth to direct my utterance. With me, I know your souls have been fed with the bread of life this day, and in the testimony of my brethren of the mission fields you have felt it like a call to battle for the right. If there has been dubiety in the minds of any as to the. right of authority to preside over the things pertaining to righteousness, and the kingdom of our God in the earth, your minds were disabused of that in this morning's service, when President Smith made known unto us the mind and will of the Lord relative to the order of the Priesthood, and the order of the Church, and to the necessity of the Priesthood setting their houses and themselves in order. 

With Elder Ballard, I sincerely rejoice in the fact that I, too,- have been born of "believing blood." Sometimes, in the mission field, I have been confronted with the thought, and with the statement that, "this alone accounts for your position as a member of the 'Mormon' faith, or Church, the fact that you were born a 'Mormon.' " At first blush, to some it may appear that there is no particular virtue in one's birth, yet through all time I have learned to have respect to that 'believing blood" spoken of in the , and recognized by the Master Himself when He said, "My sheep know my voice and the stranger they will not follow." I have learned too, from observing not only men of different nationalities, and their predisposition to do certain things because of prenatal influences and training, and different traits of thoughts and living, that in the animal world about us, those who were born to a certain end achieved it more readily than any can be trained to do so; that the bloodhound will follow with unerring scent the trail that is lost to the pampered and petted pet of some lady of high degree. And so I rejoice in the fact that I, too, have been born of believing parents, of the third generation, and it has been my prayer that there shall be no untoward act performed by me that shall turn back the tide of progress set by my ancestors toward the goal of truth and righteousness. 

I rejoice in the privileges of the gospel. I rejoice in the fact that all the principles thereof appeal both to the emotions and the reason of men; that there is no good thing, that there is nothing legitimate, praiseworthy or of good report to be found outside of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as revealed anew to us in these last days. Men say and have said unto me that "You don't know it all," and individually I am perfectly willing to confess that. They have said, "You don't have all within your church that is true." This I have not accepted, and I am not prepared to accept, on the contrary, I do know that there is in the genius of this gospel, which we live and keep, that which is for the salvation of the souls of men now. The gospel does not deal alone with what we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  call an uncertain future, which however is certain to those who will keep the faith; it does not deal alone with the past, but is alive, is virile, and enters into every avenue of art, science and trade, into the social fabric, in everything that is praiseworthy and for the uplift of men. If in the writings of Israel Zangwill, in some of the statements he has made in his play. "The Melting Pot," he has felt the pulse of the future, and can see in this blessed land of America a nation not of many nations but one, with intent and purpose to render that which is just and true unto God and unto their fellows, it will be because of the gospel of the Lord Jesus and not because of the theories and ideals of men. Those dreamers who dream of a Utopian time when inequality shall cease, when the hireling shall be no longer oppressed in his wage, when men shall meet a brother and a friend in every land and clime, when righteousness shall obtain in the courts of justice, and men shall have been weaned away from selfishness and hate, should understand that it shall be realized only through the fruits of the gospel of the Lord Jesus, for that alone will strip man of innate selfishness, which is the bane of humanity today. The gospel of the Lord Jesus alone will cause men to prefer their neighbors to themselves, and wean them of selfishness and jealousy, and their hunger after pomp and power, fame and government. The gospel of the Lord Jesus alone will grant unto the hireling that which is his just due, and care for the widow and the fatherless. The gospel of the Lord Jesus alone will make of the proud man a humble man, will abase him and bring him on to the same level and footing with his brother who  after truth and after equality in all things. 

Upon our western seaboard we find a great many of those so-called dreamers. It seems a rich land for every creed, every idea and theory to fructify in. Frequently we have new faiths arise, and new churches are established; new methods of belief and unbelief put forth, with their various followers; more or less of the spirit of the Orient as well as of the Occident. It is surprising that so many fads and fancies find following among so-called stable minded men, and the liberally educated people of America. Recently, in Los Angeles, there was one set up and named the Church of the Living God, the tabernacle of David again in the wilderness." Some of their elders came to our headquarters to instruct us in the fact that there had been a falling away of the faith; that there has been innovations made in the gospel ordinances of the church founded by the Master; that men drew near to God with their mouths and with their lips did honor Him, but their hearts were far removed from Him, and they taught for fear the doctrines of men, and for hire made themselves specious teachers to tickle the ears of those who would not stand reproach or chatisement. T t^ld them there would be no difficult)- in teaching us the gospel which they had in mind, the "everlasting gospel"as they called it, if they could but prove to us the line of their authority and the right to teach. They entered into a dissertation of how one Josnua Sykes had been called of the Master, angels had visited him, and possibly he himself was one of the evangels of olden time, come again to the earth for the last dispensation. Then I asked them for a  of it in the fact that God had said, as they had quoted, "that every word should be established in the mouth of two or more witnesses." Then they were confounded, for they had only the witness of one man in every step in the building up of their church. I cited them not only to the witness of men, so far as the building of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was concerned, but that God, the Father Himself, was a witness, and had come with the Son, and introduced Himself to the boy prophet to open up this last dispensation. Also, John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Christ anciently, of whom the Christ said "He is the Esaias who is to come" who, if we may accept some of the writings of the early fathers, Nicodemus said went into hell itself and introduced himself in hades, to the spirits who were kept in prison from Adam unto that day, as John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ on the earth, who now had come down to the very depths of hell to make known unto them the fact of their emancipation; that the Christ should visit them there and come with healing in His wings and set the captives free, to open the prison doors; and lead the prisoners out of darkness into light. I stated that John came to men in the flesh, to Oliver and Joseph, and bestowed upon them the keys of his ministry; that Peter, James and John came to Joseph and Oliver and gave them the keys of the Melchisedek Priesthood; that the Lord Jesus, and Moses, and Elias and Elijah and many great and wonderous angels, Gabriel and Raphael, as well as these prophets of the Lord Jesus, came each in his turn with the keys of his ministry and dispensation, and in the presence of two or more  bestowed them upon the prophet and his immediate associates. That line of authority has never been broken and given to another people, but has continued with the church, with all the characteristic gifts, signs, offices and ordinances that were ear-marks of Christ's church in the day when He lived and prayed for the time when God should set up His kingdom in the earth, nevermore to be thrown down or given to another people. 

If it does not make a man righteously proud to know that he belongs to this church and kingdom, that he participates in these gifts and blessings, I know not what can come unto the soul of man to make him so. Therefore today, with you, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the fact that we live, that we have being, through the grace of our Father; that Ave are redeemed from death and hell through the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the atonement which He wrought out, and that with Him and our Father, in the world which is to come, we shall have opportunity and time to realize all that our fond souls have yearned for and builded for in this life; that we shall be followed by objects of corresponding greatness to our ideals. There we shall come into our own, and shall be recognized throughout all eternity as the very children of our Father, into whose hands He committed the ministry of the last days for the setting up of His kingdom, and for the reclamation of the souls of men. 

Let us glorify Him and do our full part to bring men to a knowledge of the truth, that every man shall hear the gospel, that every soul shall know God for himself and have no need to ask his neighbor; GENERAL CONFERENCE.  i> my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.). 

Several years ago one of the greatest thinkers of the world, the great Russian scholar, Tolstoi, saw a speck in the far distance which he recognized as "Mormonism," and he wrote to one of the leading educators of America and asked the question whether "Mormonism" was to become a world power. The leader of a great institution in America, to whom the question was propounded, answered, "We will have to wait until we see the third and fourth generation of what is now known as 'Mormonism.' before we can answer." This flashed through my mind a short time ago when one of the apostles was visiting the Eastern States Mission, at a time when we had the conference presidents of all the conferences of that mission in council together; I thought to myself, I will take a vote and see how many among the leaders of this mission — the thirteen different young men who had been chosen for their worthiness to preside over conferences — belonged to the second, third or fourth generation of "Mormonism;" and in taking the vote I discovered that every one of them belonged to the third and fourth generations. I could have wished that that leader of the university had been present and could have remembered the question propounded to him by that great scholar of Europe, and could also have remembered that only eighty-one or two years ago the Church had been organized with six members, and that at the pres time there was probably not a civilized nation upon the earth where Joseph Smith's name was not remembered as being one of the greatest prophets that had ever lived upon the face of this earth — in fact, the greatest save it be Jesus Christ. If the work continues to grow in the next eighty years as it has in the past eighty, it will certainly be the power of the earth. 

I rejoice this afternoon that I have a standing within the Church; that I was born of goodly parents; that I can point, with a great deal of pride, to the fact that my father was a trusted associate of the Prophet Joseph, and all the other leaders of the Church up to the time of his death, also that Lorenzo Snow, at my mother's funeral, pointed to the corpse and said, "There lies the body of a woman who has never been antagonistic to any law that God has revealed for the redemption of mankind." I sincerely trust that when my time comes to lay this body down that it can be said of me that I have been true to the men whom God has placed from time to time at the head of the Church. I remember each one of the presidents from President Young to President Joseph F. Smith. I have looked upon all of them as men of God, as the mouthpieces of God, and I am satisfied beyond the question of a doubt that they are and have been such, giving to the people wise and safe counsel, and I have never seen a person prosper or be happy in refusing to take the counsel that has come from the lips of the authorities of the Church. 

Jesus considered it a wise judgment to judge a tree from its fruits. The world claim that they believe in Jesus Christ's judgment and in 

His counsel, and all we ask is for the world to judge "Mormonism" from what "Mormons" have accomplished. We are looked upon as being the black spot upon the ecclesiastical part of the world, and yet I doubt very much if any other church that has ever existed upon the face of the earth could have done so much to bless the earth, so far as they have had an opportunity, as this Church has done. In looking over the faces before me I doubt very much if there is a member of the Church in the enjoyment of a happy home who does not owe it directly or indirectly to the work and the influence of this Church, if not individually to themselves, to their parents' before them in bringing them together and giving them an existence upon the earth, in leading their parents here to the Rocky Mountains, planting their feet here in the safest part of the world, and giving them opportunities that they never would have had had it not been for the work of some "Mormon" missionary. To my mind in this connection alone is revealed some of the greatest miracles; greater, far greater than is recorded in the Bible. If we had read them in the Bible we would have classed them among the greatest of miracles to be found within the lids of that sacred book. I want to relate one especially that seems to have drifted away from our minds. There are those here before me who remember when President Joseph F. Smith, President Francis M. Lyman, President Heber J. Grant, and President Lund were all who are now living, 'of the general authorities of the Church, at the time when our brethren were off on what we were pleased to term the "underground," when pretty near  the presidents of the stakes were away from their flocks, when almost every ward had lost its father, the bishop, and when some of the darkest clouds that ever hovered around our people completely covered them up, when we did not have the privilege at our general conference to see the general authorities of the Church upon the stand; when only occasionally we received a written message from the presidency of the Church, when trouble surrounded us upon all sides, when the government seemed bitterly against us, and when even the authorities of the Church could see no light ahead, it was then they issued an address to the Saints pointing out all of these conditions, and making a request upon them to observe a special fast day named by the authorities for the people to come together, fasting, with prayerful hearts, to lift up their prayers to God the eternal Father, and ask Him to lift the clouds. At that time there was not a soul able to find a solution to the problem, or would even attempt to suggest one. The Latter-day Saints obeyed the counsel of the authorities of the Church. They came to the various meeting places with prayerful hearts; they came fasting; they lifted up their voices to God the eternal Father, and offered up their prayers to Him, begging Him to permit their prayers to ascend unto His throne, even as did the prayers of Cornelius of old. Do you remember in what a short period of time some four hundred of our brethren who were cast into prison cells came home; how the presidents of stakes came back to their posts of duty; how the members of the wards greeted the fathers of the wards, and how God listened to their prayers? If a simple relation of a matter of that kind, which the older brethren, the middle-aged brethren remember distinctly, if we could read of such a thing in the Bible we would look upon it as one of the greatest miracles recorded in that book. But we lived in that day and it came about gradually. We could see the hand of God in it. We could see that God works upon natural principles, that He uses men to bring about His purposes; that He so arranged it that the cause of His people was soon shifted from the hands of bigots and from the hands of men whose minds were filled with hatred, that they were placed in the hands of diplomats and statesmen, and in His own natural way He freed His people. I say, to my mind, it is one of the great miracles in this Church, and demonstrated to me beyond a question of a doubt that God will hear our prayers when we place ourselves in a condition to be heard. When a man places himself in a position to receive a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, he is in a position to demand recognition from our Father in heaven, and our Father in heaven will listen to him. 

The testimony that God has given to me of the work of the great latter-day prophet is the key that opened to me the door, giving to me light upon the testimony of Jesus Christ, and sometimes I wonder, I shudder at what my Condition in the religious world would have been had it not been for the testimony I received concerning the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that he was a prophet of God, and a study of his life gave me an undying testimony that Jesus was the Christ, and yet  who judge us wrongfully say that a Bible is not to be found in a "Mormon" pulpit, that the little children of "Mormon" people hear nothing about Jesus, and it is a common thing in the east for our enemies to use it as an argument whereby churches raise money for the purpose of buying little Christmas presents for "Mormon" children (which they never get), to teach them something about Jesus. 

We know that the testimony God has given to us concerning the mission of Joseph Smith gives us an undying testimony that Jesus is the Christ, a stronger testimony than is possessed by any other religious body in the world, a testimony that He died for the sins of the world; that He was resurrected — not a mythical resurrection, but a tangible, literal resurrection from the grave, and that we are almost the only people who do believe in the actual resurrection, the literal resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The rest of them have made Him a being that is not a being, something without form, saying that God is a spirit and that a spirit has not flesh and bones, that you see Him in the leaves of the trees, and in the flowers that grow, you feel Him in the atmosphere; or, in other words that He is merely nature, and then they will send to hell, and brand as an infidel, the person who says the only God is Nature, while they only call it by another name. Our Savior appeared to His apostles, and to the doubting Thomas He said, "Here, Thomas, see the marks of the nails in my hands;' here is the mark of the spear in my side; reach hither thy hand and thrust it in and see that it is I; a spirit hath not flesh and bone as ye see me have." They  not love to dwell upon that doctrine, but they cover it up with the words of John, supposed words of John, that God is a Spirit. I do not believe that John ever said or ever wrote those words. Those who know anything about the scripture know that when it was translated by that great and grand congregation that was brought together under the influence of King James of England, that they did their work honestly. The manuscripts they had access to were blurred, unreadable in places, and where they found that condition they decided for themselves what words to put in to make it readable, and when they came to this manuscript that they have translated "God is a spirit," the word "God" was there, the word "Spirit" was there, but the word "IS" was not there, and they ordained that every word of their own creation placed within the lids of that Bible should be so marked — because they were honest men — should be so marked that future generations should have the privilege of knowing what they did themselves. The words they supplied, and those words have come down to us marked now in italics, to know that they were the words of men, that it was a guess, and in most instances a good guess. Then, when we read John, and there we see the little word "is" in italics, making it read "God is a. , we know it to be man-made. The reason John did not, in my estimation, put it that way is because he was there when Christ appeared before him, when he heard the Savior say, "See, it is I; see the marks in my hands, and see the mark of the Roman spear in my side; it is I, with flesh and bones; a spirit has not flesh and bones as you see me have." God bless you. Amen. 

PKESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I do not think that President Rich will take any exception to a remark that I would like to make in connection with John's reference to the Lord, or to God being a spirit. I think the fact is that even a man and, a very ordinary man, is a spirit; and if you want any evidence of it, just remove his spirit and look at what remains. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! 

What more can He say than to you He hath said, 

You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled? 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Daniel G. Miller. 


