Morning
04 04 1913

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. Presence, and vigor, of so many faithful Church workers a cause for thankfulness. — Responsibilities and duties of Church officers and members defined and enumerated. — Church rule is that transgressors be tried by local authorities. — Brotherly kindness to be manifest in dealing with wrong-doers. — Church organization perfect, because divinely established. — Auxiliary organizations subject to the Priesthood. — Discountenance watching for evil, encourage the good. 

Tt is with a degree of weakness, of timidity and a sense of dependence upon the Lord that I stand before you this morning at the opening of the Eighty-third anniversary of the April Conference of the Church. I feel entirely dependent, and without forethought, upon the pn miptings of the Spirit of the Lord for what I may be led to say to you. T cannot pass without expressing my gratitude to the Lord for the preservation of our lives and for the many temporal as well as spiritual blessings that we all enjoy this morning on assembling here, in this tabernacle, on this very int cresting and important occasion. I feel very grateful, myself, for the blessings that T enjoy personally, for the measure of health and strength I possess, and for the spiritual life that T feel in the work in which we are engaged. I feel grateful, too. that our beloved brother Anthon H. Lund, who has been unwell for a season, is so far recovered as to be able to attend with us here this morning enjoving an increased measure of health. Tt is also a source of great pleasure and gratitude to me that we have with us. in the vigor of youth, our beloved bm«-i->.- Charles W. Penrose, now past his eighty-first year, and yet looking very much younger tjjan manv of us youneer men, that is, younger in vears. not vounger mentallv nor phvsicallv. but merely in years. Tt is also a source of congratulation and of thankfulness that we have with us the brethren of the twelve, with the exception of Elder Smoot. ( who i<? engaged in a good c utse and i^ doing much in the way  the moral uplift of mankind as well as in the service of the people of his state, for his influence, his personal habits, his manner of life, his spirit are sermons for good among all his associates, and his example is always praiseworthy; and Rudger Clawson, who is presiding over the European Mission, and is in the discharge of his duty as faithfully as it is possible for any man to be, and is doing a good work in his mission field. The brethren of tb<= Seventies are with us, all of them I believe, in possession of vigor and health and the spirit of their calling, and mission; and we have also with us the Presiding Bishopric, enjoying the same blessings, together with the Presiding Patriarch a youth who is developing commendablv in the performance of his duties, and bids fair of being a light that shall shine in his pathway, to rboc-^ --b are seeking after the truth. Then it is a source of gratitude to me that I can look upon so many of the presidents of the stakes of Zion as are assembled here this morning at this opening session of our Conference. We have now, organized, sixty-four stakes of Zion, and a very large proportion of the nresidencies of those stakes are present with us this morning, many of whom are becoming, like some of the rest of us. aged in the service in which they have been engaged for many years, and it is gratifying to have the nrivilege of meeting with them and of offering a greeting of welcome into this house of the Lord this morning; and I sincerely invoke the blessings of our heavenly Father upon these men, upon whom rests so «reat responsibilitv in exercising the rights of presidency over the stakes over which they preside. Then I look  over this great congregation and see a large number of the bishops of the Church, assembled here to represent the people of their wards, many of whom, of course, have not the privilege of attending this conference on account of the distance from their homes. I congratulate you presidents of stakes and your counselors, members of the high councils of the various stakes of Zion, on your presence here, and I trust that in your participations in the conference you may be filled with joy and satisfaction, and that it may be a time of refreshing to you as well as to all the saints. In connection with these also we have with us the various organizations in the priesthood from the high priests down to the elders in the Church representing the high priests and the seventies and the elders and the patriarchs, many of whom I suppose are here today to add to the number of those who have come to attend the conference and to take part in the duties thereof, together with the bishoprics and the lesser priesthood, many of whom are here. The strength of Israel I apprehend is here today, representing the whole Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints, not only in the organized stakes of Zion, but in manv of the missions in the world. 

I need not say to my brethren engaged in the ministry that it is expected of them that one and all will attend to the labors and be true to the responsibilities that rest upon them in the discharge of their duties as officers in the Church. We expect that the presidencies of the stakes of Zion will be exemplars to the people. We expect them of a truth to be fathers unto those over whom they preside, men of wisdom, of sound judgment, impar and just, men who will indeed qualify themselves, or who are indeed qualified by their natural endowments and by the inspiration from God which it is their privilege to enjoy, to preside in righteousness and to sit in righteous judgment over all matters brought to their attention or that may legitmately belong to their office and calling. We anticipate the same fidelity, the same faithfulness, the same intelligent administration of their duties from the bishops and their counselors, and indeed upon these rests perhaps the greatest possible responsibility, for the reason that they are expected by their presidencies to attend to the various interests and needs of their people. It is expected of a bishop to know all the people that reside in his ward, not only those that are faithful members of the Church, diligent in the performance of their duties and prominent by their good acts, but to know those who are cold and indifferent, those who are lukewarm, those who are inclined to err and to make mistakes, and not only these, but it is expected that the bishops through their aides in their wards, will become acquainted, not only with their members, male and female, but that they will know also the stranger that is within their gates and be prepared to minister solace, comfort, good counsel, wisdom and every other aid possible to be rendered to those that are in need, whether they are of the household of faith or are strangers to the truth. So that there is a great deal expected of the bishops and their counselors and the elders and lesser priesthood in their wards whom they call to their aid in administering to the people both spiritually and temporally, and I want to remark in this connection that it is the duty of these bishops and of the presidencies of the stakes of Zion, together with their high councils, to administer justice and right judgment to every member of their wards and of their stakes. Included in this are the high priests and the seventies and the elders and the apostles and the patriarchs and the presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. No man who is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or who has a standing in the Church' as a member, is exempt from his responsibilities as a member and his allegiance to the bishop of the ward in which he dwells. I am as much bound to acknowledge my bishop as a member of the ward in which I dwell, as the humblest and latest member of the Church. No man who claims to be a member of the Church in good standing, can ride above or become independent of the authority that the Lord Almighty has established in His Church. This watch-care of the people, of their right living, of their fidelity to their covenants and to the gospel of Jesus Christ, belongs to the presidents of stakes and their counselors and the high councils, or members of the high council, to the bishop and his counselors and the teachers of his ward. Then we have the organizations of the holy priesthood. We have the council of the first presidency consisting of three presiding high priests who are called of God and appointed to preside over the Church and over the priesthood of God, and I want to say here that it does not follow and never has followed that the members of the first presidency of the Church are necessarily to be ordained apostles. They hold by virtue of their rights  presidents of the Church all the keys and all the authority that pertains to the Melchisedek priesthood, which comprehends and comprises all of the appendages to that priesthood, the lesser priesthood and all the offices in the priesthood from first to last and from least to greatest; and I would to the Lord that some of our would-be wise men would learn this truth and establish the same in their minds that they might not everlastingly be at sea in regard to it and always asking questions of the most nonsensical kind with reference to the rights of the priesthood. All you have to do is to read the revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, giving to the Church the authorities of the priesthood that God has restored in the latter dav. It is as perfect, as plain as the A. B. C's of our language and only needs to be read with the spirit of understanding to be perfectly comprehended. 

The duty of the twelve apostles of the Church is to preach the gospel to the world, to send it to the inhabitants of the earth and to bear testimony of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as living witnesses of His divine mission. That is their special calling and they are always under the direction of the presidencv of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints when that presidency is intact, and there is never at the same time two equal heads in the Church — never. The Lord never ordained any such thing, nor designed it. There is always a head in the Church, and if the presidency of the Church are removed by death or other cause, then the next head of Church is the twelve apostles until a presidencv is again organized of three presiding high priests who have the right to hold the office  first presidency over the Church; and, according" to the doctrine laid down by President Wilford Woodruff, who saw the necessity for it, and that of President Lorenzo Snow, if the president should die, his counselors are then released from that presidency, and it is the duty of the twelve apostles to proceed at once, in the manner that has been pointed out, to see that the First presidency is reorganized, so that there may be no deficiency in the working and order of the priesthood in the Church. Now again, the bishoprics, and the presidents of stakes, have exclusive jurisdiction over the membership or the standing of men and women in their wards and in their stakes. I want to state that pretty plain — that is to say, it is not my duty, it is not the duty of the seven presidents of seventies, nor of the council of the twelve apostles, to go into a stake of Zion and try for membership or for standing in the Church, any member of a stake or ward. We have no business to do it; it belongs to the local authorities and they have ample authority to deal with the membership in their wards and in their stakes. The bishops may try an elder for misconduct, for unChristianlike conduct, for apostasy, or for wickedness of any kind that would disqualify him for membership in the Church, and they may pass upon him their judgment that he is unworthy of fellowship in the Church, and they may withdraw from him their fellowship. Then they may refer his case to the Presidency and High Council, and it will be the duty of the Presidency and High Council of the stake to deal with him, even to the extent of excommunication from the Church; and there is no remedy for this,  the right of appeal to the Presidency of the Church. If there may be perchance any injustice, and partiality, lack of information or understanding on the part of the bishopric, which may not be corrected and therefore might be perpetuated by the decision of the High Council, and the party aggrieved does not feel that he has had justice dealt out to him, he then has a right, under the laws of the Church, to appeal to the Presidency of the Church, but not otherwise. We want it distinctly understood that we cannot hear the complaints of members of the Church against their bishops, nor against their presidents, nor against their fellow members in the Church. If we were to yield to a thing of this kind we would usurp and do away with the authority of the Bishops and with the Presidencies of the stakes, and we would have the responsibility of trying any or all the members of the Church, who might have troubles to adjust, and that would be a practical impossibility; we could not do it; and then, it would not be right tb do it, because God has designed it the other way. The Lord has given us a more perfect organization than that. Therefore, we want the cranks and the crazy folks, the insane, if there are any, who wish to step over their Bishops and their Presidents to the Presidency of the Church, or to the Twelve, to distinctly understand that if they do so, we will refer their case to their local authorities to be dealt with on the ground, where the evidence can be had pro and con and where justice can be meted out to them. We have enough to do, goodness knows, without listening to the complaints and cries, mournings and bickerings of individuals everywhere, however few, comparatively. The limits of the Church are now spread out and extended to the islands of the sea and to distant continents and countries, for the gospel is being preached to the nations of the world, and we cannot hear all the complaints of individuals. The Lord has organized these councils in the Church, such as the bishops' councils and the high councils, with the presidencies in the Church, to take care of the people to see that no injustice is done by one to another in the Church, to see that no unrighteousness exists that can be averted or that can be corrected and to see that justice and judgment and righteousness shall reign in the organizations of the Church and no wickedness or vileness be permitted to linger and corrode the body of the Church by neglect of being dealt with in the proper way. Not that we should injure, or hurt, or oppress — the furtherest thought in the world from my heart is oppression. No man should be oppressed. No authority of the Priesthood can be administered or exerted in any degree of unrighteousness, without offending God. Therefore, when we deal with men we should not deal with them in anger. We should not deal with them with prejudice in our minds against them. We should dismiss prejudice, dispel anger from our hearts, and when we try our brethren for membership or fellowship in the Church we should do it dispassionately, charitably, lovingly, kindly, with a view to save and not to destroy. That is our business; our business is to save the world, to save mankind, to bring them into harmony with the laws of God and with principles of righteousness and of justice and truth, that they may  saved in the kingdom of our God and become, eventually, through obedience to the ordinances of the gospel, heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. That is our mission. Now then we have our highpriests' quorums or councils, and we have our Seventies' Councils and our elders, and then we have the councils of the priests, teachers and deacons in the Lesser Priesthood. These councils each and all in their organized capacity have jurisdiction over the fellowship of the members of these councils — if the member is an elder, or if a man has a standing in the Seventies' quroum, or is a member of the High Council, or the High Priests' quorum, and he is misbehaving himself, shows a lack of faith, a lack of reverence for the position he holds in his Council, or quorum, his fellowship in that quorum to which he belongs, or his standing should be looked after or enquired into, for he is amenable to his quorum for his good standing and fellowship in it. So that we have the check that the Lord has placed upon members of the Church, and when I say members of the Church I mean me, I mean the apostles, I mean the high priests, and the seventies, and elders. I mean everybody that is a member of the Church; and I say that when these members of the Church are in error or doing wrong we have the check on them in the first place in the wards, bishops look after them, then their quorums to which they belong have jurisdiction and they are required to look after them too, and then after the quorums look after them the Presidencies of the stakes look after .them and see that they are helped, that they are strengthened, that they are admonished, that they are warned and that  are applauded when they do their duties and keep the commandments of the Lord. So the Lord has placed a great many checks upon the members of the Church with a view to teaching them right principles, to help them to do right, to live right and to be pure, and clean from the sins of the world, that the body of the Church may be perfected, that it may be free from disease, from all contagious evils, just as the body of the man Christ Jesus is free from all taint, evil, and sin. So God has placed these safeguards in the Church from the deacons to the apostles, and to the Presidency of the Church, with a view of persuading men and women to keep themselves pure and unspotted from the world and to help them to be faithful to their covenants entered into with one another and with their God. 

What a wonderful organization it is! Whoever has thought of it except he whom the Lord revealed it to ? When did it ever exist in its perfection before as it exists today? And to whom are we indebted for the intelligence, wisdom and knowledge that has perfected this organization and established it for the government and the upbuilding of Zion and for purification of mankind — to whom are we indebted? To the Lord, God Almighty, to the Son of God who spoke to Joseph, the prophet, by his own voice and by the voice of messengers sent to him, by whom Joseph was instructed and enlightened and empowered to effect an organization such as the world never knew before, unless it was in the days of Enoch. Even the principles that were taught to Enoch have been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith; but the people are not prepared for them  so they are postponed, delayed,, or shelved for the time being, and we are trying to work ourselves up to the standard before God. or to the point in which we will be worthy to engage in the order of Enoch, in which we may become more perfect than we can possibly be under the present system that we are governed by. 

Now, much more might be sai T . I have in mind our auxiliary organizations, what are they? Helps to the standard organizations of the Church. They are not independent. I want to say to the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and to the Relief Society, and to the Primaries, and to the Sunday Schools, and Religion Classes, and all the rest of the organizations in the Church, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God, not one of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the Lord when they withdraw from the voice and from the counsel of those who hold the Priesthood and preside over them. They are subject to the powers and authority of the Church, and they are not independent of them; nor can they exercise any rights in their organization^ independently of the Priesthood and of' the Church; and I want you to take it home to you now — every one of you. You may hear something stronger than that from me if yon don't. I have had a good deal of patience about some things, but there is a point at which patience ceases to be a virtue, and then it will become necessary to act, or advise at least. 

Now let every man do his duty; let every president of a stake, and every counselor to him. and every bishop and his counselors and every member of the high council; let every presidency of the high priests and seventies, and elders and all the general authorities of the Church do their duty, be faithful, humble and diligent in the performance of the labor that is required of them, be watchmen indeed upon the towers of Zion, watching for virtues, v. atching for uprightness, watching fox justice, watching for truth. Change the focus of your view, and of your eyes, from watching for evU to watching for that which is good, that which is pure, and leading and prompting those who err into that path which has no error in it, and that will not admit of mistakes. Look for good in men, and where they fail to possess it try to build it up in them; try to increase the good in them; look for the good; build up the good; sustain the good : and speak as little about the evil as you possibly can. It does not do any good to magnify evil, to publish evil or to promulgate it by tongue or pen. There is i L^ood to be obtained by it. It is better to bury the evil and magnify the good, and prompt all men t : forsake evil and learn to do good; and let our mission be to save mankind and to teach in and guide to the paths of righteousness, and not to sit as judges and pass judgment upon evil doers, but rather be savi >rs of men. 

I did not expect to talk long to you this morning, when I got up. T only expected to say a few words and sit down : but I feel it in my heart; my soul is in it, and I know the truth, and I want to live it. If there are any of my friends who can show me where I fail, oh come t me like a brother, not fault-finding;, but come to me as a savior upon Mount Zion and show me my error  give me a chance by the aid of your counsel and advice to me to overcome the evil you see in me, whether you see it literally or whether you simply imagine it. Let me learn to do right by your help. Don't crush me down. Don't discard me. Don't throw me over into -the scrap pile because you think I am not as perfect as I ought to be. Rather be patient with my imperfections, and try to help me to overcome them and to live nearer unto the Lord than ever before. That is the part of a savior upon Mount Zion. I am talking to the priesthood and to the Latter-day Saints, and to those that preside in the Church, and to those that exercise authority in the midst of the people. Go and do the will of the Father, that you may know the truth and that the truth may make you free, and also that you may walk in the light as Christ is in the light, that you may have fellowship with each other and that you may also have fellowship with God and Christ, and that the blood of the Son of God may cleanse you from all sin. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"Consider, and hear me," a baritone solo, was rendered by Elder Charles Kent. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Details of Church organization and government, given in the beginning, still unchanged. — Officers established and appointments made as need for them developed. — Magnitude of latterday work foreseen and provided foi at inception. — Importance of keeping historical records. — need for implanting in the children, faith in the Gospel. 

I have been much pleased and edified this morning in listening to  President's remarks to us, and I feel happy to have the privilege of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in their general conference. For some time I have not been well enough to attend to my duties in the office of the First Presidency, but I feel thankful that I am so far recovered as to be able to go on and attend to my duties. 

When the President was explaining to us where the authority lies in dealing with matters in the Church, I thought how perfect is the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and how perfect it came to us in the very beginning. On Sunday, next, it will be eighty-three years since a few met in the house of Mr. Whitmer in Fayette, New York, and organized the Church. The^ Lord had commanded them to do this, and the Church was organized in such a way that it has not been necessary to change the organization since then. When we read the revelation on government, which was given about that time, we feel that it is just as suitable today as it was then, and that the authority given to the different quorums, and the duties imposed upon the various members of the priesthood are the same today and they will ever remain the same. We will not at any time feel to discard the Church government given in the twentieth section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. As they were then instructed in regard to their duties so the members of the different quorums are instructed today. The deacons, the teachers and the priests have the same duties laid on them and the same power and authority rests upon the elders, the seventies, the high priests now as then. Though the higher quorums were  yet organized, the Lord had revealed before the organization of the Church that there should be Apostles in the Church, and had even appointed those who should call them, so that if they were not introduced at the very start the revelations were given as to how the Church should be organized. Joseph had informed the little flock that gathered there of what the Lord had commanded, and it was proposed to them that Joseph Smith be the first elder of the Church, and Oliver Cowdery the second. Then Joseph ordained Oliver and Oliver ordained Joseph to the office of an elder. This was not bestowing the Melchisedek Priesthood on either of them. They held that before. It had been conferred  upon them by Peter, James and John. It was not given to them by the authority of those present. The Lord had revealed to them, through His servant, and had conferred upon them the Melchisedek Priesthood, but there was no Church organized as yet, and hence there were no officers needed in the Church, but when the Church was organized on April the 6th, 1830, then it was necessary that men should fill official positions in the Church, and do this by the consent of those over whom they were to exercise authority. As yet, the office of a high priest had not been given, but elders had been voted for, and had been ordained, and they took charge of the meeting. What a glorious time they had together that day! They partook of the sacrament for the first time in this dispensation; the emblems of the body and blood of the Savior were administered, and those few who were together rejoiced in having this privilege, and in hearing the testimonies that were borne and the prophecies that were made. Several who were present went away believeing, and were afterwards baptized. On that day when the Church was organized, a revelation was given in which the Lord told Joseph further about the responsible positions he was to fill and the glorious destiny of the church. He says : 

Section 21. 

1. Behold there shall be a record kept among you, and in it thou shalt he called a Seer, a Translator, a Prophet, an Apostle of Jesus Christ, an Elder of the Church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ. 

2. Being inspired of the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to build it up unto the most holy faith. 

3. Which chureh was organized and established in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and thirty in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month, which is called April. 

4. Wherefore, meaning the Church, thou shall give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; 

5. For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith; 

6. For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and His name's glory. 

7. For thus saith the Lord God. Him have I inspired to move the cause of Zion in mighty power for good, and his diligence I know, and his prayers I have heard. 

8. Yea, his weeping for Zion I have seen, and I will cause that he shall mourn for her no longer, for his days of rejoicing are come unto the remission of his sins, and the manifestations of my blessings upon his works." 

There are a few more verses belonging to the revelation which I will not take the time to read. This  revelation was given on the 6th of April 1830. The Lord was refering to the Prophet. We can understand Joseph's feelings. He knew that a great and marvelous work was going to be ushered in. He felt how weak he was — a young man, little more than twenty four years old — to have placed upon him the responsibility of introducing this last dispensation and establishing again the Church of Christ upon the earth. No doubt he felt much anxiety, for the Lord said that he had seen his weeping" for Zion, but promised that he should be comforted. Joseph did see the work begun, the Church organized, the members sustaining him as their leader, and the offices beingfilled in the Church. He knew it was the Lord's work, and he rejoiced to see its beginning-. The I ord had opened unto him in visions the future of His kindgom, and hence in his talk about the Lord's purposes and the destiny of the Church he spoke the convictions of his soul in which there was not a shade of doubt. It must have seemed wonderful to the people to hear about Zion going to be established, about the gathering, about this being the little stone that should roll down from the mountain and fill the whole earth but with the eve of prophecy he saw it; he knew it would be fulfilled. The Lord in comforting the Saints told them that if they would listen to his counsel, the gates of 'hell should not have power over them, and this promise is the same to you and to me in as much as we listen to the counsels of inspired men. As I understand that expression "the gates of hell," it means those things which lead to hell in fact are the entrances to it. How many things  are that lead to those gates. How many things we have to be warned against and which we have to watch out for, because if we yield to them, they will lead us to the gates of hell! Let us each and every one examine ourselves and know well the path in which we are walking and avoid everything that we know is wrong and forbidden by the Lord, well knowing that if we yield to such we have not the promise that the gates of hell shall not have power over us; on the other hand if we perform our duty, live according to the testimony which God has given us, we need not fear, for He will lead us in the paths of righteousness that lead to eternal life. 

At the beginning of this revelation we were told that there should be a recorder in the Church, that records should be kept among the people. This important work in the Church, of keeping records, was commanded : and if we read farther on we will find that John Whitmer was appointed to be Church Recorder, to write the events of the Church. I mention this to show you how important this part of our Church government is, to keep history, to keep a record of what takes place. I am pleased to say that our activity in this direction has produced good fruits. We have in the Historian's office a great mass of useful data. Many precious things are there, and I am pleased to tell you that before long we hope to erect a new historian's office — one that shall be fire-proof and where we can feel safe in regard to the thing's that have been treasured up for so many years. 

I want to call attention here to a series of articles published in the "American" magazine, from the  of Brother B. H. Roberts, which gives the Church history, and I believe it would be a splendid thing for the Latter-day Saints to take that magazine, read it and post themselves on Church history. It would especially be a good thing if they had it from the beginning, but I suppose it will some time come out in a history by itself. Even if you have not taken it before, I would advise you to subscribe for it now as Church history can be taken up in any part of it, and still you will find it interesting and well worth reading. I honor those men who have been brave enough to publish these articles, and I am pleased to hear that they are read with interest in the world, but they ought to be read by the Saints at home. 

I desire to say to the recorders in the different stakes and in the different wards that your callingis a very important one. In vears to come what you write will be looked for and treasured up. We are trying to connect events of Church history in the early days, and when we find in a private day book or record something that connects missing links, why we feel like we have found a treasure. Now, if you children of our pioneers and of the early members of the Church have some of their records or day books, we would like that you would give us an opportunity to read them, and to copy from them such things as may help to corroborate data which we already have, or perhaps give us data that we are not in possession of. We do not ask you to give them to us, but to let us have the use of them till we can make copies of such parts that might be useful to ns. Be sure that you keep p record of what takes place in the wards, and in the stakes; the changes in priesthood, and such events that are closely connected with the Church in order that they he not forgotten; and where papers are printed in any of the towns in Zion, we would like you to send a copy of them to the Historian's Office. We will keep them on file. By our having" them we may be able to see what is taking place out in the different stakes and wards, that may not reach our larger papers published here. We are seeking to make Church history as perfect as possible, so that when it is referred to reliance can be placed upon what is recorded. 

There is another matter I would like to lay before the conference, and that is the necessity of teaching our young. We have splendid Sunday Schols and they are doing a good work We have auxiliary organizations that take up the improvement of the young, and we have religion classes in which we want our children taught faith in the religion of their fathers. In some of the stakes they are doing a splendid work. In others it seems like our brethren who have charge think it an extra burden upon them and do not care to have these classes organized. Let me beg of you, plead with you, to have them established for the good of the children. Let them be taught as the Lord commands us to teach them to walk uprightly before Him. Let us try to give them all the chance in the world to be built up in the faith that is so dear to our hearts. You parents, how much have you not done for the gospel's sake, left everything dear to you and suffered the mockings and scorn of the world? You knew it was God's revealed truth to you, you received , and you bore these things without murmur and you have gathered with the Saints. Can it be possible that after you have done so much for your God-given faith that you are willing" that your children shall be neglected and grow up without having the advantages that you can give them? As you know religion cannot be taught in the state schools we do not want to interfere with the children of our friends of other denominations, but we do want to do all we can for our children and give them an opportunity to learn how precious is the truth which the Lord has given unto us. Encourage the Religion Classes, encourage the children to attend them, encourage the teachers that are willing to go and teach your children, and let us see this auxiliary organization prosper as well as all the others. 

Well, I don't think it would be wise for me to continue talking. I am so happy to be with you. I pray the Lord to bless the Latterday Saints, to bless them with the testimony of the truth, and I bear my testimony to you that this is the work of the Lord, and that it will triumph in the earth. God bless you all. Amen. 

A notice was read bv President Smth concerning the correspondence school conducted by the Church, after which he remarked: 

We would admonish and advise our young men who have not an opportunity to attend the missionary classes at our Chruch schoools, on account of their distance from them and the cost, that if they will correspond with Brother Edwin S. Sheets at the Bishops' Building here, at No. 40 North Main Street and get into communication with , they will have much benefit, I think, from it, and it will aid them in preparing themselves for missionary work abroad. 

President Smith then read a statement concerning - the concert to be given by Professor Stephens, Professor McClellan and the choir, and commented as follows : 

I hope our good people will show their respect and loyalty to the choir — one of the best of our many most excellent choirs. We must not forget those who sing for us, like the Tabernacle Choir here, of course most of them are employed in their daily avocations and are unable to be present during week days, but they give much of their time for practice and they are always willing and are if possible present on the Sabbath to render their portion of service to the Lord, and we ought always to be loyal to our choirs. Wp have many of them, this one and the one at Odsren and at other places, they are worthy of all commendation and of all praise by the Latter-day Saints, and Ave hope you will not forget them. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Kimball. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. 


