Morning
05 10 1926

On Tuesday morning, October 5, 1926, the conference re-convened. President Heber J. Grant presided. The congregation sang the hymn, "O ye mountains high." Prayer was offered by Elder Lewis R. Anderson, of the South Sanpete stake of Zion. 

The congregation sang, "How firm a foundation." 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Eastern States Mission 

Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants is a composite revelation, by which I mean that it is a revelation that was not written at one time on the part of the prophet who received it. It consists of a number of brief revelations, received at sundry times between the publication of the Book of Mormon and the organization of the Church on the 6th day of April, 1830. And these revelations were given, for the most part, in the upper chamber in the home of Father Peter Whitmer, at Fayette, Seneca county, New York state. 

In the first part of this section is the following statement : 

"After it was truly manifested unto this first elder," [meaning the prophet Joseph Smith] "that he had received a remission of his sins, he was entangled again in the vanities of the world; 

"But after repenting, and humbling himself sincerely, through faith, God ministered unto him by an holy angel, whose countenance was as lightning, and whcse garments were pure and white over all other whiteness; 

"And gave unto him commandments which inspired him; 

"And gave him power from on high, by the means which were before prepared, to translate the Book of Mormon." 

And, of course, under that inspiration, not only to translate the Book of Mormon, but also to send it forth into the world. By these same commandments, "which inspired him," he also obtained the restoration of the holy Priesthood; and by the same inspiration he organized the Church, and from time to time received communications and the visitation of angels which fed the inspiration that had come upon him through the commandments of God, until at last he achieved that magnificent work which we now know as the restoration of the gospel, and the establishment in the earth of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with its divine mission and commission to proclaim the gospel in all the world, and bring salvation unto the children of men. 

What I desire more especially to call your attention to this morning GENERAL CONFERENCE  this statement: "And gave unto him commandments which inspired him"; and under which he achieved all this great work that I have briefly outlined. Latter-day Saints, you have these same commandments. Why may not we obtain, also, if not in the superlative degree, yet in rich degree, the same inspiration that the prophet of the Lord derived from these commandments? I would like to give an illustration of how these commandments and the visitation of heavenly beings — how the events, these fundamental events in which the Church of Christ had its origin — inspired the prophet; and perhaps we may learn from that illustration the lesson of catching the same inspiration.. First, let me remark, however, concerning a great principle which statesmen recognize, for the principle is expressed in a number of our state constitutions, and quite prominently in the constitution of our own state, to the effect, that "a frequent recurrence to fundamental principles is essential to the maintenance of liberty"; and so, in like manner, a frequent recurrence to the commandments God has given, and the great events which have produced God's great latter-day work — frequent recurrence to those things cannot do otherwise than to give birth to a beautiful white light of inspiration in the souls of those who indulge in this recurrence to the commandments of God. 

While the Prophet Joseph was in seclusion, in 1844, he issued letters of instruction to the Saints who were just beginning to carry on the work of redeeming the dead; and from- his place of concealment he threw a flood of light upon the necessary steps to take in perfecting the operation of that great work which had but recently been introduced in practice to the Church. It is in section 128 of the Doctrine and Covenants. I suggest you read all of it, I will only read part of it. In the course of writing that inspired instruction, the prophet gives an ecstatic review of some of the events out of which the Church grew into existence; and see what comes of it, I pray you : 

"Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and, the dead; glad tidings of great joy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion : Behold, thy God reigneth! As the dews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them! 

"And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment of the prophets — the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette,. Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! 

"The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light! The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom and of the dispensation of the fulness of times! 

"And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, 123  of divers angels, from Michael or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensation, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope! 

"Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause ? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your heats rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free. 

"Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods and all the trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun, moon, and the morning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy! And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers!" 

David, in the Psalms, has not equalled that ecstasy. I know of no passage in human literature that rises to the grandeur and sublimity of these thoughts of our Prophet as he reviews the commandments of God and the great events in which the work, of which he was the prophet, seer and revelator, had its birth, and its growth, and its development. It is generally accorded that the imagery of our National Anthem, America, is splendid. A verse or two runs as follows : 

"My native country, thee, Land of the noble, free, 

Thy name I love : I love thy rocks and rills, Thy woods and templed hills; My heart with rapture thrills, 

Like that above. 

Let music swell the breeze, And ring from all the trees 

Sweet freedom's song; Let mortal tongues awake, Let all that breathe partake; Let rocks their silence break, 

The sound prolong!" 

That is regarded as very splendid imagery, poetry. I wish sometimes our congregations in this house would sing it more frequently, in our conferences. While this is regarded as fine imagery, how tame in comparison with that more splendid imagery that stirred and inspired the soul of our Prophet when he contemplated the commandments of God and the facts in which this work had its origin and which I have just read to you. Well, Joseph Smith drew inspiration from that contemplation and from the commandments of God he received. And it is important that from time to time we gather in these conferences GENERAL CONFERENCE  have our minds refreshed with these things, because in these general conferences we do make frequent references to these things — we have frequent recurrence to fundamental facts in which our Church had its origin There is something real in this frequent recurrence to fundamental principles, just as real are they as when we partake of the holy Sacrament, the symbols of our salvation; the broken bread and the water representing the broken body and the shed blood of our Lord. By partaking of these symbols in remembrance of him, though they are material things, this bread and this water, although they are but words that make up that most splendid prayer of consecration, yet they evoke in the soul a spiritual power that is as palpably food to the spirit of man as is the material food that he partakes of to strengthen 'his body from day to day. So it js in contemplating these commandments of God and the great events in which our Church had its origin. They do impart a spiritual uplift, they do give impetus to the spiritual forces, and raise to higher levels the ideals of the Saints. They lift the Saints above the normal, and draw them close into fellowship with God. The volume and quality of faith are renewed, and are made to blaze forth with a clearer light, with greater warmth, that carries the Saints 'through the trying affairs of life, over all the disappointments of it, and makes faith triumphant in their souls. 

I rejoice that we may have access to these sources of inspiration. 

By the way, many of you doubtless have read Victor Hugo's account of the street gamin, Gavroche, I think, was the name. He was with a band of insurgents attempting a revolution in Paris, and chancing to overhear that the ammunition of the insurgents was giving out, he took a soldier's haversack, crept over the breastworks of the insurgents, and under the screen of the smoke in the streets, went from corpse to corpse of the soldiery whom the insurgents had shot down, and whom their comrades had left dead in the street, gathering the unfired cartridges from their belts. As he went he sang his defiance to those who were firing at the barricade, and at him. Sometimes a bullet would strike a dead man with a cold thud. "Ah," he would say, "they are killing my dead for me;" Then again a bullet would strike fire from the pavement, but there was nothing that could daunt 'the young gamin. He went from corpse to corpse, gathering - ammunition and singing his defiance. Presently a bullet truck him and he fell to the pavement, but not to remain there. The touch of the pavement seemed to give the gamin life, and he arose to renew his defiance. The touch of the pavement seemed to give the inspiration of life to him, as touch of the earth seemed to give vigor and strength to Antaeus, the wrestler of old mythology, who was invincible so long as he could keep contact with the earth. So with Hugo's gamin and tha pavement— touch of it seemed to renew his life. So let it be with us when we touch the commandments of God, may they impart to us light and power and inspiration that shall renew our strength. As the aerie to the eagle; as the bugle to the war horse; as sight of the flag 125  the patriot, and the drum-beat to the soldier, so let frequent recurrence to the commandments of God, and to the great events in which our Church had its origin give inspiration and spirit life to us. 

I rejoice that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is gradually gathering into its control the sacred places where great historical events happened. I am sure that it will tend to intensify our remembrance of those events. I remember the effect the general conference of the Eastern States mission had upon our young missionaries — the conference that was held at the Hill Cumorah in 1923, celebrating the one hundreth anniversary of the revealed existence of the Book of Mormon. I noticed the effect on a group of missionaries only a few days ago of a visit to the Memorial Cottage and the monument that mark the birthplace of our prophet. It seemed to inspire them with confidence and faith in what they had heard of him. I rejoice that we have these places. I rejoice that [we have the Joseph Smith Farm, the farm on which the prophet toiled in his boyhood, and where some of the important revelations of Gqd were given to him. I never visit that place but what I feel that I am living in the atmosphere of the great events that took place there. The most uplifting, sanctifying and glorifying inspiration that I have ever experienced has been in the Sacred Grove where the Lord appeared unto him who was to become the New Witness for God in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I am' happy in the opportunity of visiting that place and of receiving the sacrament of the Lord's Supper there, from time to. time. I rejoice that recently, acting under instructions from the First Presidency, we were able to secure the place where the Church was born, the house in which, as I now believe, the Church was organized. I know that that is disputed, and. that a house is referred to about one hundred feet or more from the house that now stands, that was destroyed, and is said to be the old Whitmer home and occupied by the prosperous Whitmer family during the time that the Prophet Joseph was a guest at their home, and in which he organized the Church. We now have a complete abstract of title with the name of every man and woman through whom the title has passed; and I think we shall be able to patiently investigate the matter until we arrive at the absolute truth as to whether or not the house now standing there is the old Peter Whitmer home. If that is not the house, we don't want to hold forth to the world that it is; but if it is really the home of the Whitmer family, where these revelations in section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants were given at sundry times, and where the Church was organized — if really we have that house, what a treasure it is! And what an inspiration it will be to the Church to be conscious of the fact that we do possess it. It was to this home that the Prophet Joseph, his wife Emma and Oliver Cowdery were brought by David Whitmer from Harmony, Pennsylvania, and were received as guests; and where the Prophet completed the translation of the Book of Mormon. As soon as it was completed, the GENERAL CONFERENCE , by messenger, sent the glad word to his parents living at their home in Manchester township, and they with Martin Harris immediately repaired to the Whitmer home, where the prophet took the step necessary to obtain the testimony of the Three Witnesses. That testimony was received in a grove that then existed either on or near the Whitmer farm. They had prayer in the morning at the Whitmer home, for the Whitmer family were devout Christian people. Old father Peter Whitmer was a member of that strictest of sects, the Presbyterians. He was a sincere and good Presbyterian and followed the practice of prayer at his family altar. The day after the arrival of the prophet's father and mother and Martin Harris, as they completed prayer that morning, the Prophet Joseph walked across the room, and speaking directly to Martin Harris, he said in effect : Martin Harris, you must repent. You must humble yourself before the Lord this day as you have never done before, and get a forgiveness of your sins; and if you will do this you shall, with Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer, obtain a view of the plates from which the Book of Mormon is translated. 

Shortly after breakfast the four named went out into the woods, as I have said, and there supplicated the Lord with- the result that they beheld the plates and the engravings thereon, and they heard the voice of God proclaim that the translation was true and he commanded them to bear witness of it to all the world. 

In my interview with David Whitmer, in 1884, as he went over this ground, led by my questions, when we came to this part of it he said to me that in the progress of turning the leaves, or having them turned by Moroni, and looking upon the engravings, Moroni looked directly at him and said : "David, blessed is he that endureth to the end." When David Whitmer made that remark it seemed to me rather a peculiar thing that he should thus be singled out for such a remark, and I remember reporting it as such to President John Morgan, then president of the Southern States mission. I stated to him the peculiar feelings I had when I learned that from the lips of David Whitmer; but the subsequent history of these three witnesses led me to conclude that there was indeed a hidden warning in the words of the angel to David, "Blessed is he that endureth to the end." And it is rather a sad reflection that of these three witnesses he was the only one who died outside of membership in the Church. I wonder if Moroni was not trying to sound a warning to this stubborn man, that perhaps whatever his experiences and trials might be, that at the last he, too, might have been brought into the fold, and might have died within the pale of the Church. 

Well, the foregoing mentioned incidents are the sacred associations connected with the Whitmer Farm in addition to the fact that it was the place where the Church of Jesus Christ was organized, and the First President of the Church sustained under the title of the first Elder of the Church, with Oliver Cowdery as the second Elder in 127  Church. I feel satisfied that we are going to get added inspiration from the fact that we own our birthplace and our cradle. I would like to point out some other things, but time will not permit, except to say this : There are those who undertake to say that Joseph Smith was a fallen prophet, and that in the latter years of his life he marred his mission, and that he was a fallen prophet. A fallen prophet! What ? And yet, give a sunburst of inspiration like that which I have read to you here from the Doctrine and Covenants, given in 1842? Out upon it! It could not be true. He who voiced that reverence for God, and had that exalted spirit awakened within him by contemplating the early scenes of his mission — as I have read to you — is no fallen prophet. His life ended en crescendo. It grew richer, it grew greater as it neared its close. His nearness to God was emphasized more in the closing years of his life than ever before. The revelations that he gave increased in power and magnificence. And so, too, in his discourses, they grew in magnificence and power as he proclaimed God's great and mighty truths in the last few months of his life. The Saints of God who witnessed the inspiration of God upon him, come to us with testimonies of his increasing power as a Prophet of God in the latter years of his life. Joseph Smith was no fallen prophet, nor could he be and give such evidence of inspiration both in the revelations he received, and in the great sermons that he delivered near the close of his life, such as the King Follett sermon, and other great discourses. I rejoice in this evidence of the inspiration of our prophet, the grandeur of his work and the evidence that we gather of the truth of it from these things we have considered. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

It has been a number of years since I have followed Elder Roberts in the pulpit. The first time I ever saw President Roberts was in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The first time I ever heard him preach the gospel was in Burk's Garden. I confess, at that time and for a considerable length of time afterwards, I was always awe-struck, and almost beaten into silence when asked to follow him in his public addresses. But I am thankful to the Lord that I have gotten over it, that I no longer feel that way. It has been a fight all my life to follow men who have great ability and who were greatly blessed as public speakers. My lesson came to me in this way, that I discovered that no man was ever created that could reach all the people at one time, and I figured that there must be some poor soul with bowed head who was discouraged and disheartened to whom I might, through the blessings of the Lord, and under the influence of his holy Spirit, give a word of cheer; and it has proved to be true, for I think now of several occasions — three distinct places, I remember at the present moment, at different times when persons met me on the street disheartened. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

They had fallen by the way; they saw no way out- of their difficulties, and were in a suicidal condition. For the first one who came to me in that condition I had no answer. I did not know what to do. "Why didn't you go to your bishop? Why did you come to me?" "Brother Kimball, I heard you preach, and I thought there might be a chance." In those cases I went to the Presidency of the Church, and that is where I learned the great magnanimity and the charitableness and bigness of the Presidency of the Church. In each of those cases I was used as an instrument. They never asked me the names of the young men, they simply wanted me to take up a labor with them, and if they repented I was authorized, not by the bishop nor the president of the stake, in those particular cases, but by the Presidency of the Church, and the young men were baptized, they were confirmed, and they were started out to serve God and as far as I know7 in each and every case, they made good. 

I remember one young man, highly cultured and educated in the University of Utah. I will never forget that young man, no matter how long I live. It was at the time of the World War, and he had been unfortunate. I did not know him; I never saw him before. He came to me in great distress. I went to the Presidency and that young man repented, and he was baptized and confirmed. He went into the war, became a lieutenant, and the last I heard of him— he wrote me several times — his letter stated : "I know God forgave me, for I have felt the influence of his holy Spirit in the army, that has brought me joy and peace and happiness." So that I feel to encourage the priesthood of God. We never know how much good we do when we speak in the name of the Lord. I don't believe, I can't believe, that I ever converted a man in my life, but I have taught the truth, I have preached the gospel, and my voice has been heard from Canada to Mexico, more times than one. I was in the General Board of the Young Men's Association for thirty years, and I have never had greater joy or greater happiness than in lifting up my voice among the rising generation. How much good we do, as I stated before, no man knoweth. I claim that every man fills his niche when he is called of God and set apart and ordained to an office. He may not fill it in the way someone else fills it, but if he is a man of courage he will fill it in his own way, under the influence of the holy Spirit. 

I have no apology to make for my origin. I was told once that my trouble was, I was trying to be like my father. Well, thank God I can try to be like him a little, but I was too young, when my father died, to remember his mannerisms and his method of speech. 

My brethren and sisters, in conclusion I want to lift up a danger signal to the rising generation. In doing it I' want to be very careful the way in which I express it, so I shall attempt to read it, although it is against my grain to do so. In our great city with its wonderful streets, I can't but think of the danger that menaces the people. 129 

We see your red lights, we see your green lights, and the officers of this city are doing everything in their power to protect the people, but the people do not pay any attention to the signals — some of them do not. There is nothing else annoys me so much as for a man to run on to me with one of those great, powerful machines, and just before hitting me, honk his horn. My legs go right from under me. I can't even hit a trot, and the feeling I have is that he is saying: "Get out of the way, we are coming." I got that the other night on First North street here. I can see only one way at a time, and then I am not quite clear, but I had to see four ways that night. Here came two machines around that corner, with these cars all parked right up to the corner, and they tried to beat each other through and caught me in the center. The only thing that saved my life was my being thin. I am not trying to be funny, I am trying to be serious. Now all these danger signals with your yellow marks — I have stood there and watched the lights, listened to the bell, and yet last year, if I remember right, the automobiles killed over twenty thousand people in the United States, one-half, perhaps, as many as were killed in the World War — referring, of course, to the American soldiers. Now I don't want to get killed. What I am worried about is that they might not make a good job of it I would hate to be maimed and crippled for life through the careless' ness of men and women. Now I want to set up signals that are a hundred thousand times more important than dodging autos : 

IMPRESSIONS AND REFLECTIONS 

Shall we be brave, courageous men, standing upon the secure heights of virtue and righteousness where God's sun shines, and preach the truth and cry repentance unto this people? 

This great country, America, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, is Zion, North and South America, the pure in heart. It would seem to me that this great responsibility rests almost entirely with the young men and women of this generation. 

The question naturally arises : What is the trend of the times for the modern sons and daughters of Zion ? Riches and culture, ease and luxury. Everything is money and money is everything. 

The Golden Key unlocks all doors, that is, it prys them open. 

Plenty of money entitles you to anything and everything, honor, society and emoluments. The rising generation, who are poor, look upon this pleasure-loving people with envy and a yearning for worldly things, and as the spirit of the age in which we live takes hold of them, they assert their individual independence and break away from what is called "old fogy ideas, old bigotries, old superstitions," and go recklessly wild, at sixty miles an hour, claiming what is termed the "new Liberty of the twentieth century," and run daringly into forbidden pastures Today all over America we see everywhere amongst the rich and poor, the cultured, educated and ignorant, the indications of the GENERAL CONFERENCE  tendencies of the age, forgetting for the moment the degradation and destruction to which such a life leads. 

No single instance can be given as evidence that unlawful sensual pleasure can be indulged in without paying for it a thousand times in pain and remorse. 

"The danger signals are set up at the gate of the garden of sensunl pleasure, and the angel stands with his sword of flame, and no man, woman, youth or maiden enters unsmitten of him." "In the path of sensuality in all its multiplied forms our heavenly Father has placed barriers mountain high to stop us and frighten us back from ruin, disease and degradation." 

As wealth increases in any country and with any people, the tendency to sensuality, through the many temptations of ease, idleness and gratification of ones appetite, the elevation of fashion, style and in living beyond a certain point of safety and security, is the cause of the downfall of hundreds of thousands of God's children. 

"That 'money devil', if not used in doing good, is the lion right across the highway of our future, standing, teasing, menacing — just at the forks of the road, to lead us to ruin and unhappiness. If the roofs could be lifted off the palaces of the rich, what sights might not be seen, what skeletons in the closets, what sorrows, what shams, what sights." — Watson. 

If we open our eyes to the danger that menaces the rising generation, life would seem to be a very dangerous sea, if we take note of the ruined thousands that strew its shores. 

We therefore cannot look upon death as a great sorrow and calamity, when it involves no stain of honor and no loss of character. We wisely conclude the hand of Providence is in it and good must come out of it and we are comforted. 

When we contemplate and think of our young men and women with their bright hopes of love, of truth and purity, of honor, of manhood and womanhood, of genius and talent, of all goodly gifts from God, of mind, of all sweet affections, and aspirations, gone down, blotted out and spoiled, we cannot feel otherwise, be as hopeful and cheerful as we may, that life is dangerous unless we are guided and influenced by the holy Spirit and directed by steady hands, by men and women as teachers of virtue, truthfulness and happiness, who are not afraid to speak in the name of the Lgrd. 

The fruit of religion manifests itself in the lives of men. By their fruits ye shall know them. There can be no deception by men who love God and keep his commandments. We are one and all God's children. He created us and he never created a failure, and he created you. 

Men are that they might have joy. Happiness is the object and design of our creation and will be to the end of our existence if we pursue the path that leads to it. This path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness. To keep God's commandments we must know them. To know them we must read the scriptures and reoent and 131  in tune with the holy Spirit and he will lead us into all truth and show us things to come. I promise you that you shall hear a voice behind you saying, this is the way, walk ye in it. 

Remember this always : Temptation somewhere in the life of all finds us, as this life is a testing time. Therefore, watch and pray and ask God to leave us not in temptation but deliver us from evil, as temptation is ever lying in wait and in a thousand forms is temptation repeated. 

There is divine wisdom in praying always and avoiding the very appearance of evil. 

There is very little use of preaching religion or morals, or honesty, virtue and truthfulness to those whose motives and tendencies all point toward vice and sensuality unless they repent and sin no more. These wild, reckless, dissipated young people will not come to us, we must reach out a helping hand and go to them. 

This great change for the uplift and betterment of this great country — Zion, the pure in heart — rests very largely, almost entirely, with the home and the parents. 

We must, for the safety of the youth of Zion, come back to Jesus Christ's religion and its spiritual forces. We must teach the gospel of repentance and forgiveness which has made men's and women's lives happier, tasks lighter, judgment steadier, as it truly comforts the disconsolate, forgotten sinner, and makes to them a clear life of virtue, love and happiness. 

No child of God can escape Christ's religion, intelligence and knowledge, of the right kind, walks ever close to religion. 

My conclusion is : There is just one great, big, life-and-death duty of the parents of children, the Church and the State, and that is, to keep every boy and girl under proper schooling and give to them "love, pleasure, work and worship." 

You good people and parents living in the country, on your farms, I plead with you not to send your children to cities where the beautiful spirit of things God created perish. 

Let them live in the open, in the beautiful valleys, on the mountains, in God's sunshine, near streams, rivers, and trees and let his Spirit teach them of the things of God. 

My testimony, brethren and sisters, in all confidence, is that I know this work is true. I have tested it out. I have found God. I' am a man of weakness; I am a man full of faults; but God knows I have given him the best effort there was in me. i' know God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world; and when men have tempted me to deny this — which they have tried to do — I have talked to some of them, learned men, I have talked to doctors, I have talked to young men who have gone out and filled missions, come home and got education, and they have tried to burn all my bridges behind me; but, thank God, I had a testimony, and I knew! I have told them : "in what you offer me there is no happiness." If any man can prove GENERAL CONFERENCE  me that Joseph Smith is not a prophet of God, he has taken everything; he has burned every bridge behind me. I never saw the Prophet, but I have heard my father often talk about him and I have read his revelations and his prophecies, as a witness for God, and I know they are true. He is a prophet of God. I sustain the Church and uphold the hands of the priesthood as best I know how. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I earnestly hope that I may enjoy the spirit of the Lord while I sta'nd before you. It seems to me that anyone who has made himself at all familiar with the history of the world must be deeply impressed with the fact that God has been over all, that he has directed the destinies of his children here upon this planet. Notwithstanding this, however, he has given unto them their free agency, for he has decreed that men shall be free from the very beginning. 

The Lord asked his servant Job : "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? * * * when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" 

Modern revelation has made it plain what this occasion was. The proclamation of God's plan of salvation, the gospel of Jesus Christ, in which the free agency of man obtains. In order to carry out this plan it was necessary to create this earth where God's children might receive bodies of flesh an4 bone and, the recollection of their spirit life being withheld from them, and with a knowledge of good and evil, they might be proved whether, in the exercise of their free agency, they would "do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them." The creation of a world land redeeming it from the fajll, which was also contemplated, required the service of One endowed with Godlike power and the Lord said: "Whom shall I send? And one answered like unto the Son of man: Here am I, send me." Father thy will be done and the glory be thine forever. But Satan also came, even Lucifer, a son of the morning and said : Behold here am I, send me, I will be thy son and I will redeem all mankind that one soul shall not be lost and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor. "And the Lord said : I will send the first." And Satan rebelled against God and was cast down and many followed after him. 

Thus it was that the First Born in the spirit, and the Only Begotten in the flesh, became the great champion of human liberty from the very beginning, and throughout all the history of the world. 

Let us for a few moments contemplate some of the things that have transpired in the history of the world, the rise and fall of great empires, the mighty battles for human liberty which have been fought. 

Who cannot see the overruling hand of Providence? When Miltiades, the hero of the battle of Marathon, with a small army of 9,000 men defeated and put to rout 100,000 Persians, 6,000 of whom fell upon the battlefield with ja loss to the Greek army of only 192, 133  can doubt that they were aided and upheld by an Almighty power directing the destiny of mankind? The freedom of the world was hanging in the balance. Which shall prevail, Asiatic despotism and superstition, or the new freedom and civilization? And ten years later, Xerxes, with the largest army ever mustered in the history of the world, until the great world war, invaded Greece but was held at Thermopylae for days by Leonidas and his brave 300 Sparitans; every one of whom, however, died in defending the country rather than surrender, thus bringing upon themselves a fame and glory that shall endure as long as time shall last. 

Then Themistocles, commander of the naval forces, learning of the Persians, final passage through the pass at Thermopylae on their way to Athens, boarded the inhabitants of that city on his ships and conveyed them to Salamis, and then with his 350 war galleys attacked the Persian fleet of 1,200 ships which had already sustanied severe losses and had been thrown into confusion by the violent storms which they encountered on the sea. Again the Persians were put to rout and sustained a loss of 200 ships. In the following year the land forces continued to fight until September, when the Athenians and their allies with an army of 70,000 men, under command of Aristides, fought the final battle at Plataea and on the same day the combined naval and military forces of the Spartans, Athenians and their allies under Prince Pausanias defeated the Persians by land and by sea at and off Mt. Mycale, just opposite the Island of Samos. Who can read of these thrilling and soul-stirring events without a sincere feeling of gratitude to the Greeks for the great service they rendered to mankind in the great cause of human liberty, and who can doubt that they were guided and upheld by an overruling Providence, whose cause is our cause, even the cause of Liberty. It does not detract from the honor due to the Greeks to say that God used them as instruments in his hand to further his divine purposes. Surely Providence is over all. History is replete with illustrations : the conquests of Alexander, the great; we heard yesterday how through him the Greek language became the language of his empire and became the medium of publishing to the world the gospel of Jesus Christ which is the truth that shall make men free indeed. 

Not always have the victories of great men been based upon the principles of righteousness; nevertheless the purposes of the Almighty cannot be defeated, for he overrules in all, and often "moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform." 

Shall I mention Julius Caesar, Napoleon Boneparte and Gustavus Adolphus, the "Lion of the North," Luther, Melanchton and Zwingli, and the other great reformers? Time will not permit, but in the achievements and victories of each and all of these great men, one cannot but see and recognize the Divine purpose in breaking the chains of superstition, intolerance and slavery, and leading mankind out of the darkness that covered the earth and the gross darkness in which the people were benighted. 

Was not the great Columbus inspired of the Lord to cross the GENERAL CONFERENCE  seas and discover the western world? What a wonderful stride in the cause of human liberty! America, a choice land above all other lands, withheld during the many centuries of the past to become a place of refuge for the downtrodden peoples of the old world, to become the habitation of free men where no kings shall oppress or hold the reins of government, as the Nephite prophets have foretold, and how literally have their predictions been fulfilled! 

Then came Washington, the father of his country, who fought the revolutionary battles which gave us our national independence; Hamilton, the constructive genius of the constitution of our country, and Jefferson, that great champion of the rights of men, who wrote the Declaration of Independence and inspired his fellow-countrymen with love for the principles of human liberty. 

Another mighty champion arose in the coming of Abraham Lincoln, the great emancipator, who broke the chains of slavery and fought that these precious principles for which our revolutionary fathers had fought "might not perish from the earth." And later still came Woodrow Wilson, who, when the freedom of the world was in imminent danger, led the forces of America in the greatest conflict that the world had ever known, that it might be made safe for democracy. 

Great and mighty are these men of America. How our hearts swell with patriotic pride when we contemplate their achievements. Let us then honor them, and let me here say that we honor them most when we say, as all Latter-day Saints do say, that God raised them up and inspired them with his holy Spirit for the futherance of his great cause, the cause of human liberty. Let us not think even for a moment that liberty is the gift of any government or any nation. Oh, no! Life and liberty are our inalienable rights and were vouchsafed unto us in that primeval council when our great champion, even Jesus Christ, said : "Here am I, send me" for he came and organized this earth as a dwelling place for the children of God, for you and me: 

To live and to be free, To worship God alone As conscience guideth me, As my own heart is prone; For these are rights God given, He gave them all to me, They emanate from heaven, E'en life and liberty. 

This is the thought that comes into my mind when I contemplate the history of the world, that Providence is over all. 

This human liberty for which these mighty men, to whom I have alluded, have struggled, great and glorious though it is, is after all only a measure of civil liberty. There is a greater freedom to which we should aspire; for, let it be known that even in this great and glorious republic, the greatest one that ever existed upon the face of the earth, where the greatest measure of human liberty is meted out to our Father's children, in this land of the free and home of the brave, we are not free. "The whole world lieth in sin and groaneth under dark135  and under the bondage of sin," but the truth that emanated from God, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that was proclaimed in that primeval day shall make us free indeed if we will only receive and obey it. And who have been the champions of this greater freedom? First and foremost of all was the Redeemer of mankind, he that was in the beginning. He came in the meridian of time and ministered the law of liberty and freedom among the children of men. Many others have been sent, other great and noble ones, but I shall not take the time to enumerate them all but there was Abraham, whom God chose among the great ones, for he knew him before he was born and chose him to become the father of the faithful. And there was Moses, to whom the Lord gave the perfect law of liberty, even the gospel of Jesus Christ which is the higher law. But the children of Israel were not prepared for that great law of liberty, that higher law, and the plates upon which it was engraven were broken. Mpses went up into the mount again and returned with the law of carnal commandments, that the people might repent of sin. It was the gospel of repentance; "Thou shalt not kill; thou shalt not commit adultery; thou shalt not steal." These great commandments have been thundered down to us through all the ages from Mount Sinai, and are still in force among the children of men. Why? That they might be liberated from the bondage of sin. 

At all times these champions of liberty have been opposed by that arch enemy of God, even Statan, that rebelled against God in the beginning, and those who followed after him, and, as always, through human instrumentality, they killed the prophets, they persecuted the saints, they crucified the Savior of the world and put to death his apostles, those mighty men of God who preached his gospepl in all the then .known world, and transmitted their testimony in holy writ for the generations which were to come. Surely power was given unto Satan to make war with the Saints and overcome them as John the Revelator tells us. 

The darkness that followed these tragic events has been rightly called the dark ages, and was only partly dispelled by the great reformers who were, however, not reformers but protestants who made effective protest against the darkness and tyranny that held the world in spiritual bondage and most abominable idolatry. 

All these, together with the discovery of America and the founding of our glorious republic under the guiding hand of Providence, were the necessary preliminary preparations for the restoration of his glorious gospel and the setting up of his Church and kingdom upton the earth, never to be thrown down nor given to another people; where the perfect law of liberty shall be supreme and mankind shall be liberated from the bondage of sin, and Satan shall be bound for a thousand years during the great millennial reign of peace when Christ shall be ouif king and subdue all enemies under his feet. 

Therefore God raised up another champion of human liberty even Joseph Smith the great prophet of the latter days, to usher in this glorious dispensation, the climax of which, not yet _ attained, shall be the second coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

But Satan, not yet bound, came again. I presume he will continue to come until the great battle will be fought on the field of Armageddon. So he came in the days of Joseph Smith through whom the gospel had been restored, and the Church of Christ had again been established on the earth. Through the human instrumentality of a cruel mob, he was murdered in cold blood, another prophet of the living God; but not until those principles which have within them the power of God unto salvation, the principles that liberate mankind from the bondage of sin, had been established among the Saints of the latter days. Let us then carry on the work so well begun until its final consummation. Let us rejoice in the assurance which we have of its final triumph. And may our hearts be filled with gratitude to our heavenly Father that he has fought our battles and will lead us on to victory if we will do our part. And let us put our trust in him and have an abiding faith that "Providence is over all." This is my earnest prayer through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Come let us anew our journey pursue." The .benediction was pronounced by Elder J. Berkeley Larson, president of the Shelley stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


