Overflow
05 04 1925

ELDER SAMUEL O. BE.NNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I am very pleased, my brethren and sisters to be here to attend the conference of the Church. The great number of people that I have witnessed this morning and yesterday on the grounds and in the Tabernacle are an inspiration to me. I feel that I am deeply indebted unto the Lord for the many manifestations of his power and of his goodness unto me in my service in the ministry. 

I bring you greetings from the Central States mission, from the missionaries who are there, your sons and your daughters, and from the people who are there. I can testify unto you that there is faith, much faith, to be found among the youth of Zion in the Central States, and that your boys and your girls are working hard for the establishment of the gospel of Christ in the six states comprising the mission. 

The Lord said that we should judge a tree by its fruits. I thought yesterday when the President of the Church was talking; what an inspiration it must be to any man, to any woman, regardless of their faith, to be able to hear or to read the great truths he taught; and what an inspiration it was to those who were there to witness the power with which he spoke. My mind was led to the fact that hundreds of cities in this great country of ours spend vast amounts of money to gather crowds together for celebrations; they are called upon to make donations continually in order to bring people into the centers. But here is a great congregation of people gathered together in this center of the intermountain region without one cent of advertising money having been spent. They come here of their own free will and choice, filled with a desire to serve the Lord, to obtain something that they can use to establish their lives in the future. And that has marked the work of the Church from the beginning. There is not any man who can read the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints without being led to conclude that surely there is an overruling power that cements and holds its members and keeps them intact. 

I am led to think of one of the details of the work of the Lord that is going on in the homes of faithful Latter-day Saints. Every child, as soon as it is able to lisp a prayer is taught by the mother to pray unto the Lord — to pray for father, for mother, for brothers and sisters, and relatives; for the President of the Church and for the apostles; the presidents of the seventies, the bishopric; the authorities of the Church in the wards and in the stakes; and for the missionaries in the field. This is a part of the life of our boys and girls as they grow from childhood to manhood and womanhood, the father and the mother setting the example. This thing has established faith in the hearts of thousands of Latter-day Saints scattered throughout these intermountain regions, and it has made them the power they are in the hands of the Lord. People everywhere speak of the  of the -members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the cause that they represent in the earth. It is a common conclusion among the people in the world where our elders go that if a man desires to attack a missionary he'd better know where he stands before he does it, for they know that the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are prepared to defend the Church, that they have a knowledge of the scripture that the Lord has provided for them. It is said that they go to the schools and colleges of our Church in order to prepare. The people do not really know the fact — that that preparation is begun in the great majority of cases with the mother and father at home, that the young people usually have not had much practice in public speaking or conversing upon the principles of the gospel — perhaps have not taken much part in Church activities, yet faith has been implanted in their souls from the beginning, and only needs to be kindled and it is aflame and they are found ably defending the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They go forth testifying unto the children of men that the Lord lives, that he has revealed himself anew in this dispensation, that he did speak to Joseph Smith, the prophet, that he did authorize him to organize the Church in these last days, and that his Church has been establised in the earth to last forever, nevermore to be thrown down nor given to another people. And the people of the world have learned to conclude that the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ, as well as those at home, are earnest in their endeavors and that it is a marvelous work and a wonder that the Lord is performing with his pleople, a small handful compared to the countless numbers that inhabit the earth. 

It is a marvel how quickly our boys and girls respond to the call that is made of them and how soon they are able to defend the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the ministry. A few days ago I had the privilege of holding a conference in Independence, Missouri, the place which some day will be the great center from which the Church will be governed and controlled. It is a holy place, made holy by those great predictions, blessings, and appointments that the Lord made in the beginning of this dispensation. One of the missionaries at that conference said that he had been a little disturbed as to how he was going' to meet a question that he knew would be put to him during a certain appointment, but that he had been on the street going to his work only a few moments when the answer came to him and he was able to defend the Church in such a way that his opponent was led to listen and in a measure accept his explanation of the gospel. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. It is the plan by which the children of men come unto God, and there is no other. It is the most perfect way of living. The greatest blessing and joy and peace that can come to men and to women is to know the truth and to obey it, and to be filled with the power of God and see his power made manifest in the hearts of those who bear his name and who are worthy and faithful enough to declare it. It has been a joy, a privilege, the greatest thing that ever came into my life, to be associated with the missionaries of this Church in the different parts of the country. There is no place on the earth where there is a better feeling than among the men and women who consecrate their time to the preaching of the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. They are sweet, they are beautiful, their influence is heavenly, and the power of the adversary cannot stand in the presence of the Priesthood and power of the Redeemer, that he has given unto his Church in these last days. 

I testify unto you that the Lord lives, and that he has revealed this gospel in these last days; that his Priesthood, his power, his authority to preach the gospel and administer in the ordinances of it are vested in this Church and are not vested in any other church. I have failed to find any one in all my years of experience in the mission field who has been able to disprove any principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ that the Lord gave to Joseph the prophet. Every attempt to prove them wrong has merely verified their truthfulness 'and has made the truth of God stronger in the earth. 

It is glorious to be here; it is wonderful to live; to be engaged in the work of the conservation of the souls of men in these the last days is a privilege that surpasseth all other experience or understanding. Qod has been good to me and to those with whom I have had the pleasure of associating in the ministry. They have been noble, wonderful, great characters, and they are in the Church today, the majority of them standing in the testimony of Jesus and for the power of God in the earth, the result of their birth in these the last days and of the faith that their fathers and the mothers have planted within them. 

May God strengthen us, give us power more nearly to keep his commandments, I ask in the name of Christ our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

On the dav of Pentecost the people were assembled at one place with one accord and witnessed some marvelous manifestations of the power of the Holy Ghost. They heard, as it were, from heaven a rushing, mighty wind — a little different sort of a rushing, mighty wind from that which the people of Illinois and Indiana heard last month. After they had witnessed the outpourings of the Holy Ghost at Pentecost, and Peter, the chief apostle, had given instructions in the prophecies of Joel and David, the multitude were pricked in their hearts and exclaimed, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" — meaning, as the Apostle Peter evidently understood it, What shall we do to be saved? They could have answered that question better if they had been able to answer another question which the Master asked  the Pharisees, when they were together in the multitude. He asked the question saying, "What think ye of Christ? Whose son is he?"— a question, by the way, that was answered very clearly and emphatically yesterday by President Grant, by Brother B. H. Roberts, and others of the speakers. The M. I. A. this year will have as their slogan, "We stand for an individual testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ." The M. I. A. can find in the conference proceedings of yesterday much rich material in support of the proposition which they desire to establish in the minds of the one hundred thousand members of the M. I. A. during the coming year. 

A similar question to that asked by the Master might be propounded in this day, "What think ye of Joseph Smith ? Whose prophet was he?" and that question was well answered yesterday, and further testimony will be given today. , 

But to return to the question at Pentecost, asked by the multitude under the influence of the Holy Ghost, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" It may not be necessary to give to an audience such as this the formula for spiritual salvation. Peter gave some of the essentials at that time when he said, "Repent ye, and be baptized, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." And. to indicate that it was not a temporary promise or requirement, he added, "For the promise is unto you and to your children and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord, our God, shall call." I say you are well acquainted with the formula, if I may use that expression, for spiritual salvation; but may we not anxiously inquire day by day as we return to our homes and are confronted by the practical problems of every-day life, may we not also in anxiety exclaim and do it prayerfully, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Women and sisters, what shall we do? What shall we do to be saved — saved financially, preserved in health, and to correctly solve all the other problems that are so vital to us ? 

And do you not think this is a part of salvation? The Lord, in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, indicated that salvation was not confined to things that we generally understand to be purely spiritual. He gave a very broad meaning to the term spiritual. Listen to the 34th and 35th verses of the 29th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created. 

"Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural, nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual." 

And some of the philosophers have reached that conclusion; the late Elbert Hubbard put his conviction to the same effect in the form of a question when he said, "If we continue to progress, must there not come a time when we shall cease to differentiate and call some things sacred and some things secular?" And, of course, his question, put in that form, really answers itself in the affirmative, and it is but in confirmation of the information received of the Lord by the Prophet Joseph Smith. And so when we return to our homes, exalted, refreshed, rested, ready to take up the battle of life again, — we shall encounter practical problems. The duty upon the head of the household will be to safeguard the health of members of his family. Various members of the family may be in need of his help — young men going to school, the younger ones passing through the danger period of life, and the still younger ones whose footsteps need to be protected. And he may well exclaim, not only for his children but for himself and wife, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" 

I saw a poor old man, who appeared, at least, to be very old and decrepit, crippled with rheumatism, agonized, but only 63 years of age. What was the trouble? In a short time he opened his mouth, and I discovered that he had a mouth full of pyorrhea-covered pusbearing teeth, draining their poisonous cocci into his system every day that he lived; various kinds of germs breeding there and being poured into his body; — and so he was all crippled up. I said, "Why don't you have your teeth taken care of, and get rid of the rheumatism?" His tonsils also were diseased, adding to the supply of germs his body had to deal with. He said, "I cannot afford it." If that were true, it was time for some community assistance, a community dentist or doctor, or for some one to be called upon a mission, if necessary, in order to take care of his case. He was helping to raise the deathrate reported yesterday which we may well be proud of, 7.3 per thousand. We hope that every God-fearing Latter-day Saint may be proud of those figures; but in that connection, we must always keep in mind the credit due to the entire body and due to us as individuals. Let us not go to our homes all puffed up with the thought that we are wonderful and great individually, simply because the people that we are a part of are entitled to great praise because of a birth rate of 33, a death rate of 7.3, and a divorce rate of 15. Let us keep in mind always the distinction which the Lord gave through the prophet Joseph when he declared that he was well pleased with the people speaking of them collectively and not individually. Because good things may be said of this people collectively, let us not take them unto ourselves as a sweet unction to our souls, if we, as individuals, are entitled to none of the credit for these desirable qualities in the Church, because we are working against them. 

Again there are financial problems. The father and mother will sit down and try to plan whereby they can meet their just obligations, taking care of their children, paying their just debts, and being careful not to contract obligations they cannot pay. I do not have much patience with the Latter-day Saints who unnecessarily go into voluntary bankruptcy simply because the government of the United States has provided the means whereby a man, under certain circumstances,  protect himself. Let us not unnecessarily take advantage of that to wipe out our debts. What would you think of President Grant if, during the time of financial adversity to him many years ago, he had taken the bankruptcy act and wiped out his indebtedness ? What would the people think of Abraham Lincoln if he had not insisted on paying every dollar of his indebtedness? We are called an honest people, a great people, and each one, who shares in the glory which comes to the Church he belongs to, should be very careful to contribute his share and not to do anything to bring down that general average. In addition to these health problems and financial problems there will be wisdom to be used not to unwisely educate, not to send the boy or girl to school at the time when the father and mother are suffering for the want of a little medical attention, for an education that he is not prepared to stand, nor to send him abroad to be educated under an infidel, an agnostic or unbeliever, only to have him lose the faith, when the father and mother have been at home drudging, perhaps, working their finger-nails off almost, to keep those same dear children under that instruction which will be pernicious for them. The problem will be to give our children education as fast as they are able to stand it, but not faster than their moral training will allow. 

And so, in these and hundreds of other problems which will concern the parents in their buying and selling, in their sowing and in their reaping, in their safeguarding of their family, in educating of them, and in training them to serve others, — the greatest service that they can engage in — they may well exclaim every day, "Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved — this day and this week and this year?" 

And may the Lord help us to solve all problems aright in each one of our households, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo, the Ninety-first psalm, "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty," was sung by Mrs. Irene Southwell Cummings. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Canadian Mission 

This is one of the privileges that I thoroughly appreciate — being called upon to say a few words iduring this great conference of the Church. I am thankful beyond my power to express for the blessing that has come to me in bemg called into the ministry — to be upon the firing line of truth, explaining to the best of my ability the plan of life and salvation as taught and practiced by Jesus Christ, the Lord. I am coming to feel more and more the great power of this Church, perhaps it is because my entire life, together with the lives of my companions, is devoted to the very highest and deepest things in life, and these things were only found where truth, spoken or lived, is the dominating- power in God's revealed plan of life. The last two years of my life have been the finest years, I believe, that I have ever spent. I think I appreciate more fully the richness of the gospel, what it means, and the relationship it bears to human life. It has been my privilege to witness many manifestations of God's great power through his servants as they have proclaimed and administered the ordinances of the the gospel to those in a foreign land. These young men and women are measuring up to the responsibilities resting upon them; they are choice in spirit and are enjoying - the richness of God's holy Spirit, and I want to say to you, especially those of you who have sons and daughters in the mission field, that you can feel justly proud of them because of the disposition and attitude they assume in responding to the responsibilities that are resting upon them as messengers of life and salvation to the country of the north. I said that I was grateful for the privilege of being a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ, anid those who labor with me feel just the same way, and there is nothing that we would riot be willing to sacrifice in order to establish this Church or gospel in the hearts of the children of men. It is God's saving truth. [ 

The world today, or that part of the world in which I have been called to labor, comprises some of the finest people that it has been my privilege to come in contact with. The laws of the country are observed; they are good laws, and generally speaking, people have respect for them and those who disobey the law are conscious always of the result. The people in the vicinity of our headquarters are especially good people. They are, as a rule, honest in their dealings, sincere in their convictions, as far as they are able to understand the great gospel plan as it was given by Jesus Christ when he was upon the earth. Many of them seem to be self-satisfied with what they have along these lines. Notwithstanding this fact, however, we are coming in contact daily with people who are not at all in sympathy with the gospel as it l has been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The reason for this, or one of the reasons, is because of prejudice and their not understanding our message. Many are pregnant with the thought that Jesus Christ was just a man — not an ordinary man, however, but one of those great men that came into the world and through his teachings and life left a great code of moral teachings. They do not look upon him as the Redeemer of the world and do not credit his literal resurrection. This thought is growing among a certain class of people throughout the world, and they are placing man's wisdom above that which is supposed to be inspired by God through his servants, the prophets. They seem to segregate themselves from that simple, vital faith that is so prevalent among good Latter-day Saints, or at least I hope is prevalent, because I have come to feel that this simple, yet powerful, faith is the only thing that will  real joy and happiness into our hearts. Indeed, I think the greatest thing that can take possession of the mind and soul is the thought of God, for when we think of God we think of the most holy and divine personal Being of which we can conceive, and having faith in that kind of a Being, it seems to me causes us to understand more perfectly the relationship that obtains between us and him. You can rest assured that this vital, genuine faith is one of the great things that our missionaries begin to learn as they prosecute this great and mighty work in the world. 

We heard yesterday that signs were to follow those who believed. I am here to testify to you today that through this simple and abiding faith that comes through humility and prayer the gifts of the gospel of Jesus Chris are apparent. They are distributed among our young men and women who are called from day to day to officiate in the ordinances of the restored gospel; and they witness through their faith, the healing of the sick, making the blind to see, and many other manifestations that bring a perfect response to the idea that God lives, and that through the operation of his Spirit, those who are believing and receiving these blessings are coming into the Church. 

I rejoice in this, my brethren and sisters, for the reason that it is building my faith, adding additional testimony to that which I already have, and as I see this testimony growing and developing I praise God, my eternal Father. I am convinced that God lives, that he hears and answers prayers, and that our young men and women, through their diligence, are conveying, with conviction unmistakable, the gospel message to the hearts of those with whom they are privileged to come in contact. You will remember reading the words of Jesus Christ just prior to his crucifixion. He had been giving his disciples instructions, and telling them what would befall them for preaching his name and bearing witness of him as Christ, after which he withdrew himself and engaged in secret prayer, imploring his Father in heaven to keep firm the testimony that his disciples had obtained. "This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thoujiast sent." This eternal life is predicated upon the knowledge we must obtain from God and his beloved Son, and in order to know God, we must have that simple, vital faith in him, and this faith comes to every individual through prayer, humility, and determination to understand the mighty message of the gospel. I am convinced that one of the best things (for us as parents to do is to teach our children the necessity of prayer, so that they can cultivate a faith that is inborn within them, and with this faith know Jesus Christ, and God, the eternal Father. I do not know of anything better than for a father and mother to call their family to their knees morning and night and thank God for the preservation of life, for the opportunity that has come to them in this day and time in learning more of the great gospel plan; and the more we know of this gospel plan the more we understand life itself. And understanding life, we become acquainted with God, our eternal Father, and his great creation. Aside from family prayer, I think we should advocate more strongly the necessity of communicating with God when we are alone, and convey to him with a perfect confidence the things that are in our hearts, making hi m feel and know our gratitude for the blessings of life and the opportunities that have come to us in knowing more about these precious truths. It is during moments of this kind, the solemn hours of life, if you please, where we are permitted to gather up all life and place it in the unit of spiritual power, and with that power grow strong in faith and have constantly the light of God's Spirit with us. And so, my brethren and sisters, let us pray alone to God, take him into our confidence, ask him for his protecting care, to give us light and power, to enaole us to understand more perfectly the great truths that have been revealed for the perpetuation of his glorious work. 

I desire to bear to you my humble testimony that I know that God lives. Indeed, I know as I know that I breathe the breath of life, that he does answer prayers, and the blessings in signs are following those who have faith in him. The prayer of faith is healing the sick, and they stand as great manifestations and as witnesses to the divinity of this great work. I have been near death's door more than once, anjd I sometimes marvel how it is that he has preserved my life. I am thankful beyond measure for the privilege that has come to me to bear this testimony in the presence of this great throng of people, and with the help of my heavenly Father I desire, with all the power I have, to continue to bear witness of God's mercy to me and the great testimony I have of the divinity of this great and mighty work. The gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, as it has been restored in this day and time. God bless every one of us, that we may appreciate to the fullest, what we have in this glorious gospel of our Lord and Master, that we might be found worthy of all his blessings. I a:sk this in his name. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

It is a pleasure and a privilege to attend the conference gatherings of the Latter-day Saints, and at every gathering of this character we receive inspiration and encouragement. We get a deeper sympathy with the world and all its problems. It is a great privilege to be a Latter-day Saint. One of the old prophets said that in the latter days there would be a igreat distinction. Men and women would say they were "born in Zion," and happy are those to whom this blessing has come. 

Yesterday, when I heard the statement made by President Grant, showing the progress of this Church, the receipts and disbursements of  funds, converts to the gospel at home and abroad, the number of children 'baptized into the Church, etc., I thought to myself "What hath God wrought!" Then my thoughts went back to the first prayer of the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he went into a wooded enclosure to inquire of the' Lord as to which Church he should join, his family having already become affiliated with some of the sects whose members were proselyting in that neighborhood. I have walked up the little roadway leading from the farm-house, and have tried to visualize and picture the feelings of that boy as he went into that small enclosure to pray. And from that momentous event I again said to myself : "What hath God wrought!" 

The time had come when our Father and his Son Jesus Christ should again manifest themselves unto mankind, and the boy prophet became a new witness for God and was able to testify that God lives, that he saw him, that he heard his voice and that he was directed by his Son as to what his future conduct should be. 

When we think of the tremendous work the boy prophet did in the few short years of his life, we must conclude that it was no easy task. He reestablished the gospel of Jesus Christ. By the power and gift of God he translated and brought forth the Book of Mormon. Under the direction of the Lord a gathering place was established around Kirtland, and a few devoted men and women erected their house to the Lord — a house which is still holy to the Latter-day Saints. 

I wonder if many of us have tried to visualize what it meant to those few people in the way of sacrifice to erect that house' and how the Lord blessed them for their efforts. However, there was no rest in Kirtland. Persecution became so severe that the prophet and the leading brethren moved to the land of Zion, the Lord having revealed that this should be the gathering place of the Latter-day Saints. There they met the inevitable conflict between the North and the South and suffered the consequence, being compelled to move from Missouri to Nauvoo, where they settled and developed a community, building a magnificent temple. Here the prophet received more doctrine and principles of government from the Lord, and the city of Nauvoo grew so rapidly that, it bade fair to rival Chicago. 

But the great conflict between the force of evil and the work of the Lord again developed. The Latter-day Saints were burdened, murdered and compelled to leave their wonderful city and its marvelous temple, and journey yet further westward across the wastes of Iowa, Nebraska and Wyoming. 

I have often thought of what a weeding-out process this great movement proved to be, for if there were any weak-kneed people, if there were any whose hearts were not filled with a testimony, they could not help but be thinned from the ranks of the Latter-day Saints. Many followed former leaders of the Church and strayed away into various groups. These have gone into oblivion; however, many held on - to the gospel with what! we might call a "bull-dog grip," coming to these valleys under the masterful leadership of the Prophet Brigham Young. Here they occupied these valleys of the mountains and established a new and higher civilization, based upon the gospel of Jesus Christ. The world has seen many civilizations rise and fall, most of which have been founded upon the lust for power, wealth and dominion over others. We have noticed this in the old civilization of Europe. Such was the condition in other parts of the world, whereas the Constitution of our great country was established by men who were inspired of the Lord, and this land of America was redeemed by the shedding of blood; and upon this continent, this land of Zion, there is being established a better and a higher type of civilization, based upon human liberty and freedom. 

In these valleys the Latter-day Saints are building a higher type of civilization, under the guidance and direction of the prophets of old, and in obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The civilization of the Latter-day Saints is based upon the statement made by our Lord and Master to the man who inquired what he should do to inherit eternal life. Our Master said : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself." Among the Latter-day Saints there is a spirit of mutual helpfulness, sympathy, brotherly love and kindness, a desire to cooperate in all temporal movements. There is also the spirit of homemaking and the love of home and its surroundings; and the people have a desire to own the home in which they live or the land from which they derive their living. 

I don't believe in the idea that we should be completely and entirely satisfied with the progress we are making. Neither do I believe in being dissatisfied. All ambitious persons and those who are trying for higher ideals should be unsatisfied with their present condition, for this alone can bring about efforts to reach greater heights. 

In the 7th chapter of the gospel of Matthew, there is recorded some wonderful statements made by Jesus Christ. He warned his disciples 'to 

"Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's "clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

"Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

"Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 

"Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them." 

We Latter-day Saints are willing to accept this standard. With all the weaknesses and frailties of human nature, both inherited and acquired, we are willing to be judged by this standard. 

A few years ago an eminent man from the East called at the Presiding Bishop's office. He was interested in the great charity movement that has been developed in the United States. He said to me : "I hear you have a very low death rate." I answered that this was so. He asked if he might see the details of the death report for the last ten years and it was handed to him. He then asked permission to examine it alone, and upon being told that he might do so, he studied the large sheets giving numerous details of the causes of deaths. After a time he said : "I am through. I am astounded at the lack of causes of deaths from sex diseases. I notice very few, if any, deaths from alcoholism;" and he then commented on a number of other causes of death, and finally said : "Deaths are the results of the general habits and conduct of life." He drew his conclusions from figures. 

While there is room for improvement among our people, we have reason to be proud of the results that are being brought about through obedience to the gospel. The birth rate among the Latter-day Saints is 7.3 to the thousand. Then, the child born to the average Latter-day Saint home is welcome. This is indicated by the fact that out of each thousand children in the United States, 76 die before they have reached one year of age. Among the Latter-day Saints, out of each thousand children born, only 41 die before they become one year of age. 

My brethren and sisters, let us go home not satisfied, but determined to do better than we have in the past to make our home life sweet, to gather our farrtiles around us and keep them fond of home. Let us develop a love of our fellow men, sympathy with their misfortunes. Let us teach our children to observe the law of tithing, to' observe the Lord's day and keep it holy and reserve that day for worship and rest, as the Lord desires. These are fundamental duties of the Latterday Saints. 

May his blessings be with us in every honest endeavor to maintain the high standard of Latter-day Saints is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: "Ye shall dwell in the land." 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to have the opportunity of being with you in the conference meetings. 

I am sure that we all recognize the fact that the teachings of the prophet Joseph Smith have modified the religious views of the world. It is interesting to meet people and see how they have changed their views in regard to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Sometimes our missionaries, as they go from door to door and find so little encouragement go back to their rooms with a thought that perhaps they are not accomplishing just as much as they could accomplish. I tell the missionaries that every time they are able to teach one truth to some one who has not understood that truth before, they have helped to advance the religious thought of the day, and that from this little seed of truth that the people have received they are able to understand another truth. By this means will the gospel of Jesus Christ fill the whole earth, and men shall worship God and honor Jesus Christ, the Son of God, because of the teachings that have been given to Joseph Smith from our Father. There is one thought, however, that people do not seem to be able to grasp, and that ,is that there is a straight and narrow way to get back into the kingdom of God. They seem to have the idea that by some inexplicable method they will be brought back into his presence, and that irrespective of the things that they have done upon the earth, he will forgive them and finally place them in the celestial kingdom. I hope that we, as Latter-day Saints, are not trying to deceive ourselves in regard to this thing. Men and women will only get the reward that they earn upon the earth, and with all the mercy that God will extend to them there still remains the attribute of justice, and men and women will pay the price of things that they do upon the earth if they are to receive the reward that God would have them receive in his kingdom. 

We have in the world a number of splendid Latter-day Saints who are laboring in the cause of Jesus Christ, men and women who are trying to see and understand the value of it and to have it take root in their hearts and give forth fruits that will count in the kingdom of God. Just a short time ago I received at the office a small box. I wondered what was in the box, and in opening it I was very much surprised to find that it contained a few dozen eggs, and inside of the box was a letter from an old man and woman something like eighty years of age living on a rented farm, hardly getting enough to hold things together and perhaps at times going without the food that they might desire. The letter in the box said, "President Taylor, we have no money: we can hardly get along, but we do have a few things on the farm, and we are sending in these few dozen of eggs that we may pay our fast offering to the Lord's poor." I like men and women who have faith to do something and to make the sacrifice necessary to be made to gain salvation. 

A while ago I received through the office a letter containing just one or two dollars, and in the envelope was a little statement from a widow down in one of our towns, with a family to support, and she said, "Brother Taylor, this is my tithing — not all that I would like to send, because we are hard up, but I am sure that God will open the way whereby I can pay my honest tithing to him, because I need his blessings. And," said she, "if the worst comes to the worst, I have a guitar here in the home that we have had in the family for a number of years, and it is dear and precious because of the memories of the father and mother and the family, but before the  is closed, if it is necessary we will take the instrument out and sell it and use the money to pay our tithing to the Lord, that he may bless us with the blessings which we as a family so much need." 

That is the kind of faith, the kind of people who count most with the Lord, men and women who sacrifice and do things because of their faith in the commandments of the Lord. 

My brethren and my sisters, let us not think that just because we are members of this Church it is not necessary to remember to be honest, generous, and sympathetic, and kind; because by these fruits ye are known, not only by men on the earth but by God in the heavens above. And may the Lord bless us and help us and be with us, in our daily lives, that we may be worthy of God's blessings and mercy, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

One of the most delightful things that characterize our general conferences, to my mind, is the presence of our mission presidents. It is always a delight to me when a breeze comes in from the mission field. It bears with it the spirit of testimony, and I delight to hear these presidents as they are called upon from time to time to address the congregations. There are, however, many missions that are of necessity not represented at our general conferences — those beyond the sea, in foreign lands. What a delightful thing it would be if there could come a message from all of these various missions! Who knows but that the time may yet come, through the wonderful modern inventions — through the use of airplanes and otherwise — that they may be brought from those distant lands and have their voices heard in the general assembly of the Church at each conference time? 

During the last few weeks it has been my lot to be very much engaged in matters pertaining to the Latter-day Saints that have gathered up to the land of Zion from those lands beyond the sea, where foreign' languages are spoken. Efforts are being made to bring them more closely in contact with the general authorities of the Church than ever have been made before. The gospel message has been carried unto them all in fulfilment of that vision that came to the beloved disciple, who saw "another angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to proclaim unto them that dwell upon the earth, and to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, and crying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come." 

In fulfilment of that great prophecy the messenger came from the realms above; the gospel has been, and is now being proclaimed in many languages and to many people. The honest in heart are being gathered into the fold of Christ, and many of them have come up to the land of Zion to cast their lots and identify their interests among the people of God. Having come here, sometimes I think they have been greatly neglected, through a failure on our part to provide adequate means whereby they could realize the blessings which they hoped for when they left their native lands. They have come up here that they might be taught in the ways of the Lord, that they might learn to walk in his paths; and yet, on account of the, to them, strange language spoken in the country of their adoption, they were unable to understand; and, of course, it became necessary to provide these people with organizations whereby they could hold meetings and hear the gospel and the teachings of it in their own native tongues, long before they would be able to acquire a knowledge of this English language. 

In order that they might have increased facilities for the holding of meetings, where they could be taught the principles of the gospel and be brought in closer contract with the presiding authorities of the Church and under its more immediate supervision, the First Presidency appointed a Committee of which Elder John A. Widtsoe of the Council of the Twelve is the chairman, to look into all matters pertaining to our foreign language Saints and to have a general supervision over all such gatherings in cooperation, of course, with the regular stake and ward authorities. In pursuance of this purpose the foreign Latter-day Saints, residing in the six stakes of Salt Lake city and vicinity, have recently been reorganized and consolidated into one separate organization for each separate language and nationality. That is, one for the Danes, one for the Swedes, one for the Norwegians, and one for the Scandinavians (comprising the above three); also one for the Swiss and Germans and one for the Dutch, making six organizations altogether. 

In the opening remarks of President Heber J. Grant we learned that nearly 1,800 people were baptized in the Swiss and German mission during the year 1924 (and many will doubtless find their way to Zion in due time) and that favorable progress is also being made in the other missions. It is therefore highly important that adequate provision shall be made to look after the welfare and promote the interests of these foreign language Saints, handicapped as they are by reason of the prevailing language which they are only able to understand after many years of patient study and practice. And in further consideration for these people, the Church has been and is now publishing foreign language papers, the supervision and management of which have also been given to this committee. We who speak our own mother tongue, the English language, the language of America, can hardly appreciate what it means to these foreigners when they are suddenly plunged into a new country, the customs, manners and language of which are to them unknown. 

Through the medium of these foreign language meetings and newspapers the Church is endeavoring to render a service of great value, a blessing and a comfort to our foreign Latter-day Saints : By instructing them in the principles of the gospel; in teaching them  duties in the Church; in assisting and encouraging them to affiliate with the regular organizations of the Church; in teaching them loyalty to their adopted country, and how to become real American citizens; in giving news from their native lands and the missions in which they were converted to the truth; in giving news from their friends and kindred both at home and abroad, and also in inspiring them with patriotic love for their adopted country and loyal devotion to the great cause of truth for which they have left their native lands. 

There is very much yet to be done in this direction. Not nearly enough has been yet translated into their languages. Of course, the standard works of the Church are published in those foreign tongues, but think of the vast amount of literature that has been written by such men as Elders B. H. Roberts, James E. Talmage and others of our splendid writers, that ought also to be translated and published in those languages. 

Thus it will be apparent that the presiding authorities of the Church desire to make adequate provisions for these, our brethren and sisters, who like ourselves are of the House of Israel and have been converted through the labors of our missionaries, and our hearts should go out in love and sympathy for them and in appreciation of the peculair difficulties which they have to overcome by reason o'f their foreign tongue. And they should be made to feel that they "are no more strangers and foreigners but fellow citizens with the Saints and of the household of God." 

May the Lord help us to appreciate these things and to do our part in helping them feel in very deed that they are our brethren and sisters engaged in a common cause, in the upbuilding of the Church and kingdom of God. I pray that we may all do so, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Arthur F. Barnes. 




