Afternoon
04 04 1925

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

It is a great honor, I am sure, to be asked to speak to this congregation, but I approach this duty with fear and trembling. The meeting this morning, the first session of our conference, gave assurance that the Lord is still with his Saints, and still recognizes this work, and that he is sustaining his servants who labor for his honor and glory. 

There is a deep significance in Elder McKay's testimony given this morning, when he spoke concerning the changed conditions in some nations of the earth where hitherto our sons suffered imprisonment for trying to preach the gospel; while now places of prominence are open to them, even the halls of the governments, in which Latter-day Saint missionaries have been invited to hold meetings. What has brought about this change? 

During recent years, especially since the World War, great changes have taken place in this direction. I call your attention to a revelation of the Almighty, given to the Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith found in Section 98, beginning at the 4th verse : 

"And now, verily I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is  will that my people should observe to do all things whatsoever I command them. 

"And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me. 

"Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land; 

"And as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than these cometh of evil. 

"I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law. also maketh you free. 

"Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. 

"Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise, whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil." 

Again, in the 101st section of the same book, commencing at the 77th verse, we find : 

"According to the laws and the Constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection jof all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 

"That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. 

"Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. 

"And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

This last revelation was given just after the Saints had been driven from their homes in Missouri. Yet the Lord's words to his people were that the Constitution of the United States is that which "I established." This divinely conceived Constitution is, we are told, for the benefit of all mankind. The Lord said that its underlying principles are for the benefit of all flesh, not made for this country alone, but intended to govern the whole world. 

Why is it that the elders are not permitted to preach the gospel in Russia today, where there are a hundred and eighty million people who have scarcely heard of the gospel? It is because of the moral agency that the Lord speaks of in the revelation known as section 101. These people are denied their free agency. The rulers of this people have a wrong conception of the rights and privileges which the Lord says pertain to all mankind. 

In the 109th section of the Doctrine and Covenants is a prayer, given by revelation to Joseph the Seer, which was repeated in the Kirtland temple at the time of its dedication on March 27, 1836. I shall not undertake to read it, but shall quote only the 54th paragraph : 

"Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth; have mercy upon the rulers of our land; may those principles which were so honorably and nobly defended, namely, the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever." These words were uttered as a part of the dedicatory prayer, notwithstanding the persecution the Saints had suffered prior to 1836, persecution suffered at the hands of people who were prejudiced, people who were ignorant as to what the Latter-day Saints stood for, ignorant as to their beliefs and their aims. Notwithstanding all this, and clearly showing the broad and liberal spirit of this great latter-day work where such matters are concerned, the words last quoted were uttered as a part of the dedicatory prayer. 

The revelations found in the Doctrine and Covenants, sections 98 and 101, which I have quoted, and in which the Lord has said that no man should be in bondage to another, were given at a time when millions of negroes were in bondage in the southern part of the United States. At that time there existed a great question as to whether or not slavery should be perpetuated, and it seemed that the decision might be in favor of continuing to hold this black-skinned race under bondage to the white men who owned them. Thk question was settled a few years later, when the Supreme Court rendered its decision in the Dred Scott case. Dred Scott was a negro who escaped from serfdom and went into one of the eastern states. His owner followed him and replevined him, claiming he was after his own property, just as he would go for a mule or an ox or a cow. Under the law the slave was his property. Chief Justice Taney, then at the head of the Supreme Court, delivered the decision that this was the law, the constitutional law. This discision was the law of the land; but in the justice and mercy of Almighty God, even a law which became a constitutional law, had to be overthrown, and the Lord raised up Abraham Lincoln and others -to see that the law laid down by Him — that one man should not be in bondage to another — was set right and true freedom established in this land. 

From that day on, millions more of slaves have been freed in Russia and other lands. In these latter-days, thrones have tottered and fallen, and in place of these has come a representative form of igovernment, a government of the people, a government which gives the people their moral agency, spoken of in the revelations I have read, and which the Lord says is pertinent to all mankind. 

It is true that there might be a constitution similar to ours in such countries as Mexico or Russia, and the results would not be at all the same, for the people of these countries are not as intelligent as are the people of this nation. But even in such countries, our Constitution could not help but produce a better government, for in that Constitution are the underlying principles which will, in time, teach these people to govern themselves intelligently. In order that the various peoples of the earth may at sometime reach the point at which they can intelligently govern themselves, the Lord in his mercy has in the past overthrown nations comprised of millions of people who have been subjected to unrighteous domination. 

Now, coming to our own land, our own Constitution, I think we hardly appreciate sufficiently what this Constitution means to us and to the work of the Lord. It is my belief that this Constitution, which the Lord declared he established, is for the benefit of all mankind. Verse 77, Section 101, reads as follows: "According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles." Certainly, the fundamental, governing principles which the Lord has established on the earth under the name of the Constitution of the United States, were meant for all men, everywhere. These principles, with their accompanying freedom and liberty, are inseparably connected with our great latter-day work, it seems to me; for the Lord tells us that this freedom, this liberty, was brought about through the hands of wise men whom he raised up. Without this great Government of ours, this Godgiven Constitution, the gospel of Jesus Christ could never have found an abiding place in the earth. They are connected, correlated, interlocked one with the other; for the Constitution, like the gospel itself, is for the benefit of all flesh, for all mankind. 

The Book of Mormon tells us that so long as the people of this nation are willing to acknowledge Jesus Christ as the God of this land, or as the ruler of this nation, so long shall his mercies be extended unto them. Notwithstanding the weaknesses of our people, and of other people, I believe that today there is a greater desire in the minds of millions of people of this nation to acknowledge God and to acknowledge Jesus Christ and to live righteous lives than there has ever been before. While in some ways wickedness may be increasing, yet there is an earnest desire in the hearts of millions of people in this nation to acknowledge God and serve him. 

Only a month ago President Coolidge delivered his inaugural address, and he closed it with the name of God upon his lips. These are the closing w T ords of that address : 

"America seeks no earthly empire built on blood and force. No ambition, no temptation, lures her to the thought of foreign dominion. The legions which she sends forth are armed, not with the sword, but with the cross. The higher state to which she seeks allegiance of all (mankind is not of human, but of divine, origin. She cherishes no purpose save to merit the favor of Almighty God."! f ' '  i jj 

Here is a direct acknowledgement, most direct, coming from the very head of the nation, showing that the nation believes in God, believes in his divine providence, and asks for nothing save the favor of God. 

When Abraham pleaded with the Lord that the cities of the plain might not be destroyed, he was told that if he could find ten righteous people, the Lord would spare them. I believe that, instead of ten righteous people in this nation of one hundred and ten millions, there are millions of people who are righteous, who daily seek the Lord, and who try to live according to their beliefs. 

On the coin of the realm there is another direct acknowledgment that as a nation we believe in God, for, stamped on every silver dollar and on every goldpiece, are the words: "In God We Trust." 

Also, in our national anthem we have these words: 

"Then conquer we must, for our cause it is just, And this be our motto : 'In God is our trust!' And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph shall wave, O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave." 

I believe that it is my duty and your duty to teach our children concerning this great God-inspired Constitution, this great law of liberty which he has given to this world, and which was never given before to any nation in any land. Never before has there been a representative government of this kind. Republics have been tried, hundreds of times, thousands of years ago, but never was there anything like this Government. If I had the time I could point out the differences between our God-given Government and those governments of men. 

In our nation's hymn "America," we have the words which were given, I believe, by the inspiration of the Almighty. ' The last verse of this hymn is the one that declares our beliefs as to who is the God of this land, and while we sing it, I believe that we feel in our hearts that Jesus Christ is indeed our God, the true Ruler over this great land of ours. The words of the last verse are these: 

"Our father's God! to thee, Author of Liberty, To thee we sing; Long may our land be bright With freedom's holy light; Protect us by thy might, Great God, our King!" The Lord bless us. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

About ten days ago it seemed as if I might be prevented from attending this great gathering. I took counsel with myself, and came to the conclusion that the general conferences of the Church, which I have been permitted to attend, with considerable regularity, ever since the days of my early manhood, have been a tremendous source of strength to me. I doubt whether any other Church activity has been more powerful in establishing and building my faith than these great general conferences. 

GOD GUIDES AND DIRECTS THIS PEOPLE 

I have been stirred by this conference; and uplifted in my feelings. I desire to bear witness to the truth of that which has been spoken. 

God has indeed been with us, and his word has been taught by his servants who have been called upon to address us this day. It is always a source of gladness to me to recognize, in the events within the Church, that God does indeed guide and direct this people. 

THE TRUE MEANING OF LIFE 

These great gatherings are a constant marvel to me. There are none other like them in the world. I never attend one without pondering upon the real reason why these conferences bring out these hosts of people, all apparently of one mind, one heart, and one understanding. President Grant's remarks this morning gave the explanation. These thousands could not assemble every six months, and enjoy these meetings, unless we were certain about the great issues of human life. I believe that every person here belonging to the Church, who has caught the spirit of this great latter-day work, feels certain as to the origin of man, the purpose of life, and the destiny of humanity. Perhaps no search in the history of the world has been equal to the search for the truth regarding the origin and destiny of man. We have had times when great nations have given themselves to a search for wealth or for long life. The elixir of life and the philosopher's stone were the objects of man's seeking for many generations, and at other times men have sought other great things. But there has never been a time when the great majority of thinking people have not attempted to seek out the true meaning of life. We have found that true meaning. In the hearts of the Latterday Saints there is an assurance as to the meaning of life, and that security of knowledge makes possible the many wonderful things that characterize this Church and Kingdom. 

UNCERTAINTY OF THE MEANING OF LIFE A CAUSE OF WICKEDNESS . 

As I travel about among those not of our faith it seems to me that the uncertainty concerning the meaning of life is a chief cause of the wickedness, indifference and fear which are found among the nations today. In fact, whenever uncertainty with respect to this fundamental problem attacks an individual, from that moment on, either fear develops with him, fear of the unknown, often leading to superstition, or he becomes indifferent, and says: "I don't know whence I came, I don't know where I am going, why should I care? Let me do my bit today, my little kindness, but pay no attention to the. churches or to organized forms of religion, because I don't really know what is the truth." 

REVEALED RELIGION GIVES THE INTERPRETATION 

Curiously enough, our wealth of modern, man-made knowledge sheds little light upon the meaning of life, unless interpreted in the light of revealed religion. How different with us Latter-day Saints! If we know one thing with certainty, it is that we were in the beginning with God, that we came here according to a fully and completely devised plan, and that we shall live on after this life, forever and forever. 

Father Lehi, in his remarkable farewell address to his children, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, declares that "Adam fell that men might be;" and continues, "and men are that they might have joy." Any person reading this statement so frequently quoted among our people, must understand that the very essence of it is that there is no chance with respect to the great program of human life, but that this earth and all things on it, every living soul, fits into the great, eternal plan prepared by Almighty God before the foundations of this earth were laid. In another place in modern scripture we have a statement to the effect that not only shall we have joy in this life, on this earth, but that in the hereafter we shall have "immortality and eternal life." Not merely continued existence, from age to age, but eternal life with all that life implies — activity, development, growth and increase of every proper kind of character. Such doctrines give joy to the human heart. Such doctrines make it possible to live on this earth in the face of difficulties that men of necessity have to encounter. 

THE GREAT PRINCIPLE OF ETERNAL PROGRESS 

I am especially grateful for the doctrine that we shall go on, throughout the endless ages, far beyond the comprehension of man. I am indeed grateful that all has not been revealed today, because if we are to go on, today and tomorrow and throughout all time to come, then we shall be continually learning and increasing in knowledge. I find men occasionally who are very fond of discussing the unrevealed truths of the gospel. To them everything must be explained; there must be no mystery. This is completely out of harmony with the great principle of eternal progression, one of the cornerstones of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am thankful that I do not understand all things; that I have been given a certain field of knowledge into which I must fit this mortal life to the best of my ability; and that I know for a certainty that on the tomorrow, when this life is passed, or perhaps before it is over, new light and knowledge may be given me. 

I am grateful also that man is that he "might have joy." I believe that statement does not mean joy merely in the hereafter; I believe it means joy on this earth. As a people, we are and should be joyful, glad and happy. We should so live that those who come among us would observe that gladness is in our hearts, because of the truths that have been given us. The body, mind and spirit should be used to give joy, not sensual pleasure to man. However, merely knowing a doctrine or a truth is not enough to make us fully happy, or to give us that complete joy of which Father Lehi speaks. Undoubtely, the one great way to achieve joy in this life is that laid down by President Grant this forenoon. A person, to enjoy satisfaction in life and to stand firmly upon his feet in the walks of life, must of necessity obey law which really means the proper use of knowledge. Conformity with law gives joy, opposition of law brings misery and unhappiness. 

OBEDIENCE 10 LAW 

How much of the law should a man obey? All of the law! Not one  should be forgotten. Let us obey all the law, with all our might and strength, and we shall find the joy that characterizes those who really understand life, and who have won the full measure of gladness. I am thankful that we have among the Latter-day Saints very many persons, perhaps the majority of the members, who so live that this great joy, which has been promised us, is theirs indeed. 

SINCERITY A DOMINANT TRAIT IN THE CHURCH AND ITS LEADERS 

Obedience to law must be impelled by simple honesty or sincerity. I wonder if we are quite sincere in our obedience, or if we give to the Lord with hidden motives in our hearts. We cannot be anything but sincere if we are true Latter-day Saints. Men who give of their time, talents or means without fully giving themselves, their hearts, only give in part. Throughout the history of this Church is the simple thought, that sincerity lies at the foundation of this organization. The people of the kingdom have come from all corners of the earth, after accepting this gospel with full sincerity, holding nothing back. The Prophet Joseph Smith was sincere. Brigham Young was sincere; there was no doubt in their minds. They did not dissemble; they were not playing a game; they were not acting a part; but sincerity is evident in everything that they did. Some so-called historians who have written about us, have laid as the foundation of their writings the assumption that Joseph Smith was a scoundrel who attempted to fool the people, and that Brigham Young became a "Mormon" because he loved wealth and power. That is not history. Those who will read the history of this Church, with honest hearts, freeing themselves of prejudice, will come back to the conclusion that this work was founded in honesty. Any historians or purported historians who begin their work by assuming that the founders of this Church were dishonest or insincere, do not write history, they write travesty. History is more than a mere chronology of facts. History is a great interpretation of events. The events of "Mormonism" bring out clearly the fact that a sincere feeling has dominated all of its years. 

JOY COMES BY OBEYING THE WILL OF GOD 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that it is possible to be happy *in this Church and kingdom. I know that joy may be won by those who will do the will of God. I have tried, as you have, to keep the law fully. I bear you my testimony that as I try and try again to live the full law, a joy far beyond the power or the giving of man, becomes mine. 

A few years ago an old widow on her death bed asked : "Is this death ?" And the answer came; "Perhaps it may be near." She then sat up in bed, asked that pillows support her, and said : "If this be death, then I want to testify of the joy I have had in finding and living the gospel of Jesus Christ. Gladness has come into my soul because of this great gift which I found in my early womanhood." A week ago, on the train, I met the type of man who has found joy in this work. This man, not yet very old, but in the afternoon of life, told me the story of his life. He had been on three missions. His sons, five or six of them, had gone on missions. He had twice sold out his property that he might obey the call of the priesthood and go on missions. Now, in his declining years, yet vigorous and strong, he told me with what a joy he faced the coming years. His children were taught in the truth, he himself had a modest home, and the good things of life, so far as he needed them. I said to him: "Brother, you have sacrificed much, but you have also a great abundance of blessings to compensate you for the sacrifice you have made." He turned to me, looked into my eyes, and said : "Brother, I sacrificed, therefore have I the blessings. Without sacrifice I should not have known the great joy which is promised to those who live the principle of the gospel." 

I bear witness again to the truth of this work, to its spiritual power and to its sufficiency in guiding men in all the affairs of life. I pray that we may be continually blessed by God, that we may always be willing to give unto him all that may be required of us, that we may go onward, and that the work may be prospered, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo, entitled, "Flee as a Bird", was sung by Archibald Bronson. It was said that this was Brigham Young's favorite song. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of attending this wonderful gathering of the Church, and upon this opening day of our conference seeing so many people gathered together. Truly it is a marvelous sight to look into the faces of those who have congregated in this building, and to note that there are many who cannot find seats, and who are standing in the aisles, and some, I take it from their movements, who have gone to the Assembly Hall, or to some other place where they might receive the instruction and the admonition and advice that are given at this conference. I rejoice in this great latter-day work, and the spirit that prompts these great gatherings and brings these people from so great distances to be refreshed and admonished and built up in their faith in God, that they might learn more of all their duties to him and to their fellowmen, and go home to their respective abiding places and further the progress of this work of our Father. 

I rejoice that in the day and age in which we live, the kingdom of God is again established in the earth. I have an abiding faith and testimony that the kingdom forseen and foretold by that great man, 

Daniel, in the interpretation he gave to the dream of the great king of Babylon, is now established upon the earth, as has been said at this conference. There is no doubt in the hearts and in the minds of Latter-day Saints regarding the existence of our Father in heaven. There is no doubt in the hearts and minds of Latter-day Saints regarding the life and existence and work of our Redeemer and our Savior, Jesus Christ. There is absolutely no doubt today, either in the minds of the old or the young, as to whether this is the Church of God established in the earth or not, for we know that it is. I bear you my witness this afternoon that I know God has again spoken from the heavens, that he has revealed himself to his chosen servants, and that he has lestored the same power, keys, and Priesthood that he gave to his servants in all ages of the world and particularly to his servants in the meridian of time, when he gave to Peter and to his companions the keys of the kingdom. I know that the holy Priesthood is here upon the earth today. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that without the shadow of a doubt and without feeling in my heart any sense of hyprocrisy, I can say to you this afternoon that I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, raised up to establish this work in the day and age in which we live. I rejoice that I have heard that testimony borne by my father. I rejoice that I have read that same testimony recorded in the words uttered by my grandparents, and I rejoice that I have lived long enough upon the earth to have heard my own son, I believe in all sincerity, bear that same testimony. 

I have labored now for nearly nineteen years in the missionary field, with your sons and daughters. There is nothing in all the wide world that brings me more joy or more happiness than to associate with them, and to hear them with all humility and in all sincerity declare to the world that they know these things are true. 

My brethren and sisters, I do not stop with this testimony, and I wish to go further this afternoon. It is of course, traditional now among us all, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, but I wish to continue my testimony and say I know that all who have succeeded him as presidents of this Church have been prophets of God; and while in the discharge of their duties, and living the lives of Latterday, Saints, all who have occupied the positions of apostles have been in very deed apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, men of the Lord, raised up to work in the ministry to perfect the Saints, and to be instruments through whom the revelations of the Lord might come, where they might minister, either at home or abroad. I bear you my witness today that, more than I know any other one thing, it seems to me, I know that President Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God, and that through him the Lord makes known his mind and will to this people. We can only be safe in obedience to the advice and to the counsel and to the admonition and to the reproof that may come to us through the sources of which I have spoken. I wish to leave with you this testimony and to say that I dedicate my life and my services to the Lord, and I desire to serve him by serving my fellow men. I rejoice at the opportunities that have come to me to labor in the ministry abroad. I have said before, and I stated this to our missionaries with whom I recently held a conference, that if I held no anticipation of reward in the future, I have been an hundredfold paid, more than perhaps I deserve, through the knowledge I have that through my teachings, I have brought hope into the lives of people who, before they knew me, were without hope, and that hope has been brought through the teaching of the principles of this everlasting gospel that is dearer to me than my life. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful and to be true to the great knowledge that has come to us, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

It is not considered indelicate to speak in laudation of one's country and extol its institutions and people. By the same token I am sure that it ought not to be considered indelicate to speak of one's church and his people, and to commend their achievements and their greatness. It seems to me desirable, particularly at this time, that attention should be called in rather liberal manner to the greatness and the richness of our people; this, at least in part, because an insidious and subtle effort seems to be made, and is now in progress, to underestimate the achievements of this people and, in consequence, to undermine the faith and the confidence of those who study us and give some favorable attention to Us, and in particular the faith and the confidence of our young people. 

THE ATTITUDE AND SPIRIT OF OUR PEOPLE 

I believe that without arrogance and undue presumption, I am justified in saying that we are the greatest people on the face of the earth today. I recognize the fact that in making such a statement I should bring myself under some condemnation by those who set themselves up as critics of our work, our faith and our people. The most charitable consideration of them, however, I think is that they do not know and do not understand the genius of our work, and the attitude and spirit of our people. They cannot understand our great endeavor to follow in the footsteps of the Master and teach his gospel, unless they possess the spirit of the gospel which comes from the Lord himself. For while the things of man may be understood and comprehended by the spirit and intelligence of man, the things of God cannot be understood except by the Spirit of God; and when men in criticism of our work, ridicule our members and belittle our high conceptions, they do not understand the import and significance of these conceptions or else, understanding them, they are prompted by an evil spirit to attempt to undermine the work and thwart its great purposes. 

GREAT BY PROCESS OF NATURAL SELECTION 

I say, we are a great people. We are great by process of natural selection. You have heard of the blood of the Pilgrim fathers extolled. Sociologists today are saying that the perpetuation of that blood, the blood of those men who came from England and Holland and established this great republic, is indispensable to the perpetuation of the great principles of liberty, equity and justice which unaerly this mighty nation, its Constitution and institutions. It is my belief that the men who were drawn from the Old World to found this Government have been selected with no more care and to no higher purpose than the people who have been selected from all the hamlets and the villages of the Old and the New World to come to Zion to prepare the foundation of the Kingdom of the Living God. The same great qualities of independent thinking, high manhood, power and strength, were indispensable in both instances; so that by the heritage which we have from our great ancestors we are a great people. 

IN WHAT WE ARE GREAT AS A PEOPLE 

We have been great in achievement. The limited time at my disposal would in no sense justify me in attempting even to outline the remarkable acomplishments of the people of the Church within less than a century of time. You know in the main those accomplishments, and they bear witness to the integrity and the honor and the devotion of the Latter-day Saints. 

We are great in the message that we have to give to the world. That message is the greatest message that has ever come to mankind. It is the same message that came in the beginning of the world. It is the same message that will come in the end of the world, for the salvation of humankind, and the establishment of God s Kingdom. It contains truths which are indispensable to life, to the knowledge of life, and to all th at m akes life worth living. 

We are a great people in intelligence. I am fully aware of the fact that there might be many who would controvert that statement, because there are many today who measure intelligence by different standards and criteria than we set up for the measurement of pure, true intelligence. Intelligence, as I conceive it, is the power to grasp and assimilate the fundamental, essential truths of God and the universe, and those great truths which are embraced in the gospel of Jesus Christ are of such transcendent importance that they overshadow all other truths assuming that there is such a distinction so that the minds of men, which are capable of understanding, comprehending and knowing gospel truths, are possessed of the highest order of intelligence with which God has endowed the human family. In making that statement I wish in no sense to belittle that intelligence which is capable of grasping the great truths of science and of making application of the laws of nature to the betterment of mankind. I rejoice in education, in its culture, in its refinement, and in the knowledge and power that comes from it, hut I maintain that the highest order of intelligence is that intelligence which is capable of receiving and enjoying a testimony of God's greatest and highest truth. 

We are a great people in power, not only in our own human power, although it is not inconsideralble; but we are great in the power that God has given to us. He has endowed us with a portion of his own power, with a portion of his own strength, and with that power and through that power, the Church is established, this work is maintained and the Lord prepares the way for the coming and establishment of his own kingdom. This great power of the Priesthood, is the power without which this work would be impossible. It is the greatest power bestowed upon humankind. It is given for the most important offices and service to humanity. It is in very deed a portion of Godhood, and you men and boys who are privileged to possess it more nearly approach God in your Priesthood than in any other attribute or way. 

IN WHAT WE ARE RICH AS A PEOPLE 

Not only are we a great people, we are a rich people; not so much in the things of this world, in money and possessions and property, but we are rich in those things which are essential to happiness and wellbeing. We are rich in humility. We recognize the power of the living God. We recognize our dependency on that power, and we subject ourselves to the laws of God and endeavor to be obedient to them. We are rich in virtue; thank the Lord! I believe there is no community in the broad land where there is so much of clean living, so much of pure thought, and a people so free from contamination by those practices which so generally prevail am'ong mankind. We are rich in that great asset of humanity, health. We are rich in health because we have endeavored to live the law of health, spoken of as the Word of Wisdom. We are rich in the love of God, and that is a great source of wealth. I think that is the greatest source of wealth that any people may enjoy. I have felt for years and years that if the love of God could come to the inhabitants of our own dear country, we should be free from the disturbances and disorders, and the problems, at least in large measure, which now confront us; and having the love of God, we have in our hearts the love of man, illustrated and exemplified by our devotion to his interests and our sacrifices to teach him those vital thinigs so essential to his welfare and his happiness. We are rich in our homes, in the places where we live, in this wonderful heritage, in this great land of Zion itself. We would not exchange our habitat for any other place in the world. We were led to it. It came to us through divine appointment. It is a part of God's blessing, and mercy to us. Then we are rich in vision, without which a people perish. We have been given to see ahead. We are not relying upon the predictions and prognostications of men. We know where we are going. Thank the Lord for that great blessing. We know that the  we take leads to happiness and peace and joy and salvation. We know that the commandments which God has given to us are the promises upon which we may build a structure of endurance. There is no uncertainty with reference to our future. We know that our destiny is high and great, and that our objectives are all worthy our best and highest endeavor, a blessing that transcends our comprehension. 

OUR TREMENDOUS RESPONSIBILITY 

A people so great and so rich are surely charged with tremendous responsibility. We are charged with the responsibility of establishing and maintaining this great Church, this great instrumentality with all its facilities and agencies, designed to save the human family and to exalt men. We are charged with the responsibility of preserving, inviolate and free from corruption, the great truths of the gospel, of which we are living custodians. That is a tremendous responsibility. If we in any measure fail to discharge it faithfully, the very essence of eternal life, the gospel itself, may be in its effect and application, lost to mankind. But we are to preserve it and to keep it sacred and inviolate for the generations to come. 

We are charged with the responsibility of actually founding the kingdom of the living God; we are making it here, for I believe as I stand here that the work we are now doing is in preparation for the kingdom that is to be established and presided over by the Lord God himself. Indeed I look upon our own work and endeavor as indicative of the same kind of work that shall be carried forward when the Lord does come to reign and to conduct the affairs of his kingdom himself. What a responsibility! How much it means to us! Men of God, women of Israel, I know that you thrill as citizens of this great country when you hear the glorious strains of the Star Spangled Banner, or the sacred anthem of America, and see the great flag of the country raised aloft. But I tell you that, thrilled as you may be by patriotic impulse, you are exalted as you stand under the banner of Christ to carry forward his mighty work and establish his glorious kingdom. God help us to be faithful to our trust, and worthy of our riches, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

President of the Western States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, my heart has been made to rejoice in the testimonies and experiences given this day. I have pleasure in representing the people of the Western states mission and bringing to you greetings from them, also from your sons and your daughters who are laboring there, preaching the gospel of repentance . I have never associated with a finer group of men and women than those who are at present laboring tinder my direction. My heart has been filled to overflowing when I have listened to their testimonies concerning the establishment of God's work in the latter-days. They have an abiding faith in the living God, they have an abiding faith in the divine mission of Jesus Christ and in the atoning sacrifice that he made on Calvary, for the redemption and salvation of the human family. They have an abiding faith in the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and those who were associated with him and those who have followed in his footsteps. Undaunted and unafraid they are proclaiming the message of salvation to the people of the Western states, and I want to say to you that those who are accepting their message are receiving the same spirit and the same testimony that have come into the lives of all Latterday Saints who have obeyed the commandments of our eternal Father. They are; not afraid to lay down the gauntlet and say to men and women everywhere : "If you will repent of your sins and yield obedience to the saving ordinances of the gospel, you shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God or whether we speak of ourselves." The testimony of hundreds of men and women who have received the ordinances of the gospel is to the effect that the Spirit of God has come into their lives, and all doubt has been removed from their souls. They have been made happy in the knowledge that God lives, and that his promises are true. 

I would like to relate just one or two experiences that ihave come to me from the men and women who have received the message of the gospel in their hearts and have obeyed it. I do this because several have said to me, since I came to attend the sessions of this conference : "Are those whom you are baptizing worth while? Are they faithful Latter-day Saints? Do they keep the commandments of God?" I want to say to you that I have seen genuine faith manifest on the part of many who have accepted the gospel and who are far removed from our organized branches, isolated if you please, perhaps a single family alone in the community. 

I call to mind one family in the state of Wyoming, the qnly members of the Church in the small community where they reside, baptized a year ago last February, a widow with eight children, six boys and two girls. Just before Christmas of last year I received a letter from the oldest boy, nineteen years of age, to this effect. Said he: "Elder Knight, I believe that I am being neglected. I have Deen a member of the Church almost a year, and I have not yet been called upqn a mission. I want to go and preach thei gospel. I may not measure up to the standard of the missionaries that you have in Wyoming, but I will do my very best." Realizing that his mother is a widow, I wrote her a letter and asked her what should be done. She answered : "I knew that my boy had written you. I make approximately one hundred twenty-five dollars a month doing hospitalization work. The desire' of my heart is that all of my boys may do missionary work for the Church of Jessus Christ, and if I can pay a little each month I should like to  my boy go as soon as he is out of school this year." Since then I have received several letters from that mother. In one of them she said that slhe had never earned more than one hundred fifty dollars in a single month, but on the first of February I received a letter from her in which she enclosed her tithing for the month of January — thirty dollars and fifty-cents. Said she: "Surely the Lord has been good to me. Last month, I made more than twice as much as I have ever made in a single mointh, before, three-hundred five dollars;" and in the month of March I received another letter in which, she said : "Enclosed find my thithing forty dollars. I made four hundred dollars in February." I will say that that young man will have the opportunity of going on a mission and preaching the gospel of repentaince. The Lord is opening up the way for that widow woman and not only the one boy, but- others will follow, and they will make valued defenders of the faith. 

In the city of Pueblo, three weeks ago tomorrow, another little woman came to me and said : "President Knight, I am ready to mortgage my home that my oldest boy might have the desire of his heart to fill a mission to the nations of the world." I could mention many other circumstances of like character. One young man recently joined the Church in the state of Nebraska. He was prominently identified with one of the protestant organizations. Since his baptism he has taken an active part with our missionaries and now is spending two to four hours each day, tracting his home town and bearing witness that God has heard his prayers and that he knows the gospel taught by the Latter-day Saints is the power of God unto salvation. These men and women who are receiving the gospel are worth while. The same witness has come into their lives that has come into your lives, and the lives of all who have accepted the gospel and obeyed the commandments of our eternal Father. I rejoice in my association with these men and women because of their faith and their devotion. 

We have been fortunate in baptizing a large number of converts. Among the number baptized three ex-ministers of the gospel. I asked one of them why he joined the Church, and he said : "For years I have been looking for a satisfying religion, and I did not find it in any of the protestant churches, neither did I find it in the Catholic church; but when I investigated "Mormonism" there came a new light into my life, and I am happy to have come in contact with your missionaries." He said further: "I want all the books that have been written by your people, because, though I preached the gospel for many years, I realize how little I know about the great plan of salvation. The Bible has become a new revelation to me. Every time I open its lids, new inspiration comes into my life, and I rejoice that I have at last found the truth." All these things give evidence to me that these men and women have been converted to the gospel of the Master. 

I do not desire to occupy more time. I rejoice in the blessings of ,fhe gospel. I know, as I know I live, that it is true, that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Son, the Redeemer of the world, the only name hy which salvation may come to his children here upon the earth. I know, too, as I know that T live, that Joseph was the instrument in the hands of 'God of establishing again his work in, the earth. He was the pioneer, the path-finder, he blazed the way and gave to the children of men in our day a new faith in God and in (his glorious work. I know, too. that the men who preside in Israel today are prophets of God, inspired to direct the destiny of Israel. May God bless us all that we may be obedient to their counsel, and that we may have power to reduce to practice in our lives the instructions' that are given to us by our file leaders, that is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the Eastern States Mission 

I think we have been very fortunate today in the solos that have been rendered. I was especially thrilled, as I presume you were, by the first solo this morning, the opening line of which was . 

"Man, though dead, shall arise again." 

That declaration brought to my mind another great prophecy on the same subject, to which T think it will be profitable for us to pay some attention. Permit me to make a little explanation about it. Israel, both in ancient times and in modern times, were a people who endured great sorrows, both as a nation and as a people. They had war, famine, pestilences and many and great tribulations. In the days of Isaiah, the Prophet, their sorrows seemed to reach a climax, and this great Prophet of Israel presented their sorrows to the Lord, undoubtedly for the purpose of obtaining some word of comfort, some hope that would lighten their burdens and bring somewhat of joy into their existence. He voiced the sorrows of Israel in the following language: 

"Lord, in trouble have they visited thee, they pour out a prayer when thy chastening was upon them. 

"L'ke as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain, and crieth out in her pangs; so have wq been in thy sight,. O Lord;" 

And the Lord answered the Prophet in the way of comfort and 

said : 

"Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust : for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead." (Isaiah.) 

This was the word of comfort unto Israel, the renewal of the promise of immortality, of resurrection unto immortality. I pray you be reminded here who it is speaking. It is the Jehovah of the Jews, "the Lord God Omnipotent." Here was a prophecy: "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise." And then comes the song, the praise and thanksgiving: 

"Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust; and the earth shall cast out her dead!" 

Seven hundred years passed away, and then came the fulfilment of Isaiah's prophecy: 

"And behold the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom, and the earth did quake and the rocks rent and the graves were opened, and many of the Saints which slept arose and came out of their graves after his [the Christ'st] resurrection, and went into the Holy City, and appeared unto many." (Matt. 27 :51-3.) 

* "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. * * * The earth shall cast out her dead." Here we have the prophecy of Isaiah and also its fulfilment. And yet we are living in a day when those who are supposed to name the name of Christ in reverence and faith, are not only denying the Deity of "the Lord God Omnipotent," as he was revealed in the flesh, but are equally strong in their denial of this great fact of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the resurrection from the dead. Comparatively few men in the religious world, believe this unique doctrine of the Christian faith, the literal, physical resurrection of the dead. Many cults and philosophies teach that in some way or other there may be a continuation of the life principle, and even of personality after death; but it was reserved as the peculiar and glorious doctrine of the Christian faith to teach the reality of the resurrection from the dead, the reuniting of the spirit and body after death. If this is not the head of the corner in the building of the Christian faith, it is at least one of the very chief foundation stones. St. Paul teaches us that, and shows us that if there be no resurrection of the dead, then the Christian faith is vain, and is all a mockery. Let me point that out to you a little. 

In his discourse upon this subject, showing how fundamental this principle is to the gospel of Jesus Christ, Paul of the early Christian writers was the first to mass the testimony extant in his day. You must remember that the gospels, as we now have them — Matthew, Mark, Luke and John — with their wonderful testimonies concerning the resurrection of the dead, were not in existence at the time that the epistles were being written. Not the .gospels, but the epistles, are the first Christian documents of the meridian dispensations, and I think it quite true as an historical fact, that Paul was the first to mass the testimony on this subject. He said in his first letter to the Corinthians : 

"I delivered unto you first of 1 ' all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; 

"And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures : 

"And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve; 

"After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep." 

That is, some had died; but he could appeal to the testimony of five hundred brethren who at once had beheld the resurrected Christ. 

"After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apostles. 

"And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time." 

And now, upon this state of facts he proceeds to reason, and the keenness and the sureness of his logic cannot be questioned. I pray you hearken to it : 

"Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some 

among you that there is no resurrection of the dead. 

"But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen: "And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is 

also vain. 

"Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God; because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ; whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not." 

Could you escape that conclusion? 

"And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. "Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable." 

And is not that just as true now as it was when Paul conducted the Saints at Corinth through this process of reasoning to that awful conclusion? Down into the very depths of despair does his reasoning bring us, if it so be that Christ did not actually rise from the dead. Behold, how hopeless, how vain is the faith of men in Christ if they eliminate from the scheme of his religion the doctrine of physical resurrection from the dead. Thank God the apostles did not leave either the Corinthian Saints or those of us who come after them in that slough of despond to which he had conducted them; but having brought us down to where we may see into the very depth of despair, now he proceeds to build upon the opposite supposition — no, not "supposition," but the truth; namely, that Christ has risen from the dead. Hearken to him : 

"But now Christ is risen from the dead and become the firstfruits of them that slept. 

"For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. 

"For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. 

"But every man in his own order; Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that are Christ's at his coming. 

"Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power. 

"For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. "The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death." 

That is the Christian faith; and yet Christians of today, in large part, do not believe it; a few do, but only a very few. And believe me, Latter-day Saints, that among the many things required of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, one of the  duties laid upon us in the preaching of the gospel in this dispensation, is this responsibility of being God's witnesses in the world for the truth, for the reality of this doctrine of the resurrection from the dead. Not in the survival of some essence or spiritual principle, but in a real life hereafter, in which spirit and body shall be reunited, and, as the Christ lived physically after he rose from the dead, and was a physical as well as a spiritual personage, so too shall men now dead become : "Your dead men shall live again, together with my dead body," sayeth God, "they shall arise from their graves." That is the word of God, and I care not for the philosophies of men, nor their attempt to tell us that it is a matter of impossibility for them to be resurrected. If the material particles of this body that we call ours shall be preserved as peculiar to the spirit that has laboriously gathered that body through life and made it the garment of our spirits, I care not what becomes of those particles so far as our sight and touch may be concerned. I place my faith in the word and promise of Jehovah before he tabernacled in the flesh, that men should arise from the dead; that together with his dead body they should arise and live; and with all my heart I believe God competent and able to fulfil his promises. "Though a man be dead, he shall arise again." And as a poet has said, "Eternal form shall still divide eternal mind from all beside," and we shall know each other, and have associations that shall, when purified, be holy, and shall minister to our joy through all the ages that shall endure. That is my faith, in this great doctrine of the Christian faith, emphasized in this new dispensation of the gospel whereof we are heralds and witnesses. This is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "High on the mountain top," and prayer was offered by Elder Levi S. Udall, president of the St. Johns stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. 


