Afternoon
06 04 1925


ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I desire to read a few words from the 133d section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the same being a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the month of November, 1831 : 

PREACHING THE GOSPEL AND THE GATHERING 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the Lord your God, and hear the word of the Lord concerning you — GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"The Lord who shall suddenly come to his temple; the Lord who shall cqme down upon the world with a curse to judgement; yea, upon all the nations that forget God, and upon all the ungodly among you. 

"For he shall make bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of their God. 

"Wherefore, prepare ye, prepare ye, O my people; sanctify yourselves; gather ye together, O ye people of my church, upon the land of Zion, all you that have not been commanded to tarry. 

"Go ye out from Babylon. Be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord. 

"Call your solemn assemblies, and speak often one to another, and let every man call upon the name of the Lord. 

"Yea, verily I say unto you again, the time has come when the voice of the Lord is unto you : Go ye out of Babylon; gather ye out from among the nations, frcjtn the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. 

"Send forth the elders of my church unto the nations which are afar off; unto the islands of the sea; send forth unto foreign lands; call upon all nations; first upon the Gentiles, and then upon the Jews. 

"And behold, and lo, this shall be their cry, and the voice of the Lord unto all people: "Go ye forth unto the land of Zion, that the borders of my people may be enlarged,, and that her stakes may be strengthened, and that Zion may go forth unto the regions round about. 

"Yea, let the cry go forth among all people : Awake and arise and go forth to meet the Bridegroom; behold and lo, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord. 

"Watch, therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour. 

"Let them, therefore, who are among the Gentiles flee unto Zion. 

"And let them who be of Judah flee unto Jerusalem, unto the mountains of the Lord's house. 

"Go ye out from among the nations, even from Babylon, from the midst of wickedness, which is spiritual Babylon. 

"But verily, thus saith the Lord, let not your flight be in haste, but let all things be prepared before you; and he that goeth, let him not look back lest sudden destruction shall come upon him. 

"Hearken and hear, O ye inhabitants of the earth. Listen, ye elders of my church together, and hear the voice of the Lord; for he calleth upon all men, and he commandeth all men everywhere to repent. 

"For behold, the Lord God hath sent forth the angel crying through the midst of heaven, saying : Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight, for the hour of his coming is nigh — " 

The balance of the revelation continues in a declaration of the Lord as to his purposes concerning the gathering of the Jews to Jerusalem, and the mighty power which he shall manifest in their delivery; also concerning the restoration of the lost tribes of Israel, and their return. Continuing I shall read from the same section, beginning with verse 36 : 

"And now, verily saith the Lord,, that these things might be known among you, O inhabitants of the earth, I have sent forth mine angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel, who hath appeared unto some and hath committed it unto man, who shall appear unto many that dwell on the earth. 

"And this gospel shall be preached unto every nation and kindred, and tongue, and people. 

"And the servants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come;" 131 

In the same connection I desire to read a few verses from the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, commencing with the 88th verse : 

^And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. 

"For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." 

Returning to the 133rd Section again I wish to read in conclusion of these quotations the 60th verse : 

"And for this cause these commandments were given; they were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to go forth unto all flesh." 

RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CHURCH IN MISSIONARY WORK 

The remarks of our President in the opening session of this conference, and the interesting statistics which he read us concerning not only the affairs of the Church at home, but those in the mission field, awakened in my heart some thoughts and feelings concerning our missionary work and its responsibilities that I should like, if the Lord will help me, to express to you. I think that there is probably no responsibility greater than that which the Lord has placed upon this Church, as indicated in the words I have just quoted, to carry this gospel to all flesh. I believe that the record of the Church reveals the fact that we have looked upon it as one of our chief responsibilities. When the President was quoting the statistics and the amounts expended in the stakes of Zion and in the mission fields, I was impressed when he said that if we should compute the time of the missionaries and the means required to maintain them in the field that that item alone last year would have amounted to approximately two millions of dollars. And then in addition to that, the further statement of the amount which the Church itself has expended in the mission fields approaching another million dollars. No other single item in which the Church is actively engaged, therefore, has received such contributions of service and means. 

THE SPLENDID RECORD OF THE PAST 

We are certainly giving the greatest of our contributions to discharge this great, sacred and holy obligation which the Lord has placed upon this Church. I think as Ave look over the past we have some reason to feel grateful that the generations that have preceded us, with us have looked upon this responsibility as of deep importance, and there has not been wanting men, nor women, when they have been called, to go into the world to discharge this great obligation. We learned some few conferences ago from President A. W. Ivins that we had sent into the world approximately sixty thousand missionaries since this Church was organized. Figuring the expense of sending them and maintaining them there, with a very reasonable allowance for the value of their services, I would conclude that in means and in service rendered, this Church has contributed upwards of one hundred millions of dollars in discharging this great obligation to the world. It has not only cost the services of men, it has cost sacrifice on the part of many thousands of wives and mothers and fathers at home who have borne the extra burden. Many have suffered themselves to be denied the necessities of life, in order that they might maintain their sons in the mission field. And not only that, many of these precious sons have given their very lives to the great cause. We have held back nothing from this great call that the Lord has made upon us to carry these glad tidings to all men. 

THE LABORS AHEAD FOR THE FUTURE 

Splendid as our record has been in the past, I am concerned now about the future. I read in these words that this message must go to all flesh. We have not yet, with all our zeal, with all our earnestness and desire to do this work, reached all flesh. I am looking forward to the fulfilment of that commandment of the Lord on the part of the willing, faithful seventies and elders of this Church. 

While Russia, as referred to in this conference, has not yet received this message, and Russia is passing through the crucible, she will come out when she has paid the price, and find liberty and freedom. That is my faith, and when that day comes I hope and expect that we shall have sufficient men and women, if need be, to go into that great nation, that they, too, may hear the glad news, and I believe that countless thousands shall receive it. 

I am looking also to the great South American republics, where we have no servants of the Lord today. Only one brief visit has been made there in the history of the Church. Here, too, there are millions waiting the coming of this message. When the Lord is ready he shall inspire his servants to call for men to go and open up these fields. I am not worrying about the time when the call shall come. My only fear is that it shall come all too soon for many of us, who will not be prepared to respond. 

The great nation of China, is a heathen nation. I do not expect to see great numbers of people join the Church in such lands, but the obligation is upon us to carry the news to them, for it must go to all flesh, whether they receive it or not; and whosoever shall receive it shall find the full salvation of God, through their obedience and repentance, but they must hear the glad news; otherwise the Lord has not fulfilled his promise to the peoples of the 133 , and this obligation I say is yet resting upon the elders of this Church. 

MATURE MEN AS WELL AS THE YOUNG MUST PREPARE! 

I would not deny the splendid young men who are going into the missionary field today the right and the privilege to preach the gospel. They are principally boys in their teens, however. It is the greatest blessing that could come to them. I hope, however, that fathers and mothers shall not be looking upon the missionary field as a mere training- school for their boys. Natural]) 1 this is a by-product that comes from sending a boy upon a mission. He finds himself and finds the Lord. It is a miracle. The greatest miracle of "Mormonism" today is the miracle of the "Mormon" missionary. The marvelous transforation through which he goes under the influence of the Spirit of God, as he goes forward to preach this gospel. But what I am anxious for is that we shall have mingled and associated with these striplings, these youths, more of the mature men of the Church, you men who have heretofore preached the gospel. I know from my experience in the missionary field that your help is needed and is of great value to the younger missionaries. Your wisdom, your courage, your judgment will greatly increase the usefulness and efficiency of these 3'ounger men, and I would like to appeal to you, men, who have been upon missions years ago, and are still in good health, to begin to plan in the budget of the next few years to set aside a portion of time and some means which may be accumulated to provide you another opportunity to go into the world and help to discharge this great obligation. 

THE TIMES OF THE GENTILES 

President Ivins, yesterday morning, read to us some scriptures concerning the times of the Gentiles, that in the day when this gospel shall burst forth, and its light should be seen, it should be the beginning of the times of the Gentiles, and that that generation that saw the light come forth should not pass away until the times of the Gentiles should be fulfilled. I do not know how many years that means, but I do know that there is a limited time, wherein we are given the opportunity to preach this gospel to the Gentile nations, and then cometh the day of the House of Israel. And it seems as if the day of the House of Israel — and President Ivins called our attention to it yesterday — is already dawning. Therefore we must be awake and about our Father's business, that we may stand acquitted before God and before men. I recognize that it is a day of settlement, a day of reckoning. The cry is, "This is the hour of God's judgment." I know the Lord does not wish to send judgments upon an unwarned and unprepared people. As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the Son of man. This is a day of warning. The ark was the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of salvation in those former days, it shall be the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in these latter-days. God has never let his people go into wickedness, sin and transgression, and into peril, without warning them, and in connection with the warning there has always been the means of escape. 

THE GREAT OBJECT IN SENDING MISSIONARIES 

There are two great objects we have in mind in sending these missionaries out into the world. There has been scattered, as President Ivins indicated in the scriptures and the prophecies which he read, among the Gentile nations the blood of Israel, and they are to be gathered, one of a city and two of a family, a few here and a few there. They who receive and accept the gospel are the ones in that household who have the blood of Israel in the'ir veins. By some process which I may not understand, nevertheless, it is true, we are to find them. There are many of them yet that we have not found, our own kindred, our own brothers and sisters in our own blessed household. We are anxious to find them. We will discover them in the isles of the sea, in the Old World and in the New World. Many of them are here, for the Lord is calling many of these sons of Israel to the American continent, though they know not why; but he is bringing them to the rising of the brightness of Zion's glory, where they have an opportunity to find the truth, such as they do not have elsewhere. I was impressed with that when I listened to the statistics the President read, that one-half of the missionaries of this Church are in America, where but one-seventh of the people of the world are, and yet here is where the greater number of our baptisms are being performed. The Lord is bringing from the islands of the sea and from the continents of the Old World men and women to this country where they may have better opportunity to hear the truth and embrace it, and then they will be where the Lord wants them. Nevertheless we are to search diligently and then we are to warn them that all men may be left without an excuse, and that we may be under no obligation. It isn't the obligation entirely of the man who happens to have a son, however, it is an obligation resting upon every man and every woman in this Church, and we apportion the missionary calls out among the wards and stakes of Zion, so many per thousand. 

DUTY OF QUORUMS AND WARDS IN MISSION WORK 

It is the duty and obligation, therefore, of each ward not only to see that its quota is filled and these missionaries are sent into the field, but that they are kept there, and if the finances of the father who happens to have a son in the mission fails him, it ought to be a matter of reproach to a ward that would allow their representative to come home merely because the father of that boy can135  furnish the means. There must be a spirit of co-operation, on the part of the men and women of this Church to discharge this obligation the Lord has placed upon us. I have often thought of some of our professional brethren. I recognize from my experience in the missionary field that these young men that we send out are not always able to deliver the message to certain groups — the educated classes. They feel abashed and ashamed. Like attracts like, and they naturally go to their own kind, where truly we have found the bulk of the members of this Church. Nevertheless, our obligation is to teach this truth to kings, to presidents, senators, governors, bankers, teachers, lawyers, and to men and women in the professional world. And many of these young men feel wholly unqualified. I have felt many times not justified in saying that we had fairly and fully warned men when we have done our best, because our best was not a good presentation always. 

THE USE OF SHORT-TERM MISSIONS 

Since this Church has offered men the privilege of going on short-term missions to preach the gospel, I would like to see some of our brethren who could not go for a long period of time prepare themselves to go for a shorter period. It is the best vacation in the world that you could take, to go into the mission field for six months and preach this gospel. You would come back physically strong, mentally alert and spiritually recharged, and it would be the greatest blessing that could come to you. I would like to see more of it. 

THE JUDGMENTS OF GOD 

I do not want to see the judgments of God come upon men, and yet after the testimony, as I have just read, of his servants, shall come the testimony of thundering and of lightning and of earthquakes and peril and disaster. I was impressed two weeks ago as I read the dreadful story of the cyclone that swept through the southern part of the states of Illinois and Indiana, with these words that I have just read. Particularly was I impressed with it because the city of Murphysboro, in Southern Illinois, where one-half of the city was destroyed, and more than two hundred of our Father's children lost their lives, happens to be the very identical city where I preached my first gospel sermon twenty-eight years ago. I had the privilege of tramping over that entire belt of country, where this great disaster swept the land, for over two years without purse and without scrip, preaching this gospel, warning men. A few obeyed, but the majority turned a deaf ear. 

A LOVE FOR THE SOULS OF MEN 

Do I rejoice to see days of sorrow like those which befell the peoples of this land? No, I feel like weeping, I feel like the Master did as he wept upon the Mount of Olives over Jerusalem that had GENERAL CONFERENCE  him. No man can spend, as you men have done, years of your life in the missionary field — 1 was privileged to labor thirteen years, — and carry this gospel message to the children of men without a love for mankind. I have preached this gospel in sunshine, in dust, through the mud, I have wandered in the cold of winter, as well as the heat of summer, and have sought men. No man can do that who does not have in his heart a love for the souls of men. I love them. I would stay these dreadful days, but I cannot. All can do is to warn them, that they may repent and find the salvation which we offer them. The wedding is prepared. We are bearers of the invitation calling men to come to the wedding feast. Let us not be slack in continuing to give ourselves freely, as our fathers have done, not only to send our sons, but give ourselves, and discharge this great obligation, which yet rests upon this Church. For I bear witness to you that fast and swift moving events are happening and transpiring, and unless we shall be alert and awake we shall be behind in the Lord's great program. God help us to be fully up to all his expectations of us, and find ourselves fully justified in the efforts that we put forth, though men may reject us, in seeking to bring men unto Christ, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. , 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Patriarch of the Church 

It is indeed a wonderful and glorious opportunity to bear the holy Priesthood which has been restored to the earth, and to be a servant of the Lord, to be a bearer of the message of life and salvation. In the brief service which I have been able to render, in the name of /the Lord, I have Jearned that he is very kind and merciful to his children, that he has placed in the Church, officers to take care of every department and phase of his work. In his great Sermon on the Mount the Lord himself comforted the hearts of those in the different walks of life, for he realized that there were men and women in the world who needed comfort and guidance and consolation. 

I desire to express my appreciation of the strength the Lord has given to me in his service while officiating for him in further comforting his children in the different walks of life. Day after day, week after week, month after month, individuals, members of the Church from the different walks of life, have been strengthened and encouraged and comforted through a humble ministry which the Lord has placed in the Church. I regret, however, to express the thought that while many seek advice and council and comfort, they do not always follow it. We are very much like other people— we are mortal, we have our weaknesses, and our faults. We are like a good many people in the world, we know much better than we do. We believe in the gospel, but we do not practice it quite as well as we 137  it. There are many people in the world who believe the gospel, but they are afraid of the water, or something else; and there are many people who believe in the religion of the Latter-day Saints who are afraid to so express themselves. There are good men and wmen in the world who believe and obey the gospel and receive its comforting and consoling blessings. The Lord inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith to declare these words. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in the heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— And when we_ obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

Therefore, we must learn the law upon which our blessings are predicated and when we render obedience to that law, our blessings will be forthcoming. 

In conversation with one of our good sisters who had raised a large family, and had made many sacrifices, for she was the mother of eleven children, I learned that she had never been to the House of the Lord, and so I persuaded her, or attempted to persuade her, 'to go and encourage her husband to go with her and receive these important blessings. She advised me that she thought she had already clone all that was necessary. She had reared her family, and through her faithful labors and sacrifices she had fulfilled what she thought was a good mission, and now she wanted to have some blessings of her own. But I tried to teach her, and did teach her, that her sacrifices and all of her many blessings that she hand enjoyed in the past would coire to an end at her death, unless she went and had her blessings sealed upon her by the authorized servants of the Lord, at a place which the Lord has prepared, and that we call his house. I encouraged her to do the right thing that her blessings might be received, and her comfort come in due time; for the Lord has declared that unless we obey his law, which is his word, all vows and contracts have an end at death. Therefore, if this good woman does not seal her vows and contracts, of course, in company with her companion, according to the law of the Lord, which is his word, the blessings which she craves will in time come to an end, and she will not have a claim upon those blessings which her heart desires. Therefore the law which the Lord has established for the comfort, salvation and union of homes, with mothers and fathers and children must be complied with before we can receive these eternal blessings. 

I have heard a good many people say : "Well, what is the use of having blessings pronounced? We get our blessings any way. if we live for them." That is very true, because we must live for our blessings if we get them, but there comes great comfort and consolation from having our blessings both pronounced and sealed upon us by authorized servants of the Lord in obedience to his word and his law. For the Lord has placed in his Church authorized agents to bear his power and his authority not only to pronounce, but to seal these blessGENERAL CONFERENCE , that the Lord may have an anchor upon the souls of men and women forever, for neither death nor the destroyer will end these precious blessings, but the receiver will posses and enjoy them forever and ever. 

And so I appreciate the privilege that has come to me as an humble servant of the Lord officiating in his name, not only encouraging, persuading and urging my brethren and sisters, my fellowmen to come unto Christ, and to serve the Lord and to keep his commandments, but to receive blessings, privileges and opportunities that will never come to an end, because they are of an eternal character and rendered in obedience to the word and law of the Lord. They will belong to them forever, just the same as the children of this good mother I referred to, will belong to their parents, provided they go to the house of the Lord together with those children and are sealed at the altar of the Lord forever, thne death will not separate them, nor will any other power, except the power of sin and transgression; for the Lord has declared that his blessings will come when we obey the laws upon which they are predicated. Only today have I ministered in this important calling for the comfort and blessing of those who are distressed in spirit; many seek blessings for comfort because they have been wayward and indifferent, many because they have not lived up to their privileges in keeping the commandments of the Lord. I regret to say that too many of us fail to call upon the Lord or his servants until we are in distress, as the song which has been sung has reminded us that we call upon the Lord in our distress. How much more pleased the Lord would be if we would go to him in our gratitude, when we are showered with blessings, in our health and in our vigor and in our usefulness, rather than go in distress and sorrow, at the eleventh hour of our distress, perhaps! 

And so I would like to bear my testimony, my brethren and sisters, to the kindness and mercy of the Lord to his children, to the members of his Church, those who have come into his fold. I know that the Lord does comfort those who seek him, in faith and in true devotion, and that the blessings will come to those who render obedience to the commandments and the laws upon which their blessings are predicated. I have witnessed the joy and the great comfort and satisfaction that have come to the hearts of fathers and mothers when they have received their blessings in the house of the Lord. I have also heard many testimonies of my brethren and sisters who have declared in their humility and in their faith that the Lord has heard their prayers, that he has fulfilled the promises pronounced upon their heads through the servants of the Lord, because they have rendered obedience to the laws which govern their blessings. 

Now my brethren and sisters, I exhort you to look upon the gospel in all of its phases in a practical sense; learn the laws upon which your blessings are perdicated, for they are simple enough and will be made clear to your understanding if you seek to know them. Let me exhort -139  also to hold yourselves in keeping with the commandments of the Lord, concerning the laws of health known to us as the Word of Wisdom. I should like to refer you, both old and young, to the many examples that are written in the old scriptures as well as to the lives of those who are before you today in the ministry as general and local authorities of the Church, these men who are here before me today, the bearers of the Priesthood, the standard bearers in the stakes and wards of the Church, men who are free from the contaminating influences of the world, from habits that would prevent the reception of the precious blessings of God, men whom we believe and know to be clean and upright in their habits through observing the teachings of the gospel, and the laws of God which bring to them the joy, the comfort and the satisfaction of knowing that they are keeping his commandments and receiving his blessings. 

Among the examples recorded in ancient times I should like to refer you to the example given us by that Hebrew character who was taken from his home in Jerusalem with three other Hebrew boys at the time of the destruction of the temple and the capture of Jerusalem under the Babylonian chief. Daniel was taken to Babylon as a captive with the intention on the part of the great chief to feed and care for him well that he might grow up and become a wonderful and worthy servant, coming from the best and choicest of all the Hebrew families, but the boy refused the food that was offered him, because he had learned that it would defile his body and make it unfit for the blessings of the Lord. And so if you will read the story of his life to the very end, you will see a complete fulfilment of the promise of the Lord that is made to you and to me and to all Israel who will obey the commandments of the Lord concerning the Word of Wisdom; for Daniel was able to find hidden treasures of knowledge, and he was able to pass by the destroying angels; for when he was placed in the lions' den and the king watched during the night and at the dawn of the morning shouted out to Daniel to know if he was still alive, and Daniel answered back: 

"O king, live for ever. 

"My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me." 

I pray God to bless you, my brethren and sisters, bless all the officers and members of the Church, in all the stakes and wards of Zion, and in the mission fields, and in all the places and capacities which the Lord has placed his work, that his name and work may be honored and glorified, that his children may receive his blessings through learning and obeying the laws upon which the blessings of the Lord are predicated, both spiritual and temporal. 

God bless you my brethren and sisters, throughout all the Church, and throughout all the land, that his peace may be in your homes, in your dwelling places and his blessings be upon your fields and flocks, that you may not forget the Lord, for he will not forget GENERAL CONFERENCE , so lung as you are true and faithful in keeping and observing his commandmnets, and I bless you my brethren and sisters, by the authority which the Lord has given me to bless all Israel, that peace and health and happiness may be in your homes, until your mortal missions are finished, and I do it humbly, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"Open the Gates of the Temple," was sung by William Russel. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the Council of Seventy, and President of the Calif orma Miss-ion 

I do not suppose, my brethren and sisters, that anyone in attendance at this general conference of the Church has had as trying an experience as I have had during these meetings. 

The President, in calling upon the brethren to address the conference, has gone from stand to stand. I know the brethren that occupy the stand that I have the honor to sit in, have felt several times that they were about to be called upon to speak, only to discover that they were mistaken. My companions for the past three days have been taken from either side of me as they in turn have been called to speak, and now at the last moment I am to have the pleasure after speaking for a brief time of sitting without any further anxiety for a few minutes during the closing moments of this general conference. It does create in the minds of men who are called upon to address these great assemblies a very great feeling of anxiety. President Charles W. Penrose upon one occasion made a remark of that character and heaved a sigh of relief when he came into one of the stake conferences, here in the city, and expressed to me personally the pleasure he felt when he thought that he would be under no responsibility to address the people. There were other brethren who had been especially appointed to attend that stake conference and the responsibility of speaking would be upon them. I have heard President George O. Cannon in his life time more than once make a similar declaration. You are all acquainted with the fact that it is quite a common thing for these brethren who belong to the presiding authorities of the Church to intimate when they stand up before the people that they have a feeling of anxiety, and desire the help and the assistance that can be given by the congregation through their faith and their prayers. 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, notwithstanding the rather trying experience that I have had during the conference, to say that my spirit is in harmony with the teachings that have been presented during these meetings. I respond in my soul to the testimony and teachings and information imparted by President Heber J. Grant in the opening meeting, and as I have listened to the brethren who have been called upon to speak to the people I have felt in 141  whole being that I could say Amen with all my heart to the counsels and testimonies that have been delivered. 

I have the pleasure, my brethren and sisters, of laboring as a missionary in California. The mission covers the state of California passed away considerable anxiety because 'of sickness. \ We have had in that mission during the year that has just passed an average of about one hundred and twenty-five missionaries. Of this number I believe at the close of last year, or at the opening of this year, there were about thirty-nine lady missionaries, and the balance of the force is made up of young men such as have been spoken of here during these conference meetings. I am happy to say that these men and women, speaking in a general sense, at the present time are in the enjoyment of good health. There are some minor troubles, but no serious illness. We have had, however, during the year that has passed away, considerable anxiety because of sickness. We have had both men and women who have submitted to surgical operations for appendicitis, and in one or two instances the cases were very serious, and the surgeons and nurses that waited upon them despaired of their lives. We are very thankful, however, that through the blessings and mercy of the Lord our God the lives of the missionaries who have been thus in danger have been spared, and they have been raised up to health and vigor and have been able to again take up the prosecution of the work resting upon them as ambassadors of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I would like to say to bishops and stake presidents, that I fear at times there is not sufficient attention given to the physical condition of men and women who are being called to labor as missionaries. I think possibly in some instances there is a wrong impression in the minds of some people regarding the nature of missionary work. I am quite satisfied that some times there is a feeling that an individual who is run down can be called into the mission field and there recuperate. Such a thought I am sure is a very great mistake. Missionary work, when it is faithfully performed, is hard work, the strongest men, and the strongest women, who come into the California mission find in the performance of their missionary duties that they have all that their physical powers will enable them to do; and it is a very great mistake to send into the mission field, either men or women, who are not possessed of good physical power, for they not only are unable themselves, as a general thing, after prosecuting their work for a brief season to continue that work, but they demand also attention of other missionaries in nursing them and this interferes with the service that the healthy missionary might render. I am very glad to have received the information since coming to attend this conference that more careful attention than ever before is being given to the health of missionaries to make as sure as possible that they are in .good physical condition before they go out to preach the gospel. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The California mission is probably unlike any other mission. Some eighteen months ago, or such a period, the presiding authorities of the Church felt that it would be for the advantage of the work of the Lord to organize a stake of Zion in that mission. That is something that has not taken place heretofore in any mission field. In the city of Los Angeles, which is the most populous part of the California mission, a stake of Zion was organized. That stake, I am glad to say, has made very splendid advancement. It was organized with six wards and three branches, and it has grown now to have seventeen wards and twenty-two Sunday schools. I do not suppose that in any ether mission it can be said that there was received and recorded, during the year 1924, over thirty-six hundred Church members, who had come in from adjoining communities from the stakes and wards here in Utah and Idaho, and from Arizona and from other sections, but that is what took place in the California mission last year. Over thirtysix hundred members were recorded in the books of the stake of the mission, who had come from other sections of the country. I do not suppose that thirty-six hundred Latter-day Saints actually came into California during the year. Possibly many of them had been in the state for a considerable period of time, some of them no doubt may have been there for some years, but they have only now been recorded as members of the Church on the records of the mission or on the records of the stake. 

There have also been a large number who have been transferred, probably thirteen hundred or fourteen hundred Church members have received their certificates of membership during the year, and have been transferred to other communities. This, of course, causes changes in officers. There have already been in the Los Angeles stake since its organization changes in four or five different bishoprics, and there have also been a number of changes in the high council. This is brought about by the fact that the Latter-day Saints who are in California as a general thing are not in the condition as home owners indicated by the report made by President Grant at the opening of this conference. They are not home-owners. There is but a very small percentage of the members of the Church in the California mission who own their own homes. They are wage-earners as a general thing. They are living, many of them, in rented apartments, in fact the great majority of them are in rented apartments, and many of them are living in furnished apartments, and it is an easy matter when one doesn't own a home if he hears that there is a little better prospect in some other section to pick up his grip and call for a drayman to take his trunk to the railroad station and go elsewhere. I am glad to say. however, notwithstanding the large number of people who have come to California who are Latter-day Saints, there has been workas a general thing in the past for all of this great influx of people as well as for tens of thousands who have come from all parts of the 143 . At the present time, however, conditions are not as desirable as they have been, from a working point of view in the past. 

I would recommend that if there are any Latter-day Saints who have the thought in their minds of coming to California for the purpose of finding employment they be a little slow in putting such thought into execution. I think I can safely say that there are more men in California at the present time than there is work, and that there are many idle men in California. Rents are very high. California is a wonderful state, a beautiful country, a desirable place for habitation in many respects, but it is not a very desirable place for men and women to come to who do not have money in their pockets, and I would like to say that Latter-day Saints without money will be altogether better off, and they will be altogether safer, in these well-established communities where the people own their homes, than to migrate to California. 

We have the experience in the California mission of having our headquarters in the city of Los Angeles and that is also the headquarters of the Los Angeles stake of Zion. We are performing missionary work just in the same manner that we conducted missionary work before the stake was organized. I think that our missionary service has been of very great value to the stake organization, for the local brethren who are tied up with their employment could not have gone out among the people and looked up these hosts of strangers and have established the organizations that have been established by the labor o>- the missionaries, and which has increased the organizations within the stakes from nine to twenty-two, as I have stated. 

There are at the present time about six thousand members in the Los Angeles stake of Zion. There are a little less than nine thousand members in the California mission outside of the Los Angeles stake of Zion, so that we have there some fifteen or sixteen thousand enrolled members of the Church within the California mission, when we include the membership of the Los, Angeles stake. There are thousands possibly in the state that are still unknown to us. We also have gone out into the Maricopa stake by the expressed desire of the bishopric of the Phoenix ward and the presidency of the Maricopa stake, and have performed some very effective missionary work in the city of Phoenix. Phoenix is the capital of the state of Arizona. I am glad to say that I recently heard from the lips of Bishop Price the very highest words of praise and commendation for the splendid services that were being rendered in the city of Phoenix, by California missionaries who through their labors are strengthening the hands of the bishopric, and drawing many strangers into the meetings. Hr reported to me that they had more strangers coming to their meetings since the last missionaries were sent into that city than had ever been in the habit of attending their meetings before. 

We have also gone out during the same period into the northern part of the state, and at times have labored to some extent in comGENERAL CONFERENCE  that form part of the Snowflake stake of Zion, but we have only gone there by the invitation and with the full permission of the authorities who preside over that stake. These things, I take it, are a little different to conditions that prevail elsewhere in the missions here in the United States or in other sections. 

I am proud to be a missionary, my brethren and sisters. I am proud of my companionship. The young men and the young women who make up the missionary corps of the California mission, are not experienced men, they are not experienced women. They come into the mission with a very great degree of anxiety. They come ofttimes wondering whether they have any right or authority to speak in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, whether they have authority to administer the sacred and holy ordinances of the gospel, but thanks be to God through faithful labor almost without a solitary exception they have found God, they have learned that by keeping the commandments of God, our heavenly Father is not very far from any one of us. They have received manifestations of the Spirit of God, they have laid their hands upon those who have been seriously afflicted and the Lord our God has heard their humble prayers, and by his mysterious power he has healed those who have been afflicted. He has poured into their souls understanding in relation to the doctrines of the gospel, until they have soon come to be able to stand upon their feet and bear witness of the truth as it has been revealed in the dispensation in which we live. And they are not doubting, they are full of conviction, they are full of understanding, they are full of determination, they are full of humility, they are full of willingness and ready to go and come and anxious to labor to the very best of their power that the message of the gospel may be preached among the people. We are trying to impress upon the minds of men and women with whom we come in contact that there has indeed been this revelation of the gospel that has been spoken of so frequently during our conference meetings, that in our own time the heavens have been opened, that the Lord our God has made his appearance, with his Son, our Redeemer, and that by the sending of holy angels he has conferred authority upon men to call people to repentance and that the missionaries speak legally in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. The missionaries believe that they have that authority, and in the fear of God they are going among the people, calling men and women to repentance, expounding to them the principles that have been revealed, ready and willing and anxious to administer to them the holy ordinances of the gospel, if people will believe and repent. I am glad to be one with them. 

My soul is filled with joy and thanksgiving and praise. The hands of the servant of God who presides over this Church were laid upon my head before I went to California, and blessings were pronounced upon my head that it seemed to me when I commenced my ministry in the midst of that people never could have fulfilment, yet 145 

I stand here before this great congregation this afternoon and bear witness that in the mercy and providence, and through the power of God, he has fulfilled marvelously the promises that have been placed upon my head, and I feel that I am under obligation to give my service to my Father in heaven for the building up and advancement of his work. 

God gave me my life in the days of my young manhood, and raised me up from a deathbed by his power, and I have covenanted with my Father in heaven upon many occasions that I would try to manifest appreciation for the marvelous power that was manifest in my own behalf when he raised me from that condition of death. I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God. I know that this Church is in very deed the Church of Jesus Christ. I know that the power and authority of the Priesthood has been conferred upon men, and that by that authority men minister and expound and preach the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. Jesus Christ himself taught that it was in vain to teach for doctrine the commandments of men — "In vain do ye worship me, teaching for doctrine the commandment* of men." That is just as true today as it was when those words fell from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we are not teaching the commandments of men, we are teaching the doctrines that have been revealed by the Lord, and we are under obligation to teach and maintain the truth. God help us to do it, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LAWRENCE G. KIRKMAN 

President of the Tzvin Falls Stake of Zion 

This is a new experience for me. I am rather young in my office and rather young in the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and yet in humility I appreciate this wonderful privilege. It seems to me that the Latter-day Saints have experienced a multitude of sensations during this conference. It seems to me that never in my life have I had so many thrilling sensations during meetings of a conference as I have had during the last two or three days. 

We live in sunny southern Idaho, an altitude a little lower than this, and a wonderful climate of about sixteen or seventeen hours of sunshine. In the summer time the sun rises at about 5 :00 o'clock in the morning and at the longest day we have a most glorious sunset at about 8 :20 in the evening. Perhaps that would be strange to you people in the mountains, but where we live there is scarcely a mountain either east or west of us, but some small mountains south and north; therefore the sun comes almost at is does in the east, from the ground, and sets in the ground in the west in the evening. We have been blessed wonderfully, it seems to me, in this splendid country, with the most wonderful soil, I think, in the United States, the most productive land GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I have ever seen, and it is undoubtely a selection of the best people from all over the United States, progressive men who have been willing to pioneer, leave their homes and their business and risk their fortunes in a new country. Such people seem to comprise the personnel of this country, and I have had a great deal of pleasure in explaining the gospel of Jesus Christ to a number of these broad-minded, sensible men. There is not the prejudice there that you would expect in a country of this kind. I believe we are treated almost as generously as any other church in that locality. 

About eighteen years ago when we moved to Idaho, if you will pardon the personal reference, we had a membership of about two hundred people in the city of Twin Falls. Today we have two thriving wards, one with a Sunday school of two hundred twenty-five to two hundred and fifty members, and another Sunday school with about one hundred sixty or one hundred seventy-five members. A number of good Latter-day Saints have gathered in that locality and are making their homes there, and with the best prospects, and I feel that the Latterday Saints have been fortunate indeed to cast their lot there. The gospel of Jesus Christ, it seems to me, is dearer to the people there than in other communities where I have lived. I can safely say there is not a member of the stake presidency, high council or any other stake officer who does not observe the Word of Wisdom. There perhaps are two or three stake members who do not pay a full tithing. I say this very humbly without the least degree of boasting, because I feel that the atmosphere in which we live is rather conducive to that condition, that we are forced to live the gospel of Jesus Christ because of the demand made of us by our neighbors, and it is a good thing, and the missionary element which President McMurrin has just mentioned is very noticeable there. 

I wish the President would see fit to send missionaries into that country — the greatest missionary field in the world. I have traveled many days and many nights, sometimes for weeks, without an opportunity of preaching the gospel to a single soul during my missionary labors, but in Twin Falls every day we could have hundreds of opportunities. Men are commencing to inquire about the gospel; they are reading the Book of Mormon. We are giving out a great number of tracts, and I wish we could have ten or fifteen missionaries constantly to help us in that splendid field. , 

I pray for the success of the Church of Jesus Christ. I pray that the gospel may spread and that the honest in heart may gather out, that they may have this thrill that you people have been experiencing during the last two or three days. That sensation is not known to the person outside of the Church. He may seek other thrills and other experiences that are sometimes unwholesome. God bless us that we may cultivate and enjoy these pleasing, happy, stimulating thrills that will make men and women better, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 14," 

ELDER HARRY L. PAYNE 

President of the St. Joseph Stake of Zion 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I assure you it is with a feeling of timidity that I stand before this vast audience today, and I humbly pray that the few words I may utter may be guided and directed by the Spirit of the Lord. I rejoice in the opportunity that I have of being a humble servant in the work of the Lord. I am indeed grateful for the testimony which I have of the divinity of this work in which we are all engaged. My heart has been touched, and I have been thrilled, during the services of this conference in listening to the wonderful testimonies of our brethren, in listening to the words of inspiration which have been given to us through the power and blessings of the Lord, and his warning, advice, and admonition to this people. 

Reference has been made by many of the brethren to the fact that as a people we stand upon our individual testimony. I want to say, my brethren and sisters, also that with this individual testimony there comes an individual responsibility to every one who has named the name of Christ. No one else in all the world can save me but myself. No one can work your salvation except yourself. It is after all an individual work, and we have embarked in the service of the Lord, and we have made covenants with the Lord that we would keep his commandments and do his will. The Master while here on the earth said : "I must do the works of him that sent me, while it is day, for the night cometh when no man can work." My brethren and sisters, the responsibility of doing this individual work is upon us today, not at some far distant time, and I am wondering, and have wondered, during the services of this conference, how many of us are going home and reduce to practice the admonitions and instructions that have been given us from the servants of the Lord. After all we have each and every one an individual work to perform. I think it was Emerson who said : "No man is born into this world whose work is not born with him." No one is born into the work of God whose work is not bor*n with him. 

"There is surely somewhere a lowly place, 

In regions of a field so wide, Where I may labor through life's short day, For Jesus the crucified." 

Surely my brethren and sisters, in the work of God there is a place, there is opportunity for every one of us to do that work which God and Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, our Master and Captain, expects us to do. I am reminded of the words of the poet who said : 

"Out of the night that covers me, 

Black as the pit from pole to pole, I thank whatever gods may be, 

For my unconquerable soul. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

In the fell clutch of circumstance, 

I have not winced nor cried aloud, Under the bludgeonings of chance, 

My head is bloody, but unbowed. It matters not how strait the gate, 

How charged with punishments the scroll, I am the master of my fate : 

I am the captain of my soul." 

God help us, my brethren and sisters, to realize the responsibilities resting - upon us individually. May we be able to carry to our wards and stakes the words as they have been given to us from the servants of the Lord, and inspire anew a determination upon the part of our brethren and sisters who have not been favored to be here, to be more faithful in the future than they have hitherto beeta in the work of the Lord, for I bear you my testimony in humility, in fear and in trembling that I know as I know that I live that this is God's work. I know that Jesus is the Christ, I know that Joseph Smith was and is in very deed a prophet of the living God, and I know that Heber J. Grant who stands at the head of the Church today is God's mouthpiece and prophet. May God help us to realize the responsibilities resting upon us, and to discharge them faithfully and well, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES B. LARSEN 

President of the Shelley Stake of Zion 

My brethren and sisters, when I came into the meeting this afternoon I met a lady on the grounds with whom I lived when I attended school at Snow Academy, and, of course, I was very grateful and happy to see her, and she said to me : "I suppose when you were living with me you did not think that some day you would be a president of a stake," and I can assure you that I did not think, and had not thought, at that time, that I would ever occupy this position. But I can truthfully say that I am grateful that I have been called to this position, and I hope that I will be able to give real service in this work. 

I have a testimony of the truthfulness of this gospel. I know that the Lord hears and answers our prayers. This testimony came to me while I was at that school, the Snow Academy, down at Ephraim, Sanpete county. I remember, on a certain occasion, that I wanted very much for the Lord to hear my prayers, and he did hear them, and all night long, or nearly so, I poured out my soul to him. Finally I went to sleep, and in the morning I awoke with an assurance that has never left me througout all the years that have passed since that time. I knew somehome that the Lord had heard my prayer, and that my prayer was answered, and it has been answered and fulfilled to the letter. Everything that I asked for in that prayer lias been brought about, and I knew that morning, when I awoke after having slept just 149  very little while, that it would be just as I am telling you that it has been. 

I rejoice in being privileged to be in attendance at this conference. Like the other brethren who have spoken, I have been thrilled. My eyes have been filled with tears many times during this conference, and the Spirit of the Lord has borne testimony to me, every fiber of my body has responded and said Amen, and what has been said is true. I add my testimony, my brethren and sisters, to those which have been borne already, that this is the Church of Christ, that this is the work of the Lord that we are engaged in, and I am grateful with you to be privileged to be of service in this great and glorious cause. I know that the Lord can bless us, I know that he can make us equal to whatever call is made of us, and if we will only humble ourselves, if we will only put ourselves in condition the Lord will bless us and make us equal to these responsibilities and duties and calls that come to us, and they are blessings to us. , 

I am grateful to have the privilege of working with our people. We have a wonderful people, in our section of the country, and my testimony is strengthened in everything I do, and the more I do, and the more I serve, in this Church, the greater becomes my testimony of the divinity of this work. 

I leave my testimony with you that this is the Church of Christ, that we are engaged in the service of the Master, and I only hope that I may remain steadfast. I know that the Church can go on without me, and I do know that I cannot go on without the Church; so I hope and pray that I may be able to continue steadfast to the end, because I know that this is the work of God. May God bless us and help us that we may be able to remain faithful to the end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and the General Officers of the Church; all of whom were sustained in their positions and callings by the unamious vote of the large assembly, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson GENERAL CONFERENCE 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A Widtsoe. 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrnm G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Charles W. Penrose David O. McKay 

Anthony W. Ivins Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion Authur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 151 John J. McClellan Edward P. Kimball Tracy Y. Cannon 

Alexander Shriener Frank W. Asper 

George C. Smith, Sec. and Treas. 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson CLOSING REMARKS 

I desire to express my gratitude and thanksgiving to the Lord for the rich outpouring of his spirit during our conference. It seems to me that we have never had as large an attendance at any other conference within my recollection as we have had during this conference. I feel that all those who have spoken here have been blessed of our heavenly Father. As nearly as I can judge, the people have been deeply interested in what has been said to them and their hearts have responded to the teachings of those who have addressed them during the conference. I regret that we did not have at least another hour, so that I could have announced that during my presidency every stake president has had the privilege of speaking or of uttering a prayer from this stand. As it is, I believe all our 94 stake presidents have had that privilege with the exception of those chosen last year — not more than half a dozen. 

I know of nothing that I have enjoyed more in our conference than the brief testimonies of the men who stand at the head of the various stakes of Zion. There was a burning power in those testimonies of their individual knowledge regarding the divinity of this work. It is that personal knowledge, that still, small voice of revelation coming to every honest, prayerful soul, in answer to prayer, which gives the power to this Church. Without this individual testimony, coming as it does to men and women all over the world when they hear this gospel and supplicate God for his spirit, we would not be what we are today — a united people, one in heart and soul, one with God and one with our Savior. 

That God our heavenly Father may help us to be loyal and true to him and that we may ever show by our faithfulness, by our honesty to men and women, and by the uprightness of our lives that we are in very deed the servants and handmaidens of the living God, striving for the spread of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is my earnest prayer. 

I leave my blessing with the people who have assembled in this conference, and with all Israel, as well as the honest the world over. I A PRAYER FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE LEADERS GENERAL CONFERENCE  God from the bottom of my heart to bless the president of the United States of America, to bless his cabinet, to bless the senators, to bless the representatives, to bless those who stand at the head of all the states of our great country, that they may supplicate their God and their Redeemer for guidance, so that this country may in very deed be under the guidance of the Creator of the universe. This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The 'choir and congregation sang, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder William H. Gallahan president of the Wayne stake of Zion, and the conference adjourned for six months. 

President Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by B. Cecil Gates. Professor John J. McCiefiati played the accompaniment-, interludes, etc., on „the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, Alexander Shreiner, and Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic reports of the discourses were made in the Tabernacle by Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Joseph Anderson; and in the Assembly Hall by Frederick G. Barker. 

: =- Edward H. Anderson, clerk of the conference. 

INDEX 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities of the Church, General .149 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 129 

Preaching the Gospel and the Gathering, 129— Responsibility of the Church in Missionary Work, 131— The Splendid Record of the Past, 131— The Labors Ahead for the Future, 132— Mature Men As Well As the Young Must prepare, 133— The Times of the Gentiles, 133— The Great Object in Sending Missionaries, 134 — Duty of Quorums and Wards in Mission Work, 134 — The Use of Short-Term Missions, 135— The Judgments of God, 135— A Love for the Souls of Men, 135. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 78 

Blood, Elder Henry H 58 

Callis, Elder Charles A 55 

Cannon, Elder Hugh J 57 

Clawson, Elder Rudger 60 

Two Important Doctrines, 60 — Greater and Lesser Laws, 60 — As to the Word of Wisdom, 61 — Its Spiritual and Temporal Character, 61 — The Promise is Sure, 62 — Concerning the Use of Tobacco, 62 — The Law of Revenue for the Church, 63. 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 1, 149 

General Officers of the Church 1, 149 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Financial Statement, 2 — Social Statistics, 3 — President C. W. Penrose Seriously 111, 3— A Mission Home in Salt Lake City, 3— Changes in Stakes, 3 — Missionary Work, 4 — President Grant's Tour of Missions, 6 — Absolute Faith in Jesus Christ, 7 — The Word of Wisdom, 9— The Promise, 9— An Illustration of the Destroyer Rebuked, 9— Tithes and Real Prosperity, 10— Our Religion the Truth, 10 — Closing Testimony, 11. 

Grant, President Heber J: 52 

Parley P. Pratt's Prophecy Being Fulfilled, 52— Elder Reed Smoot's Health and Labors, 76— Presentation of the General Authorities and Officers, 149— Closing Remarks, 151— Source of Our Power, Success and Unity, 151— A Prayer for the People and .the Leaders, 151. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 80 

Hart, Elder John W 12 4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Ivins, President Anthony W 42 

Do You Believe th.e Prophets?, 42— Need of Knowing the HandDealings of God with Man, 43 — Looking Back Four Thousand Years, 43 — The Promise to Ahraham, 43 — God's Promise Never Fails, 44 — The History of Israel and the Story of Joseph, 44 — The Day of the Prophets, 45 — The Dissolution of Israel, 45 — The Christian Era Ushered In, 46— The Fate of the House of Israel Foretold, 46 — Israel Not Forsaken of the Lord Shall be Gathered Again, 46 — Christ's Promise to Israel Prior to His Crucifixion, 47 — The Blessings of Jacob, 48 — The Destiny of Israel Plainly Indicated, 49 — The Work Begun in This Dispensation, 49 — The Jews to be Restored to the Promised Land, 49 — The Great War and British Protectorate, 50 — Interest of the Jews in the Restoration, 50 — What Has Been Accomplished, 50 — The Movement Must Elicit Praise and Sympathy, 51 — The Hand of the Lord In It, 51 — The Lord Will Use the Nations to Accomplish His Purpose, 51 

Jenson, Elder Andrew 104 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 118 

Kirkman, Elder Lawrence G 145 

Knight, Elder John M 35 

Larsen, Elder James B.. ., ,. . . .148 

Lesueur, Elder James W 127 

Lund, Elder A. William / 101 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 114 

A Fundamental Teaching, 114 — Fiftieth Anniversary of the Y. M. M. I. A., 114 — An Experience, 115— M. I. A. Objectives, 115— A People of Sterling Worth Produced, 116 — Thrift and Financial Success, 116 — Automobiles and Success, 117 — Qualities Required of Latter-day Saints, 117 — Knowledge Must be Followed by Works and Honor, 118. 

McKay, Elder David 11 

The Spirit of Oneness and Love, 11 — Appeal for an Honest Hearing, 11 — Ignorance the Cause of Misjudgment, 12— -In Spite of All, the Work of God is Growing in Europe, 13 — Growth in Germany by Leaps and Bounds, 13 — The First Class Press More Favorable, 14 — Our Elders Teach the Fundamentals of Christianity, 14 — Testimony, 15 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 140 

Neff, Elder Eugene J 97 

Nelson, Elder Taylor , 123 

Nibley, Elder Charles W 22 

Oveson, Elder Lars 126 

Payne, Elder Harry L , ... 147 155 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 30 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 83 

Richards, Elder George F 69 

In Harmony With the Spirit of the Conference, 69 — Love of God the First Great Commandment, 70 — Love of Fellowmen the Second Great Commandment, 70 — The Example of Paul, 70 — Impressed with the Great Numbers of the Saints, 71 — Temple Work the Past Year — Its Importance, 71 — An Evidence of the Faith and Devotion of the Saints, 71 — As to Matters Financial, 72. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 32 

The Attitude and Spirit of Our People, 32 — Great by Process of Natural Selection, 33 — In What We Are Great as a People, 33— In What We are Rich as a People, 34 — Our Tremendous Responsibility, 35. 

Roberts, Elder B. H 38 

Smith, Elder David A 112 

Smith, Elder George Albert 64 

How Marvelous Are the Works of God, 64 — Gratitude For Our Many Blessings, 64 — Grateful for a Living Testimony, 65 — The Faithless Condition of the World, 66 — Call to Repentance, 66 — The Gospel a Panacea for the Ills of Mankind, 68. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 136 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 73 

In Defense of the Mission of Jesus Christ, 73 — Prophecy Concerning Conditions That Would Prevail, 73 — The Mission of the Latter-day Saints, 73 — Concerning Doubts and Doubting, 74 — Meaning of Sacrifice, 76. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 52 

The Greatest Joy of Life, 53 — What it Means to Live the Gospel, 53 — The Burdens of Debt, 53 — Idleness Condemned, 53 — How to Reach Happiness and Contentment, 54 — Meaning and Necessity of Thrift, 54— Waste the Enemy of Thrift and Progress, 54 — A Story of Lincoln as an Illustration, 55 — Where Our Danger Lies, 55. 

Taylor Elder John H 89 

Wells, Elder John 86 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 91 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 15 

Priesthood Conventions, 15 — A God of Miracles, 16 — Signs to Follow Belief, 16 — Higher Criticism's Attitude, 17 — Illustrative Anecdotes, 17 — Not Contrary to Law, 18 — Carlyie on Natural Laws, 18 — Elisha and the Ax, 19 — Moses and the Red Sea, 19 — Joshua and the Sun, 19 — What Are Miracles, 20 — Modern InGENERAL CONFERENCE 

stances, 20 — Healing Self-Administered, 21 — The Greater Suspends the Lesser, 21 — All Things Possible to Them that Believe,. 22. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 

God Guides and Directs This People, 26 — The True Meaning of Life, 27 — Uncertainty of the Meaning of Life a Cause of Wickedness, 27 — Revealed Religion Gives the Interpretation, 27 — The Great Principle of Eternal Progress, 28 — Obedience to Law, 

28 — Sincerity a Dominant Trait in the Church and Its Leaders, 

29 — Joy Comes by Obeying the Will of God, 29. 

Young, Elder Brigham S Articles of Faith 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

New Edition 

Beautiful Blue Cloth Binding.. ..$1.00 Postpaid 

Black Morocco 2.50 

Mission Edition — Brown Cloth.. .50 " MiiMHiiiuumimMmiiMMimiiimiiiiiiinmiinMmiiMiiiMMiiMiMiiimmniiimiiiiiiiii 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 — 

— n 

q = 

I A NEW BOOK I 

u — 

That treats Church History in a manner to interest s§ = hoys and girls, a hook that stimulates faith in the 

= gospel, and respect for Church leaders, is "OUR E 

| CHURCH AND PEOPLE," by John Henry Evans, | 

3 beautifully bound in gold-embossed green cloth — □ 

§j Price $1.25 postpaid. =§ 

I DESERET BOOK I 

j COMPANY j 

— E> 

44 East South Temple Salt Lake City = 

1 P. 0. Box 1793 1 

= 5 

i^icsiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiEcaiiiiiitiin^ 







