Morning
06 04 1925

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Ninety-five years ago today the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was organized. One of the fundamental teachings of this organization is supported by the following scriptural passages : 

A FUNDAMENTAL TEACHING 

"Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. 

"If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it 'be of God, or whether I speak of myself." John 7:16, 17. 

In accordance with this teaching, you who have done his will, you who have kept his commandments, and therefore are entitled to and have the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, have recognized, I am sure, the voice of the Good Shepherd, in the remarks that have been made during this conference. That same spirit has testified to our souls that the words of the hymn just sung "An angel from on high, the long, long silence broke," are words of truth. This spirit has borne testimony to us not only that the words spoken are words of inspiration, but also that the work in which we are engaged is truly the work of the Master. , 

FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE Y. M. M. I. A. 

On the 10th day of June, 1875, under divine guidance, as we believe, President Brigham Young gave instructions to Junius F. Wells to organize the first Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. The great fundamentals which this pioneer leader said should characterize the instructions given in these organizations is, faith in the gospel of Jesus Chrst as it has been revealed to the world through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

The fundamental he emphasized is supported by the scripture above referred to : "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." He who 115  not "know" should examine his own thoughts and conduct carefully for the reason why he does not know, for the instruction is positive that those who will do his will shall know. 

On the 10th day of June, 1925, it is proposed to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of this great voting men's organization. I cannot help but wonder if that seer, that revelator, that prophet Brigham Young even with his unusual vision could look into the future and see what these Young Men's Mutual Improvement organizations have accomplished in this comparatively little time. 

AN EXPERIENCE 

Let me relate an experience which indicates the effectiveness of the work of the two Mutual organizations — Young Men's and Young Ladies'. At a conference one week ago yesterday — about this very hour — I asked all those present who were, or had been, officers in any of the Church organizations or in any of the Priesthood quorums to please stand. It seemed to me that all of those in that crowded meeting arose. So many stood that none could be seen seated except a few children in front. 

I asked again that all those leaders who have been trained in the Mutual Improvement Associations as officers or teachers, mem'bers of committees, or speakers on the program please stand. It appeared as if the same number arose the second time as the first. 

M. I. A. OBJECTIVES 

These great institutions appear to be operating effectively in every portion of the world where the Church is known. The purpose of the great pioneer leader in establishing these institutions is being accomplished. Young men and young women are being made better. They are being taught the fundamental principles of the gospel, as these are laid down in the scriptures, they are being trained in public speaking and in bearing testimony, they are having instilled into their hearts that knowledge which comes from doing God's will, from living strictly in accordance with Christian teachings. They are demonsrtating that "if any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

When, throughout the whole Church, I observe the intense activity of great groups of our young people, when I see the phenomenal work they are doing in the mission field, when I observe the army of devoutly interested workers in the Sunday Schools and Mutuals, when I see the effectiveness of our work in debating, in public speaking, and in various other forms of recreation, I wonder if fifty years ago even the Prophet Brigham Young himself, with his inspired vision, could see how great, how influential and how effective the work of these institutions would be today. 

The excellence of the characters of the young people the Church is producing with the aid of the Mutuals and other Church agencies, prompts me to read one other passage of scripture : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven; hut he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. 

"Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied (in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 

"And then will T profess, unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity. 

"Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock." Matt. 7:21-25. 

A PEOPLE OF STERLING WORTH PRODUCED 

The more I study the doctrines of the Church and Church organization, the more 'beauty and perfection I find. It is nearly a hundred years since, under the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Church was originally established. It is now practically fifty years since the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations were organized and their work was begun, under the inspired leadership of the great pioneer prophet. A careful study of the results of these two great movements shows that a hardy people of sterling worth has been produced, I have analyzed these institutions and judging them by their fruits, I have concluded that I may fail, or you may fail, or others may not be able to live in accordance with the doctrines, teachings and commandments of the Church, yet the best judgment I have tells me that the Church and its organization and its effective work will go on indefinitely. As far as the welfare and progress of these organizations are concerned, we need have no fear, for the faith of the people to whom these institutions are entrusted is founded on a rock. 

When June 10th comes, and you see our great Jubilee commemorating and celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Young Men's Mutuals, your hearts, like those of all other Latter-day Saints, will be thrilled with justifiable pride. The Young Ladies' organization is joining in this celebration. In it they will play an important part. You will see thousands of our members, young men and young women, marching through the streets of this city. The various divisions will be carrying great banners, indicating the strength and power of the young people who are workers in these two institutions of the Church. When you see them in the pink and vigor of manhood and womanhood, your souls will be stirred with the feeling that they cannot fail, for their faith is founded on a rock. 

THRIFT AND FINANCIAL SUCCESS 

The generation of young men and young women that the Church is producing is expected to be well nigh perfect. Among their own commendable characteristics they must have the spirit of, and they must practice, thrift. I was greatly interested in what Senator Smoot said upon that subject Sunday. I believe in thrift. We cannot have a great generation of strong characters unless they practice thrift. We 117  to be a people of power, we are to be empire-builders. We can only secure the means necessary to attain these ends if we live within our incomes and in accordance with the principles of economy and thrift. 

Many years ago, when I was a young man and an officer in the Mutual Improvement organization of the Utah stake, when that stake covered all of Utah county, I asked a wise man who had been a financial success what I should teach the young men with whom I came in contact as a Mutual Improvement officer, and as a teacher in the B. Y. Academy, at Provo, what lessons I should teach these young people in order to make them successful financially. 

"This is an easy matter," said the wise old pioneer. "All young people need to be taught is to spend less than they make." 

Are you spending less than you make? Are you teaching those with whom you are associated to live also in accordance with this splendid teaching? 

If the faith and integrity and real worth of the people are to be founded on a rock, they must practice economy and thrift.  

It is said that automobiles may be responsible for many financial failures, that: "The sheriff has put many a man on his feet financially by taking away his automobile." 

AUTOMOBILES AND SUCCESS 

If the faith, the integrity and the real worth of the people are founded on a rock, they will not buy automobiles or other luxuries they cannot afford. 

I was told recently by a dealer in automobiles that when they sent a messenger to the home of a man who was purchasing a machine on the installment plan — the monthly payment plan — he found a home bearing evidence of poverty. In it were a woman and a family of children without the real necessities of life. The purchaser of the automobile was behind in his payments some two or three months. When asked concerning their financial condition the lady explained that they were not able to keep up their payments on the automobile, that all they had had to live on for the last three months was what they had secured from the Church. It is such as these who need to learn the lessons of thrift and economy. 

I appeal to you and to your children and to your children's children, and to your neighbors, and to your friends, and to all the people, not to purchase automobiles until they have the money with which to pay for them. Heaven bless you with sufficient wisdom to be able to see that the making of monthly payments on automobiles is tremendously expensive. 

If we have integrity founded on a rock, we shall prize our good names more than money, and our word will be as binding as our bond. 

QUALITIES REQUIRED OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

If there are people in the Church who are willing to assume obligations they cannot meet, then we are in need of more teachers like GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Doctor Karl G. Maeser. We need to have impressed upon the minds of the people that life itself is no more precious than honor. We must have a people with vision, a people with judgment, a people who will meet their obligations and will assume no obligations they cannot meet. 

When students came to the B. Y. Academy at Provo that great teacher, Karl G. Maeser, had them give their word of honor that they would live in accordance with the teachings of the Church and obey the rules of the school. 

He explained that many students came to him and asked what he meant by "word of honor." That great teacher with high ideals explained that if he were placed behind prison walls ever so high and ever so thick, extending to any depth in the ground, there would always be a possibility that at some time, in some way he would be able to escape. "But," said this splendid saint, "place me in the middle of that floor, draw a chalk line around me, have me give my word of honor never to cross that line. Can I ever escape? No, never! I die first." That is the sterling worth that is founded on a rock. It is qualities like this the people must have if the purposes of the Divine Master are to be accomplished. 

Faith and testimony, honor, integrity and mercy, these are qualities required of Latter-day Saints according to the gospel which, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, has been restored in these last days. The Mutuals and other auxiliary organizations have been established also under divine inspiration as helps in government. The fundamental aim of these institutions is to teach the members of the Church to "do his will." For if they "do his will," they shall know of the doctrine. 

KNOWLEDGE MUST BE FOLLOWED BY WORKS AND HONOR 

Nor is knowledge concerning the doctrines of the Church enough. We are to 'be judged not by our faith but by our works. Character is essential. Frugality is important. Economy must be practiced. Honor of the quality described by Dr. Karl G. Maeser must be a characteristic of the people. God himself has not power enough to accomplish his purposes with a people who are without honor. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, and virtuous. The Mutuals and other organizations throughout the Church are doing their utmost to bring up a people who live in accordance with all these virtues. Our progress may appear to be slow, but actually it is rapid. The work is the work; of Divine Providence. We need fear only for our individual selves. The cause being divine, will triumph finally. For the whole people we need have no fear, for their faith, their worksj and their integrity are founded on a rock. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

There has never been a time in my life, or any period of my life, when I felt better spiritually and more willing to do my duty and serve 119  Lord and labor for his cause and for his interests. I pray God that the time shall never come in my life when I fear the face of man. The Lord at one time, in the early history of the Church, in a revelation, reproved the elders because they would not open their mouths and' use the talents which the Lord had given unto them, and I am praying, as some old prophet prayed, "that the words of my mouth and the meditation of my thoughts be acceptable in thy sight, O Jehovah, my Rock and my Redeemer." 

I appreciate the fact that we are not all alike. I have not' been reared in the same pasture as some men have in this day and generation. Neither do I speak the same language, but I try to make myself understood. 

I have been away for a short time in California. I have not associated with the Gentiles, they did not seem to recognize me. I cannot remember now of any of them speaking to me, but I have learned a number of lessons. During /my loneliness I have sought after God. I love God; I love him for his kindness, mercy, patience, and for his forgiveness. I sustain this work as best I know how, and I love the brethren, because they are kind to me, because they have patience, and because they are forbearing. 

I often ask the question, "Why do I live?" That puts me in mind of a story by Eugene Field, that master of tender verse. He tells the story of a young man, an ambitious poet, who sent him a poem, "Why do I live?" And he immediately answered, "Because you sent your poem by mail." 

During the time of my poor health my family were very much concerned. They wanted me to go through a physical examination. Nothing in the world frightens me like a scientific examination. I went to the clinic of the Stanford University, to a young physician of some considerable renown. I passed through an examination — the X-ray, and all that stuff. This young doctor did not believe in God, man, or the devil. I found that out. I told him I was a "Mormon." He said, "You will never get any better." I said, "O, yes, I will. I have a greater physician than you are." He said, "Who is he?" And I said, "The Lord Jesus Christ." He said, "There's nothing in it." He was drowned last year, and I am still alive. 

Whenever I am called to speak in the tabernacle, I always put up the danger signal, "Safety first," because I am always in danger. 

Now, brethren and sisters, in all solemnity, I want to read to you a little. I am sure I will be safe if I stick to the text. I was. acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, only through the testimony of my father. No man in this Church has greater faith, greater respect, and did greater honor to the Prophet of God than Heber C. Kimball. His knees never trembled, his hand never shook, he never failed to sustain the Prophet of God. I have known every prophet of God, who has been the president of this Church since the Prophet Joseph Smith. I have personally talked to them; I honored them; they were always kind to me. I have often spoken of President Woodruff. Occasionally,  I was presiding in the South and returned home with an emigration, he said, "Brother Kimball, sit down by me. Now, Brother Kimball, I have had visions; I have had revelations; I have seen angels, but the greatest of all is that still, small voice." I have heard that voice, I am a witness, and I know that God lives. 

I desire to read to you something, not new, not startling — the idea that we are the chosen people of God : Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the living God organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the members became the chosen people of God to perform a great and lasting service for mankind. To preach the gospel of Jesus Christ; they were entrusted with a mission which carries with it suffering, sacrifice, sorrow, hatred and persecution, but the message brings to the human family, if they will have faith in God, repent of their sins, and be baptized by immersion and have hands laid upon them by the authorized servants of God for the reception of the Holy Ghost — there will come to them joy, happiness, virtue, goodness and godliness. To accept this mission is to fill a high place in the world's history. To be a chosen people we have gone forth through trials, tribulations, suffering, sorrow, hate and agony, sacrifice and humiliation, and have humbly and faithfully performed the heavy, responsible tasks laid upon us by Jesus Christ for the good of his Father's children. Surely we ought to be blessed, rewarded and entitled to recognition. A chosen people should not indulge in the thought that God's whole attention is absorbed in watching over and caring for a favored few. Let the righteous of all, nations rejoice in God's grace and exult in his justice, which means that the righteous of all other nations have a share in the teachings of the kingdom of God and his righteousness. 

Brethren and sisters, I know we have had a great deal of praise. I have been deeply interested in what has been said — that we are the best people on earth. But a short time ago, a brother of mine, whom you know, a humble man at the wicker gate of the temple block, went down to Los Angeles to look around and see what the prospects were, as he was given a vacation. He is a gardener and a great lovelr of flowers, and he has helped beautify a great many places here in the city. He was working for a great florist down there in Los Angeles, and they sent him to a multi-millionaire's home, and he worked there six weeks. This wealthy man came out and talked to him. Kimball had no fear and told him he was a "Mormon." The man looked at him and said : "Well, I am awfully glad to have a 'Mormon' work on my place." Kimball told him he was a son of Heber C. Kimball. The man said, "Do you know that those old men, (that is the way he phrased it) Brigham Young, and Heber C. Kimball and those pioneers were the greatest people on earth, and we love to have"— he was speaking generally of the "Mormon" and Gentile — "these Utah people come down here, because they are honest, because we can trust them." And he said, "I do not know but what the Gentiles associating with the 'Mormons' has helped the former to be honest. That is the testimony of a 121 -millionaire. I saw mighty few "Mormons" down there— if there were very many they did not make themselves known. 

I know I have spent a good deal of time, brethren in trying to live. About Christmas, 1923, I thought I was dying. I had a hemorrhage of the lungs, and I bled quantities of blood. I thought I had hardly a pint left in me. I sent for my wife and handed her the keys to my safety box and said : "Here is the key to my safety box; there is nothing in it. God bless you." I then sent for a great specialist to examine me and see what was the matter. He examined me and said, "How old are you ?" I said, "I am seventy years old." "Well," he said, "I thought you were forty-seven." I replied, "If that is the way you look at it, I am going td get out of here," and I did. I lay in bed for two weeks, and I thought of a testimony, and I could not get it worded right; I could not link it together. I knew how I felt, so one day I got the Sunday edition of the San Francisco Examiner, a wonderful paper, and there I iound my testimony, worded as I would have liked to word it, as I did not know what was going to happen to me, but if I die tomorrow, which I do not intend to do, this is my testimony: 

"For he was the Son of God." 

The divinity of God was in Christ, in his life and his death, and the power that he has wielded among- men for their good, since his death, all prove it. 

He was God's Son, and he recognized all men as his brothers. 

"The common people heard him gladly." He was their friend, their brother, he walked with them, talked, lived and worked^ with them, aU the few short years of his life. And in the end he died for them. 

He suffered physically and mentally as they suffered, his Gethsemane was torture of the spirit, and his Golgotha was dreadful torture of the body. 

No miracle was done to save that noble spirit from the horror of physical pain. He not only lived and died but suffered fearful agony for the millions of his brothers then living, and untold millions of those brothers that were to come. 

He knew the agony that was preparing for him. 

"Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt." 

That was the Son of God, humbly pleading with his Father. "Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight." That was the Son of God, reconciled to his Father's will. 

******* 

Who dares deny that Christ is the Son of God, he to whom all men and all women were as brothers and sisters, who, himself sinless, forgave the sinful woman that sinful men would have stoned to death? 

He who spoke first for the children, for the poor, for the sick, whose acts of miraculous power were all for the hungry, the dying or the dead. He was the the Son of God. 

******* 

One "scientific historian" will tell you that in all the world's authentic histories there are but few words actually written concerning Christ — in real history. That may be true. But for nearly t\yo thousand years his name has made history. It has been written on every page, in the laws, in the lives, the hearts and histories of (men. 

Ten thousand steeples pointing to the sky, hundreds of millions whose daily prayers end, "For Christ's sake. Amen," prove his mission. 

Millions of the poor and unfortunate, all over the earth, who turn their eyes GENERAL CONFERENCE  heaven, trusting and finding comfort in his goodness and in his promises — all these are more important than any books of ancient history, any testimony of changing men. 

******* 

Christ was the Son of God, he was his own witness, and his works are the proof of his divinity. His spirit covers the earth and gradually redeems it from barbarism, as the sunlight covers the earth and gradually dissipates the night, when the morning sun rises. 

The learned historian assures you that, admitting the historical existence of Christ, it is certain that he was a poor youth among poor people, never in his life able to read or write, 

Let that pass, let the "higher criticism" jmake the most of it He could read the mind of God and interpret it to wicked men. He could read the hearts of children, of poor women, and share their sufferings, and die to help them. 

He was (indeed the Son of God. 

What was his work on this earth? It was a work of redemption, of lightgiving, of comfort, justice, mercy, and above all, forgiveness. 

Dying in agony, his poor body hung upon the cross, nails in his feet and hands, and thorns piercing his head, he turned his eyes to heaven and, said, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." 

Were not these the words of God's true Son? 

Nineteen hundred and twenty-three years ago he came into this world, bursting and tearing asunder the ancient high wall of hatred, cruelty, slavery, misery. 

His glory came to the world like the sun shining through the clouds upon a troubled sea at the end, of a great storm. 

His name is the hope of 'millions. His teachings, of which we are all so unworthy, possess the power that will one day raise us above our present low condition of selfishness, meanness, hatred and war. 

"Go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come and follow ./me." 

Those were the words of God's Son, words unheeded yet among men who still take from the poor to increase their own store. 

But the words were spoken, the power behind them can never die, can never be supplanted. 

"Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?" "No man, Lord." 

"Neither do I condemn thee; go and sin no more." Those words were spoken by the Son of God. 

"Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of heaven." 

"Take heed that ye hurt not one of these little ones, for I say unto you that in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." 

That was said by the Son of God. 

******* 

Where do we find words of comfort for the poor, the unfortunate, the humble among God's children? 

"Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 

"Blessed are they that mourn : for they shall be comforted. 

"Blessed are the meek : for they shall inherit the earth. 

"Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled. 

"Blessed are the merciful : for they shall obtain mercy. 

"Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. 123 

"Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 

"Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake." 

Christ was the Son of God and his teachings will rule this world. "Rejoice and be exceeding glad" on this return of the season of promise, this opening of another year." 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, God blesa his Church forever, and his servants, and may God inspire them to be prophets, seers and revelators unto the children of men, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A baritone solo, "Come unto me," was sung by J. H. Wood. 

ELDER TAYLOR NELSON 

President of the Oneida Stake of Zion 

My brethren and sisters, I assure you that I feel very keenly the responsibility of this moment, yet I am happy to know that I am counted worthy of membership in this great Church, and that through the mercy and blessing of my heavenly Father I enjoy the testimony of the divinity of his work. 

I was impressed yesterday with the singing of that remarkable hymn by Parley P. Pratt: 

"Lo, in Cumorah's lonely hill A sacred record lies concealed." 

As the choir rendered the final hymn the spirit of it bore testimony to me again, as it has done on many occasions, and I now appreciate the divinitv of that great work which was translated by the gift and power of God through the Prophet Joseph Smith, from the ancient records delivered to him by the angel, Moroni. 

I have never seen Moroni, but I know that such a man lived. I have never seen the records from which the Book of Mormon was translated, but I know that such records were in existence. I know today that the Book of Mormon is divine. I have put to test the promise made by the writer of one of the closing chapters of that great record, wherein he said, 

"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, lie will manifest the truth of it uno you, by the power of the Holy Ghost." 

I have put this to the test, and I know, through the whispering of the still small voice, that the Book of Mormon is divine. I know also, which would follow naturally, that he who was instrumental in the hands of our heavenly Father in translating that record was a prophet of God. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

This is my testimony to you here today, that I know this record is divine, and I know this work, is our Father's work, established upon the earth in these latter times for the salvation and exaltation of his children. This is my testimony, which I bear in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER JOHN W. HART 

President of the Rigby Stake of Zion 

I desire an interest in your faith and prayers this morning, that I may be supported by the Spirit of the Lord in the few moments that I stand before you at this time. 

I have enjoyed this conference, as I always do enjoy them, and have rejoiced in the opportunity that I have of attending them and associating with you, my brethren and sisters, and those whom the Lord has chosen to direct the affairs of his Church in the earth today. I rejoice that we have men who are not afraid to speak the truth. No honest man sitting in the audience and looking into the faces of the General Authorities of the Church can help but say, that they are sincere and honest. 

I was forcibly struck this morning at a meeting of the Board of Education by a remark made by Elder David O. McKay, wherein he drew a little comparison to drive home his point. He said, "Latter-day Saints should not be ashamed of the gospel, nor should they hesitate to stand up and defend it at every opportunity." 

Last June it was my privilege to go to the city of Cleveland, I attended 'a convention there. My son, who was presiding over the Northern Indiana conference, came down and visited a few days with me. The business men were very kind to us. They went out of their way to do everything to make our visit pleasant while we were in that city. They would send their automobiles around to our hotel and place them at our disposal, in order that we might enjoy our visit with them. I told some of them that I did not want them to do that, that I was busy. I thanked them, however. But I said I would like to go out to the Kirtland temple, if it was agreeable to them. "Certainly," they said, and at the appointed hour they came, not only the chauffeur of the car but three of the business men of Cleveland, and they in company w'ith [the Governor of our own state and one or two others journeyed to Kirtland, and we were escorted through the temple by an elderly gentleman there, who said he was a patriarch in the church. Of course, the main thing that was talked about by him was in the nature of a criticism of the "Brighamites" and the Latter-day Saints in general. We listened to him, we were his guests, and when we left the building I turned to him and said : "My friend, I want you to know that I preside in one of the stakes of Zion. Now," I said " I have listened to you. Why didn't you tell us what happened in this building? Why didn't 125  tell us that the Savior appeared here to Joseph Smith and Oliver Oowdery, and that Elijah appeared and conferred the keys of the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children, etc.; and that Moses appeared and conferred the keys of the gathering; and Elias appeared also? Why didn't you tell something about that?" "O, well," he said, "we only do that when people ask us." I said "Well, I am going to tell these gentlemen." 

We left the building and went to the car. "Now, my friends," I said, "I do not want you to get our Church and this church confused. There is a vast difference between us," and I proceeded to tell them what happened in that temple, and why it was of so much importance to us in the history of the Latter-day Saints. And before I got through one of the gentlemen from Cleveland said, "Why, Mr. Hart, you know more about it than this man does." "I most certainly do, because he doesn't know anything about it." 

We journeyed to the city and about nine o'clock my son and I retired to our room, and were going to retire for the night. I had taken my coat and collar off, when a knock came at the door. I answered it, and there were the three gentlemen who went with us to Kirtland. They came to my room. They wanted jto excuse themselves and tried to leave, but I insisted that they stay, and assured them the only reason that I was going to retire was that I didn't have any other place to go that night. They came in, and, of course, I knew what they wanted. I had given them a pretty |good talk at noon that day, and they came there and inquired most earnestly regarding other things pertaining to our Church, and I had the privilege of relating to them some of the fundamental principles of the Church to which we belong. I entertained them there until 12:30, and during our talk I explained to them briefly the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, the organization of the Church, etc., and during' my talk along that line, at intervals one of the gentlemen raised his hand above his head and said, "Mr. Hart, that is the most wonderful story I ever heard." I said, "It is, it is one of the (greatest miracles of modern times." I said, "If we should strip the divine claim from that book, we coula not publish it half fast enough for the world to read it." "But," I said, "it is divine, it has stood the test of a hundred years, and we want the people to read it, we are not hiding it from them." 

When the time to separate came, I gave them a Book of Mormon, with a distinct understanding and a promise from them that they would read it. Since returning home I have had several letters from them to the effect that the first one had read the book and passed it on to the next one, and that they were enjoying it. 

Now, I simply state this, my brethren and sisters, to further testify to the fact that was stated this morning by Elder McKay, that we should not try to hide our light beneath a bushel, because the world is hungering and thirsting after the gospel of Christ, and I thank God GENERAL CONFERENCE  we have leaders here who are able, and not afraid, to present it to them upon every opportunity. It did my heart good when I heard President Grant state in his opening address where he had been, how he had traveled in the world, and visited, and embraced every opportunity that was presented to him to preach the gospel to the children of men wherever he went, and I know that he rejoiced in it, and that the Lord will bless him and every other man who will take this opportunity. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I do not fear for these men. God will take care of them, but I am fearful for myself, and I hope and pray, and do pray continually, that the Lord will keep me in the path of rectitude, that I may be able to endure to the end. And may we all do this, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER LARS OVESON 

President of the Emery Stake of Zion 

I have rejoiced exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, during this great conference, and I feel it a privilege to have the opportunity to come here upon this great occasion to listen to the inspired instructions that are given from the- servants of the Lord. 

When we contemplate the wonderful things that have been accomplished in the short period of time since the organization of the Church, ninety-five years ago, we cannot help but realize, it seems to me, that some divine power has operated and guided the Church from its earliest organization until the present time. 

In listening to the reports of the advancement and progress that have been made, as in the report that was made by President Grant at the opening session of this conference, and the reports that were made last evening in the Sunday School conference, and the reports that have been made of the Mutual Improvement organization, and in short in every organization of the Church, it has seemed a wonder. It is a wonder to the world, and they cannot understand how it is that a people who have met opposition all the way along the line have been able to advance and progress as they have done. To us, my brethren and sisters, it is clear, because we are engaged in the work of the Lord, and the Lord has guided and directed the movements of this Church and has inspired its leaders from the earliest organization to the present time. So we are not depending upon the wisdom of men; we are not depending upon the strength of men, but we realize and know that we are in the service of the Lord, and that we are working to accomplish the great purposes that he has established in this day and age of the world. 

I have been associated with the Church all my life, so to speak. I came to this country in my early boyhood. Though I was born in a foreign land, I have been associated with the people in these valleys of the mountains for more than sixty years, and I have had a little 127  and observed a few things that have transpired during that length of time, and I want to say, my brethren and sisters, that every word that has been spoken in this conference has found an echo in my soul, which makes me think that I am somewhere near right. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the truthfulness of what is called "Mormonism." I know that it is the work of the Lord; I know that it is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and that if we will live up to our privileges; if we will live up to our duties, brethren and sisters, there is no power can stay our progress, our advancement and our exaltaton finally in the kingdom of our God. I rejoice to be here to partake of the spirit which comes to us through these wonderful gatherings. I rejoice to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of this work of the Lord to the world, for I know it is true; I know it is for the uplift and the advancement of the children of God, and I pray that the Lord will help every one of us that we may remain faithful and true, that we may be found valiant workers in the cause of righteousness and help to build up his kingdom upon the earth, which I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES W. LESUEUR 

President of the Maricopa Stake of Zion 

"If I were a voice, a persuasive voice, That could travel the whole world through, 

I'd fly on the beams of the morning light, . 

And speak to men with a gentle might, 

And tell them to be true. 

"I'd fly, I!d fly, o'er land and sea, Wherever a human heart might be, Telling a tale, or singing a song, In praise of the right, in blame of the wrong." 

My brethren and sisters, I feel that such is the spirit of the Latterday Saints. Our mission here upon this earth is to preach righteousness. 

Coming as I do from the Maricopa stake of Zion, we may have conditions there that are different from some of other stakes. We have a ward there made up of Indians, or Lamanites, and I want to say something in regard to that people. We find that they are the most faithful Saints that we have. For the last ten or twelve years they have been setting an example to us in many things. A report that we had some time ago from that ward shows that one hundred per cent of the members observe the Word of Wisdom and that for the last ten or twelve years they have done one hundred per cent ward teaching; that they set an example in attendance at sacramental meetings, some coming a great distance, walking several miles to attend their meetings. 

A little over a year ago we held a conference with them. These good people are not hypocritical. When we asked them to sustain the bishopric, four of the Lamanite women voted against the bishopric. But when we asked them why, after the meeting, they said they would GENERAL CONFERENCE  to meet with the stake presidency and tell them why. So we made an appointment with them. They came and they said, it is because the bishopric did not see that the ward teachers did their full duty. The ward teachers went to their homes, and as they saw them out in their fields, they would say, "How are you today?" and if we said we were all right, they would say, "Well, we must be going on, so we can make one hundred per cent." 

Then we asked them what they should do? 

"Why," they said, "they should ask us to come into the house, they should sing with us, and pray with us, and then a subject should be assigned to them, and they should treat that subject and tell us something about the gospel, and about Jesus." 

We asked them if they would not give the bishopric another chance to make good? 

"Why," they said, "an Indian does not forget, and it is hard for an Indian to forgive." 

I showed them the necessity of forgiving the bishopric and giving them another chance. They finally said they would, aind so the bishopric, who were there and heard what they had to say, promised this people that they would do good work among them, and that the ward teachers would do their full duty. Later on, these sisters came and reported to us that the bishopric was doing an excellent work. The result of that is that the people have been visited in the Indian ward every month faithfully, not only by the teachers but by the bishopric. Last year we had thirteen converts made in that ward. We feel that it has resulted from the excellent work done by these good sisters who made their report. 

We are very much favored in the Maricopa stake of Zion in having the privilege of having a temple built in our midst. The work is progressing nicely. We are going to have a wonderful temple there in that pleasant climate, an excellent place for many of the people in this northern country to go in the winter time and do their temple work. This is going to be a very beautiful building, it will probably be a year before it is entirely completed, but it will be something that the entire Church can be proud of. A great deal of good is being done there at the present time. People are coming from all parts of the world to visit that temple, as it is near the main highway from ocean to ocean, and we have a great many visitors. A great many tourists come to that land in the winter time, and they all desire to visit the temple and see the wonderful work done there. It is a great credit to our Church. 

My brethren and sisters, this is a wonderful work and the Lord is at the helm, and he is blessing us greatly. We ought to be the best people in all the world. I want to bear testimony to you that I know that the gospel is true, and that this is the Lord's work, and I pray God to bless each and every one of us, that we may be faithful and true to it, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 129 

Announcement was made by President Heber J. Grant that a' military honor parade and program on the occasion of the laying of the corner stone of the "Mormon Battalion" monument would be given Tuesday, April 7, 1925, at the Capitol building, Salt Lake City. The public are invited. The program follows : 

MILITARY HONOR PARADE AND PROGRAM 

On the occasion of laying the cornerstone of the Mormon Battalion Monument, Tuesday, April 7, 1925, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

Order of Parade, 1 :0O p. m. 

Marshall and Aids, United States Army Military Band, Detachment United States Army Escort, The Monument Commission, Governor, Staff and Utah State Officials, Salt Lake City Officials, Church Officials, Daughters of the Battalion, Utah State National Guard, Salt Lake City High School Band and Cadets. , 

Program, 2:00 p. m. President B. H. Roberts, Master of Ceremonies. 

Music, Fort Douglas Band; Invocation, Rev. John E. Carver; Introductory — "The Monument," B, H. Roberts; Inception of Monument Movement, Mrs. May Belle T .Davis; Memorial Receptacle, Mayor C. Clarence Neslen; Music, Male Quartet; James Astin, Harold Lloyd, Joseph Kjar, Alvin Keddington; Appreciation of Col. Phillip St. George Cooke, Major Hamilton Garduer; Presentation of Trowel by Daughters of Mormon Battalion, Mrs. Mary J. Clawson. 

Laying of Cornerstone, Governor George H. Dern. 

Dedicatory Prayer, President Heber J. Grant. 

Music. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Do what is right," and the benediction was pronounced by Elder James A. Christensen, president of the North Sevier stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


