Morning
04 04 1925


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is very gratifying, indeed, to see this immense congregation here this morning, bespeaking the interest of the Latter-day Saints in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is customary at the opening session of our conference to give some statistics and to refer to the condition of the Church at home and abroad. I am very pleased to be able to announce that the work of the Lord is growing all over /the world; and that there is never a month or a year but what the Church is stronger, spiritually and financially, than it was the month or the year previous. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The following financial statement I am sure will be of interest to the people here assembled : 

From the tithes of the Church there has been expended for stake and ward purposes, $1,352,663.43. 

For education, the maintenance and operation of Church schools, $727,808.93. 

For construction, maintenance and operation of temples, $442,018.46. 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment, $175,520.77. 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions, $700,664.09. 

This makes a total of $3,398,675.68, taken from the tithes for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities, and for mission activities. 

In addition to charities paid out of the tithes as before named, there have also been disbursed the fast offerings and Relief Society and other charities, amounting to $489,406.61, which amount added to the $175,520.77 paid from the tithes, makes a total of Church charities, $664,927.38. 

CHURCH GROWTH FOR THE YEAR 1924 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in stakes and missions, 19,955. 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions, 14,047. 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and missions, 7,556. 

There are now 94 stakes of Zion, 907 wards, 70 independent branches connected with the stakes, 24 missions and 654 branches in the missions. 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 33 per thousand. Marriage rate, 13 per thousand. Death rate, 7.3 per thousand. 

There are 160,634 persons in the Church who are married; of this number 256 persons were divorced in the year 1924. Families owning their own homes, 72 per cent. 

PRESIDENT C. W. PENROSE SERIOUSLY ILL 

As announced in the opening, President Charles W. Penrose is in a precarious condition. He sends his love to all the brethren, and desires them to know that they have his confidence in all that they may do; and his message to the Saints is to obey the law. wherever they reside. 

Elder Seymour B. Young, President of the First Council of Seventy, has passed away since our last conference, having been a faithful member of the Council for something over forty years. 

A MISSION HOME IN SALT LAKE CITY 

A home on State street has been dedicated for the entertainment of missionaries, and for the purpose of giving them instructions for a week or more, prior to their departure upon their missions; and also to take care of any returning missionaries who may be stopping briefly in this city on their way home, after having filled an honorable mission. We are pleased to announce that at the dedication there was a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord, and we feel assured in our hearts, judging from the inspiration of the occasion, that it will be a source of great benefit to our young men and young women who are called to go out into the mission field. 

CHANGES IN STAKES 

There have been some changes in a number of the stakes, and the new men chosen to preside are as follows : 

Curlew stake, Colen H. Sweeten. Yellowstone stake, John M. White. Nebo stake, Lee R. Taylor. San Luis stake, James P. Jensen. Young stake, Elmer F. Taylor. 

New wards have been organized since our last meeting as follows : Hillcrest ward, Grant stake. Inglewood ward, Los Angeles stake. LaGrand Second ward, Nebo stake. 

Payson Fourth ward, Nebo stake. 

Santaquin Second ward, Nebo stake. 

Genola ward, Nebo stake. 

Virginia City ward, Los Angeles stake. 

Home Gardens ward, Los Angeles stake. 

Ballard ward Lost River stake. 

New stakes organized, since our last conference : 

Kolob stake, President George Ray Murdock. 

Palmyra stake, President Henry A. Gardner. 

In addition to the death of President Seymour B. Young we announce the death, since our last meeting, of David H. Cannon, president of the St. George temple, for many years; Bishop James A. Wright, of Bingham ward, Jordan stake, and Bishop Armond T. Rose, of North Farmington ward, South Davis stake. 

Perhaps no one thing in connection with the Church is as dear to the hearts of the Latter-day Saints as our missionary labor. Counting the time, the salaries that might be earned by those who are in the mission field, and the expense of maintaining them there, the Latter-day Saints are expending today something over $2,000,000 a year for the spread of the gospel in the world. 

We know that the first and most important duty for us is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, might, mind and strength; and second to that is love for our fellowmen. No people in all the world in proportion to their numbers, are giving such evidence of a love for their fellowmen, and a desire for their welfare, as are the Latter-day Saints. Our missionary work proclaims to all the world our willingness to make financial sacrifice and to labor with no hope of earthly reward, for the salvation of the souls of the children of our Father in heaven. I am sure that a general statement of the missions will be of interest to this congregation. 

We have in the California mission, presided over most ably by President Joseph W McMurrin, 125 missionaries. There are 8,625 people in that mission. We own Church property in that mission valued at $289,114.04. President A merican Missions : Church Property 

California, Joseph W. McMurrin Canadian Joseph Quinney, Jr.... 

Central, Samuel O. Bennion ' 

Eastern, Brigham H. Roberts... 

Mexican, Rev L. Pratt 

Northern, John H. Taylor 

Northwestern, Brigham S. Young 

Southern, Charles A. Callis 

Western, John M. Knight 

125 8,625 

71 716 

158 S.712 

143 4,689 

76 2,683 

127 5.141 

99 5,599 

197 23.047 

96 4,977 

$289,114.04 23,021.47 110,410.26 232,818.55 15,184.12 88,694.57 82,535.76 64,066.14 102,385.44 1,092 PRESIDENT HEBER J GRANT 



Each and all of the men presiding over these missions are giving the best in their power for the advancement of their missions. They are men of God, devoted to the welfare of their respective missions. And this can be said also of all the other missions, the statistics of which I shall now read, giving the name of the mission, the president, the missionaries, the membership and the Church property. 

European Missions : 

Armenian, Joseph W. Booth 2 164 450.00 

British, James E. Talmage 151 5,670 78,518.17 

(Here let me mention the splendid work Elder James E. Talmage is doing presiding over the European mission. The fact that he is a member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh gives him a standing in Europe that perhaps none of the rest of us could possibly have. He is receiving excellent consideration from newspapers there, and is working early and late, as he has done all his life. He is one of the most industrious, energetic men I have ever known, and is making a very splendid successor to< President David O. McKay, who did such a good work as the president of the European mission. ) 55,284.95 

468 Netherlands, Charles S. Hvde 57,229.02 

1,621 South African, J. Wyley Sessions 17,823.30 

2,051 

226 51,497.79 559 $368,169.86 40,911.18 

13,083 Japan [Discontinued] 

New Zealand, Angus T. Wright 150,575.66 

3,462 Tahitian, Ole B. Peterson 13,403.70 

1,051 Tctal 26,780 General : Palmyra Farm, Willard Bean Total U 117,340 The grand total of our missionaries is 1,871; of members in the missions, 117,340; the grand total of Church property in these missions is $1,934,763.51, lacking but a very few dollars of $2,000,000 of money invested in Church property in the missions throughout the world. ( i [ i j ij 1 1| 

Certainly when we consider the limited means of the people who embrace the gospel all over the world — for the gospel seems to reach the poor — we have great cause to rejoice in the financial showing in our missions, as well as the wonderful showing financially here at home. 

PRESIDENT GRANT'S TOUR OF THE MISSIONS 

Since I last had the privilege of meeting with you in general conference, I have visited the missionaries in the east, and given them instructions — in Indianapolis, Indiana; Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota; Detroit, Michigan, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin; also in Chicago, and held public meetings in all of these places except Chicago. 

At Minneapolis we had the pleasure of dedicating a very splendid meetinghouse and recreation hall erected there, and of meeting with a most excellent class of Latter-day Saints. We have chapels also at St. Paul and Minneapolis. The Saints at Detroit and at Indianapolis are gathering funds for the purpose of assisting in erecting chapels in those places. 

On Nov. 27, I left Salt Lake City for Independence to attend the funeral of my cousin and the cousin of President Joseph F. Smith, Thalia Grant Smith. The services were well attended. After that I had the privilege of holding meetings in Independence, Kansas City, and St. Louis; also at Fort Worth, San Antonio and Kelsey, Texas, and in Wichita, Kansas, and instructing the missionaries in all of these places, as well as holding public meetings, which were well attended. In a number of places we have excellent meetinghouses to meet in. In others we have rented halls. 

During this trip I had the privilege of speaking before the Chamber of Commerce in Kansas City, Missouri. The sectetary announced his regret that all of the six thousand members of that great body had not had the privilege of listening to my twenty minute talk. I said in reply : "I can remedy that very easily. I will have six thousand copies of this speech delivered at your office so that when you send out your next monthly statements you can enclose a copy." 

He expressed his pleasure in doing it. They were printed, and delivered, and I have received many letters from men who have read the speech, expressing their pleasure in having heard or read what I had to say regarding the faith of the Latter-day Saints. In that short address, speaking very rapidly (much more rapidly than I am doing now), I quoted all the Articles of our Faith and made comments upon them. It took four columns of the Christmas News to print that twenty and one-half minutes speech. I rejoice that there were at least a score of influential men who shook hands with me and expressed their pleasure in having heard the plain statement of the faith of the Latter-day Saints, as embodied in our Articles of Faith. 

When I stop to reflect that the Latter-day Saints were expelled from the state of Missouri under the exterminating order of the governor of that state, then to think that representative men of one of  largest business organizations in Kansas City — one of the most progressive cities in the Union — would listen with attention and afterwards congratulate the President of the Church upon a speech in which he quoted the Articles of Faith, and some of them expressed regret that I did not have an hour instead of twenty minutes, and invited me to come back again, and take the hour, certainly we have to acknowledge that God is moving in a mysterious way his wonders to perform, and that the Latter-day Saints are becoming known for what they really are — a God-fearing, upright people, who are loyal to God and to their country. 

The newspapers in all these places gave me better notices and published fairer reports of the speeches I made than I have ever had before on any trip I have taken. 

On January 9, I left Salt Lake City for Los Angeles, for a brief visit, feeling very much the need of a little rest. I had the pleasure, on that short trip of only ten days, of speaking in the Adams ward and the Matthews ward in Los Angeles stake. 

Feb. 3, I left Salt Lake City for a visit to the California, the Central States, and the Southern States missions, first treading the sands of the Pacific, and a few days later the sands of the Atlantic. Meetings were held upon that trip, in Ocean Park, Oakland and San Francisco; also in New Orleans, in Jacksonville, Florida, and in Atlanta, Georgia. 

In all of these places there was a splendid attendance, and again the newspapers gave very fair notices of the meetings and of what was said. In no case was there any attempt to ridicule or belittle or to change the remarks that I had made in public, where reports were taken, or where interviews were given. Some slight mistakes were made, but they were all unintentional mistakes. 

I have never enjoyed greater liberty in proclaiming the gospel than I did in some of the meetings on this last trip, lasting something over five weeks, visiting the California, the Central States and the Southern States missions. 

I believe this fully covers the activities of the Church that would be of interest to the Latter-day Saints, and of my own labors since we were together six months ago. 

... ABSOLUTE FAITH IN JESUS CHRIST 

I rejoice beyond the power with which God has endowed me to express my feelings, in the knowledge I possess regarding the divinity of this great Latter-day work in which we, as Latter-day Saints, are .engaged; and as I travel I find a lack of belief in God, and in the divinity of Jesus Christ, even among the ministers of the gospel, I rejoice in the fact that every man and woman in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has an absolute faith in God, in his individuality, and an absolute faith that Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world; that he came to the earth with a divinely appointed mission to die for the sins of the world, and that he is in very deed the head of the Church of Christ. 

Upon the trip last mentioned, I cut from a newspaper a clipping which I had intended to read at this conference, but I have misplaced it. It was a recommendation by an English lord that people discard the "absurdity" of Jesus Christ as a God on earth and a Redeemer of the world, and that they accept the Mohammedan philosophy; suggesting that they could believe in all of the ethical teachings of the religion of Christ and Mohammed, but that they should get away from the absurdities of Christianity, and settle the various disputes and troubles that they were having in the Christian religion. 

Wherever I read that statement — and I read it in a number of places — I took the trouble to state to the people in the various places where I preached, the position of the Latter-day Saints as to the gospel in which we believe. I quoted the vision of Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, as follows : 

"And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us — 

"That he came unto the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; 

"That through him all might be saved whom the Father had, put into his power and made by him; 

"Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him." 

I announced to the people that in the Church of Jesus Christ no man or woman would be admitted into the Church, or be permitted to retain fellowship who is not willing to accept this statement absolutely without mental reservation. I also read to them : "And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony , last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by him and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

I announced in those meetings, in some of which the majority of the audience were non-members of the Church, that every Latter-day Saint must subscribe to the doctrine that God himself visited the boy Joseph Smith, and that God himself introduced Jesus Christ to the boy as his well-beloved Son. I announced to these audiences that among the Latter-day Saints there is no evidence of "modernism" So-called, and that no man or woman will be fellowshiped in this Church who denies the individuality, the personality of God, or that Jesus Christ is in very deed the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world, 1 

THE WORD OF WISDOM 

I regret to say that there is becoming evident among the Saints, a lack of interest and a looseness in observing the Word of Wisdom. I regret to have heard that there are men occupying positions as bishops' counselors, and as members of high councils, who do not observe this law; that certain bishops' counselors and members of high councils are not only drinking tea and coffee, but some of them are using tobacco. No man who uses tobacco is worthy to stand as high councilor in this Church. He owes it to himself to clean himself up or step aside and allow a man with more faith, with more manhood, with more integrity to God and his laws, to take the position that he occupies. 

President Wilford Woodruff from this stand, many years ago, called upon every man holding the Priesthood and occupying any office in this Church, to obey the Word of Wisdom or to resign and step aside. I reiterate that men who do not obey the Word of Wisdom are not worthy to stand as examples before the people, to be invited into private priesthood meetings and to discuss matters for the welfare of the Church of God. Their disobedience shows a lack of faith in the work of God. I shall not take your time to read all of the Word of Wisdom, but I shall take time to read the words of the living God that must be acknowledged by every Latter-day Saint to be the word of God, or he or she is not entitled to be a member of this Church. After telling us what is good for us, the Lord makes a promise that is one of the most marvelous, one of the most uplifting and inspiring promises that could possibly be made to mortal man. He says : 

THE PROMISE 

"And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. "And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

AN ILLUSTRATION OF THE DESTROYER REBUKED 

I shall never forget the occasion when a friend appealed to me, upon learning that the doctor had announced that his daughter, stricken with diphtheria, would die before morning. He asked me to pray for that daughter, and after leaving his office I prayed with all the earnestness of my soul that God would heal that girl. While praying, the inspiration came to me : "The power of the living God is here on the earth. The Priesthood is here. Hurry! Hurry! Get John Henry Smith; go and rebuke the power of the destroyer, and the girl shall live." 

The doctor waiting upon that girl, said she could not live till morning; but when morning came he explained that he could not comprehend it, and that he believed the girl was going to get well. He could not refrain from expressing his surprise at the change in the girl's condition over night. The power of the living God rebuked the destroyer. 

"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. 

The Lord has told us through the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

"If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life, through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." 

No man who breaks the Word of Wisdom can gain the same amount of knowledge and intelligence in this world as the man who obeys that law. I don't care who he is or where he comes from, his mind will not be as clear, and he cannot advance as far and as rapidly and retain his power as much as he would if he obeyed the Word of Wisdom. 

TITHES AND REAL PROSPERITY 

The law of financial prosperity to the Latter-day Saints, under covenant with God, is to be an honest tithepayer, and not to rob the Lord in tithes and offerings. Prosperity comes to those who observe the law of tithing; and when I say prosperity I am not thinking of it in terms of dollars and cents alone, although as a rule the Latter-day Saints who are the best tithepayers are the most v ros P erous men, financially; but what I count as real prosperity, as the one thing of all others that is of great value to every man and woman living, is the growth in a knowledge of God, and in a testimony, and in the power to live the gospel and to inspire our families to do the same. That is prosperity of the truest kind. I would rather die in poverty knowing that my family could testify that, to the best of the ability with which God had endowed me, I had observed his laws and kept his commandments, and by my example, had proclaimed the gospel, than to have all the wealth of the world. 

OUR RELIGION THE TRUTH 

Either we have the truth, and this gospel called "Mormonism," is in very deed the plan of life and salvation, the power of God unto salvation, through his Son Jesus Christ, and by following its teachings the greatest of all the gifts of God to man, namely, life eternal, will be ours, or it is not the truth. 

God has given to men and women all over the wide world, seeking for the light of his spirit, in answer to humble prayers, a testimony and a knowledge that this gospel is exactly what it purports to be — that it is the truth, that it will stand forever, and that those who live it shall be exalted eternally in the presence of our heavenly Father, and his Son, our Redeemer. 

CLOSING TESTIMONY 

May God help each and every one of us who have a knowledge of the divinity of this work to live so that other men, seeing our good deeds, may glorify God and be led to investigate the plan of life and salvation. I bear witness to you here today, that I know God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the true and living God, that he was a martyr, that he gave his life for this cause, and that his blood bears witness to the integrity, the honesty and inspiration of his mission as a prophet of the living God, because he was true even unto death. May God help us one and all to live the truth, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "The mighty God hath spoken", was sung by Mrs. Laurinda P. Brewerton. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

I have had a few surprises in my life, but I think none greater than this. However, it is a very agreeable surprise. I am thankful for the privilege of meeting this vast audience and partaking of the spirit of this inspirational gathering. It is a joy to look once again into the faces of close associates and dear friends. It is this element which makes the meeting this morning more appreciated them the meetings generally that I have attended during the past three or four years. 

THE SPIRIT OF ONENESS AND LOVE 

I am glad to report, however, that the spirit of the meetings abroad, wherever we meet Latter-day Saints, is the same as that which we have here this morning. It matters not in what part of the globe the meeting is held, whether in the islands of the sea, in Japan, in Syria, in the Scandinavian countries, in England, Germany, France, Holland — wherever one meets a group of Latter-day Saints whose faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ is unwavering, there one finds the spirit of oneness, the spirit of love, the spirit of willing sacrifice for the good of humanity. God bless the Latter-day Saints all over the world that they may continue in that same spirit. 

APPEAL FOR AN HONEST HEARING 

It is a source of regret to me that such people should be so grossly misunderstood. May I read the following: 

"We desire to hear of thee, what thou thinkest, for as concerning this sect we know that everywhere it is spoken against." 

These are the words of some Jews from Jerusalem to whom Paul, then a prisoner, bound in Rome, had made an appeal for an honest hearing". They referred to the sect called Nazarene. Everywhere it was spoken against. Today after nearly two thousand years everybody acquainted with Christianity knows that Paul was falsely accused, and that that sect was vilified by those who spoke against it. It is a simple matter today to understand the wrong that was done to Paul and to the believers in the lowly Nazarene, but it isn't so easy for some people to see that today in the matter of persecuting a religious or ganization history is repeating itself. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as was the Church in the meridian of time, is everywhere spoken against, and its missionaries, are falsely accused. Paul, even at the time these men said they would like to hear him, was in Rome, because he had been accused of being a pestilent fellow, a mover of sedition, a profaner of the temple, all of which he denied before Festus. He denied these charges also before Felix, he denied them before King Agrippa, and bore his testimony before them, as President Grant has borne his testimony this morning, to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. But everywhere the people spoke against him. 

IGNORANCE THE CAUSE OF MIS JUDGMENT 

I have been impressed during the last few years with this fact, that many people, British particularly, seem to choose to believe the bad things that are said against this people in preference to the good. I have tried to analyze why this is so; and I have come to the conclusion that much of it is due to ignorance. There are two principal classes of men and women in the world who choose to fan this flame of ignorance. These two classes are, first, those who will vilify an honest people for mercenary purposes; and second, those who misunderstand or who misinterpret the doctrines of the Church of Christ and justify themselves in opposing it on the ground that they do not wish their people to be contaminated by false doctrines. The first class, those who wilfully tear down another's reputation to get gain, I think should be classed among the worst people on earth. The government handles a man who will take the life of another, and may make him forfeit his own life for that which he takes. I think next to the heinous sin of murder is the crime of murdering one's reputation to get gain. W.e have men and at least three women in the world who are guilty of this despicable thing. Such purveyors of falsehood have that within them which seems to feed upon the slander which is current among mankind. Oliver Goldsmith said that this spirit is like -the tiger which, after having tasted human flesh, ever afterwards pursues men in order *to satiate his appetite. So the slanderer who has once gratified his appetite with calumny, makes ever after the most agreeable feast upon murdered reputation. It is a difficult thing to oppose, indeed often it is best not to attempt to oppose it; for as one great thinker has said, "Slander has a strange constitution, the more you oppose it the more it grows." Thus, because of the activity of this class of people, and also because 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 13 

of the activity of those who choose to misinterpret the gospel of Jesus Christ and justify themselves in opposing it, we find throughout the world that the Church of Jesus Christ is spoken against, not because of what the Church is, but because of what people think it is. There is a vast difference between those two things. 

IN SPITE OF ALL, THE WORK OF GOD IS GROWING IN EUROPE 

But, brethren and sisters, I am delighted to report to you that in spite of this condition the work of God is growing by leaps and bounds in the European mission. In Great Britain where I have spent much of my time during the past few years, I am pleased to report that the work is progressing, and that the outlook is most favorable. There 150 young men are devoting their time to the spreading of the truth and to the contradicting of these vile stories that have received such current circulation in that country. The same may be said of the other missions in Europe. In Holland the work is growing. Only last October on a Wednesday night, Amsterdam hall, just dedicated for the little branch there, was crowded to overflowing, and that is but typical of most of the meetings held there. 

The French mission has just been organized, but in Switzerland the branches are growing, slowly it is true, but growing. 

In Belgium, part of the French mission, the work is increasing rapidly. 

In Syria, Brother Booth is devoting his life to the work among the Armenians, and the cause is in good hands. True we are not doing much missionary work there; but rather taking care of the little branch that is ours, waiting for the opening of that great mission. 

In the Scandinavian countries we find the same spirit of progress. 

GROWTH IN GERMANY BY LEAPS AND BOUNDS 

In Germany the work is growing by leaps and bounds. You will be interested to know that last March in Koenigsberg when we 'held our conference, there were sitting on the stand in the beautiful gymnasium, part of a public school, seventy-five children who furnished music for the six hundred people assembled in a Sunday School session of conference. That night seventy-five adult voices furnished the music for the conference, the hall crowded to capacity, and as part of that service they rendered most efficiently and effectively part of Haydn's "Creation." On that same tour, on the following Tuesday at Stettin, We found the hall crowded to capacity at ten minutes to 7:00 o'clock. An excellent choir furnished the music. On our way to that service, publicly announced, we passed on our left the jail in which some of our elders had been incarcerated but a few years before, for preaching, or attempting to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. On the following Sunday in one of the large assembly rooms of a school house in Berlin there were assembled over one thousand children, Sunday School members, in one of the most inspirational Sunday School sessions I have ever attended. It is a significant fact that the street car officials of that great city, ran special cars for the benefit of the Latter-day Saint children. That afternoon we met in the Staat hall in Berlin, twelve hundred eighty-six people worshiping God there without molestation. Five minutes walk from where we met stands the jail in which President Clawson, my brother Thomas E., and some of their fellow-workers were incarcerated, a few years ago, for attempting to hold meetings such as we were holding there with permission of the Berlin authorities. On October 7, 1924, in Hamburg we held a most remarkable conference. On the Saturday night of which one hundred voices, nearly all of whom were members of the Church rendered Evan Stephen's "The Vision" in a most inspirational manner. Sunday night, as the concluding number of an inspirational, never-to-be-forgotten conference, that same 'choir sang "The Martyrs." These two great productions have been translated into German by one of our own brethren. The choir had been trained by one of our own elders. 

THE FIRST CLASS PRESS MORE FAVORABLE 

Saturday night the choir of one hundred voices was assisted by one hundred fifty children who sang "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." A man not in the Church was sitting by my side, and when those combined choirs sang so inspiringly and in perfect tune, so far as my ear could detect, I dropped my head because of the tears in my eyes, and I saw tears rolling down my companion's cheeks, impressed beyond expression. These are but a few incidents indicative of the progress now being made in the European mission. Another encouraging indication is the fact that leading papers in London and in Liverpool and other great cities of the European mission have refused to print slanderous stories about the so-called "Mormons." A few years ago these vile slanders were given free currency. I will add also that the Latter-day Saints in those missions are united with the elders in counteracting the falsehoods and vilifications and vituperations that are so generally accepted as true. Tracting societies, carried on by our own members, are quietly, though effectively, overcoming the ignorance that seems to be the cause of the misunderstanding against this great Church, which stands for all that the gospel of Jesus Christ contains. 

OUR ELDERS TEACH THE FUNDAMENTALS OF CHRISTIANITY 

Recently I read a summary of the fundamental teachings of Christianity given by Albert P. Fitch, formerly professor in Amherst College, one of these modernists to whom President Grant has referred. The first fundamental in the spirit of Christianity he gives as the ethical and religious supremacy of Jesus Christ. This faith means believing what Jestts said regarding the moral and religious nature of God and man. The second fundamental he names as the acceptance of Christ's religious teaching and practice on the ground that it sets forth the principle which can be workable on our world, and the one principle potent enough to overcome our world. As the third condition in that belief he begins with Jesus' teaching as to the nature and character of God and he names the Father whom Jesus teaches as having redemptive love freely and supremely given, supremely exemplified in good will toward man. The fourth condition of this universal belief in Jesus means to be a son and a brother in this kingdom, this divine family which Jesus teaches; and to be a son and brother means to love our fellowmen the way God loves us. 

- These this prominent writer gives as the fundamentals of Christianity. These the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ are preaching. Their aims are lofty, their purposes are sublime, and the world instead of speaking against them should encourage them and uphold them. Particularly this is true of the state of Utah. Every citizen of this state owes an obligation to the 2,000 missionaries who are out representing this state in honor. Why should anyone condemn the missionaries who are out preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ without price, paying their own expenses for teaching to the world the Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, and bearing witness in kindness and love, that our Father has appeared to man, that his Son Jesus Christ has been raised from the tomb and now lives, bearing witness to the word of the immortality of the soul? Who should vilify people for standing on that . sublime ground ? They testify further that the Church of Christ is organized in its perfection, and if the world will accept that Church and apply its principles economically, educationally and socially, the brotherhood of man will be established and the millennium for which all honest souls are longing will be hastened. 

TESTIMONY 

I testify to you here that God lives, that he is near to his servants, and will hear and answer them and guide them when they come to him. I know that my Redeemer lives. I know it! I know that he has spoken to man in this age. I know that his Church is established among men. God help us all to be true to it and help the world to see it as it is and not as ignorant men, and vicious men and women sometimes picture it, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

PRIESTHOOD CONVENTIONS 

During the past three months, by direction of the First Presidency of the Church, there have been held, in many of the stakes of Zion, priesthood conventions, the purpose of which was to stimulate renewed zeal and increased activity in the councils and quorums of the Priesthood. I hail with delight the inauguration of this heaven-inspired movement, in which I am proud and happy to have taken part. 

The Priesthood, which means divine authority and the men in whom that authority is vested, is by far the most important thing in the Church of Christ; being, in fact, the rock upon which it rests. There could be no Church without the Priesthood. It is therefore of vital consequence that all the quorums and councils should function effectively toward the great ends for which they were instituted. 

To my mind the most enjoyable of the meetings held in connection with the priesthood conventions, were those in which the brethren who had been appointed to speak related instances of the power of the Priesthood that had come under their observation or within the range of their experience. What I heard in those meetings awakened in me a desire to discourse briefly upon the subject at this general conference of the Church. 

A GOD OF MIRACLES 

Among the words of the Savior, as recorded in the New Testament, are the following: 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you. He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father." (John 14:12.) 

To what particular works did the Savior refer when he made this remarkable promise to his disciples? I believe that he had reference to or meant to include the wonderful works, connected with his mortal ministry — the miracles whereby he manifested his divine power, and concerning which it is written : He "did not do many mighty works" in certain places, "because of their unbelief." 

The "beginning -of miracles" in the Savior's ministry was the turning of water into wine, at the marriage feast in Cana of Galilee (John 2:11). Afterwards he fed a multitude of five thousand people with five loaves and two fishes. He walked upon the water, stilled the tempest, healed the sick, cast out devils, gave sight to the blind, raised Lazarus from the tomb, and did many other marvelous works. 

SIGNS TO FOLLOW BELIEF 

He endowed his apostles with the same power (Matt. 10:1-8), and having commissioned them to "go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature," he said, "And these signs shall follow them that believe. In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover" (Mark 16:17, 18). "And they went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord  with them and confirming the word with signs following" (Ibid 5:20). No good Christian doubts this, nor does any faithful Latter-day Saint. 

HIGHER CRITICISM'S ATTITUDE 

Nevertheless, there is a growing disposition in these modern days to discredit and deny all such things — to do away with everything savoring of the supernatural. "Higher Criticism," as it is called, seems to regard this as its special mission. It would fain strip the Son of God of his divinity, and make him merely a good and a great man whose teachings are salutary and uplifting. Jesus Christ, we are told, was not miraculously begotten; he did not do the mighty works attributed to him; his blood did not atone for sin, nor was he raised from the dead to become the Author of the Resurrection. All these are myths and fables, invented for propagandist purposes, and are unworthy of credence by any intelligent mind. Such is the attitude of the so-called "Higher Criticism," otherwise known as "Modernism." The logic of its advocates is simply this: We cannot do works of that kind, and therefore works of that kind cannot be done. 

I concede the first proposition, but not the second. They who doubt the possibility of miracles are indeed without the power to perform them. But this does not prove that believers lack that power. Miracles are the fruits of faith. "These signs shall follow them that believe." The gist of the matter is this : These doubters have done away with God, or have tried to do away with him, and consequently are unable to conceive of a higher power than they themselves possess. 

ILLUSTRATIVE ANECDOTES 

Their position reminds me of an incident that occurred many years ago, when I was a ward bishop in this city. It was Sunday evening, and a Primary Association conference was in progress at the ward chapel. One of the sisters, a Primary teacher, gathered the little tots around her upon the stand, and told them, the story of Jesus feeding the multitude. Going home that night, one of the mothers, anxious to impress the lesson upon the mind of her little son, asked him the question: "What did Sister Blank tell you this evening?" "She told us about the Savior feeding the people," answered the boy. "How many people?" queried the mother. "Five thousand." "And what did He feed them with?" "Five loaves of bread and two fishes." "Well, now, how do you suppose he could do that?" The little fellow mused a moment, and then blurted out: "Well, I don't believe those in the middle got any." 

His child mind could not grasp the idea that it was a miraculous feeding of the multitude, and that it was done by the power of God, and not of man. 

Another little boy, of whom you may have heard — for I have told the story more than once in the congregations of the Saints — was of quite a different turn. Johnny was his name, and he had a little brother named Billy. The two were playing in their mother's door-yard. Johnny was whittling a stick, and Billy had just caught a fly. "Johnny," said he, "what a funny thing a fly is. See what lots of legs he's got. And every time I blow him he buzzes (suiting the action to the word). I wonder how God made him." 

Yes, and I wonder too. I wonder how He made the sunbeam, and the blade of grass, and the flowers and the trees. I don't know — all I know is that they are. 

But Johnny had an idea of how God made the fly. He went on whittling, and said : "Well, Billy, God don't make flies like men make houses. When he wants flies he says, Let there be flies, and then there is flies." 

Johnny had read the Bible, and understood it. He had learned the first great lesson of Scripture : "And God said, Let there be light, and there was light." His mind could allow for the difference — the vast difference between the might of Omnipotence and the puny strength of mortal man. 

NOT CONTRARY TO LAW 

One objection — perhaps the main one — urged against a belief in miracles, is that they are contrary to law. But that is a great mistake. They are in strict conformity with law. The universe is governed by law, and its Creator works in consonance therewith. But there are greater laws and lesser laws, and the greater suspend at times the operation of the lesser. When this occurs, men exclaim : "A miracle!" Others say : "It never happened, for it is contrary to law." Contrary to some law it may be, or may seem to be — some lesser law with whose everyday workings men are familiar; but not contrary to some higher law regarding which they may know little or nothing. 

CARLYLE ON NATURAL LAWS 

"What are the laws of Nature?" asks Carlyle, and answers his own question thus : "To me perhaps the rising of one from the dead were no violation of these laws, but a confirmation, if some far deeper law, now first penetrated into, and by spiritual force, as all the rest have been., were brought to bear on me with its material force. * * * 'They [the laws of Nature] stand written in our books of science', say you; 'in the accumulated record of man's experience.' Was man with his experience present at the creation, then, to see how it all went on? Have any deepest scientific individuals yet dived down to the foundations of the universe, and gauged everything there? Did the Maker take them into his counsel, that they read his ground-plan of the incomprehensible All, and can say, This stands marked therein, and no more than this? Alas, not in any wise! * * * To the minnow, every  and pebble and quality and accident of its little creek may have become familiar; but does the minnow understand the ocean tides and periodic currents, the trade winds and monsoons and moons' eclipses, by all which the condition of its little creek is regulated, and may from time to time (unmiraculously enough), be quite upset and reversed?" (Sartor Resartus, Natural Supernaturalism.) 

A grand old thinker, that Carlyle. Man is not a minnow, to be sure. But neither is man's finite wisdom any criterion by which to judge the infinite wisdom of the All-wise. 

ELISHA AND THE AX 

When Elisha the Prophet caused the sunken ax-head to float on the surface of the river into which it had accidentally fallen (II Kings 6:1-6), he was working in acccordance with law, but not any ordinary law. The Law of Gravitation, in obedience to which all things on earth tend toward a common center — the center of the earth — required the ax to stay where it was, at the bottom of the stream. But the Prophet evidently knew of a higher law which could suspend the action of the law of gravity as to that particular object. He invoked that higher law, and "the iron did swim." 

MOSES AND THE RED SEA 

When Moses divided the Red Sea, so that Israel might pass through and escape from the pursuing Egyptians, who were overwhelmed by the returning waters, he was working in accordance with law — divine law. And the same is true of all servants of the Lord who have wrought miracles at any time. 

JOSHUA AND THE SUN 

"Higher Crtiticism" laughs to scorn the idea of Joshua commanding the sun and moon to stand still, so that Israel might have light enough effectually to defeat his enemies (Joshua 10:12-14); and the Bible account which declares that "the sun stood still and the moon stayed," is treated with derision. Because, forsooth, if the sun had halted even for a moment in its regular course, the whole mighty universe would have come crashing down into chaos and ruin. Well, perhaps so, if there had been no God to uphold it — the God who made the sun and moon, and whose almighty power holds them in their orbits and controls their every action. I see nothing more marvelous in controlling the heavenly bodies, than in creating them in the first place. Be it a fact, as is claimed, that it was the earth that stood still in Joshua's day, and that the sun and moon only seemed to be stationary, that does not affect the main argument. The same God who made the earth also made the sun and moon, and could have stayed them in their course had He so willed. WHAT ARE MIRACLES? 

Miracles are extraordinary results flowing from superior means and methods of doing things. When man wants light he strikes a match, or presses a button, or turns a switch — and lo! there is light. When God wants light, he says: "Let there be light." It is simply a matter of knowing how to do things in a superior way, and having the power to do them. Man is gradually acquiring this power. It is a far cali from the tallow dip to the electric light. But the end is not yet. Improvements will continue to be made, and some day, perhaps, men may be able to make light just as the Lord makes it. Paradoxically, it might be said that the time will come when miracles will be so common that there will be none. 

MODERN INSTANCES 

The Latter-day Saints are not strangers to the miraculous workings of divine power. Our history as a people is replete with such occurrences. I could relate many experiences of my own in support of this assertion, and so could these, my brethren, seated here upon the stand. 

My first experience of the kind was in the year 1877, when I was a missionary in the State of Ohio. I had been preaching in the farming districts near the town of Elyria, testifying that the miraculous "signs" promised by the Savior were in the Church of Christ today, the same as in days of old. A sick woman took me at my word and sent for me. She had been suffering for six weeks with neuralgia, and was almost maddened by the incessant pain. She asked me to administer for her relief. Up to that time I had never performed the healing ordinance, and felt very timorous over the outcome, fearing that if she were not healed I would be deemed an impostor and perhaps driven out of the neighborhood. Moreover, her husband had threatened to kill any "Mormon" missionary who crossed his threshold. But I went — and was not molested. 

No sooner had I laid my hands upon that woman's head, than a power came upon me that I had never felt before, nor have I ever felt it since, in the same degree. It was a burning in my bosom, so powerful as to almost deprive me of speech, and it went like fire to the very tips of my fingers. I rebuked the pain in the name of Jesus Christ, and the woman was instantly healed. "Thank God!" she said, "the pain has gone." I sank into a chair and burst into tears, overcome by this manifestation of the goodness and power of God. 

Not long afterwards, I was visiting a family of Saints in the coal-mining region near the town of Akron. A married daughter of the household came trudging through a snow storm, with her two little children, a distance of three miles, to get me to baptize her. I did so, the immersion taking place in a little brook running through her father's lot. It was February, and the weather was  cold. The moment I stepped into the icy stream a pain shot up to my heart, and I feared for a moment that I would have to step out again. I feared also that the little woman would not be able to endure it. So I silently prayed that the water might be tempered. Immediately there was a change in it — or else in me, for I felt the cold no more, nor did she complain of it at all. 

HEALING SELF-ADMINISTERED 

The baptism over, she went on her way rejoicing. But I was in distress. A pain had seized me in the elbow of my left arm, and it steadily grew worse. That evening I used some liniment upon it, but got no relief, and my arm continued to swell and stiffen. I could hardly move it next day, but by that time I knew just what to do. There was some consecrated oil in the house, but my green inexperience had made me think that it would be improper to use it on myself, there being no other elder present. But suffering had opened my eyes, and my faith was strong, for I felt that the pain had no business there. That night I carefully washed off the liniment, applied the holy oil, and rebuked the pain in the name of Jesus. The effect was instantaneous. I turned my arm over — the pain was gone; and I have never felt a vestige of it since. 

THE GREATER SUSPENDS THE LESSER 

One more instance, and I am done. Some years ago I was engaged to deliver a lecture in one of the towns south of this city, and was on my way to the lecture hall when I received a message from the bishop of the ward, asking me to come and administer to his little daughter, who was critically ill. Her doctor had said that she could not live till morning. Taking with me another elder, I proceeded to the bishop's home, and we administered to the dying girl. Next morning a telephone message informed me that a marvelous change had taken place. The young patient, who had not slept for days prior to being blessed by us, immediately thereafter had sunk into a sweet and refreshing slumber. She slept twelve hours, and woke up — normal, and continued so. The doctor was astounded, and the parents, of course, were overjoyed. That girl, then fifteen years of age, and now twenty-four, is an active member of the ward in which she resides, has a good position, and goes to and from her work as well and happy as if she had never known a day's illness. 

Her physician had said that she could not live till morning — and no doubt he was right, from his viewpoint. Medical science had so decreed, and but for the interposition of Divine Providence, that decree would probably have gone into effect. According to the lesser law she could not live. But a greater law said : "She shall live." And the lesser could not operate in the presence of the greater. ALL THINGS POSSIBLE TO THEM THAT BELIEVE 

Miracles belong to no particular time or place. Wherever and whenever there is a legitimate demand for the exercise of divine power, that power will act, and marvels will result. We worship a God of miracles, and he changeth not, but is the same yesterday, today and forever (Mormon 9:7-11, 17-20). There is but one valid reason for the absence of miracles among any people, and that is the absence of faith. "All things are possible to them that believe." 

The choir and congregation sang, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Nelson J. Hogan, president of the Idaho stake of Zion. 

Meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


