Second Outdoor
03 04 1915

Another meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information building, at 2 p. m. Elder David O. McKay presided, and the 33rd ward choir, directed by Joseph Poll, again furnished the music. 

(By actual count, there were 11,954 persons in the Tabernacle, at 2 p. m.; also, about 3,000 in the Assembly Hall. Standing as well as sitting room was completely occupied in both of these edifices. About 2,000 were present at the outdoor meeting, and a great many others were unable to find accommodation for hearing at either of the meetings.) 

The opening hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," was sung by the choir and congregation. 

Elder Win. H. Richards offered the invocation. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Guide us, oh Thou great Jehovah." ELDER WM. C. PARTRIDGE. 

(President of Big Horn Stake.) 

I feel to rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of attending this conference, and the privilege of listening to the authorities of the Church. You know, I live a long way off, and feel that it is a great treat when we can come here to headquarters, and listen to the words of inspiration of the servants of the Lord. 

T rejoiced this morning in listening to President Smith's opening remarks. I could not help but think while he was speaking, especially about the lack on our part of paying sufficient fast offerings, and other things that we should feel in duty bound to do. I thought to myself, we are certainly somewhat careless and indifferent in regard to those matters. We come to these conferences, and listen to the servants of the Lord, and they touch our hearts : they come out in our midst, to the different stakes of Zion, and speak words of good cheer to us. and we feel encouraged, we feel that thev teach the very things that we most need, when they urge us to live our relieion; yet in a few days we seeminedv foreet, in a measure, the good things that we have heard. We reallv do not forget, but a spirit of indifference apparently takes hold of us. 

When the authorities undertake to bring about a reformation in certain lines, we realize that these things are good for us. vet we are slow to carry them out. Take for instance, the one dav a month that we are asked to observe as "home evening-," get our children toeether around us in our homes, and teach them the principles of the Gospel. T have discovered, in traveling around  the people in our stake, that they all think this is a splendid thing, but many are so careless that they let the day that is set apart go by without observing it. I believe it is the same in other places, so far as I have been able to learn. Most of us are slow to do those things that we know are for our good. I believe it is one of the greatest things that has been given to us recently, the carrying out of this idea of bringing the members of our families together and teaching the principles of the Gospel to them, in the home. Most of us leave the teaching of our children to the Mutuals, the Sunday Schools, and the Primaries. I venture to , say that a large proportion of the people belonging to the Church are not carrying out this counsel, and are not yet bringing their families together on the home evening, and teaching them the principles of the Gospel. 

When the Big Horn stake was first organized, Apostle Woodruff told us to hold devotional exercises every night and morning in our families, and most of us did that for a long time. But we began to get careless in that matter, and I can say today that there is not as much of the spirit of unity, of love, good feeling and contentment that there was a few years back when we were carrying out this practice more fully. I believe that one of our greatest failings is that we are not more diligent in teaching our families the principles of the Gospel. Perhaps we do not realize what the result is. T can see it. I can see that some of our young people grow up without a knowledge of the Gospel, except what they gain in the organizations. There are some families that attend to these things strictly, but T am afraid the ma of us do not yet carry them out. We acknowledge it is the proper thing to do, but we are careless, and fail to put them into practice to the full extent. 

The law of fast offering we acknowledge is one of the finest laws in the Church, to donate of our substance for the support of the poor. There are very few in the Church that do not believe in this law; but I find, in our stake, that not onehalf of the people pay their fast offerings fully. According to the bulletins that come out to us every year, we are not below the average of the Church. I do not want you to think that I am running our stake down. We are above the average in a number of good things; but with the aggregate membership of the Church, we are behind in these things, as President Smith said today : we are not paying all we should in fast offerings, and the Church has to furnish means from the tithing for the support of the poor. 

Brothers and sisters, I want to bear my testimony to you that we cannot keep the spirit of the Gospel in our hearts, we cannot have the proper love and respect for the authorities, unless we try to carry out their counsel in these little things. We cannot do it. We cannot be spiritually alive if we neglect our meetings, and neglect to partake of the sacrament. In fact, unless we keep the commandments of the Lord, we are in danger of getting luke-warm, and drifting away from the Church. I feel to plead with you, my brothers and sisters, to look to it, that your children are taught the principles of the Gospel, that they are not allowed to be entrapped by the snares of the adversary. Our children are precious gifts from 

God, and we should use every means in our power to bring them up aright, and not wait until we see them falling away into by and forbidden paths, but commence as soon as they can talk to teach them the principles of the Gospel. 

Let us commence with ourselves, let us commence right now and resolve within our hearts that we will live nearer to the Lord than we have done, that we will keep the commandments of the Lord, and that we will be exemplary as Latter-day Saints, that we will help with all our might to teach the people of the world that we have the truth, for we have it, and we know it. May the Lord help us to do this, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JONATHAN C. CUTLER. 

(President of Curlew Stake.) 

While sitting here, this thought came to my mind this afternoon : "Why am I a 'Mormon?' Was it because my parents were Latter-day Saints, that I was born under the New and Everlasting Covenant? or have I a stronger reason why I am a 'Mormon' than this ?" It is true the environments that we are under have a great deal to do with forming our life, morally, socially, as well as spiritually. I thank the Lord that I have been born under the New and Everlasting Covenant, with goodly parents; and that I have been led and guided by the hands of kind men who hold the Priesthood, who have guarded my footsteps until I became old enough to think and study for myself. This answer comes to me : "I have many reasons why I am a 'Mormon.' " 

In the first place, take history, start from the creation, from the time that Father Adam was placed upon the earth, and we find that he was led and guided by the Lord. Angels visited him, conversed with him, taught him the way. We also find the same mode of procedure in the lives of the holy prophets, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, and all the other ancient prophets. We find one of the prophets making this declaration, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing except He reveals His secrets unto His servants the prophets." Here, then, is a strong declaration. When the Lord has a people upon the earth, they must be led, according to Malachi, by the word of the Lord, through the voice of a prophet. This, then, gives us a key to the position to start from. The people of the Lord must be dictated to and led by Him, through a prophet of the Lord. 

We find the Savior came in the meridian of time. He did the greatest work ever done among the children of men. What did he teach the people? He taught them faith, repentance, and baptism. He made it very emphatic : Unless a man be baptized, he cannot enter the kingdom of heaven, and before He left the people, we- find Him thoroughly organizing the Church upon the earth. How was the Church organized ? It was organized with prophets and apostles, etc., "for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, until we all come to a unity of the faith." 

Now, these were the teachings of the Great Master, and they are applicable to us. This same organization must exist with us, if we are truly people of God. This thought appeals to me — I must look for the church which has these characteristics. It is true the "Mormons" are not considered Christians, by some  our good friends; but, as Isaiah says, we can judge according to the law and the testimony, and we appeal to these to prove that we are Christians in very deed. Today we are preaching Christ and Him crucified. No people hold higher the name of the Lord Jesus Christ than do the Latter-day Saints. No people have proclaimed higher ideals than do the prophets, we acknowledge them as being true servants of the Lord, and we follow them. 

We learn from history, that the Gospel was taken from the earth. In this last dispensation, we find a boy making the declaration to the people that he has been called of the Lord, that angels had appeared unto him, instructed him, counseled him, and told him what to do. Here then we find verified the words of the Prophet Malachi, "The Lord reveals Himself to His servants the prophets, etc." Now I have considered this question seriously : "Was this boy called to be a prophet of the Lord, or did he call himself?" I answer, We find that the boy Joseph Smith, during a great excitement of the religious world, declared that he had talked with the Father and the Son, and that later angels came and administered unto him. He made the bold declaration to the world that these were actual facts. Did he stop there? No, he followed the voice of those Divine Beings who had called him. They were his teachers, he followed them, and did as they dictated. Finally, God made him a prophet, the head of the last dispensation, and authorized him to be a mouthpiece unto the people. What are the fruits of his work? We find him advancing from step to step, and the Church was organized. We find him preaching the same doctrines as Christ and His apos taught — faith, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost — and telling the people that obedience to these doctrines was necessary to salvation. And was this all? No, he organized the Church as perfectly as it was in the meridian of time, with prophets, apostles, and all the other essential officers, as we find Paul tells the Corinthians. They are necessary to the development of the Church, and thus we find it fully organized and equipped. 

We follow him from the early rise of the Church, and the history of the people that followed him, until his martyrdom; then follow the Church from the time they left Nauvoo until they arrived in these valleys of the mountains. In all these conditions we find the same perfect doctrines and organization prevailing that existed in the primitive Church. We are led today by the voice of God through His mouthpiece, and, as we are told by the Lord Himself, that "whether I speak by mine own voice or the voice of my servants, it is all the same." These thoughts appeal to me. They are reasons why I am a "Mormon." They convince me. 

I have a living testimony that I wish to leave with you this afternoon : not the testimony that my mother planted within my soul, but I have one for myself. I know that the Lord lives, I know the Gospel is true, and I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; and I bear it to you this afternoon, and feel, as Paul of old felt, that "T am not ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, because I know it is the power of God unto salvation." 

May the Lord bless you, bless us all, and help us to do His will, and may those of us who have not a tes seek and find it, is my humble prayer and desire, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Israel, Israel, God is calling." 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(President of Temple Block Mission.) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to speak under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, and that I may have an interest in your faith and prayers. My voice is somewhat husky as I have participated in several gatherings of late. I have been interested in all that has been said this afternoon, and also in the open air meeting this morning, with regard to the great latter day work. 

I endorse the remarks of my brethren who have testified that the Lord has commenced a great work in this dispensation. You have heard them comment upon the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. They have referred to the organization of the Church, to the coming of prophets, the appearance of angels upon the earth and their messages to the Prophet Joseph. 

This story, wonderful as it is, would have little effect upon the minds of the people if it were not for the evidences of truth following these great events. We declare unto all men, and to all people, that God has not only established His Church, and given unto us prophets and apostles, pastors and teachers, but He has placed His seal upon this work by permitting fruits to follow the ministry of His servants. 

I refer particularly to some of the revelations mentioned in your hearing this day, viz : — that angels have come to the earth, that the Prophet Moroni, whose statue is upon our Temple here, appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith as a resurrected being, and revealed unto him the records from which the Book of Mormon has been translated. 

At a previous meeting, the statement was made that Moses, the prophet, appeared in Kirtland and gave unto the Prophet Joseph the keys of the gathering of Israel, that Elijah the Prophet had also appeared and conferred the keys for the redemption of the dead, that the Gospel with all its authority was now upon the earth, and that we are ministering by virtue of the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood, the power of God given to men. We are often asked for proofs indicating that these statements are true. 

Allow me therefore to draw attention to the following facts. In this congregation there are members of the Church who heard the Gospel in Europe, or upon the islands of the sea, or in various parts of this continent. We appeal to you and ask, why are you here in these valleys of the mountains ? What incentive brought you here? You will answer by saying that you have believed, with all your hearts, the declaration of Isaiah, that "in the last clays, the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the tops of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it." You are here in fulfilment of that prophecy. God has implanted in your hearts a desire to be with His people; and therefore you have gathered from the nations of the earth, the islands of the sea, and from various parts of this country. Man alone could not have brought to such a wonderful assemblage of people as we see now upon Temple Block. We have sung, "Israel, Israel, God is calling." 

I testify that we have heard that call and by our presence give evidence that the keys of the gathering were indeed conferred upon Joseph Smith by Moses the prophet. We have felt the inspiration of the Almighty and the impress has been made upon our souls that this is God's work. 

In response to a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph, our elder-s are preaching the Gospel in many lands, and the promise was renewed "these signs shall follow them that believe, in My name they shall do many wonderful works; in My name they shall cast out devils, in My name they shall heal the sick; etc." These words have been verily fulfilled in the ministry, and we bear testimony that God has thus sanctioned and confirmed the labors of these humble elders of Israel. 

We also solemnly declare that Elijah the prophet has come to "turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to the fathers." This is a simple declaration but it is true. We testify that Elijah the Prophet appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in Kirtland Temple. You may read the wonderful story in Section 110 of the Doctrine & Covenants. Friends ask, can this be true? Has Elijah the Prophet really ministered to men in our clay ? This great Temple, a monument in stone, bears testimony to the faith of the Saints, that the spirit of Elijah's mission is here, for in that Holy House, day after day, year after year, thousands of our members are entering the Temple and ministering therein for the salvation of their dead. If you have opportunity, converse with these faithful workers, ask them how they feel when they enter that sacred building, and they will testify to you that the spirit of their mission is upon them. ' They rejoice in its saving power. They go to be baptized for their ancestry in full faith that when the departed ones, in the spirit world, receive the Gospel message that the work thus done will be efficacious. Thus do we demonstrate our faith in the mission of Elijah the Prophet. 

We believe that every angelic messenger has come with a message, and each message to the believer has been followed by signs following. 

The priesthood has been restored to the earth. John the Baptist came, laid his hands upon the heads of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowde'ry and conferred upon them the Aaronic Priesthood, as recorded in the 13th Section of the Doctrine & Covenants. I commend this book of revelations unto you and suggest that it be read often, that the truth may be in your minds and in your hearts, that you may all know that the great forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ in the meridian of time has again appeared and through Him has come unto us the authority of the Priesthood which he held upon earth and by virtue of that Priesthood our deacons, priests, and teachers are ministering in the work of God. 

We also declare that Peter, James and John came and conferred the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood upon the head of the prophet. I exhort you all to read the story. This Church is of God. Our boys are ministering in the Aaronic Priesthood, our elders are  ministering in the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the power of God follows them in their work. We have all seen the fruits of their faithful labors. 

I trust that we shall receive an incentive today to be more diligent in this work, to meet with and teach it to our families, to inspire our associates as we bear this testimony, for the Master will require an account from us of our labors to advance His great work among the children of men. 

May the Lord help us in every good work, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD J. WOOD. 

(President of Alberta Stake.) 

I come from the extreme north, the Alberta stake of Zion — of Alberta, Canada. I am reminded of a story. There was a Swedishman applying for work as a collector. He went to a gentleman that had a store with a lot of old accounts to be collected. So the employer said, "All right, Brother Johnson, we will be glad to employ you, here are three or four accounts I would like you to go and collect." "All right," Brother Johnson said. So he took the accounts and went out, and came back. Soon the employer said, "Well, what did they say?" "Well, Bill Key, he say him pay when he sell him hogs, John Thomas, he pay when he sell him wheat, Yohn Johnson, he pay in Yanuary." Well, that is the first time that that man ever promised to pay his bill. Are you sure he said he would pay it in January?" "Ya, veil, he say he tank it be a cold day when he pay that bill, and I tank it be a cold day in Yanuary." It is a cold day when the people of our stake, the Alberta stake, one of the largest in the Church, do not attend their meetings. I heard what Brother Partridge said. I am rather glad I live in Alberta. We do attend our meetings there. We stand at the head of the list, having the largest percentage of people attending sacrament meetings, and we are proud of it. 

We are told that our stake extends from the Canadian boundary line on the south to the North Pole on the north. When I saw President Lund yesterday he said, "And the north shall give up — " "Not its dead," <l said, "the sea will give up its dead, but the Israelites' army shall come from the North." Two weeks ago today, Apostle David O. McKay and others participated in the laying of the corner stone of the new Temple in Cardston, Brother McKay offering the dedicatory prayer. It rained and it hailed, and it stormed; but it did not discourage us. We ,have a tabernacle, about the distance of this Tabernacle from the Temple. Brother McKay expected everybody to run to the Tabernacle. But no. We stood it out, and we had a good time. 

We appreciate the blessings of the Lord; and we appreciate the people that we live with there. The great Dominion of Canada sent one of their representatives to witness the ceremonies I speak of. We have the only member of the British Parliament who is one of our people who also attended, representing our constituency in the Provincial Government in Alberta; and a great many other people were in attendance. We are visited often by many people who travel through the country. They are very interested  the Temple. This member of the British Parliament complimented us by saying that, when the Temple was finished, it would be the best church edifice in Western Canada. 

I have listened with interest to what the other brethren have said. I was pleased this morning on hearing that a temple was to be built in the Sandwich Islands. I have been there a number of times, and spent many years on the Samoan Islands. I love the Polynesian Islanders, who we believe are of the same family as our Indians, all of whom I love very much. We have them in our country. I thought I would tell you of a dream that an Indian had, in the far eastern boundaries of Canada. Brother Goddard spoke about the fruits of the Gospel, the signs that should follow the believer. The story is of today, not anything that my grandfather heard, or that I have read in books, but an incident which happened recently. 

A tribe of Indians came to our country, called the Kree Indians. They were headed by a man named "Yellow Face." He said that he was a member of a council of five who lived in the eastern part of Saskachewan, the Province to the east of Alberta. They spend their time in the winter hunting and fishing. They roam around the country for that purpose, and then go back again in the spring. This man and his one hundred twenty-eight families came into our country, and camped in the woods by a river, right where the road led from two of our wards. We did not know anything of their business. They went about hunting and fishing. One day this man "Yellow Face" sent to a ward for the "high chief"  that ward, as he called him — we call them bishops — and wanted him to come to his tent and have a visit with him. These people had visited us. We had asked them into our meetings. They had come to our entertainments, and we had become interested in them. They are a very intelligent people, the Kree nation — not like the Indians here. They dress as we do, and they are educated. They have a written language of their own, not made by white men according to signs and sounds, but of hieroglyphics, composing a nice looking alphabet. This man sent for our bishop, and when our bishop came, he found a large tent, with the heads of these one hundred twenty-eight families there, and Yellow Face was sitting right in front, with one lady. So Yellow Face said to this bishop, "We want you to talk to us. We have been to your meetings. We have been to your parties. You have asked us to dine with you. Now we return the compliment. We want you to conie^ and visit us." Bishop Parker did not know what to say. He had never been on a mission, wasn't prepared to preach the Gospel. But he was struck with the sincerity he noticed in the people's faces as they sat in the circle. They were pleased to see him. So he told them about the restoration of the Gospel, and about our work of colonizing in that country. They did not seem much interested in that. After he got through, they said, is that all you know about your Gospel ? He thought and said, "Well, I believe I have told about all I know." "Well," Yellow Face said, "don't you have any book that you talk about?" "O yes," and Brother Parker then thought of the 

Book of Mormon. "Well, tell about that book." Brother Parker told all he could. It did not take very long, and when he got through, the Chief said, "That is all," and Brother Parker went home. 

About a week after, he sent for him again. Brother Parker did not know this time what would be expected of him. But he went, and found the same crowd there. This time, Yellow Face said to Brother Parker, "When you were here before, I sat there, and you stood here. This time I'll stand here, and you sit there, and so he related this story to Brother Parker: 

"Two years ago the high chief of our council had a vision." [Mind you this man never knew anything about our Gospel, never knew there was such a thing as visions or heavenly manifestations.] "Our high chief, the great chief of the Kree nation, had a messenger come to him that he never knew, and he told this chief, You are going to die, but you won't die all over. The chief did not know what he meant, and he said, When you die, I do not want you to be buried until you get cold all over. So the chief said all 'right; and he said he went with this messenger, as he thought he died. All the other chiefs thought he was dead. But he had told his nearest associates to watch his body when he went cold, from the extremities of his fingers, his toes, to follow how far his body was cold, and if they found a warm spot, not to bury him yet. So he was watched for five days, and only above his heart was a small place of his body yet warm. On the end of the fifth day, he came to, and he called all his council together, and told them he had been into a country where he saw his forefathers, walked with them, talked with them; and they told him that he would not yet die when he came to the earth, and that he was to go all over the country until he found a people who had the book in which was the history of the very people he had been with in the spirit world; and he said, I will give unto you four signs by which you may know the people. First, they will not drive you out of their country. Second, you can turn your horses loose. They won't steal them. Third, they will go through your village, and they won't rob the virtue of your Indian women. Fourth, they will let you hunt and fish on their domain." So he said to Brother Parker, "with my family two years we have hunted for such a people. You invited us into your meetings. We sat at the table with you in your picnic parties." [He had an interpreter tell all this.] " You have come through our village. You have not molested our women. We are fishing and hunting today on your Church lands. So I asked you. I watched you. We have watched your men, your young men, we have watched every action of all your people. When I heard you speak, it sounded like good news to me, and when you said that was all, I thought again I am disappointed. So I asked you if you had a book. You told me you had. That is our book. That is our history, not yours." 

So Brother Parker went and got the book, and brought it back to the Indians. The Indians took it, gave it to the interpreter, and had him sit down and read bv the hour. \w\ when he got through, the Indian took the book— did not think he had  buy it. He said, "It is our book, our history," and wrapped it up and took it away. 

They have visited us several times. They are a fine people. I pray that God will help us to remember some of the words of this book. I will read just one verse: "Ye cannot say when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this, for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time ye go out of this life shall possess your bodies in eternity." 

May God prepare us that when we lay down our bodies, when we go into the grave, that we may have the spirit with us of love and belief in eternity that these Indians have, because as .sure as the sun shines and we stand in the shadow of God's house, here on this Temple square, I testify we shall meet our friends on the other side. May we have the Spirit of the Gospel ever with us, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WM. H. RICHARDS. 

(President of Malad Stake.) 

This is the first time in my life that I have had the privilege of talking to an audience of this kind outdoors. It generally gives me heartfailure to stand before a congregation to try to expound the principles of eternal truth to them. It is not that I am ashamed of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, because, I can say as Paul said, "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, because I know it is the power of God unto salvation;" so, as I have stated, it is not because I am ashamed of the testimony that I  of the Gospel that makes me fear when I am called to bear it before a congregation. 

I feel to thank the Lord today, my brothers and sisters, that my parents were converted to the principles of the Gospel in their native land, and that they saw fit, through the prompting of the Holy Spirit, to yield obedience to the Gospel, to leave their native land, and to gather where the Lord has appointed for the gathering of Israel. I feel thankful today when I read of what is going on in their native land, thankful that they were converted to the Gospel and to the principle of the gathering, and that they came to this country where their children have been brought up and nurtured in the principles of eternal truth. 

I have never seen the time in my life, although I have been amongst a great many peoole who have not had much use for the Gospel, for the Latter-day Saints, or for any of their teachings, but I have never in my life seen the time when I felt that I needed to hang my head in shame because I was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints. T have alwavs held my head no. and felt to thank the Lord that that great privilege has come to me. 

While I have not had the nrivilege of going out into the world as a missionary, I have had some experience in working in the Gospel at home : but it has alwavs been in a presiding canacitv, and being backward in nublic sneaking: T have alwavs called on others to do the talkinp-. Nevertheless, as T have told vou. T havp a te«timonv of the Gospel, and I have never seen the time when T was afraid  bear it to outsiders or anyone else. I know that the principles of the Gospel are true. When we take into consideration the principles that are taught to us today by our Church leaders, we find that they compare favorably with the teachings of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, as has been explained to us this afternoon. 

May the Lord bless us, my brothers and sisters, that we may realize the position that we hold, and that in every action of our life the world may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven, are the blessings I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. M'KAY. 

An antagonistic minister subdued — The key to eternal life — Knowledge gained by doing — The will of God defined — Service to God and fellow men. 

With one exception, during a visit to the Central States Mission, this is the first time that I have attended an open air meeting since we met on Citv Poad, in old Glasgow. And an incident that occurred one night, about the last night that I was in the mission field, has been called to mind. 

We were met, as we approached the olac€ of meeting, by a motherly woman, whom I had never seen before, and have never seen since, who said, "The minister wi' a' his congregation is here the nicht, to break ud your meetin'. Stand close thegither. so he canna get in the circle." And =he and some of her friends ioined in that circle and helned us keen it. When the first sneaker be* fan to testify to the restoration of the Gospel, this alleged minister cried out. "These men are 'Mormons,' " and the Elder, who at that time was giving his first address in public out in the field, became somewhat confused, said a few more words, and stepped back in the ring. Then this interrupter had the crowd, and among other things, said, "These men come from Salt Lake City; they are after your daughters, and they want to take them out there and hitch them to the plow and make them work, and make slaves of them." Well, we called on Brother Leggatt, who was a resident of Glasgow, and he stepped out in the ring and said, "Fellow Townsmen," which gave the lie right at once to the minister's statement that we were all from Salt Lake City, and then Brother Leggatt bore his testimony in an excellent address. Well, that man continued his railing until our meeting was about half over, at which time the crowd began to realize that his heart was filled with animosity, and they silenced him, and listened to the message which the Elders had to give. 

That misguided brother and those who joined with him did not realize the importance of the message which those humble boys — for some of us were mere boys — had to give to the world. He thought, and those who sympathized with him thought, I grant sincerely, that those men holding that meeting were representatives of an organization whose purpose is to injure the people. They did not know — or if so then they were wicked indeed — that the message which those Elders had to give to the world was indeed, and is, the message of life, a philosophy which is the true science of living. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith,  in very deed, every way, the power of God unto salvation. It is salvation here — here and now. It gives to every man the perfect life, here and now as well as hereafter. 

Life is the dearest thing to us in all the world. Nothing else that you cherish as you cherish your life. You who would give your life today for some one else would give it in order to save the life of one who is dearer to you than your own life. So life is the one thing we hold to. It is the one thing we desire here and hereafter. Eternal life is God's greatest gift to man. 

What is eternal life? In that glorious prayer of intercession offered by Jesus, our Redeemer, just before he crossed the brook Cedron and received the traitor's kiss that betrayed him into the hands of the soldiers, we find these words, "This is life eternal, to know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou has sent." To know God and His Son is eternal life. There is the key. Life eternal is what I desire. I desire it more than I desire anything else in the world — life eternal for me and mine and all the world. And there in the words of the Redeemer I have the secret given to me in a simple sentence, "To know God and Jesus Christ, whom Thou hast sent, is eternal life." 

But how shall I knozv him ? That is the next question. How may I know Him? Has He, at any time, or on any occasion, answered that question? If so, I want the answer, because it is vital. In searching the record as it is given to us by men who associated daily with the Lord, I find uoon one occasion that men out in His audience cried out against Him. They opposed His works as men today opposed you,  fellow missionaries, when you were out in the field. And one voice cried out and said in effect, "How do we know that what you tell us is true ? How do we know that your profession of being the Son of God is true?" And He answered in just a simple way; and note the test : "If ye will do the will of My Father, which is in heaven, ye shall know whether the doctrine is of God or whether I speak of myself." That test is most sound. It is most philosophical. It is the most simple test to give knowledge to an individual of which the human mind can conceive. Doing a thing, introducing it into your very being, will convince you whether it is good or whether it is bad. You may not be able to convince me of that which you know, but you know it because you have lived it. That is the test that the Savior gave to those men when they asked Him how they should know whether the doctrine was of God or whether it was of man. 

But in considering His answer there is another question arises. // ye will do the will — what is the zvill? We can see what conditions will bring eternal life. We have the spoken statement that if we will do His will, we shall know; but now comes the question, what is the will ? And therein, my brethren and sisters, is the whole essence of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Just as plainly as Jesus stated and denned what was eternal life or how we should know it, just as plainly as He laid down that test, just as plainly has He expressed what His will is. 

These brethren, who have addressed us today, presidents of stakes, presidents of missions, have defined one by one in different ways,  of those principles which constitute the will of God. I am not going to take time — it would not be wise, even if I could — to narrate all the principles that constitute that will; but they are so simple that as the scriptures say, a wayfaring man though a fool, need not err therein. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints bears testimony to the world that this will of God has been made manifest in this dispensation, that the principles of the Gospel, the principles of life have been revealed. They are in harmony with the principles which Christ taught in the meridian of times. In harmony! they are the same; because they are eternal, as the principles given in all dispensations of the world : Faith — Why, who can dispute that faith is an eternal principle? You cannot live without it. It is as eternal as love, eternal, active and may be as constant as the force of gravity that is acting every day. Repentance. Why, it is not just in Scripture that you find that repentance is an eternal principal. Read Carlysle, you who take him as a guide, and like his reasoning. Do vou know that in contemplating this principle of repentance, he makes this statement, "The man who cannot repent is dead." And he is right. He felt the eternal element in that saving principle. It is part of life. It is a fatal condition to reach when one cannot repent. 

So we might go on with our principles.. But then you can sum it up in this, my fellow workers, that after obeying the principles and the ordinances of the Gospel the will of God is to serve your fellow man. benefitting them, making this world better for your being in it. Christ gave His all to teach us that principle. And He made the statement, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unlo Me." Why, Elders goingout to injure! to entrap the innocent! It is just the opposite. Their message is to bless. Their duty is to serve. There is the message which God has given us in the perfect organization of the Church referred to by our brother. That Church is God's Church, which is so perfectly organized that every man and every woman, every child, may have an opportunity to do something good to somebody else. Such is the organization of our Church, and that is the obligation of you ward teachers, the choir members, the high priests, seventies, and elders, and priests, teachers, and deacons, all the auxilaries in the Church, to serve and do God's will; and if we do, the more we do it, the more we shall become convinced that is the work of God; because ivc are testing it, and we shall knozv. Bobby Burns says, "The proof o' the puddin' is the' preein' o't;" which is just another way of expressing the same thing. 

Then, by doing the will of God. we get to know God, and get close to Him, and feel then that life eternal is ours. We shall feel to love humanity everywhere, and we can cry out with the apostle of old, "I know that I have passed from death unto life, because I love the brethren." 

In conclusion, let us all go from this meeting with a sincere determination to do what the poet has said he would like to do. 

It may not be on the mountain's height. 

Or over the stormy sea; It may not be at the battle's front 

My Lord shall have need of me; But if by a still, small voice He calls 

To paths that I do not know, I'll answer, dear Lord, with my hand in Thine, 

I'll go where you want me to go. 

Perhaps today there are loving words Which Jesus would have me speak. 

There may be now in the paths of sin Some wand'rer whom I should seek, 

O. Savior, if Thou wilt be my guide, Though dark and rugged the way, 

My voice shall echo the message sweet, 

I'll say what you want me to say. 

There's surely somewhere a lowly place, 

Tn earth's harvest fields so wide, Where I may labor through life's short day 

For Jesus the crucified, So trusting my all to Thy tender care, 

And knowing Thou lovest me, I'll do Thv will with a heart sincere, 

I'll be what you want me to be. 

I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, 

Over mountain, or plain, or sea; I'll say wdiat you want me to say, dear Lord, 

I'll be what you want me to be. 


