Morning
06 04 1915

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight." 

The opening prayer was by Elder William H. Smart. 

The choir sang the hymn, "High on the mountain top." 

PREST. SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I want to make a confession. I find myself a little bit lame, through carelessness. In trying to catch a car last night I was thrown off my feet, and a sprained ankle resulted. I am reminded of what my father said : "Never allow yourself to get careless. Wherever you are, and wherever you go, remember to be careful, take in the situation around you, watch and guard every avenue of danger so that no accident may happen to you, if you will do this through life, you will be free from hurt." I have considered that very good advice for me to follow all my life; but I missed the car, however, and limped clown to the theatre, where I enjoyed the opera given by the Emma Lucy Gates Company. I must say to you that I enjoyed one of the best musical treats that I have witnessed for many a day. I secured a seat near the orchestra where I could hear and see all the fine points of the vocal and instru music, and was amply repaid for my painful experience in limping to the theatre. 

I was happily reminded of the builder of that great institution of amusement, President Brigham Young. When I saw and heard his grand-daughter and the talented company that gave her support, in that beautiful production of the opera taken from Camille, the great French play which President Young used to enjoy so much. T was reminded of old times, and thoughts and memories came welling up in my heart and brain. I almost fancied I could see President Young, President Kimball, and President Wells, in their accustomed seats, witnessing the beautiful plays on that dear old stage. President Young understood the wants of his people. In constructing this house of amusement, he said that the people had seen too many serious phases of life, had witnessed so many sad scenes in their drivings and journeyings from city to city, and from state to state, finally making the difficult exodus across the plains, and enduring privations here for several years, being short of food and the necessaries of life. He deemed it very proper to give the people an opportunity to see the pleasant side of life and he gave them a chance to witness on the mimic stage less serious phases of existence, providing places for them to dance and to enjoy social life with each other. Those social gatherings, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  well as the theatres, I well remember, were opened by prayer, by a servant of the Lord stepping forth upon the stage of the theatre, or upon the musicians' platform in the ball room, before tne play or ball began, and praying before the Lord that the influence of His Spirit might be present and prompt those who acted upon the mimic stage, or those who danced, that their thoughts and actions might be clean and pure, and that this recreation might be a reminder of things that were good, and bring happy enjoyment of the specially selected plays rendered in a proper manner. T must say that, if Brigham Young were present, he would have been pleased with the rendition of that beautiful music, both vocal and instrumental, under the direction, and participated in, by one of his granddaughters, ably assisted by a company of bright young men and women. The orchestra was efficiently led by her brother, Cecil Gates. 

I am very glad to say that I am enjoying the spirit of this conference. I am in accord with the remarks of President Smith and his counselors, and all those that have spoken. I endorse the remarks of President Smith in regard to the welfare of the people, educationally; and I am in accord with every effort that is made to maintain the prestige of our Church schools. T see the necessity for them, as the authorities do, and I agree with them that it is better for us to represent ourselves and the principles that we love, the principles of the gospel, in a proper manner before our children, while their minds are in a condition to absorb true principles. Let the pure principles of the gospel be taught  in our Church schools, the Latter-day Saint high schools and colleges. I am glad to know that the University of Utah has become one of the leading institutions of learning in the West. I had the privilege of attending school in the old Council House, that stood on the corner where the Deseret News Building now stands. In that little stone and adobe building the university was begun. Orson Spencer was the chancellor or president of the university, as well as chief instructor, Orson Pratt. W. W. Phelps, and others were instructors also, and members of the regency, and as best they could with the facilities they had, they conducted the institution. I had the pleasure of attending the university when it was advanced still [further. D*-. Park was then at the head of the university, and the Doctors Benedict were instructors in chemistry and physiology; Dr. Bellieve was the professor of languages. There was at this time marked improvement over former years, because of improved facilities. Today, I am glad to say, it stands high among the institutions of this western country; and when I consider the efforts that are being made for progress in every educational department that this people arc concerned in, my heart rejoices at the success we are making. 

The L. D. S. Hospital had a very small beginning. It was first called the Deseret Hospital and was located in a large adobe building, opposite the Sixteenth Ward square, where the University of Utah was established later. This building was occupied as a hotel by David Wilkin, a partner of mine in the handcart missionary company. We started an institution to relieve suffering 105 , and did the best we could to make an institution where people could be cared for who were maimed or ill. The Dr. Groves' L. D. S. Hospital, is a credit to any people and to any country; and I am glad to say this of all the institutions of the Latter-day Saints. 

I was pleased to be reminded, in the prayer this morning, of our privilege of voting to establish temples, one in Canada and at this conference, one upon the Island of Oahu. This is in keeping with the progress of the work of the Lord, in providing for the spiritual education of the living, also for the development of those great principles which shall reach through time and beyond the vale, for the welfare of Zion, and her children, for the blessing of the living and redemption of the dead. This in fulfillment of the promise made by the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he said, the Lord will send Elijah, the Prophet, and he shall turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. That promise was fulfilled literally in the Kirtland Temple, for the Prophet records that he, in company with one of his chosen elders, prayed at the altar of the Kirtland Temple, and the Savior appeared to them and declared that He was their advocate with the Father. Then came Moses, committing to the Prophet the dispensation of the fathering of Israel; and Elias, committing the dispensation of the Gospel; and then came Elijah, the Prophet, fulfilling the promise that he would come and turn the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children. I rejoice today in the prospects that are before the Latter-day 

Saints. When I look around and see the many blessings that have been given to us in this year of our Lord, in the way of bounteous harvest, and in the encouragement the people have received to pay their tithes and their offerings; I see a time of prosperity before this people such as they have never known, if they shall prove faithful and true to (he trust committed to them. 

I was very much pleased not long . ago when one of my grandsons, the fifth generation from my grandfather, John Young, who had just returned from Camas. He had gone over to Camas, immediately his school closed, in search of work, and he had a very good position given him. He was manager, clerk, and operator in loading and unloading a hay wagon for thirty days, earning two dollars a day. When he came home, he said, "Grandpa, I want to pay my tithing. W r here shall I go? We haven't located yet in a ward since we came from the canyon." Someone has said, in criticism of this people and their doctrines, the doctrines of the Gospel, "Oh, you just wait till the third, fourth and fifth generation come along and you will find that faith has gone out of the hearts of your children and your grand children." It is not so, for I find faith existing in the hearts of our children today, bright and untarnished : and there is more faith, and greater numbers are evidencing that faith in the midst of this people, than ever before. And so it will be if we shall do our part, perform our full duties, in teaching our children in the pure love of God and the Gospel of His dear Son. Thus enabling them to recognize the light of truth and the right. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I do not in this matter wish to be understood to have any censure for our district schools, for the high schools, for our splendid University of Utah, they are in their proper place and they are doinggreat good. But I wish to encourage the thought that our Latter-day Saint schools are very necessary for in them our children are taught to receive, in their youthful and innocent minds, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, in closing I bear testimony to you that the Gospel is true, that this Church has the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, and that those who preside over the Church today are men God has chosen to preside over His people, and I say may God bless them forever, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

"How beautiful upon the mountains arc the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth." 

"Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: For they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." 

These words of the poet Prophet, Isaiah, came to my mind frequently during this conference, when hearing the testimony of our brethren as to the increase in membership and faith, and integrity and loyalty of our people, of their growth in temporal things, of the prominence that we have among our friends for  that goes for the uplift of humanity, and for the conservation of social virtues. And my heart was made to rejoice because I felt that Isaiah, in these words, was prophesying of this very time and day, and in prophetic vision had seen the Saints gathered in the tops of the mountains, had heard the reports of the brethren relative to Zion, which God has brought again and established for the last time. 

During the past season we have had, as reported, a great many visitors, and it has been my privilege in common with many of my brethren, to meet not only the leaders of our own state, but the leaders among men of affairs in this country and from the nations abroad. It was my high honor recently to become a member of several conventions, among which was the International Irrigation Congress. We held several sessions in the Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys, and then one in San Francisco, at the great Panama-Pacific International Exposition. It added to my faith to sit under the teachings of world renowned men day after day, to learn that in their ideals and striving after that which will benefit mankind most, they were following in the wake of the leaders of Zion. Men were present to this Congress from Australia, from New Zealand, from Hindoostan even, from China, and from the Dominion of Canada. Representative men of our own government, whcuhad been sent abroad to look into the civil and sociological conditions of Ireland, of France, of Germany and of Italy and to studv their modes of co-operation and community growth, brought home the knowledge thus gained to the United States, to enable our people 107  foster their best interests, to conseve the strength, and the manhood and virtue of her people, and to husband her finances by the subjugation of the soil, etc. 

To find that these men in their ideals, as I have said, were following in the wake of the leaders of Israel, made my heart rejoice and sing for the testimony of the truth it brought to me. I learned again that God is with His people, that He led them in the beginning of our history, that it was no chance at all that a modern Moses struck his plow share into the barren soil of the West here, and married the waters to the land, and made of this wilderness a garden of the Lord where "joy and peace, thanksgiving and the voice of melody" is found. I learned again that the spirit of cooperation and bf ithe building orf communities for the conservation of social virtues, for fostering of the drama, the school and the church, that they commend as essentially necessary for the growth of America, and for the proper redemption of the soil, and to turn away from the cities the thousands of men and women that become there "the slaves of clock and bell and prisoners of walled up streets," was the very methods that established our people in this land and made our little towns and villas and cities appear "like apples of gold in a platter of silver" held in the hands of plenty. It was an inspiration to me to hear these men say how they "must get nearer the colonist," and they "must studv his interests," "must see that land is procured at a more reasonable rate, that interest shall not be so heavy, a longer time for payment given," and that in this they are looking abroad for the best of the land, for the best men  women, the men of heart and blood as well as of mind and education, men who love mother earth, and nursing deeply from her precious and luscicous breast, shall receive full and rich compensation for their trust and toil. They will welcome the laboring classes, from Europe to America, and will assume the necessity of caring for them after they have been planted upon the soil; for we learn that the original purchaser has in most instances made a failure, and it is the second and third settler who has made a success of farming. 

We learn that as the cities have increased from sixteen to twentytwo per cent in population during the last decade, that in the country our increase has been but four per cent, so they are saying to you, "we must seek after the immigrant and, feel after him, look after the colonist, and nurse him, and not let interest abate just so soon as he has purchased a piece of ground. How familiar 'this doctrine must be to the ears of my aged brethren and sisters who were found by the Gospel in the old world, and were brought to this land by the "perpetual immigration fund," had their feet planted here upon the soil, then were nursed tenderly and carefully until they in turn were able to help care for themselves and aid others. In all these things, in all these avenues and vocations of trade mentioned by our leading men at our recent congress, I found an added testimony to the worth, integrity and divine guidance of the prophets of God. 

May the Lord guide us to His praise, and deliver us from evil, and enable us to recognize His hand in all things, that we shall keep the faith, and when we have finished GENERAL CONFERENCE.  labors in earth have the same acknowledged by our Father, and be crowned with eternal lives in His presence, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ORVIL L. THOMPSON. 

(President of Millard Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I hope that I may enjoy that same good spirit that has been enjoyed so abundantly by our brethren, as they have occupied this position during the sessions of this conference. My testimony has been strengthened and my faith increased in listening to the counsels and the testimony of those who have spoken in this conference, and I have felt that it is gcod to be here. 

T have been impressed most deeply by the comparisons that were made in the preceding session of the conference by Bishop Nibley, his statement of the activities and the spirit that characterizes the work of the Latter-day Saints as compared with others. As he spoke, the words of the Lord as they were given ancient Israel came to my mind, wherein He said, as He was preparing His ancient people that they might inherit the land that had been promised to them, He used these words : "Thou art a holy people unto the Lord thy God, and the Lord has chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto Himself above the nations that live upon the earth." I thought that latter-day Israel is measuring up to the standard that was set by the Lord for ancient Israel before they entered into their inheritance. The bishop made comparison of the forms and ceremonies of the latter-day work  those who have tried to copy, in a degree, some of these ordinances and forms, and pointed out the distinctive peculiarity that pertains to the Latter-day Saints and their worship. I thought of one other great feature of this work that he did not mention in his remarks This item was brought to my attention in the opening session of the conference, in the remarks of President Smith, and the announcement that was so heartily seconded and approved by the great assemblage on that occasion in regard to the establishment of a temple on an island of the Pacific. 

One of the peculiar and distinctive features of the gospel, of this latter-day work, has been the building of temples Very early in the history of the Church, even as early as December, 1830,a very few months after its organization, it was made known unto the prophet that there should be a house built unto His name, and a promise was made that the Lord would visit it, or suddenly come to His temple Early in the year 1831, at a counsel of the brethren held in Kirtland, a company of them were selected, and they were sent out into the then far west, and finally congregated in Missouri according to appointment, and there, on the 2nd day of August, 1831, a site was selected for the rearing of a house of the Lord, in Independence, Jackson County, but the building of this great temple was to be postponed for a time And again the Lord spoke to His people and pointed out the necessity of speedily erecting such a building wherein the ordinances of His house might be properly performed. And so, revelations were again given and a place selected, and a spot dedicated for the rearing of a temple in Kirt, Ohio, and in 1833 this work was begun, in the days of the poverty of the people, and amidst the bitterest persecution; in the days of limited numbers and means was this work begun. In 1835 the building had so far been completed that some rooms could be used for sacred purposes, and in that year some of the most glorious manifestations of the power of God and His goodness and mercy were given unto the prophet Joseph Smith, and those that were associated with him in the ministry at that time. 

It is stated in the history of the Church that a glorious vision was given previous to the final completion and dedication of the Kirtland temple, in which it is said that they beheld the celestial kingdom of God, and saw the transcendent glory of the gate through which the heirs of that kingdom should enter; they saw the Father sitting upon His blazing throne and the Son at His right hand; they saw the streets of the kingdom having the appearance of being paved with gold. Many other things of a marvelous nature, and of great encouragement to the people in their distressed condition, were given to the people at that time, which encouraged them to press forward in their spendid work so that the temple might be completed, which was accomplished in the year 1836 At the dedication of that temple more of the wonderful manifestations of the power of the Lord was given, so eloquently referred to in the opening prayer of President Smart this morning, and further referred to by President Seymour B. Young, wherein the Lord was seen standing upon the breastwork of the temple, and the veil was. taken from their eyes, and wonderful promises  made. The keys of the gathering of Israel, and of the blessing of the people, and the spirit of Elijah, all of these blessings were bestowed upon the brethren on this solemn occasion But persecution came, they were forced to leave the edifice which they had built to the name of the Lord, and. to move away from that sacred spot. Another site was selected and dedicated for the erection of a temple, in Far West, but the building of it was not allowed, and again, in November, having been forced to vacate the places where they had gathered and the Church centered for a time, and found a new gathering place at Nauvoo, again the voice of the Lord comes that a temple shall be built there. As they begin upon the twelfth year of their existence as a Church, in April, 1841, again dedicatory services are held, and the operation of building a temple is again begun. Persecution continues but, amidst all the trials that came upon them our brethren and sisters were faithful to their trust, and prosecuted their labors in faithfulness under the direction of the prophet and his associates. 

They were not permitted to see the completion of the temple at Nauvoo, for the Prophet and his brother were murdered by assassins in 1844, and the temple was not completed and ready for dedication until the spring of 1846. Under the leadership of Brigham Young, who took up the work where it was laid down by the prophet and his brother the patriarch, was successfully carried to completion that great work, in the days of the great poverty and persecution of the people. Again they were forced to flee from their homes, but after cr ossing the wilGENERAL CONFERENCE. 

 derness, as they entered this valley from the canyons on our east and looked over its barren waste, the prophet of the Lord saw in vision that this was the place; and four days later a site had been selected, and on that spot designated the prophet said, "Here shall we raise the temple of our God." 

And so, this has been a characteristic from the beginning, a distinctive feature of this Church, the building of temples. Then arose the necessity of a temple before this great edifice that now stands upon the Temple Block might be completed, and so in St. George, in the far south, one is erected, and dedicated, and one at Logan in the north, and another in Manti, the central part of the state, and later, in 1893, the - com pletion and dedication of the splendid edifice that stands upon these grounds. Now we hear with joy and our hearts do rejoice at the work proceeding on the erection of a temple in Canada, and the decision to erect another at Laie, on one of the islands of the Pacific ocean. It certainly is a testimony unto us that the spirit of Elijah is operating upon the hearts of the children of men today. I bear record that in the stake over which I preside this spirit is active, and is being manifested in the labors of our brethren and sisters, particularly the sisters of the Relief Society, who have taken great interest in this work. We have not many sick nor many poor that require the charitable attention of the sisters of our Relief Society, and therefore their efforts are being directed in preparing the records of the people for the work of salvation for the dead. 

I rejoice in the testimony which the Lord has given me of the truth  His work. I desire to bear it to you, my brethren and sisters, on this occasion, in connection with those who have borne testimony before. I know that this is the work of the Lord. May we live so that we may merit His blessings, and finally achieve salvation in His kingdom, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The hymn, "Ye simple souls who stray," was sung by John W. Summerhays as a tenor solo. 

ELDER SAMUEL E. WOOLLEY. 

(President of Hawaiian Mission.) 

Aloha no ia oukou apau. (A love greeting to you all.) 

1 feel that I have as much reason to rejoice this morning as any other person present, for truly the spirit of Elijah has been upon the people over whom it has been my good pleasure to preside for the past twenty years. The spirit of temple work, looking after themselves and their dead, has been in the hearts of that people for vears, and now we have voted to build a temple upon a piece of ground chosen of the Lord. 

That land, the land of Laie, was chosen by revelation, by a committee appointed by President Brigham Young, our President Joseph F. Smith being one of that committee. President Young appeared in spirit to one of the committee and said to him, "Upon this land we will build a temple." That was after the Church had been established upon the islands, and Lanai had been chosen as a gathering place for the Saints of that mission, and after the notorious Walter Gibson had taken advantage of the people, and procured deeds and bills of sale of all Ill  lands, and their goats and their sheep, and their turkeys or whatever they may have had, in his own name. He was excommunicated from the Church after a committee chosen and sent by President Young had investigated his case, and the people were forced to get away from Lanai. A committee of those sent remained and sought out a gathering place that the Saints might have a home. Now, this particular land, the land of Laie, now owned by the Church since 1864, was a city of refuge in olden times, because that people are of the pure blood of Israel, and we find among them until this day rites and ceremonies that were practiced by ancient Tsrael. and they had cities of refuge and Laie was one of those, and it will be an eternal city of refuge to the remnant of that portion of the house of Israel. 

I have felt for years that there would be a temple there, and I have put forth what effort the Lord has given me to that end trying to build up and beautify that sacred land. T believe in the near future that it will grow more than it has ever grown before, and the feeling and sentiment of the people, not onlv the Latter-day Saints but the sentiment of the outside, is coming toward us. A gentleman said to me onlv recently, he is manager of a large mercantile institution : "Mr. Woollev if I had mv way. if I were the directing authority of this institution, I wouldn't have anvbodv but 'Mormons' work for me." Many others have the same good reports to make of our people in that land. A few vear* ago we had the privilege of voting on a temperance move in that land. A committee was sent out over the whole group to ask the people, the Hawaiian people in par, their sentiments regarding prohibition, and the tabulation, according to the secretary of that committee, who introduced himself to me one day upon the street saying, ''Are you Mr. Woolley of Laie?" I said, "Yes, sir," He said, "I want to compliment you on the good work you people have done. I have the tabulation of the committee sent out to inquire after the feelings of the people, and I have this to say: "seventy-five per cent of those visited who are 'Mormons' are in favor of prohibition, seventeen per cent Catholic, and eight per cent of the church of whom I am a member, the Protestant, eight per cent only." He said: "I am ashamed, the missionaries who brought the Bible that we hold dear, to this land and only eight per cent, are willing to abolish liquor." There were a number of people, local elders, chosen as members of a committee of one hundred to labor for prohibtion, those who selected them not knowing they belonged to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but they were recognized as good solid men. One of the number of our people was one of the three who came here a number of years ago as a committee that went to Washington to intercede for her Excellency the Queen, who was dethroned, the late David Kalauokalani. He said to the chairman of the committee, Mr. J. P. Cook, "I have believed in this for the last forty years, I have been taught it in the church that I belong to." He says : "What church do you belong to?" "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." "Do they teach these things?" "Yes. and every other good thing." "Well." he said, "I never knew that before." "Because you never went to our meetings," was the reply. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

From that time we have grown in influence. Those men that took up and labored, in connection with the other denominations, for prohibition have grown and our influence is spreading out, and there is a good feeling towards us today, generally speaking. So I believe that, now we have voted for a temple, when that is completed and dedicated I believe that the spirit of prejudice will be allayed more and more, as it has been in every land and at every time we have dedicated a temple unto the Lord from the beginning. 

My heart rejoices in these things, and I love that people because the Lord loves them. They are a good people, and I want to tell you they will be on hand with their means whatever they possess, if it is called for; they will be there to assist, every one of them, and we have now 9,310 souls in the mission. I believe they will come and respond cheerfully with all they have, and they will help to maintain the Temple, because that is one of the characteristics of that people. Last August the Relief Society of Honolulu gave a public feast, on a square right in the center of the city, opposite the Alexander Young Hotel, a beautiful little place, and they were asked twenty dollars for the use of it. They gave this feast. It was upon a Saturday, and they cleared $1,265.00 over and above expenses, to erect a house for the poor at Honolulu. Before twelve o'clock Saturday night everything was cleared away, and left neat and clean, and the man in charge said, "Here is your twenty dollars, I took that because every other feast that has been given at this place has cost us twenty dollars to clear the refuse ." Another mark for our people. 

J feel now as I have felt for years, that every time I hear reports from other parts of the world concerning the people, (I have talked with President Smith about these things), I feel in my heart to mark Hawaii up one, and today I feel to mark her up another one. Think of it, the only mission, I believe, since the Church was organized that is going to have a temple, and I rejoice in it. Thank God for good men that the Lord can reveal His mind and will to. I sustain them every one in my heart and in my soul, and I hope to be true, true to the people, true to the Lord, true to the priesthood, and true to the covenants that I have made, and I hope to continue faithful to the end. I hope this for all of us, and for the Hawaiian people especially, because I am most interested in them. The Lord loves them; He chose men to go there in early days, He spoke to President Cannon with His own voice in that land. He came to Brother Cannon at Lahaina, Maui, and told him that He would lead him to a people that would receive the truth, and He did. Now there are tens of thousands of people who have joined the Church in that land, who have passed away without the Temple blessings, and there are tens of thousands who never did belong to the Church who were honest hearted. They will have to be worked for, and the Lord will have to help us to obtain their genealogies, because they haven't kept genealogy, but He can do it. He knows how, and He will do it in the right way too. 

May the Lord help us to prove true and faithful to the end, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 118 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(President of Mexican Mission.) 

"Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man. then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things. 

And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him. 

And as he spake these words many believed on him. 

Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples inded; 

And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." 

I rejoice very greatly, my brethren and sisters, at this opportunity of bearing my testimony to you of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Since the opening remarks at this Conference, by President Smith, this scripture has been in my mind, and it occurs to me that our duty as a people, is to continue in obedience to the words of the Lord as they are given unto us by His prophet, and by His inspired teachers, that we have among us. By thus doing we will become in very deed the disciples of the Lord, and we shall be able to know and discern the truth in all things, and the truth will make us, in the future, as it has done in the past, free from the evils of the age in which we live. It occurs to me that there is no other way given in the wide world, whereby the world may be rid of those things that are an abomination today, save it be giving heed to the word of the Lord as it comes to us, and living in accordance with that word. 

I want to ask the question if there is any system existing in the world today that can rid the world of the  of war, and of strife and bloodshed that exist in the nations, save it be by living in accordance with the doctrines as laid down in the Gospel of Jesus Christ? And, has there ever been any institution established that will rid men entirely of the evil of liquor, that will rid them of the evils of ambition, of profanity, and every other evil that we might mention, save it be the word of the Lord as taught in the Gospel of Jesus Christ? The Lord said, at the conclusion of that memorable sermon, the greatest sermon ever delivered to man on the earth, that sermon upon the mount : "He that heareth these words and doeth them, the same is likened unto a man who built his house on a rock," and whatever might come afterwards in the way of temptation, in the way of stprms that come into the human life, nothing could shake that man who built his edifice, or faith, on the word of the Lord as delivered there, and who obeyed those words. The Lord has said to those that doubt, "My doctrine is not mine but His that sent me; He that shall do the will of the Father shall know the doctrine, whether it is of God or whether I speak of myself." And the Apostle James said : "But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." Therefore I say to you, brethren and sisters, the thought that has come to me is, that it is our duty as listeners, our duty as the people of the Lord in this generation, to give heed to the word of the Lord as it has come to us and do according to that word, and thus shall we be made free, and we shall know of the doctrine that it is of God, and we shall rejoice as nothing else in the world can make us rejoice. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I rejoice to be able to bear to you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know that the Gospel is true. I know that the angel spoken of by John the Revelator has flown through the midst of heaven, and I know that through him the Gospel has been restored to the earth again. I bear you my testimony that Joseph Smith did in very deed receive a vision of the Father and the Son, because I know that it is true; and I bear you my testimony that he received, at the hands of angels sent from God, the holy priesthood that holds the keys and powers to establish this great work. By that authority he received, he did establish the kingdom of God upon the earth in this day and age of the world. In this Church exists the authority to administer in all of the ordinances necessary for the salvation of the living, and for the redemption of the dead. 

As a people we rejoice today in seeing the work grow, extending not only in behalf of the living but also in behalf of the many hundreds of thousands of people of honest hearts who have died without this privilege, and whose descendants now have the temple doors opened to them to work out for them, as far as it is possible for mortals to do for those who have passed beyond, a salvation in the kingdom of our Father in heaven. I rejoice also in the great missionary spirit among the living, and in the opportunity that I have had of laboring among the nations of the earth. I wish to bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that there are very many people in the world whom "the Lord loves, many who are not yet members of this Church for the simple reason that they have not had explained to them  principles of the Gospel. When the Gospel is carried to them they will with gladness receive it. Those of us who are fortunate enough to be laboring in the ministry abroad find such people every day in our labors. Very recently it has been my privilege to travel in parts of the country where the gospel has not been taken before, among descendants of the original natives of this land of America, down in Colorado and in New Mexico, and we find the people anxious and willing to receive the teachings of the Gospel. I rejoice in having the privilege of carrying it to them. 

I do not desire to occupy your time, my brethren and sisters. I feel good in this work, and I rejoice at the privilege of bearing this testimony, that I do know that God lives and that his priesthood is among us, and our duty is to hear His word, with open hearts, from those men who have authority to give it to us, because it is the word of God Let us, my brethren and sisters, live each day of our lives in accord with the word of the Lord as it comes to us, and we shall indeed be made happy, and free from all of the sins that exist in the world today. May the Lord help us to understand His purposes and to live in accordance with the light that we receive, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

It is not always possible for the younger element in the Church, who have been born and raised in these peaceful valleys, to understand what it has cost to produce those wonderful results that we have heard something about today, and during the 115  sessions of this conference. We have not contributed very much, some of us, in comparison to what our parents and grand-parents have done. I believe that no man can fully appreciate and deeply love this gospel unless he or she does something for it. I have discovered that those who have labored earnestly, who have sacrificed much, loved much, and I believe that if the young men and women of this Church shall continue to love God's truth they must serve in the proclamation of that truth, and in the establishment of that truth in their lives. 

No great things have ever come to the world, of any value, except through sacrifice. We recount the experiences of the past and discover that Jesus gave His life for the most precious thing that we have in the earth today — the plan of life and salvation. Apparently it could not come without sacrifice. It required great sacrifice on the part of the founders, under God, of this work. Many of them gave their lives for it. It required sacrifice on the part of the founders of this great government. I have felt, as I have come to understand and realize, in part, the purposes of God, that this glorious work, "Mormonism," in some manner and way is linked with the great and glorious institutions God our Father has established in America, that they shall go forward, these two great forces, one to break down political bars that have kept men's minds and hearts in slavery, and make the way. for liberty to come to all lands, judging among the nations in the settlement of wars, and the establishment of righteousness, politically, among the nations of the earth. As a hand  and companion with this mighty force looking to the establishment of political liberty shall be found that other great companion of truth, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, proclaiming the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which shall destroy the error and superstition, and false notions that men have had with respect to God, His purposes and desires; and they shall accomplish ultimately the human redemption and emancipation of our Father's children. 

My heart goes out in gratitude that, notwithstanding it has not been permitted to many of us young members of the Church to stand in those perilous positions that have been occupied by our fathers, in building the bridges, subduing the wilderness or in standing before mob violence; that here, after all, are chances perhaps grander than any that ever came to them, to show our manhood, our integrity, and our devotion to the work of God at a time when, perhaps, it takes more strength, more moral courage, to stand out against the allurement of the world, and to be a true, clean, honest, upright servants of God. I feel that if the young men and the young women of this Church can succeed in weathering the insidious influences that are arrayed about us everywhere to destroy true ideals of life, if we can resist and become triumphant by the mastery of ourselves, subjecting ourselves to these gospel principles that we have heard about today, we shall win laurels, place and positions of renown that shall not be excelled by any who have preceded us. 

I believe with all my heart, my brethren and sisters, that it is possible to do a service today that shall GENERAL CONFERENCE.  as acceptable to the Lord as any that has been performed. I feel that we are in unfinished stages of the work of the Lord. I thank God that we have watchmen upon the towers, such as the President of this Church and these leading brethren, constantly calling our attention to the unfinished work that is yet to be accomplished. I believe that the Lord Almighty intended to establish here, as the result of the introduction of this gospel, a perfect race of men and women who shall be an inspiration to the world, the very light upon the hill. We haven't yet perfected ourselves; there is much yet to be clone to bring to pass that perfection in our lives. I am thankful that there are teachers in the Church willing to devote their time to visit the members of the Church. I feel that this is one of the great and important labors of this present hour and time, that we shall reach out to every home, that every father and every mother shall be anxious to keep prominently and conspicuously before the minds of their children the true picture in the mind of our Father when He established this truth, that we shall build on the foundations that have been laid until we shall perfect our lives and by this t>rove to the world that the great philosoohy of "Mormonism," the wonderful truth God has given is practical, it is workable. 

The world is full of theories that are not practical. These theories and philosophies of eternal truth are practical; they work out. We must prove that they work out, and then we shall have no difficulty in persuading men and women to believe in the truth that the Lord has given to us. While at the present time, in some sections of the world, the de of the message of the gospel is curtailed because of the great distress of the nations involved in war, it may be the winter of the preaching of the gospel, so far as the European nations are concerned. If it be so, I pray you, my brethren and sisters, that we shall be wise during this winter season, that thousands of able and efficient men in this Church shall get out of debt and shall prepare themselves, by gather ing strength during this waiting season, that when the cry shall come once again, "Lo, the harvest is ripe," we shall be prepared. I testify to you that there will be called hundreds where tens have gone into the European nations, when this mighty struggle is ended, and it is essential that we shall be preparing ourselves now, to save faith in God in the world. 

I believe that men's faith is being shaken; they are being tried, and they are turning away from God and away from Christ, and away from their hope and belief that the gospel which they had would solve the world's difficulties and bring peace on earth and good will toward men. We shall have to preserve that faith. We shall have to preserve the eternal principles by the message that God has given to us. Now don't imagine, my brothers and sisters, that while the Lord has been merciful and kind to us and has brought us, one of a city and two of a family, — and oh, how thankful I am that that is true, — away from Babylon, away from the turmoil and strife of the world, that we be not patakers of her plagues and her judgments, don't imagine that the Lord has brought us here to enjoy this gospel alone. I conceive that He has called us simply to persuade 117 , simply to be qualified as teachers for the nations of the earth, and our mission is to all the world. We did not come to these valleys of the mountains just to reap and to sow, to plant and to gather the good things of the earth and be contented enjoying the blessings of a material and a spiritual character, for our families and ourselves. We came here true to the prophecies of old, to become teachers unto the nations, the salt of the earth, the light on a hill. Our mission is unto the East and the West, the North and the South, and I am beginning to feel, I believe, as I come in contact with our Father's children, more of that spirit and feeling that the Lord really has. 

I was impressed a few months ago, by an appeal that a father made concerning an only son who was in the mission field. The boy had not shown much interest in the work of the Lord, and the father said, "Oh, go to my son; do something for him.  He is my only son, and 1 love him with all my heart, but I can't reach him. Won't you please go and do something for him?" And then the vision arose up in my mind of another father, the very Eternal Father who loves His children with a love greater than that exhibited by this father, and I in fancy could hear the appeal of that Father in heaven to you and to me and to those who have been called and who have  listened : go unto them, my children, for I love them. Call them away from the folly of the world; call them away from the powers of the adversary and bring them back unto me. And so I do love the children of men in the world. I don't love their wickedness, but I do love their souls. They  precious before the Lord, and I must have burning in my heart an anxious desire to call them to the Father, away from error, and away from superstition and darkness. 

My heart rejoices in this work. The more I do for it, the more I love it and the more I appreciate it. I feel thankful that in this western country, out in the northwest where I have the joy to labor, that there are a good people, broadminded, liberal, not so narrow as many in other sections. I felt, while President Monson was referring to the apparent success of those who are traducing the character of the Latter-day Saints in the East, that not one of such workers as those could succeed in the Northwest. There is a broad, liberal, generous spirit there. Only a few weeks ago, to illustrate, in the city of Portland, where delegates from seven western states had gathered in a great water-power congress, the governor of this state presided over the deliberations of that body the entire time. Everybody knew he was a "Mormon" and nobody objected. President Hart, who spoke to you, was the chairman of the committee on credentials, and Brother Smoot was honored with that most important position of being chairman of the committee on resolutions. Everybody knew who these men were.' There was not one to raise a voice of complaint, but all were pleased to see them. I feel that we were blessed indeed, surrounded in this western country by broad-minded, liberal men in these western states who are our friends. Thpv will help us to win the East. 

God bless us that we shall continue, out in the settlements where we live, to be exemplary and to win GENERAL CONFERENCE.  respect of good men and women, and I know we will do it if we come up to the teachings of this conference. 

There is no revolt against the leaders of this Church that corresponds to the vain babblings of some who thought they had discovered a schism and a break. I tell you, and I am sure that I speak for and in behalf of the tens of thousands of young men in this Church, that there never was a spirit of loyalty exhibited by any generation of men in this Church that excells the spirit of loyalty, devotion and faith manifested by the young men of this Church today. If there is a revolt, I pray that it may ,be a revolt against evil, a revolt against the sins of the world and a resolution and determination that we, the young men of this Church, shall prepare ourselves to step forward in the grand work of the future, perfecting our own lives and calling the world to God and to our Christ, which may the Lord grant in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Rouse oh ye mortals." 

Elder Louis W. Shurtliff pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. 


