Overflow
03 04 1915

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m. The services were presided over by Elder George Albert Smith, and the Miller and Burton Ward choirs furnished the music, under direction of W. S. Lamoreaux. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Hosanna." 

Elder Franklin R. Snow offered the invocation. 

A male chorus rendered the song, "We love thee, Utah dear." ELDER ALMA MERRILL. 

(President of Benson Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice this morning with you in having the privilege of attending our conference. I always rejoice whenever I have the opportunity of meeting where so many of the Latter-day Saints assemble, because of the fact that, in assembling with the Latterday Saints, it seems to bring a spirit of peace and contentment that makes a person feel as if he were at home. When we are in possession of this spirit, my brethren and sisters, surely we are in possession of the Spirit of the Lord. 

We have engaged ourselves in the great latter-day work. A great many of us have been born and reared in the Church, and a large number also have heard the gospel in their native lands, and have gathered to this goodly land where we can serve God and keep His commandments. I often wonder if those of us who have come up to the Valleys of these Mountains, and those who have been born and reared here, and have arrived to the age of manhood and womanhood, if we really understand our true positions, if we really appreciate the great blessings and favors that the Lord has bestowed upon us. Do those who have come from foreign lands really appreciate the great favor that the Lord has granted them in establishing them safely on this soil, a place our Heavenly Father has designated for the establishment of His work? I wonder if we realize the great responsibility that rests upon us as His servants who have received the Holy Priesthood, who have accepted the priesthood of our own free will, and are we magnifying this priesthood as we should ? 

Now you all know, no doubt, that there is great responsibility being placed upon the authorities of the stakes and wards, by the general authorities of the Church, in regard to seeing that the acting teachers are doing their duty in visiting the homes of the Latter-day Saints. I wonder, my brethren and sisters, why we need so much urging, so much coaxing, so much pushing to get us to magnify our callings, and get us to do that which is required of us as the children of our Father. This is His work that we are engaged in, and each one should feel zealous; each one should feel that it is a privilege to take part in this great latter-day work, because we are working out our own salvation, and individually we are the ones who are receiving the blessing, and not those who visit us from time to time and urge us to do our duty, to keep ourselves moving, to keep in the path of life and honor before our Heavenly Father. 

It is a great privilege to be associated with the great latter-day work our Father has established. He has allowed us, His children, to be born in this gospel dispensation, and have all the privileges of the Gospel vouchsafed to us. We have many things conferred upon us that our fathers did not have, opportunities that have cost them their lives, in some instances. It has cost our fathers and mothers a great deal to subdue this western country, and bring it into the splendid condition that we find it today, and the younger generation are enjoying the fruits of their arduous labors. Do we appreciate the great blessings that have been bestowed upon us ? Are we serving God and keeping His commandments? Do we attend to our prayers in the morn and in the evening? Do we teach our children the principles of life eternal? or are we becoming neglectful in these things? Do we attend to our duties on the Sabbath day ? or do we neglect them, and go pleasure-seeking? These things, my brethren and sisters, are confronting us as Latter-day Saints. I wonder how it will be with us if we do not keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father, for He has said that we must serve Him and keep His commandments, for this is the land of Zion. 

I have had the privilege, on two occasions recently, of going west and visiting another part of our country, the Raft River stake of Zion, which is scattered over a considerable scope. I found that, while the people are much scattered, and have to go many miles to assemble to worship the Lord on the Sabbath day, yet they do assemble on the Sabbath day in mass, almost all of the people belonging to the Church, and many who do not, to worship God, our Heavenly Father. It made my heart rejoice when I visited that country and saw so many people gathered to worship our Heavenly Father. I had no idea that there were so many of our people located in that country. I found they were located in every nook and corner, so to speak. There are many such opportunities for settlement, where our people can build homes, and be taught the principles of the gospel and live in peace. They have many of the conveniences of life, and some they do not yet have. They have the auxiliary organizations of the Church, under direction of the priesthood. And so we find it, my brethren and sisters, over much of this western land. 

I trust and pray that the Lord  bless us during our meetings in this conference. May the peace and blessings of our Father rest upon us. 

I bear you my testimony that this is the work of the Lord, and Joseph Smith, the Prophet, stands at the head of this gospel dispensation. May the Lord continue His blessings upon us, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, "Come Unto Me and Rest," was sung by Luella Ferrin Sharp and L. Van den Akker. 

ELDER JOHN F. TOLTON. 

(President of Beaver Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice this morning in the opportunity we have of meeting together in conference capacity. I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the fruits thereof, in the testimony of the Spirit, and in the evidences that we have of the great work that has been established by our Father in these latter days. I rejoice in the labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the establishment of this work, in the testimony that he gave to the world, and that we who have succeeded him in the work are the beneficiaries of his life and labor, and what he did for humanity. 

I was just reading in our hymn book the words that were written by Apostle John Taylor, immediately succeeding the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, wherein he says : 

"O give me back my Prophet dear And Patriarch, O give them back, 

The Saints of Latter-days to cheer, And lead them in the Gospel track." 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, how it is possible to give back to the latter-day Saints, in this day and age of the world, our Prophet and our Patriarch. His words and his life work have been pictured by poets, by orators, and by historians — and these we have with us — that we may revere him, and know him as he was. We have gifted singers who sing the hymns of Zion, and tell us in beautiful language what the Prophet Joseph Smith has done for ,the Latter-day Saints and for the world. But I wonder, at times, if there is not yet in the future another means which will be used in order that we may have with us the Prophet of our God, in this age of the world. It occurs to me, inasmuch as it has been stated, that there never has been a true likeness and picture given to the world of the Prophet Joseph, that there must come a time in the future when, out of the gifted young men or women of Israel, there shall arise a sculptor or painter who will picture upon canvas, or in marble, a true likeness and representation of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Then I cast my eye back over the pages of history, and I wonder which of the many great incidents in his life is the most appropriate one, that reveals the true character and manhood of this wonderful man. 

I see him first in Richmond jail, Missouri, manacled and in irons, as he lay there with his brethren, listening to the ribald stories that were being told by his jailers, of how they had ravished the daughters of Zion; and the beautiful picture of that scene which followed, as portrayed under the inspired pen of Parley P. Pratt, wherein he states that, suddenly, the Prophet arose to his feet and, in a voice of thunder, commanded those jailers to cease their ribald stories, declaring  them that, unless they did cease, he or they would die that minute! Would not that be an inspired picture, as the servant of God, manacled as he was, commanded the guards and jailers to remain silent, and cease their ribald stories? It is said that the jailers were completely subdued, and slunk off into corners or begged for mercy at his feet. 

T again see him upon the river bottoms near the city of Commerce, which afterwards became the beautiful city of Nauvoo. as he moved among the people who were living there in the agony of pain, suffering from the fever and disease which had come to them as the result of their exposures and hardships. I see him in the attitude of a ministering angel, as he goes from camp to camp, and from tent to tent, carrying with him the spirit of light, of truth, and of healing power, as he ministered to the afflicted Saints and comanded them to arise from their beds of affliction and how, when he was overcome with fatigue, he withdrew and left Wilford Woodruff and others to continue the good work he had begun. 

I see him again as he stood upon the platform in the city of Nauvoo, delivering 'his last address to the Saints before his departure for Carthage; and as he stands there,' addressing that vast multitude, he draws his sword and holds it out on high, and says : "I call on God, angels, and men to witness that I have drawn my sword in defense of the lives of my people, and that it shall not be sheathed again until they have received the legal rights to which they are entitled, or my blood shall flow as water upon the sand." 

I see him again the day before his martyrdom, as he is being  in a room of the hotel where officers of the Carthage Grays, and others, came into his presence out of curiosity, that they might behold this wonderful man that had been spoken of so freely. And as they stood in the presence of the prophet, he realized that curiosity prompted their presence there, and he said unto them. "Do you see anything in my appearance that would indicate the criminal that I have been pictured by my enemies ?" One of the officers spoke up and said, "No, General Smith, we do not see anything in your appearance which would indicate that you are the hardened criminal that you have been pictured by your enemies; but we cannot see what is in your heart, neither do we know what is in your mind." The Prophet Joseph replied to them, and said, "It is true, gentlemen, that you cannot see what is in my heart, neither do you know what my intentions are; but," he said, "I can see what is in your hearts, and I know what your intentions are. You are thirsting for my blood, and you will not be satisfied until you have taken my life's blood. But I want to say unto you that it is not for crime of any kind that I and my brethren have been persecuted, but it is because we have stood for truth and righteousness, and I tell you further that the time will come when you shall see blood to your hearts' content. Men who are here in my presence will live to see the day and time when they will look into the cannon's mouth, and when they will see blood and rapine to their hearts' content. This I leave with you, and when that time comes, you will realize that what I have spoken has been the words of truth." 

We have but to refer to the his of the civil war, which occurred some 17 years later, to see that very section of country where the Prophet was then imprisoned become the scene of blood, and resounded with the roar of cannon and musketry; and those who had killed the Prophet Joseph, who had sought his life's blood, were thus given the opportunity to witness scenes of war, contention and bloodshed, rapine and violence to^ their hearts' content, I do not believe there was ever a more true prophecy spoken by the mouth of a Prophet than that uttered on that memorable occasion by the Prophet Joseph. And so I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he realized that the burden of this work would eventually roll from his shoulders upon those of his successors; and that as a prophet of God he has attained to the eternal honor and glory that shall reward those who are faithful in keeping the commandments of God; which I testify, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MILTON H. WELLING. 

(President of Bear River Stake.) 

The brother who offered the opening prayer, this morning, gave inspiration to an oft-repeated thought that is in the hearts of men and women in this Church, when they call upon their Father in heaven. It was a simple expression of gratitude to God for membership in this Church. I rejoice that I have membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I believe that is the reason that you are here today also. Not because you desired to be seen or heard of men, but simply because you were grateful to God the Eternal Father that you had a membership in His Church. I am indeed grateful for my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I heard the same thought expressed over in my stake of Zion, the other day, by a little child, in a meeting where children had the privilege of participating, and the children gave tbe exercises of the afternoon. A little child, who was scarcely able to enunciate his words properly, stood up and said to the people with a spirit of simple dignity that touched my heart; "I am glad to have a membership in the Church of Christ." 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that membership in this Church confers blessings and privileges, and power that men in all the world, if they but understood it, would be clamoring for. It does not matter whether one has money or not. It does not matter if we are compelled to get along without the wealth of the world. But we are here as members of this Church, expressing the gratitude that is in our hearts for simply belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ. I trust that, with the blessings that come with such membership, we Latter-day Saints realize that it has brought obligations to us as well, that membership in the Church is not a blessing that does not require that we who have it should pay for it, but that we should so live that our lives would make us worthy of membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

I have heard so often in my life the thought expressed that it would have been a magnificent thing to have lived in the past ages, to have lived and been able and willing to suffer, if need be, with those who have been martyred for the sake of righteousness and truth, from the  when the Savior lived upon the earth. We marvel today that men did not understand His ministry, that those who ought to have befriended Him rejected His testimony, and crucified the Christ. When the Prophet Joseph lived upon the earth, as has been very beautifully and strikingly expressed to us this morning by President Tolton, the people misunderstood his ministry, rejected his testimony, and killed the prophet of the living God. We who live today feel that it is a remarkable thing that those people did not better understand the significance of the ministry and work of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. I am one of those, my brethren and sisters, who believe that being a member of the Church today is fraught with just as great significance as it ever has been in the history of the past, and I believe that it is just as needful today for us to be absolutely faithful, and devoted to the teachings that we receive from the servants of God, as it has ever been in the past history of this Church, or of any church instituted for the worship of our Father in heaven, in any dispensation of the gospel. I sometimes think that our people in studying and contemplating the history of the past lose the proper significance of their relationship to the Church of Christ today. 

I wonder if, in hearing the splendid testimonies, and reading the splendid writings of these men who have lived and died for the interests of the Church, and the establishment of the Gospel in times past, if we feel that our lives and the lives of other men today are just as important in the work of God as any that have preceded them, humble though they be, I believe that the Lord re of His children today a devotion and service in the interests of the Church that is just as binding upon us as it has ever been in times past. I cannot conceive of anything that we are doing, or trying to do, that would bring greater condemnation to us than a departure from the testimony and the faith that has been handed down to us from our fathers. 

I believe, as President Tolton has said, that it is a proper thing to contemplate the ministry of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and to learn therefrom the great lessons which he presented to the world. I believe that these young men and women that live today, and older men and women, have had made plain to them the necessity of conforming their lives to the lives of these great leaders of the Church in the past; if we do not conform our lives to their testimony and teachings we will be under the greater condemnation because of our knowledge in that respect. 

I have great pleasure in saying that I believe the young people in this Church- at heart are true; but I wish that we could put away more of our indifference. I wish that we were more steadfast and more devoted in our attitude towards the servants of the Lord in this Church. I believe, if that was our attitude, we would be a better people than we are today, more worthy of the sacrifice that was made by the Prophet for the Church, more worthy of the sacrifice that was made, later on, by the indefatigable labor of our fathers, in conquering the desert for our sake. What condemnation could be greater today for us than to be unworthy of the men and women who have builded this great empire in the west ? 

It is my firm conviction and belief that the young people of today will be worthy of their fathers and mothers, will be worthy of every sacrifice that has been made in order that we might establish ourselves here in the very choicest spot, apparently, that there is upon the face of the whole earth. How grateful we ought to be, how devoted our service to our Father in Heaven! I say, fervently today, I am grateful for my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and being grateful, I desire to express that gratitude, that appreciation, in the service of the Church! T don't believe there ever was a time in the history of this organization, or ever will be, when service for the Church of Christ is more important than it is todav. when men should be faithful and true to the obligations they have entered into in holy places, when men should honor the Priesthood of the living God, and when they should be willing to go and testify to the world that they know of a truth the divinity of the Gospel which they have espoused. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that the Gospel is true, and I know that there is pleasure, satisfaction, and joy to those who devote themselves faithfully to the work of the Lord today. 

Mav God bless the hosts of Israel who have assembled here at this conference, and may His Spirit direct and overrule everything that is said and done here for our good, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Luella F. Sharp, and choir, sang the anthem, "Gospel Restoration." ELDER HENRY H. BLOOD. 

(President of North Davis Stake.) 

This is a very inspiring sight that has met my gaze, as I have been sitting here upon the stand this morning, a very unusual one to me. I am sure that I shall be voicing the sentiment of all who are here present when I testify, as my brethren have who -have preceded me, that I am profoundly grateful for the gospel, and for the testimony which the Lord has given to me of its truth. I have no misgivings about the future of this Church. I am positive that it is founded upon the solid rock, and that it will stand, and though I expect there will be renewal from time to time of persecution, I am still quite sure that the membership of this Church will not decrease, but that it will increase year after year until the Church, and the influence of the Church, shall spread over the whole earth. I feel quite positive that the youth of Zion will stand true and firm. As a member or a representative of the third generation of a family of Latter-day Saints, I am proud to say that I have full faith and confidence in the authorities of the Church as constituted today, and in the power of God as made manifest through the ministrations of the brethren who stand at the head of the Church. 

I have been thinking, this morning, of a conversation I had recently with a gentleman located in Utah, who came from one of the Eastern states, and has, for about four years, been quite intimately associated with our people, and is a student, more or less, of the gospel. He has studied our social conditions, and in the course of his residence among us has come to regard  people very highly. In the conversation referred to, the gentleman said : "I think I see signs of the time coming when we shall have arrived at a unity of faith. I believe that during my residence among your people I have observed a tendency of your coming somewhat toward us, and I think that, in some respects, the other churches are drifting toward you. I look forward to the time when your Church will not be quite so particular about its forms and ceremonies, and ordinances and the things you now hold sacred and necessary, and which differentiate you from other peoples and other churches of the world, when you will lay them aside and when we shall all view religious matters from almost if not quite one standpoint." 

Now, I have been thinking about that, and I have wondered if there is anything in connection with the outward expression, at least, of our religious life which would lead an outside observer to believe that we are veering somewhat from the straight line that our fathers and our mothers followed;, if, indeed, our faith in these ordinances, and our reverence and respect for them, is diminishing. T am not at all pessimistic about this, but if there should be some such tendency — and it may be that you who are assembled here will have obesrved it if there is such a thing — it is a good * time for us to discover it and check it. We might profitably take stock of ourselves, and see if our faith is as surely and safely founded upon the rock of revelation as was that of our parents; if we recognize as fully as did they the necessity of having performed for us the sacred ordinances of the gospel; if, for instance, the young people of to are just as desirous as young men and young women were in earlier days of the Church that when they take partners unto themselves it shall be under the sanction of the priesthood of God, and in the places that He has appointed; or if there is a disposition to disregard this very important privilege, and to feel that it does not matter so much whether they are married by civil contract or in the temple of the Lord. If such a sentiment is found, it would be prudent for us to do all in our power to correct it, for, my brethren and sisters, the ordinances and ceremonies of this Church have been revealed as part of the gospel, and no one of them can be omitted or disobeyed by us, if we are to attain salvation in the celestial kingdom of God. 

We sometimes hear it said, by those who have no faith in the Church, or in the efficacy of its ordinances, that so long as a man is honest and does right to his fellowmen, all will be well with him in the hereafter. There is doubtless truth in that statement, but it is not the whole truth. There is a just God, and every man will receive a reward for the good he does. If he is honest, he will receive the reward of an honest man. If he is virtuous, he will receive in this world and in the next the reward of the virtuous. If he is truthful, he will receive a truthful man's reward. And so with others of the Christian virtues mentioned by the Apostle Paul, and which have been reiterated in our Articles of Faith, wherein it is said, "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." Men of the world can do and be all of these things, and many of them are perhaps living up to  laws equally as well as many of the Latter-day Saints. But these laws, my brethren and sisters, pertain to this world. They have to do with our relationships with men here on earth. They belong to the terrestrial plane, and living them will bring a terrestrial reward. Honorable men of the earth are entitled to this reward and this glory. But there are higher laws to be obeyed by those who wish to receive a celestial reward; spiritual laws that govern in the eternal world beyond. The principles of faith and repentance, the ordinances of baptism and confirmation, and all the other forms, and ceremonies and ordinances which the friend of whom I spoke thought would sometime be dropped by the Church, these must all be observed and performed. I testify to you that not one of them can be or will be dropped, or changed or omitted by the Church. On the contrary, they will stand forever as essential principles and ordinances in the Gospel of Christ. 

Faith is the principle that unlocks the door to the higher kingdom. When men have faith in their hearts, they will repent of the sins they have committed, and penitently they will go before trie Lord as those devout Jews went penitently before the apostles on the day of Pentecost, when they cried with one voice, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" Whenever a man exercises faith and turns unto the Lord with that question on his lips, the answer will be to him as it was given by the Apostle Peter on that memorable day : "Repent, and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." Thus baptism becomes the door to the higher kingdom of God. Without this ordinance no man can be saved and exalted. It touches particularly the spiritual part of his being. Baptism and the confirmation which follows it are absolutely necessary if a man is to get into communion with God, his Father. Hence these ordinances mean everything to us. They have always been, are now, and will always be a part of the Gospel of the Lord, and can never be taken away from it. 

And there are other ordinances and ceremonies of like importance. If I were speaking to a group of young people contemplating marriage, I should suggest to them to be careful when selecting companions in life, that they choose those who can go with them before the priesthood of God, into the temples that have been prepared for that purpose, and there be united for time and for all eternity. Men of the world can unite them for time, and have authority to do so, but the power has never been given unto the ministers of the various denominations to unite a man and a woman in marriage for more than time, or only until death parts them. 

But how different with the Latter-day Saints! We know that the Lord has given the priesthood unto men, and commissioned them to perform on earth the rites and ceremonies that are essential to prepare men and women for the life to come. Thus, to us, the ordinances of baptism, confirmation, blessing, administrations, ordinations, and marriage, are sacred and necessary parts of the gospel. We cannot dispense with them. And so, our young people are taught that when they marry they should do so under the blessing of the priesthood, and in the places prepared for this pur, so that when they go beyond they may meet their life's companions, and continue there the relationships that have been so dear to them in life. 

My brethren and sisters, let us not lose the reverence our fathers and mothers have always had for these sacred ordinances. I thank the Lord that in this Church there has been established with the priesthood the right to bind upon earth and it shall be bound in heaven, to seal upon earth and it shall be sealed in heaven, and I hope and pray that the Lord will so temper the spirit and feeling of all the people of the Church that we of today may be in fact, as one of our singers has said : 

"True to the faith that our parents 

have cherished, True to the truth for which martyrs 

have perished, To God's command, soul, heart and 

hand, 

Faithful and true we will ever stand." 

May God grant this to us all, and may our young people rise in the dignity of the positions they hold, as descendants of the stalwart men and devoted women who, under the power of God, and with His blessings, were instrumental in establishing this Church, and stand forth as worthy representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and be willing always to proclaim these truths to all the world. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN G. M'QUARRIE. 

(Late President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Why, my brethren and sisters, should we be grateful for a standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? There is one reason why I am grateful, why I feel that it gives me strength and power; that is because I feel that I have a mission. I do not believe that any individual, or any nation, will ever accomplish anything great in the world until they feel that they have a mission, and until that mission is clearly defined in their minds. 

If we review the history of nations, we will realize that those nations that have been great, and strong and powerful, have been the nations that have felt that they had a mission, that they were to perform service not only for themselves but a service to the world. I do not believe that any individuals ever do anything very great, or make the most of all their powers until they love something, something bigger than themselves; I believe that our power is then increased to that degree that we feel the greatness of the cause with which we are associated. I was strongly reminded of this fact in listening to one of the beautiful songs that was sung here. The sister who led that song appeared one night in a great recital in New York City, in company with three other girls, and at the conclusion of their number they received a generous applause from the audience. Their instructor said to the audience, "It may be interesting to you to know that these three girls all come from far off Utah." Of course they had an impression that they were all "Mormon girls." It happened that this sister had another number to render later in the evening, and as she appeared before that audience she felt that she was not merely a student with this instructor, but that she then stood as the representative of a people, her people, and that their work would be judged somewhat by her ability  the way in which she rendered her part. Never before had she felt the necessity of using the gift that God had given her as she did on that occasion, and probably never before had she received such a tremendous applause as when she had finished that number. This may be considered only a little occasion, but I refer to it just to show what a power it gives to one to feel that he has a cause, that he is representing a people, and that he has a mission to perform in the world. 

In visiting the great fair at San Francisco, where we saw represented the accomplishments of men, and where they were trying to single out what men had really done, and honor those who had really blessed the world, I noticed it was not great scholars, only those that had been content to merely preach to a congregation, and have ease and comfort in a well provided home; it was not that class of men that received honor upon that occasion. It was not the men who had accumulated vast sums of money and great wealth that were honored and noticed; but old Ezra Meeker with his ox team, who blazed the trail across the continent, men who did something to build up this great empire of the west, they were the men who were honored, whose statues were placed on high. I was proud when Utah was celebrating her pioneer anniversary, proud of the honor that was done to her, to feel that Utah and her pioneers, the men who have done something and felt that they had a mission, that they were really coming into their own. Both the mayor of San Francisco and the man who represented the Governor of the State of California said "We gladly take off our hats to old Dad Utah and we humbly and freely acknowledge that had it not been for the pioneers of Utah the present greatness of California would have been impossible." The Mayor of San FYancisco said : "We appreciate the wonderful work accomplished by the committee that has provided or reared these magnificent buildings. Their work is great; they have accomplished wonders, but it is nothing when compared with the wonderful work and great mission accomplished by the pioneers of Utah." 

If we receive any honor as the youth of Zion, boys and girls growing up in this great inter-mountain region, if any honor ever comes to us, if we have any real satisfaction when we have lived our lives, it will be because we have proven worthy, as has been stated, of the sacrifices that have been made for us by those who have gone before, and because we have 'builded wisely upon the broad and strong, and splendid foundation that they have laid. 

May God grant that we may never forget our obligations to God and to our fathers, and may He grant that we may never lose sight of the mission before us. May we feel that we have the greatest mission in the world, the mission of reechoing the voice of God, crying, "Come out of her, O ye my people." Come out of the old world and build Mine alters in the new. Men who have the mission of calling out of the world those who feel worldly, calling them out to assemble together with those who want to serve God, to learn of His ways and to walk in His paths, and to establish righteousness here upon the earth, and work for the accomplishment and the consummation of the purposes of God, until the kingdoms of this world shall become the king of our God; and I pray that we may be blessed in it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN R. BARNES. 

My beloved brethren and listers, this is indeed a surprise to me to be asked to address you this morning. I have listened with strict attention to the testimonies of my brethren who have preceded me, and I rejoice in the testimonies which they have borne. It is true they have been varied, but all lead in the same direction. 

As Brother Smith said, I received the Gospel in my youth, in my native land, a little ' more than sixty-seven years ago; and God in His mercy blessed me with a testimony prior to my entering into the Church. This may seem strange, but I fully understood that if I would ever attain to that glory and exaltation that is promised to the Saints, I must indeed obey the commandments of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ as they were taught by His humble elders in that day. Hence, in my fifteenth year, I obeyed the Gospel, and in due time received the priesthood, and later I gathered with the Saints to this valley. I have endeavored in a humble way to keep the commandments of God, although in my weakness I have made many mistakes. Today I rejoice in the testimony which God gave me in my youth, which has continued with me up to the present time. 

I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, as my brethren who have preceded me have testified;, and in my reflections I have long ago come to this conclusion that there was a necessity for God, the Eter Father, and His Son Jesus Christ to manifest themselves to man upon the earth in this dispensation. When we look at the world and the condition in which mankind were, without a knowledge of God, no man, so far as I know, except only those who received the promise from the Savior that they should dwell upon the earth until His second coming, could arise and say that they knew that God lived. There was a great diversity of opinion as to what kind of being God was. Some believed that He was so big that He filled the whole earth, and others, that He was without body, parts or passions, and no man had authority to say that they knew that God lived and to give a description of His appearance and personage. Hence in order that this knowledge might be restored to men, in order to know God and His Son Jesus Christ, which is eternal life, it was necessary for the Father and the Son to appear to the Prophet Joseph. 

I rejoice in the character of the Prophet, believing and knowing that he, like Jeremiah of old ,was while yet in the spirit world, before he came to this stage of action, called to do this very work. And hence the Spirit of God moved upon that youth to heed the words which had been published to the world, that "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him." He had faith in that divine promise, and in the humility of his soul he went before the Father, and there asked the question, "Which of all these conflicting sects are right?" He received the answer : "None of them, my son." What a wonderful word! Did he expect that answer? I do  think he did, but it was nevertheless true. Why were none of them of God? They were manmade creeds, man-made theories, adopted by men who were not inspired, and among them there was not existing a shadow of authority to administer the ordinances of God, as President Blood has shown when touching upon that principle. They were without that authority, and did not know God. No sooner had he received this divine testimony than the world, almost unanimously, arose against him and persecuted him from that hour on. The powers of darkness knew the importance of the mission that that boy was about to be entrusted with, and hence used all the efforts and powers of the adversary 'to destroy him, but God preserved him until he had accomplished his work, through the various scenes that have been referred to this morning, the various conditions in which he was placed, the various trials and tribulations, winding up with the sacrifice of his life. 

I rejoice in this testimony and the knowledge that the Lord has given me in reference to his Prophet Joseph. T know that the work in which we are engaged is true, and I reflect a great deal in regard to the conditions that surround us. Joseph fulfilled his great mission; and the others who have succeeded him as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints have filled their missions, and today we have a prophet of God upon the earth inspired similarly to His Prophet Joseph Smith. Om present leaders are indeed inspired of God, and so far as we listen to them they will lead us in the path of rectitude, in the path that will lead us back into the presence of our Father and our God. Are we listening to their counsel ? Are we giving heed to their advice? or, are we every one going his own way, seeking to follow his own will instead of seeking to follow the will of the Father? We can answer these questions for ourselves. I know that it is our duty and privilege to live before God so that we can have for ourselves the inspiration and comfort of the Holy Ghost, and it is our duty to constantly uphold and sustain those who are called upon to preside over us, whether in the stake or the ward, and those who preside over the Church. It is our duty to uphold them and sustain them, not only by our prayers but by our actions also. I claim that actions speak louder than words. It is our duty, my brethren and sisters, to so live before God that our example will become an ensample to the world, that they seeing our good works and our daily course of conduct will discern that there is something more in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than there is in the religions of the world. 

I presume that I am taking up more time than I ought. I thank God for the knowledge and testimony that He has given me, and while I live I hope to be able to bear this testimony. I have written this testimony and I want it to be read to those who shall attend my funeral, the testimony that God has given me in regard to this matter, for I know it is true. 

Persecution may rage, and I know that yet many times the Saints of God will be called to suffer before we triumph, before the Church of God finally triumphs over the world. There is no doubt in my mind that persecution will come again. Does persecution hurt us? I thought when the brother spoke of those  wished that they had lived in the days that are past, when persecution raged, they need not wish for that, for persecution will come quick enough; it will come severe enough; it will test the faith of those who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, for if I am not mistaken the day will come when it will be all a man's life will be worth to testify as I am testifying this morning. How shall we be prepared for that day? By living near to God. Our daily lives must conform to the commandments which the Father has given. It is not enough that we attend conference. It is not enough that we attend our meetings; our daily lives must be pure, upright, honest before God, showing every man that .we are indeed followers of the meek and lowly Jesus, that we have indeed a testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit of prophecy, and that we have within us a knowledge which will lead us to enter the temples of God and perform the ordinances that President Blood referred to, ordinances for the dead as well as the living. 

Is it of much importance to the young people that they go to the house of the Lord? Is it not just as well, some may ask, that they (be married by this minister or the other minister ? No; if you want the promises and blessings of God to follow you in the life that is to come you must obey the laws upon which those blessings are predicated. If our young people want the society of one another in the life to come, as husband and wife, they must enter the house of God, and there receive the blessings through the authority of those who have the power to give them. The world has no authority beyond this life. 

This life is of vast importance to us, but the days and hours are fast flitting by us, and it behoves us, you and me, to let not a day pass by without seeing to it that we are in fellowship with the Spirit of God; that we have within our bosom that knowledge and testimony that causes us to seek to our Father, that causes us to seek diligently to do His will and keep His commandments. 

I pray God ever to be with you. May His peace and blessings be with us, and with the youth of Zion. I claim that it is the duty of us of mature years to set examples before the young people of which we need not be ashamed that they can look upon us with respect and can hearken unto us, knowing that our desires and aims have been to do the will of God. May the blessings of God be with us all. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Blessings attending the inhabitants of Zion — Testimonies of missionaries bearing fruit — Importance of implanting faith in the hearts of the children — Peace in the souls of those who love God. 

Brethren and sisters, the Tabernacle is full, this, the Assembly Hall is full, and there are hundreds of people on the block who cannot get into the buildings. This is the Lord's day, and Sunday naturally affords the best opportunity for attendance at conference, but I hope that during the remainder of this conference the Latter-dav Saints will avail themselves of the privilege of attending the meetin.es — at least that the Tabernacle may be filled at every session. 

T have enioved the testimonies of my brethren this morning and would  glad to hear from others if time permitted. 

The world is in turmoil. War is poured out on a large part of the earth. The selfishness of mankind in this life is apparent on all sides, and in the midst of it all I know of no people that are so contented with this life, or who have such an assurance of eternal life, as the Latterday Saints. We are fortunate in having faith in God and His revelations to us and in having our feet planted on the land that He has said is choice above all other lands. This is Zion and will continue to be so unto the pure in heart. I am glad that so many of our Father's children are seeking to learn His will, and are conforming their lives to teachings which will eventually take them back into His presence. The Gospel is finding a response whereever it is preached. Hundreds of our representatives are in the field in all parts of the world proclaiming the truth. My eyes have been dimmed with tears when in other lands, and among the peoples of this nation, when I have seen your sons and daughters arise and bear witness, their hearts overflowing with Gratitude, that they did know that God had revealed His work in this latter day. 

There is no blessing that could come to me that would be more joyful than to have my children, who have been given to me by our Heavenly Father, blessed with a testimony of the truth and live in obedience to that testimony throughout their lives. If there are any of us who lack faith in this work it is because we have not kept the commandments of God. If there are any who do not know that this is the work of our Father, it is because they have not done their duty. I know as I know that I live that this is the Lord's work and that knowledge comes as a result of keeping His commandments. This latterday gospel is finding its way among men, because of the strength that is in the truth revealed in this day, and its promulgation by your faithful sons and daughters. It is winning its way, and oh, how I rejoice when I see Latter-day Saint youths and maidens of this generation stand before congregations who have assembled to hear the Gospel, and testify of its truth, in humility and faith, and with a desire to bless their fellowmen! They may be seen upon the street corners of the great cities of the world, teaching the truth as God gives them power and opportunity to do, proclaiming the principles that are necessary for mankind to know for their eternal exaltation. 

This is our Father's work, and is not to be trifled with. It is of the utmost importance to us. Let us so order our lives that when the call comes we may answer, "Father, here am I," if need be to go to the ends of the earth. Let us have our houses in order, and endeavor to establish faith in our children, that thev may be willing to respond to every call, and feel in the depths of their souls to say I am ready to go wherever my Heavenly Father desires me to go. Let us live so that the sweet influence enjoyed this morning may be ever with us. There is nothing that can compare with the ioy that will be yours when, after keeoing the faith, you are called home and permitted to meet with vour loved ones in our Father's kingdom. Let us love and sustain each other, and sustain those who preside over us; honor the servants  the Lord as He has honored them. 

Though the world may be filled with distress, and the heavens gather blackness, and the vivid lightnings flash, and the earth quake from center to circumference, if we know that God lives, and our lives are righteous, we will be happy, there will be peace unspeakable because we know our Father approves our lives. 

May the Lord have us in His keeping; may we live worthy of His love day by day and overcome the temptations of life, and, when the time comes for us to go home, may we be gathered with our dear ones on the other side, and there receive the welcome plaudit from the Master of heaven and earth : Well done, my children, come home and enjoy eternal life and continued progress throughout all eternity. This is my prayer for all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Ethel Anderson, and choir, sang the hymn, "As the dew from heaven distilling." 

The closing prayer was by Elder Thomas R. Cutler. 


