Morning
04 04 1915

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Our God, we raise to Thee." The opening praver was by Rider Heber Q. Hale. 

The choir sang the hymn, "All hail the glorious day." 

PREST. FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Large numbers of influential people visiting Utah — Peace and prosperity prevailing here — All who hold Priesthood are teachers — Duty of prayer generally observed by Saints — High character of leading men in Church — War deplored — Peace extolled — Safety in following counsel of leaders. 

It is very delightful to be in this conference, so generously attended on yesterday and a good-sized congregation this morning. The last six months have been remarkable for a variety of reasons. The war in the world, the peace at home, and our very remarkable Panama-Pacific expositions, have marked the period in a way never to be forgotten. The people of our nation, instead of going across the waters to the East, seem to have all come West, to see us, and we have been better seen and are becoming better understood than ever before. A larger volume of people, interested and influential in our nation, as well as from other parts of the world, have come to visit us, to look us , and to learn of us. And although the troubles in the world have prevented many of our elders from going into the mission fields to preach the Gospel, yet those who are there have been very faithful and have accomplished a splendid work. Opportunities are given to local people to take care of the branches and to enter into the ministry, to assist the brethren sent from Zion, and the work is progressing, and Zion triumphs and prospers gloriously in the earth. We have very little reason to complain — fruitful season, peace abiding with us, and union and good fellowship among us and with many peoples of the world. 

We were certainly interested in the report of conditions of the Church and what it had accomplished, by the President yesterday, and the doctrinal talks and discourses by his counselors and other brethren were intensely interesting. I am delighted to have laid before the Latter-day Saints, so generally as was done by the President yesterday, in regard to the course of the labors of our elders in the midst of the people, officiating as teachers among the people, and the lesson laid, down that will be preserved, and that will be remembered much better than though the same lesson, possibly, had been taught by each of the bishops of the Church, to their company of officiating teachers and elders. It was simple, brief, and to the point. Of course, every man who serves as a teacher among the people is expected to officiate, and labor, and instruct as the Spirit of the Lord gives him utterance; but the principle was laid down so nicely and beautifully for us yesterday, it may well be remembered and practiced upon. For every man is a teacher who labors among the people, from the Presidency of the Church and the general authorities, down to those who bear the Aaronic Priesthood. All- are teachers, and are expected to be occupied in that calling on all occasions, living teachers, working among the people by their precept and by their example. And thus the Latter-day Saints are better taken care of, possibly, than any other people in the world. 

And the Latter-day Saints are a prayerful people. It was announced a day or two ago in the papers that the President of the United States had let it be known to his cabinet that he believed in prayer. It seemed to be quite an event in the history of so prominent and remarkable a man as the leader of this nation. He is, of course, a religious man and announced the fact to his cabinet that he believed in prayer, but he had not, at that time, found out whether his cabinet were believers in prayer or not. They belong, no doubt, to different faiths, different churches. But the Latter-day Saints are all prayerful. From day to day we pray, morning and evening in a general manner for the welfare, not only of the Latter-day Saints and Zion, but we pray for our neighbors, we pray for our friends, we pray for the President of the United States, we pray for his cabinet, we pray for the members of Congress, we pray for the officials who serve us politically as well as those who serve us religiously, and possibly we are remarkable in that regard. I have not , so far as my acquaintance goes, any people that have been so strictly trained, and are held to an account to remember the Lord. And every week of our lives, when we attend strictly, as we should do, to our worship, we pray before the Lord and partake of the emblems of the body and blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, witnessing to the Father that we remember Him and His Son, and that we are under obligation and covenant with Him to serve Him and keep His commandments. And how thoroughly the brethren and sisters who were with us yesterday, and those who are here today, are trained in this discipline! We are in close touch with the inspiration of the Lord, through our faith, through our works, and a lifelong training; and we are a people of peace, a people of justice, and a people of righteousness and morality. 

A moral people are the Latterday Saints, for no true Latter-day Saint is immoral. When a Latterday Saint becomes immoral, he ceases to be a Latter-day Saint. If he becomes dishonest, if he is wicked and corrupt in any degree whatever, it deprives him of being a Latterday Saint. We have a testimony abiding in our hearts in regard to the truth, in regard to the revelations of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, and the doctrines that were stated so simply and plainly, and interestingly, to us yesterday by President Penrose in a very brief manner, yet covering the ground, and indicating to us the way of life and salvation, how to serve the Lord, how to come into His presence and fellowship and to enter into covenant with Him, to serve Him while we live in the flesh and while engaged  a struggle and warfare with Satan in this probation. 

The brethren who sit before me here, leading, prominent brethren of the Church, coming from all over gathered Israel, Zion, are model men. I thought, when two of our stake presidents and two of our mission presidents appeared and spoke to us yesterday afternoon, that we have 72 just such men as those who talked to us, and they have each two counselors; and we have quite a number of mission presidents, the same as those who talked to us yesterday. These are leading men, and they are surrounded by men of strength and influence, and character, that are devoted and faithful to the cause of Zion and to the truth, and in the hearts of these men burn always the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

And we are so delighted to recognize the fact that we are dwelling in the land of Zion, that peace abides here, and is to abide here upon this land. We have had our share already, I trust, in war and trouble, and bloodshed, that commenced in the division between the North and the South very many years ago, as a fulfillment of prophecy. For the Lord had revealed to the Prophet Joseph that such would be the case. And we had war for years. Thousands and hundreds of thousands of our brethren went to' their death in defense of the union. The war was fought, and I hope that our troubles, so far as war is concerned, are over, and that we shall not be drawn into the wars of the Eastern world, and have none of our own, and that our nation will be a nation of peace makers. The President seems to be thoroughly pledged, and his cabinet and his advisors, to maintain peace  honor, which is most delightful. And we expect the time to come that in Europe, and other parts of the world, where men are not willing to take up their swords against their neighbor, they will need flee to the land of Zion for safety, and that here they shall find peace. We pray for peace, we live for it, we labor for it, and make some sacrifices and do all that is possible for us at all times. We pray for those who are in trouble. There is no sense, no judgment, no wisdom in the prosecution of wars as is being done in the world today. It is a shame and a disgrace to Christians or pagans to do what is being done today in tne world. It ought not to be, and we are laboring to correct those conditions as far as we possibly can in our own lives. 

I want to say for the Latter-day Saints, according to my observation, we have been so well trained, so thoroughly trained for so many years until peace abides in our own homes, in our own families, in our neighborhoods, in our wards, in our stakes; and the bishops with their courts, presidencies and high councils of stakes, with their courts, have very little serious difficulties to attend to, because the people are so thoroughly trained that they know just exactly how to settle their own difficulties, and to live in peace and to make peace and pursue it with each other. Zion is triumphing and prospering in the earth, and the Latter-day Saints are becoming known and those who war upon us and try to make us trouble, do so at the expense of conscientiousness and honesty and morality, for we are working for righteousness in the earth and to save the people. We travel for the salvation of the children of men. That is the ministry that has been conferred upon the Latter-day Saints through the revelations of the Gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The testimony in regard to the divinity of his mission and the divinity of the mission of the Savior, is established thoroughly in the hearts of all Latter-day Saints. For, having done the will of the Lord, the testimony abides in our souls and we are grateful and thankful to our brethren, who are one with us in our ministry in officiating at home or officiating abroad. We are making every effort that we possibly can to put able, well-informed and influential men into the field to preach the Gospel, and we trust that the time will soon come when the Gospel shall be preached to every nation, that it may be taken everywhere, and there shall be no obstacles in the way, and that peace may be established among the nations. 

We thank you, my brethren and sisters, for your generous attendance here. We love to have you come to headquarters and meet with us. We go to you, we go to every stake and give attention and care, not only to the stakes, but to wards and quorums and organizations in the Church, giving our attention all the time to the labor that is required, that the Church may be in order and the Latter-day Saints may be thoroughly instructed and trained. And they have before them always in their midst established and reliable men, upon whose counsel and instruction they can always depend. And the Latter-day Saints never go astray when they rely upon counsel. And they know the counsel that they should rely upon and depend upon,  it is always in their reach. We not only have the presidency of the Church and the general authorities, but in every stake, in every ward and in every mission, there is a head that can be relied upon, depended upon and trusted to give forth the word and will and counsel of the Almighty. Always when brethren or sisters have gone astray in any degree whatever, it is because they have done so contrary to the counsels of the , Lord to His servants, and His servants are always at our elbow ready to give us correct and reliable direction and instruction. Let us remember this and never do what we do not know to be right. Be sure that we are right and then go ahead. And if we follow our file leader, we will not go far astray; and our file leaders are those that walk the straight and narrow path that leads to eternal life. 

We should not be led astray by those who are in error. We want to be established and firm and settled and fixed in our purposes to serve the Lord and keep His commandments while we live in the flesh. Our lives are not very lengthy, this probation is short, and possibly well enough that it is, but we should magnify our callings and position and responsibility in the Priesthood, and as members of this Church, as advocates of the truth, and examplars in all things. These brethren that stand at our head and are entrusted with the care of the people, are model men, or should be, in all things, serving God and giving forth the true sound, that we are one with those who lead us and we should be one with our Savior and Redeemer, as also with the prophet who has been before us, and those who have served us since his  away, for these men have been true and devout and faithful without exception. They have honored God and have listened to His counsel and direction in all things and have been reliable, as they are today. Those who lead us today, you can depend upon their counsel and it is our duty and business to know exactly where they stand, what they advise, what they counsel, and what they direct us to do, and Zion will triumph and prosper gloriously. 

I do not care to take much time this morning. Time is brief of course, in our conference. The Lord is with us by His Spirit and He is softening the hearts of men toward us. Fie is helping us to maintain peace upon this side of the world. And He moves not only upon the hearts of Latter-day Saints and the people of this Church, but He is moving upon the hearts of men as far as men will listen and heed His warning. He is sounding the truth to them and calling them to repentance and reformation, and works of righteousness. Let us take our part and carry the responsibility that is upon our shoulders and magnify our callings and positions as Latter-day Saints in the earth, and we will have great joy in time, and salvation and exaltation in the world to come, when Satan will have been baffled and defeated and we will be victorious, not only in the world to come, but in this world also, for the Lord will vindicate the truth on earth as well as in heaven. " May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, may His Spirit fill our hearts and souls now and forever in all departments where we labor, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. A'rhen. 

ELDER MOSES W. TAYLOR. 

(President of Summit Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I have been very much impressed in this conference by the counsels given. One statement that strongly impressed me was the remark of President Lund when he was quoting the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to these who find fault with the authorities, that it leads to apostasy. This was brought forcibly to my mind from some experiences I have had as President of a stake. When I first went to the Summit stake of Zion, there were a few of the people that were very much offended, and they continually found fault with the actions of the authorities of the Church. I want to tell you one of the things that influenced me more than anything else in my life. Quite frequently, when I would come into the city, the President of the Church would ask me how we were getting along, and I thought I had better tell about what these men were saying, the fault that they were finding with the Church, and I did so several times as I had opportunity. One day in the President's office, when nearly all the authorities of the Church were present, President Smith asked me that question again, and I started in to tell him and he stopped me. He said, "Moses, say 'Shoo-fly, don't bother me,' about things of that kind." When I went out of the office, one of the prominent men who was present came to me and said, "It is all right for President Smith to sav that to you, but he couldn't say 'Shoo-fly, don't bother me.' " I said to him, "I don't care what President Smith can do, the prophet of the Lord has Said to me, 'Say shorj-fiv, don't bother me,' and I am going to do it." 

I want to testify to the Latterday Saints that of all the counsels that I ever received in my life, I have received the greatest benefit from that "shoo-fly" counsel. Now it don't matter what the unwise say or what they do, I say, "shoo-fly, don't bother me;" and I find that I am magnified in the eyes of the people by taking that course. What called it to my attention, more than anything else, happened the other day. I met a prominent lawyer, and the name of President Smith came up in our conversation, and he said, "I would like to meet President Joseph F. Smith," and I asked "Why." "Well," said he, "he appears to be one of the most remarkable men in the world today, and for this reason, I followed up that period of vituperation, when some of the newspapers were villifying him day by day and day by day. He never answered a word; he must know that he is right, he must know that he is absolutely right." I told him this "shoo-fly" story, and he said, "That accounts for it, that is the way that he lives himself." 

I am impressed with the thought that, in our stake we are very anxious that there shall not be anybody find fault with the authorities of the Church. I always tell them that whenever a man starts to find fault with the authorities of the Church, and thinks that the authorities have it "in for him," that it is a sign of insanity, and we tell them right out, "You are going crazy;" always tell them. "You are going crazy, and the sooner you stop it the better." T thought I would like to say that much in regard to that point, because it is one of the greatest coun Lever received in my life. 

There is another thing that pleased me very much. A son of mine came here to the city to work, and lodged in the 20th ward. He had not been there but a short time before the Bishop came and invited him to be one of the teachers. 1 appreciated that very much. This fall I sent one of my boys in to school, and he stays at his brother's house. I met the Bishop the other day and he said to me, "Have you any objection to me using that other boy of yours as a teacher?" He said, "He came into the ward the other day and youi son, on account of work, could not go teaching, but he said, T will send my brother,' and now the teacher comes and says, T want the brother to be my companion, the boy that is going to school.' " Of course I had no objection, I wanted to thank the Bishop for taking care of my boys when away from home, and T felt like saying this to the bishops and others in Salt Lake City here. The boys that come from the country have got pure blood, pure minds, and clean thoughts, and you can't get better teachers in all the world than the boys that come from the country. We parents that live out in the country appreciate it when you take care of them, and use them in the Priesthood; they will prove their worth to you if you will use them. 

Now may the peace and blessing of heaven be with us. I know that the Gospel is true, and I know that this is the greatest work in all the world. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the greatest organization in all the world, and the greater position you can get in it, the greater you will be in this world. I want to say to the Latterday Saints that I never have seen a bishop, or other prominent man in this Church, sacrifice his position in the Church, for some financial position or otherwise, that succeeded. They lay down the greater for the less. So brethren, when you have received a position in the Church, magnify it, as President Lyman said, and the Lord will magnify you before the people, and you will realize that God is your father, your friend and benefactor. May the peace and blessing of heaven be with us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The sacred song, "Abide with me," was sung by Sister Francisca R. Parkinson. 

ELDER GERMAN E.ELLSWORTH 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have of the great work our Father is doing in the earth. It is very like the work that has been done by God during all dispensations of the world's history. We find that Father Adam offered sacrifice because he was commanded of the Lord; Enoch worked righteousness among the people in his day, under direction of the Father; and Abraham won the title of the "Father of the Faithful" because he was willing to keep the commandments of the Lord. Moses, under the directions of Jehovah, became the leader of Israel in his generation. Daniel the Prophet, and the three Hebrew children, were preserved by the Lord through divine interposition. Zachariah, though he doubted the , became the father of the great Prophet John. Mary, the mother of Christ, likewise was visited by heavenly messengers; and the birth of our Savior was announced by personal visitors from heaven, as also the resurrection. 

In every part of the work of our Heavenly Father, He has been in close communion with His servants who dwell in the earth. He tells us in Holy Writ that He would do nothing but what He made His mind and will known to His servants, the prophets. He has promised likewise that, in the last days, He would send His messengers to prepare the way before His face. He has likewise told us that Elijah should come for a special mission. John, while on the isle of Patmos, was visited by a heavenly messenger, who said to John, when he was about to fall clown and worship the visitor, "See that thou do it not, for I am one of thy fellow servants, worship God." 

When I stop and think of the work that is being done in this day, it is so much like the work that has been done by our Father in all ages of the world. It makes me rejoice that I am blessed with a testimony of what God is doing in the same work this day. The beginning of the work was under the direction of the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, renewing again the true conception of the Father and the Son. and telling what would come to pass in this generation, beginning with the establishing of the Church that bears the name of the Master, even the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We then find that the messengers promised in the scrioture have been sent, and the work that they are doing is identical with the work that has been done' in the past ages. John, who preceded the coming of the Christ in his day, preached faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance from sin, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. He proclaimed the same doctrine in this day, and instructed the prophet how to proceed to follow this counsel, and be in harmony with the Lord Jesus Christ. Following his instructions, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of their sins. Then Peter, James, and John, at the right time, came and delivered a certain message, certain authority and instructions concerning the great work of our Father in the earth in this day. Following that visit, other messengers, who were prophets of the Lord, came and delivered kevs and power which they held under the directions of the Father. 

And so, when I stop and think that, in this day, God has established a Church that bears His name, and in the very way He did it in former days, by sending His servants, it makes me happy to think that I have part in such a great work. The very name of the Church is a great testimony to me. I rejoice in the principle of faith in the Father of the spirits of the human race, faith in Jesus Christ, who is His Son in very deed, and our resurrected Redeemer. Faith or conviction of this sort will bring men to repentance, turn them from their sins and evil walks in life to a godly life. When thev yield to the instruction of the Spirit of the Lord, they are led into the waters of baptism and come forth in newness of life. I bear witness that I have seen the converts come out of the waters of baptism .with a look upon their face as pure  though they were new born. I have seen them reform their lives and walk in the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus, as they had never done before. 

When I think that I belong to the Church that bears the name of the Master, and teaches doctrines that were taught by the prophets of old and by Christ Himself, it makes me rejoice that I am thus favored in the world. It makes me rejoice to see the power of the Lord manifest through the young men and young women who come into the Northern States Mission, when they stand forth and bear their testimony to the people of the world. God has truly revealed to their" hearts, and has put it in their souls, and lias made their tongues to testify of His name, and of the great work that is being done in this our day. I rejoice that I believe in the coming of angels, that T believe God our Father can send prophets in this dav, and instruct His children how to live and what to do to come back into His presence. It is a glorious thing to believe that the heavens and the earth are so near together, and that our Father has personal charge in this clay as in other days. 

I rejoice in the testimony that has come into my heart that. God sent angels in this day to instruct the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the great work to be done. I rejoice that 1 believe in the prophets that followed the first angels, and the keys that they delivered. I rejoice, more than I have the language to express, that I have received a testimony in my soul that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that the work of our Father in this day is under His direction. The counsel and advice  by the Prophet to the Latterday Saints in this conference, and in all previous conferences, if heeded, will make men and women after the similitude of our Heavenly Father and prepare them to go back and dwell with Him eternally. I bear witness that the heavens have been opened, that God has sent His angels, not only in ages past but in our day and age. The angels have been with the missionaries, going before their faces and preparing the hearts of the people to receive them. They have seen them, and heard their promptings concerning what to do and say. I reioice in my testimony, and pray God that He will bless me and all the rising generations, and implant within our hearts a desire to magnify the name of God in the earth, and fulfill the mission that has been given to this generation. I bear witness that what has been done up to the present time is onlv a beginning of the.work. There will be a time, not very far awav, when it will reauire everv man, in whose heart dwells the testimony of Jesus, to go out and bear that witness, and teach the people of the World the straight and narrow wav, that His work mav be established, and His name" mav be glorified. 

In the hearts of many young men are being implanted a love of the goods of this world, and the honor of men, a love of things that will pass away, while, on the other hand, thev should have a desire to be able to bear testimony of the restorer! Gospel, above all other desires of their 'hearts; for it is the greatest work in the earth. It has been established by our Father. He is directing it. I know that. I should think that every man and woman in the world, who is seeking salvation.  rejoice to know that God has visited the earth, that He has sent His angels, that He has established His Church, putting upon it His name, teaching the doctrines that will make men and women His children in very deed. There is power in the Gospel of Jesus Christ to work righteousness and salvation in the hearts of all those who will hear and obey the message. 

Mav the Lord bless the Latterdav Saints : may He bless our President and his counselors; may He bless President Lvman and the Quorum of the Twelve. I bear testimony that they are proohets of the Lord, and that God is directing His work through them. Mav He helo tis all to magnify His name and to prove worthy of the wonderful blessings that have come into our lives. T a^k it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER C. AUSTIN. 

(President of Bingham Stake.) 

I assure von, my brethren and sisters and friends, that I feel very weak in occupying this position. I desire an interest in your faith and prayers the few moments that I mav stand before you, that I mav be directed to sav something that will be in harmony with the spirit of this conference. 

I rejoice in the work of the Lord. I know that the Gospel is true. I rejoice in association with the brethren who are called to preside over the Church; I love them, I am very much benefited, as you are benefited bv the influence that they carry with them. I appreciate the reesponsibility that is resting upon our brethren who are directing the affairs of the work of the Lord in this day, and it is my desire, in my weak and humble way, to aid and assist them, and to sustain them in the labor which they are called to perform. 

I know that the Lord is with us, that the Lord is with His work, that it is divine in its nature, and it has within it the power of salvation for all of those who will render obedience unto its principles. I have a living testimony of its divine truths. I am thankful to the Lord for the knowledge that I have concerning this work. I am thankful to the Lord for my standing and membership in the Church. I pray God that I may prove faithful,' that I may be able, in my weakness, to keep His commandments, to set an example before those with whom I labor, those with whom I am associated that will encourage them in the performance of their duty. 

I am from the north; I am living among the people of tbe Southern part of Idaho, in the Bincham stake of Zion, with Idaho Falls as its headquarters. Idaho Falls is a citv of about 7,000 people, with onlv 600 Latter-day Saints there, so you will readilv see that, to all intents and purposes, it is what is termed a "Gentile" town; but I want to bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, and friends, that there is perfect harmony there. We are living in peace with our neiehbors. there is no contention. The bitterness that used to be has all passed awav. Those men who used to fiqht the "Mormon" people have lost their influence. They carry with them no harmful influence any more. Manv of them have passed away, or movpd awav. We are living in neace with our neighbors; we respect them, and  respect us; and they are willing to grant unto us all the rights and privileges that belong to us. We work in harmony with them, and conjointly with them in measures of reformation. 

We have been very actively engaged in the cause of temperance, for a few years. We have worked together until we have been able to bring about wonderful reformation along that line, wonderful as compared with the old conditions. It is almost unknown now to see a man, in our section of the country, under the influence of liquor. It is becoming very unpopular to foster, or encourage, or defend the use of liquors. Men who used to have some sympathy for it, a little time ago, have changed their views, and they have been convinced that the cause of temperance is for better citizenship, better living, more comforts in our homes, better providing for our families, and eliminating from our midst those evil tendencies that are kindred to the use of liquor. 

Mv brethren and sisters. T thank God that I have been identified with men and women who have labored for the betterment of the human race, and that we have lived to see. in a measure, some of the fruits of our labors. Now, mv brethren, there are responsibilities resting upon us as the servants of the Lord, because we are in the service of the Lord. We have been honored with the priesthood, and that priesthood carries with it responsibilities and obligations, and we will be blessed according to the measure that we magnify our calling. 

I prav that the Lord may bles« the Latter-day Saints, that the work of the Lord may grow, that the Gospel may be carried to the na of the earth until every honest man and woman shall be convinced of the truth, and be gathered into the fold and be blessed as we are blessed. 

Oh, I am so thankful that I can scarcely express my gratitude to my Father in heaven that, in the early days of the Church, before I was born, my father and mother heard the Gospel, and that their hearts were touched with divine inspiration, that they knew it was true, and that their children have been raise 1 and reared . under their teachings, and, through our experiences, we have gained a testimony of the divinity of this work. May God grant that we may ever be worthy of His blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

Yesterday, the words of the Lord came to my mind as He spoke them unto Abraham, when He said to him : "In thee and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed." The remarks of President Smith brought this to my mind. A few conferences since, we voted that a temple be built in Canada. Yesterday the same privilege was granted us to vote for a temple to be built on one of the islands of the Pacific Ocean, that the work of the Lord which, in a measure, has been hampered might be extended, that those brethren and sisters who have heard the voice of the Redeemer might have the privilege of looking after their dead and uniting their families; and that the doctrine might be made plain and shown unto all men that, though men and  die, they shall live again, and shall have the privilege of hearing the Gospel. 

No wonder Paul made the statement that "if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we of all men are most miserable." There would be no happiness or pleasure at all in this life if it were not for the fact that we are laying a foundation for the future. We build today for the future, so far as temporal affairs are concerned; and we prepare for our future existence by our actions of today. The only blessing that can come to the children of men, whether in this world or out of it, will be through the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel which Abraham taught, the gospel which he lived, and the gospel which made him the prominent character that he was and is in the hearts of the Christian world. 

The Latter-day Saints teach nothing more than the Lord has revealed We believe in a restoration of the Gospel. We have never been accused of a reformation of it. We believe in the same Gospel that the Lord established in the days of Adam, in the days of Abraham, in the days of Christ. We do not teach continued priesthood but we do teach a restoration of the gospel, the gospel plan which the Lord told Abraham would save or bless all men and all women. The strength of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints lies in its principles and in its doctrines. It takes men to the isles of the sea and to foreign countries, and wherever the Gospel is to be preached, and it will continue until the Son of Man comes again in the flesh. 

Men and women who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel will have the privilege of hearing it, as was stated here yesterday, and I know that it is the truth. There is an organization of the Church on the other side. I can look back on my life and see men that I have known who have died, faithful men, men of integrity, men of character, filled with love for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and it would be absolutely impossible for me to believe that they are inactive. I know that' they are active, and that they are preparing a way for the Lord to come to His people, in His temnle, when He shall have it erected in His own due time. 

The statement has been made that if polvgamy should be stamped frn«i among this peonle. the time wo"ld come that the Church would dip : that those who practiced tbat principle were fanatics; and  that the generations who were to fr»11<v« would not have the strength and courage that their fathers hid. But facts orove otherwise. The chiHren who have been born from parents who came into this western country are here, as a witness unto the world that the faith of their fathers is increased in them, and that there is no such thing as cowardice, neither will there be, but that the strength of these everlasting hills, which has come unto them through their fathers, shall be among them to give them power to carry the Gospel unto the ends of the earth, until the Lord shall crv "Enough." There is no such thins: as failure: there is no such a thing as this Church not having; the power to go into all the world. It will go into all the world and it will not onlv teach a man to look after himself but it will teach him to look after his dead kindred. Thus will the plan of Sal, through which the children of Abraham shall be blessed, be manifested unto every man, woman and child. 

I want to tell you it is my firm belief that the children of this country, and men and women of this land, in other states of this Union, who know us not, shall become acquainted with us. In their being flows the blood of Abraham. I tell you that as I have placed my hands upon the shoulders of men and talked to them in the world, — my neighbors, men that I know to be good, honorable men, — I have felt that the day will come when the promptings of the Holy Spirit shall have its power and effect upon them, and they will listen to the voice of their Redeemer. They shall know it, and they shall stand for what thev know to be the truth. They have grown up to be Methodists, Presbyterians, and so forth, and their environment has made them largely what thev are. but the fact remains that, when thev grow old enough to see and know for themselves that the gospel which they are following is not preparing them for the future, they will break away from those bonds and will reach out for the truth; for the truth, after all, is loved by the honorable men of the earth, and this earth has millions of them. You will find them in every church and in every part of the country. This thing called prejudice is rapidly vanishing and it will depart entirely; for that spirit of truth, that spark of light which came into the world when the Lord appeared to Joseph Smith, will dispel the darkness and jrloom that cover the earth, and the children of men will i see it. They will bec'ome acquainted  the revelations of the Lord, and they will come to this land and to the islands of the sea and receive their blessings for themselves and for their dead. And they will all know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and that the people who were brought into this country were led here by divine appointment, by a man who had been prepared from before the foundations of the earth. They will know and recognize that man as one who knew the truth and who dared to live it and who dared to come in the face of all trials and adversity and establish a place where men and women could rear children of faith, and through them the world would be blessed. 

This blood of Abraham has never ceased to flow among God's children who have passed on before, those who died during the dark ages and entered into the eternal worlds. There were men and women who knew the truth, and it is my firm belief that they have never ceased to importune the Father until He sent His messengers again. I believe that the spirit and power of prayer is in the eternal world as it is here; that men and women pray there as they do here. I don't believe that our Father, who has the power to make and arrange such a beautiful world as this, and who has the power to fashion such creatures as men and women are, would leave His world and His people anywhere in an unorganized condition but rather th^t He does organize them, that His angels ascend and descend, and that they live with His children and are there to minister for good. 

I know that the power of the 

Lord is with the Latter-day Saints. I know that it is with the elders ol" Israel. My experience has been this : that of all who have labored in the ministry under my direction I don't know one who has left the Church, and there have been perhaps a thousand of them, clean honorable men and women who are going to carry the burden that shall be placed upon them, and who will do it under the direction of those who preside over them. 

I stood upon the streets of a city, a short time ago, holding a street meeting. The elder who was with me was a pale-faced young man that looked to me as if he could accomplish very little, just as frail as he could possibly be. His mother was struggling hard to keep him in the field. I never had such a manifestation of God's power in my life as I stood upon the streets of that city and listened to that quivering boy bear his testimony — without a dollar in the world, not knowing really how long he could stay, or what he would do when he returned home. But he stood there as brave and bold as a lion, bearing testimony unto those people that the Lord had revealed Himself unto the Prophet Joseph Smith and that the gospel which the prophets had predicted would be restored, was restored. I thought of the words again, that through the blood of Abraham would all the nations of the earth be blessed. 

All men will accept "Mormonism" sooner or later, when they are brought face to face with it. They may go into the other world without it. undoubtedly many will, but they will receive the truth when they are shown their path of duty. So as a Latter-day Saint, as one of the thousands of Israel, I feel to thank the Lord that He has so favored me, and I bear my testimony to it all the time. I have never seen a time in my experience when I did not tell people who I was. I never saw a time when I lost any favor through it. I want to tell you that, after all, the people of this world like to meet the "Mormon" people and like to talk to them, and like to become acquainted with our people. As young men and young women in Israel, we will prove that the faith of our fathers shall be manifested in us, and that we will not cease to carry the burden that has been placed upon us. We will do our duty and prove unto the world that we know the Lord lives and that we know that this is His people, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and that "Mormonism" is true; that the Lord has a prophet to guide and counsel men, assigned to take care of His work on the earth; that He is here with His people, and that He has a people in the earth who are keeping His commandments each day to the best of their ability, looking after their dead and looking after the living. 

I pray that we may find joy and happiness always in the knowledge of the Gospel principles we receive from time to time, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President Western States Mission.) 

As I listened to the interesting portrayal, by President Smith, of the condition of the Church, yesterday morning, and those who followed him during the day and today, the thought uppermost in my mind was and is now : How thank we should be for the knowledge we possess pertaining to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, and how best can we indicate our appreciation for the blessings and remarkable opportunities that come to us as Latter-day Saints. If you parents could look upon the faces of your sons and your daughters, who have been in the mission field for a few weeks and have become imbued with the missionary spirit, and see there the determination to be servants in very deed of the Master, or if, after they have been in the mission for two years or more, you could hear them say that they regretted going home more than the regret that they experienced when they left their home to go into the mission, you would be astonished and gratified beyond measure, but you would thank the Lord for the opportunity that had come to them. If the young men of Zion could but realize the breadth of knowledge and of training that comes to the earnest missionary, they would all welcome the time to come, and pray for the opportunity to come speedily, when they could go into the world and preach the Gospel. 

Upon the occasion when Christ had been instructing His disciples as to their duties, and about the time He answered the question of the young man who was rich, when He said that he should sell all that he had and give to the poor and follow Him, He intended, undoubtedly, to convey to them a thought of sacrifice, for He said : 

"And every man that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundred fold and shall inherit everlasting life." 

It was immaterial perhaps what kind of sacrifice they made, but if they sacrificed for the least of the things thus enumerated, He would have them believe that they should receive an hundred fold. So I believe in our great work, if we shall go forth as emissaries of Him, if we shall be ready to sacrifice when the time comes, we too shall receive an hundred fold. 

The year before this Church was organized, when the Prophet Joseph received a revelation regarding missionary work, this thought was expressed : "Behold the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store and perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul." That was the burden of the message given to those staunch and fearless men, in the early days of this Church, when they went forth without money, when they went forth giving everything they had and laying it all at the altar of the Church. That I repeat was the burden of their message; thrust in your sickle with your might and you shall bring salvation to your soul. 

In the experience of that mighty man Neohi there was an exhibition of faith, the like of which we ought to endeavor to emulate all our lives. When Nephi received the call from his father to return to Jerusalem to obtain the records that should later form a part of that great record of two peoples upon the Western hemisphere, which we have today, what was the reply? "I will so and do the things the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord glveth no commandments to the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them  they may accomplish the thing he commandeth them." I believe, too, that the Lord requires nothing of us excepting He shall prepare the way for us to do it. It is my faith and my hope in this great latter-day work. I believe that His prophet is placed at the head of the Church to guide and direct this people. I believe that his associates are entitled to the same kind of respect and love that we should have for him. I believe that the Council of Twelve are men of God, and I believe the Lord expects us to heed their instructions, to love them and honor them in their position. 

I call attention to the words of Elijah, when he was put to the severe test, when it came to a question of authority, "How long halt ye between two opinions ? If the Lord be God, follow Him; but, if Baal, then follow him;" and so I say to you, my brethren and sisters, shall we hesitate in our allegiance to our Church and its authorized leaders? If we believe that the God of the ancient prophets is our God then likewise believe that President Joseph F. Smith and his associates are prophets, seers and revelators, and as such we should honor them, and give to them our loyal support. We shall then undoubtedly find it to be our duty to sacrifice when the time comes regardless of what that sacrifice may be. It is not only for the poor man, or for the one in moderate circumstances to sacrifice; the professional man, the rich man, the business man, must be called upon to sacrifice sooner or later, and when the time comes I earnestly pray that we may be ready to answer any call made of us to further this great latter-day work, the greatest and most vital thing in all the world. This is my prayer for all of *us, in the name of Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER EVAN STEPHENS. 

(Tabernacle Choir Conductor.) 

My brethren and sisters : About a month ago a letter was sent out addressed to choir leaders, in the various wards of the Church, asking them to ascertain how many of their choir members expected to attend the General Conference, in October of this year, and asking such as so intended to accept an invitation to join with the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir in the singing during said Conference. A large number of choir leaders responded, in all reporting over six hundred singers who would attend, at least, some of the meetings. Tickets admitting all such to the choir gallery were sent out. Some two or three hundred took part with us yesterday, (Sunday), and about one hundred are present this (Monday) morning. But we have reason to believe that a great many have taken seats in the congregation, being timid about appearing in these conspicuous seats, fearing lest it might seem pretentious to take seats with this noted choir. To any such I desire to say there is not a choir in this or any other church where less classification or "aristocracy" can be found than in this choir. The best singers we have in the community lend their services freely in it, without even a select seat assigned. Each and every one quietly take whatever vacant seat is most convenient in the section used by the "part" they sing. Not in all the -five years that I have had, charge has there been an honorary, or special seat assigned on account of rank or merit. The visiting singers, therefore, need not fear that they will be trespassing upon places reserved even for regular singers, or that they will be greeted by any one with other than a welcoming nod or smile. We are most grateful for the presence of those who have so kindly joned us, and especaily for the hearty responses of the choir ' leaders throughout the Church. 

I desire to emphasize again the invitation to all choir members to come into the choir loft, at each future session of the conference that you may attend. May the Lord continue to bless us, that we may perform well our special task in His great work is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah." 

Elder Joseph R. Shepherd pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjonrned until 2 p.m. 


