Overflow
08 10 1899



ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

My brethren and sisters, I hope you will give me your faith and attention, that the Spirit of the Lord may rest upon me, that we may be edified together. 

The solemnity of these great gatherings and the spirit thereof that has Beemed to fill every breast, causing us to come together, and the words of inspiration to which we have listened during this conference, have given me  for reflection, a little deeper, I think, than I have ever had before. It has aroused within me a new determination and a resolve, the Lord being my helper, to assist you and to ask you to assist me, as a band of brethren and sisters, as servants and handmaidens of the Lord, to be more faithful in the future than we have been in the past. 

The Lord has been with this people. We have gathered to this goodly land, notwithstanding the displeasure of the Lord in His judgments which He meted out to His Church in the days when they were inhabitants of the States of Missouri and Illinois; although, in the beginning of their settlement in those States, the Lord was with them, and His Spirit, to a very great degree, inspired the leaders of the people and inspired many of the Saints to hearken to the commandments of the Lord. But it was with the Saints as it was with the Nephites and Lamanites in the days when they inhabited this land. There were times when the people were full of faith and good works and were earnest in keeping the commandments of the Lord, and then there were times when the Nephites and Lamanites dwindled into unbelief and grew covetous and selfish and became lifted up in the pride of their hearts, and, finally, the favor of the Lord was withdrawn from them, and they wandered in darkness and unbelief until the judgments of the Lord awakened them again to a sense of their fallen condition, which occurred many times, as we are informed by the history of that people. Now, the Lord decreed, through His servants, the Nephite Prophets, that the people who inhabited this land should serve Him and keep His commandments, or they should not prosper in the land. 

Reference was made today by our Prophet, Seer and Revelator, Lorenzo Snow, to the judgments of the Lord that came upon the people in the Stat* of Missouri, in Jackson County, in 1833. The Saints were driven from their homes and stripped of their possessions, not because they were the most wicked people upon the face of the land, nor because the Lord had cast them off forever, but because He was reminding them of the covenants they were under and the necessity of their keeping them. He was reminding them, I say, of these truths, by these chastisements which He had permitted to come upon them, renewing their faith and confidence in Him and humbling them before Him that He might again bless them and pour out upon them blessings and favors which he had in store for His faithful children. And truly, as President Cannon reminded us, the revelation of the Lord, in 1834, was given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, saying that inasmuch as the people had been chastened and had repented, the Lord was willing to accept of their repentance, if they would turn unto Him with full purpose of heart and serve Him and keep His commandments. Now, although they were awakened from their slothful condition and were caused to repent of their former neglect and sins, through the grace and favor of the Lord, after having been chastened sufficiently, yet we are informed that they again became slothful and careless and failed to keep the commandments of the Lord, and, finally, He permitted their enemies to drive them from the State of Missouri to Illinois, where they built a city under the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Hancock County, called Nauvoo, or Commerce. Here the Saints prospered for a little season, although the land upon which they had settled was unhealthy and malarial. Malarial fever seized the Saints in Nauvoo and in Montrose, situated just across the river, and they suffered very sorely from sickness and disease of a dreadful nature for a number of months after settling in that place. To such an extent did they suffer that the Lord was moved to compassion on account of their condition, and He whispered to His Prophet Joseph Smith, who called some of his valiant brethren around him and went from house to house in Commerce, or Nauvoo, and in Montrose, administering to the Saints and commanding them in the name of Jesus Christ to arise from their beds of affliction and walk and be made whole. Wherever they went and these commands were given in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, they were obeyed,  the sick were healed instantly. 

I cite this to show that notwithstanding the displeasure of the Lord and these judgments which He had permitted to come upon His people, He was very merciful unto them whenever they would humble themselves before Him, promising that they would strive to serve Him. He was willing to return unto them if they would return unto Him, according to the words of the Prophet Malachi. 

The trials of the Saints in the city of Nauvoo seemed to have culminated into the greatest sorrow they had ever experienced. It was heaped upon them in the martrydom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum, in Carthage jail, in 1844. I say, this seemed like the culminating sorrow of the Latter-day Saints, but no one need sup pose, however, that it was because of transgression that these two great men fell under the hands of a guilty mob. These great men were born to a divine mission, even as our Savior Jesus Christ, our Elder Brother, and when that mission was completed on the earth, the Lord had decreed that they should seal their testimonies with their blood. They never shrank from its fulfillment, knowing that this was the decree of the Lord, and knowing also that they were going to their death when they left the city of Nauvoo. The Prophet turned to his traveling companions and said: "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer morning. I have a conscience void of offence toward God and toward all men. If they take my life, I shall die an innocent man, and my blood shall cry from the ground for vengeance, and it shall yet be said of me, 'He was murdered in cold blood.' " 

Shortly after the death of the Prophet, the Lord declared, through Brigham Young — and I am Inclined to believe that here again it was necessary to awaken the people, who, from their sorrow, had fallen almost into a condition of lethargy — the Lord declared through Brigham Young, the leader of the Church then, and the successor to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that unless the brethren and sisters laid hold of 

the work again in prosecuting their 

labors upon the Temple in Nauvoo,  finished it, that it might be dedicated to the Lord, they would be cut off with their dead. This aroused the Saints again to a sense of their duty to God and His cause, and they went to with their might, with their faith and works, never ceasing until they had completed that house and dedicated it, renewing, under the direction of President Brigham Young, the ordinances of God's holy house and Temple, for the redemption of the living and the dead. 

We came to this land of the west, my brethren and sisters, to the Rocky Mountains, "Willing, because we were obliged to," as President George A. Smith used to say. The Prophet Joseph said that the Saints should be driven to the west, even to the Rocky Mountains, and that many then living would yet go to the Rocky Mountain valleys, and that there the Saints should plant their feet and grow to become a great and mighty people. We have seen the fulfillment of this great prediction, thus far, my brethren and sisters, and today we are brought face to face with living truths. 

The Prophet Joseph laid down his life because God decreed that it should be so, and He permitted him and his brother Hyrum to be martyred for the cause of truth. Again a Prophet was selected by the power of Almighty God and placed to lead the people, in the person of Brigham Young. After the Prophet Brigham's demise another Prophet was raised up by the power of revelation from God the Eternal Father, and he, too, stood as the leader of Israel all the remaining days of his life, never flinching, never swerving from any duty laid before him, standing in the majesty of his calling to promulgate to the people the word of the Lord; and so it was when President John Taylor passed away. It was so with President Wilford Woodruff, who succeeded to that prophetic ministry, to lead and guide Israel and to declare unto them the mind and will of the Lord. And now another Prophet stands with the same keys of authority, with the same power of the Holy Priesthood resting upon him. And so it is today. Our Prophet, the Prophet of the Lord, the Prophet of the Mighty God of Jacob, Lorenzo Snow, declares unto us as  congregation today, as the congregation of Israel everywhere, he declares unto us, as our spokesman, as the spokesman of the Lord, that it Is necessary for us to reform in our lives. These are the conditions that confront us today, the time when we are to observe the commandments of the Lord and accept of the word of the Lord as given through His servant the Prophet. We could bring up by referring to the history of God's people, both in ancient and modern times, year after year, and decade after decade, instances to show that the Lord has ministered unto His children when they have entered into covenants with Him and have kept those covenants, and He has blessed them abundantly from time to time; then again, at times, He has brought upon them His judgments, showing His displeasure unto them for not keeping His commandments as they should have done. Then they have repented, and again the clouds of darkness and persecution have lifted, and the Saints made to rejoice in the sunbeams, in the light of God's favor and countenance, after the dark clouds have passed. 

We are a blessed people. We have our homes here in the valleys of the mountains, which is the land of Joseph, the land of Zion, dedicated centuries ago by the Prophets of the living God to be the land of Joseph, whereon Zion should be established in the latter days, even the New Jerusalem, that is to be built up here, as foreseen by the Prophets of the Nephite nations. At the present time we are living in that day and age of the world when these predictions are to be literally fulfilled. If the Lord can have His way, for He said, on one occasion, to the Saints while they were in the State of Missouri, and since their expulsion from that state, that Zion could be redeemed today, it could have been redeemed before today, if His people were ready for this redemption. Therefore, this proves to me, my brethren and sisters, beyond the power of contradiction, that the Lord is ready to redeem Zion and to make His people a great power, and the head and front in the earth, through His grace, whenever they are prepared for it. I was very much impressed by the remarks of Apostle Woodruff in regard to the reclamation of lands and the taking of farms, utilizing these beautiful lands in the valleys of the mountains for the Saints and their children and making homes for themselves and becoming owners of the soil upon which the Lord has so mercifully planted Hi3 people. 

A few weeks ago I attended the National Irrigation Congress, at Missoula, Mont. The State of Utah was there honored to a very great degree. The members of the congress and those who attended knew that Utah was the leader, the educator, in irrigation and in the redeeming arid lands; consequently, they looked to the delegates from Utah to say something to them in regard to the methods of reclaiming the arid lands of this state, and our methods of colonizing. In the territory of Arizona alone, where a few of our people have settled and where four Stakes of Zion have been organized, there are many hundreds of thousands, and possibly several million, acres of land lying idle, ready for the labor of the husbandman. All it needs is the aid and help of the general government to assist us in getting water onto that desert land, by impounding the streams and floods during high water season, In the spring, for use during the dry season. The Irrigation Congress hopes to obtain this aid from the government in the near future, in order to bring this land into a condition that the farmers may possess it and make themselves homes. This land lies in the great orange belt, and there is no better soil or climate for the production of all the tropical fruits than this now arid land in Arizona, which is lying idle, numbering hundreds of thousands of acres, waiting for the water to be turned onto it. 

The Lord brought His people here for a purpose, and that purpose was that they might more faithfully serve Him than they could have done In the land from which they were expelled; also for the purpose of redeeming this barren waste, which had to be redeemed and which needed the power of God to do it, manifested through His devoted servants, who would devote  lives, time and talents to the redemption of this soil that was so sterile and forbidding in its appearance when the pioneers landed upon it. The Lord knew the character of the men whom He had appointed for this work, and He loved them; and His people have gathered here with the pioneers by the thousands and tens of thousands, from all nations, and from the isles of the sea, and they have come here with the desire and intention of serving the Lord, through His grace and favor. They dedicated to the Lord the land, the water, the elements, and everything surrounding them, in order that His blessings might be upon them and their labors, and upon the soil, and the Lord has indeed blessed His people. 

Now we are confronted with another fact: That we have been negligent in paying our tithes and offerings to the Lord. How soon we forget! How easy it is for man to sin, even 'As the spark* fly upward," as King Solomon said. Man is prone to do evil and to forget. We are apt to forget the blessings we are in possession of, and to forget the Giver. When we entered into the Church of Christ we covenanted with God, the Eternal Father, that we would keep His commandments and serve Him, that we would accent of His truths as revealed through His Prophets, and that we would not only enter into the waters of baptism as humble children and have our sins washed away and covenant with the Lord to be His faithful children ever after, in spirit and in truth, but that we would accede to Him all He required of us in our temporal affairs, and to give unto Him a goodly portion of that which we possessed, in return for His many blessings, that we would be faithful in paying our tithes and offerings. But we have drifted along, year after year, and today we are confronted with the fact that we have not half paid our tithing, that there is not more than 25 per cent of the people that belong to the Church of Christ today who are honest tithe payers. 

In one prominent Stake of Zion, where a conference was recently held, under the direction of President Snow, I heard that not more than 15 per cent of the members of that whole Stake  tithe payers. This is the condition we are found to be in today, my brethren and sisters, and the Prophet of the Lord has said for us to repent of our sins and turn away from oui evil doings and neglect and from our covetousness, and to come near unto the Lord, with full purpose of heart, to serve Him and keep His commandments, to "return unto the Lord," according to the words of the Prophet Malachi, "and He will return unto you." But if we do not return to the Lord the consequence will be most serious and disastrous to the Saints. Never in my life have I heard the servants of the Lord stand before the people and say in such plainness that it was time for us to receive the word of the Lord and keep His commandments more fully, for us to repent and turn unto Him. I have observed that where the people of the Lord have failed to hearken to this word and to repent of their backsliding and to turn unto the Lord with full purpose of heart, the judgments of the Lord have come upon them, in every instance. Now, it is time for us to listen and hearken to the words of the Lord, delivered unto us by His Prophet, In regard to the payment of our tithing. 

In the northern part of this State, in the Malad valley, we have an Indian colony. It is the best Indian colony, I think, upon the face of the earth today. It is the largest colony that I know anything about that is under the direction of the Church of Christ, numbering about 250 people, organized under a Bishop, who presides over them as any other Bishop would over the white people. They have their Sunday school and Mutual Improvement organizations, etc., and they go to their meetings regularly and attend to their duties very well indeed for a people taken from such a low condition, who were so ignorant in the beginning. They are making strides in improvement. A few years ago they began to farm their land, which they had homesteaded, under the direction of the Bishop and those who presided over them. They now possess and live upon their own lands and work it as the white man does. They sow their own grain and harvest and thresh it the  as the white man, owning their threshing machines and harvesting implements. They sell their grain and lucern seed when threshed, and squander the proceeds, because their white brothers set them bad examples. 

If these Indians would save and store up their grain, not wasting or squandering it, they would be much better off. But their Bishop has warned, instructed and counseled them with regard to this, and now they are suffering for their disobedience in not listening to the counsel of those placed in authority over them. Last year they had an abundance of grain and lucern, and they sold it all for whatever price they could get. But this year has been one of disaster to them. Their harvests utterly failed this year, through drouth. They lost all their fall wheat and lucern seed through early and late frosts and the lack of moisture, and now they are almost without the means of sustaining the colony until another harvest. But they are a resolute and patient people, and when their crops fail them, as at the present time, they go out upon the plains and into the mountains and hunt for a living, killing deer and dressing their skins and making gloves and moccasins to take to the towns and cities to sell to the white people. They also gather wool from the sage-bush and other vegetation, where it has been deposited by the sheep in traveling through the country, to and from their winter and summer ranges. By this means they manage to eke out an existence and save themselves from starvation, when their crops fail. They are patient under these terrible ordeals, and I sometimes think they are more patient than their white brethren would be. Bishop Moroni Ward presides over the colony. A man more fitted for the position could probably not be found in Israel. He is a father to his people, and a blessing to them. A delegation of their chief men waited upon him not long ago. They said, "We have lost all our crops. We have no wheat or lucern seed, or means of gaining food and the necessaries of life, because the soil has not yielded anything for us. Now what is the reason?" "Well, brethren," the Bishop said, "have you prayed in your families mornings and evenings?" "No." "Did you attend fast meetings on fast days and bring something for the poor?" "No." "Have any of you drunk a little whiskey during the past year and wasted your money in drink?" "Yes." "Have you smoked tobacco and wasted your money in procuring this poisonous weed?" "Yes." "What have you not done then?" They acknowledged that they had done many things they ought not to have done. "Then," said the Bishop, "can you expect the Lord to do all for you when you do nothing for yourselves?" So they went away satisfied, vowing within themselves, no doubt, as they frequently do, to do better. They promised the Bishop that they would try to reform and do better, that they would try to keep the commandments of the Lord and sustain and uphold him as their Bishop, and to hearken to the words of counsel given to them. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice today that there is a man of God standing at the head of this people. I bear witness to you that President Snow is a chosen servant of the Lord, for the will of the Lord is again made known through him, and the Lord has called upon us, through him, to repent of our sins, our backsliding and neglect, and to pay an honest tithing from this time henceforth and forever, that we may be indeed the people of God, and that this land may be a land of Zion unto us and unto our children, to the last generation of time. For, let me assure you, my brethren and sisters, that if an honest tithing was paid from all the forty thousand families of the Latterday Saints, as they exist today in their prosperous condition, in all this western land, a very large amount would come into the treasury of the Lord's storehouse each year, and we would soon be the wealthiest people on the face of the earth. I say this would have been tht condition had the Saints all been paying an honest tithing. But the past shall be the past, the Lord has declared, and our sins in this matter, of the past, will be forgiven, provided we will begin from this time to be faithful servants and handmaidens of the Lord. That we may redeem ourselves from the fall and from our own sins. For I declare unto  today that the Lord has living Prophets and Apostles, and His words are given to us all the day long. Let us profit by them. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you, my brethren and sisters, and enable you to live according to the glorious principles of the Gospel as revealed to us of the Lord through His Prophets, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Emma Ramsay sang the song, "Come all Ye Sons of Zion," chorus by the choir. 

The congregation then unanimously sustained, by vote, all the general authorities of the Church, and of various organizations thereof as their names were presented by Elder Matthias F. Cowley. 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 

Brethren and sisters, in arising to address you for a few minutes, I trust that I may ,be guided by the Spirit of the Lord, that I may be led to say something that will benefit the Latterday Saints who are here present and build us up in our faith. 

I will read the 21st verse of the 14th chapter of the Gospel according to St. John: 

"He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me; and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him." 

This promise holds good in our day and time, although it was uttered many centuries ago. Still, we profess to have the same authority as the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the same Gospel as preached by them, even the power of God unto salvation. This being the case, there is no Latter-day Saint, no matter what degree of Priesthood he may hold, no matter what his standing may be, if he be in the Church of Christ and is faithful and keeps the commandments of the Lord, but what has this promise vouchsafed unto him: That the Father will manifest Himsett to him; and this can be done in a very great variety of ways. 

I believe that there is no Latter-day Saint, that has any interest in the Church of Christ, but what has been  to marvel at the peculiar workings of destiny in connection with the Latter-day Saints, as a people. There is no one that has been an observer of the history of this people that can help but acknowledge that there is something supernatural or superhuman connected with the development of the latter-day work. In every instance where the people have observed certain commandments given to them, they have always received the promises connected therewith, and where they have not kept those commandments, God has poured out His judgments upon them for their disobedience. Every Latterday Saint should be interested in the work of the Lord and seek to obtain for himself or herself a testimony concerning this work, for the evidences of its divinity are so abundant that if we strive to any degree at all to know of the truthfulness of this great latter-day work, we may know whether or not it is of God or of man. Sometimes we may ask ourselves the question, Is Lorenzo Snow a Prophet of the Living God? Is he the mouthpiece of God upon the earth? Do we believe it? Do we believe that he is authorized to say "Thus sayeth the Lord?" I believe and know that he is and that he possesses all the authority necessary to constitute him the mouthpiece of the Lord upon the earth. If we believe this we will be very anxious to follow his teachings, and we will be very anxious to be connected with the Church of Jesus Christ, that we may know and that God the Eternal Father may know which master we list to obey, for we have been told that his servants are we whom we list to obey. If we list to obey God the Eternal Father we will be His servants, and we will be desirous for the establishment of the work of the Lord upon the earth and to see it grow and increase, and we will love righteousness and hate iniquity. 

As Latter-day Saints, I feel that we ought to stand closely together in this day and time when it appears as though persecution would again be waged against us. It is a warning to us to stand more closely together. We ought to be a people who believe in supporting one another and the king of God. We ought not, as we have done in the past in many instances, furnish the gold and silver to forge the instruments that are aimed at our lives, the lives of this people, as a community. Very often we have, through our patronage and support, built up men and institutions that have afterwards used every means in sending ou1 falsehoods regarding this people, and that have done everything they could to bring persecution upon the Saints. I feel this is wrong, that we ought not to do it. I think that the Latter-day Saints, as a rule, do not fully comprehend . what they are doing in this regard. It is true that we desire to do business with all honorable men. But I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that if this people would withdraw their support from those men, institutions and agencies, and from those papery that send out falsehoods about this people and the citizens of this state, they would not be able to live. It is the support which the Latter-day Saints give these agencies that maintains them. Therefore, I say that we feed the instruments that are intended to be used against us, and that are used against us. I think we should reflect more upon these things. In many of our settlements the Saints have given their patronage and support to men who have come into their midst and fleeced them, and who have then turned around and used those very means against them. This should be a warning to the Latter-day Saints that they ought to try and support themselves and their own institutions, to build up one another and be more united in the future than they have been in the past. 

I feel anxiously engaged in the work of the Lord. I desire above all things upon the face of the earth to enjoy the spirit of the Apostleship of the Lord Jesus Christ, that I might labor for the bringing about of the salvation of the sons and daughters of God upon the face of the earth. This is the work of God, the Eternal Father. It is not the work of man, and we do not need to be very much concerned with regard to the outcome of this people. We need not be agitated on account of the efforts being made for their overthrow. If we do our duty as individuals the Lord will take care of the rest. We have had no occasion in the past to worry regarding the final outcome of this community. The Lord has always brought to naught the plans that have been laid and devised for the destruction of this people by our enemies, and He will do the same in the future, if we will hold together and not allow ourselves to be led off and to mix up too much with our enemies. Of course, we welcome all good citizens. "We love all good citizens in this city and state and upon the face of the earth, who delight in telling the truth, but we have not yet learned to love those that tell falsehoods and that seek to destroy our influence in the nation. I suppose we ought to love them, according to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, but we have not perfected ourselves to that degree yet. 

I pray God to bless you and to teach us and fill us with His Holy Spirit continually, that we may so live, by keeping the commandments of God, the Eternal Father, that we may ever know for ourselves, whenever anything is enacted for the Church as a whole, whether it is of the Lord or not, and not set up our own ideas against the plans of the Lord. It is the right of every Latter-day Saint, who is living in accordance to the commandments of the Lord, to know of the truthfulness, correctness and righteousness of every enactment that is made by the Church of Christ, for we believe in revelation. We believe that God will manifest these things unto us, not simply to those who etand at the head of the Church, but to all the members of the Church of Christ. It is our privilege to know and understand whether anything that is done by the Church is right or not, if we are living in accordance with the commandments of the Lord. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, and may He fill our hearts with His peace. May we realize more in the future than we have ever done in the past the necessity of laboring continually for the establishment of righteousness and the building up of God's kingdom and work upon the face of the earth. May we so live that we may share in the blessings which God the Eternal Father has  to those that love Him and keep His commandments. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 

My brethren and sisters, I hope you will not get weary, and that you will sustain me by your faith and prayers while I occupy a few minutes of the time. I would also like for you to sustain me by your faith and prayers every day in the future, and in return I will endeavor to sustain you by my faith and prayers and by such exertion as the gifts and blessings of the Almighty to me shall enable me to be of benefit and profit to the Latter-day Saints. 

It is of very little use to bear testimony that we know that the Gospel is true unless we exemplifiy that testimony in our daily walk and conversation. The best evidence which we can g-ive to the Lord that we are convinced that President Snow is a Prophet of God is that we shall heed the counsel which has been given through him to this people, and pay our tithing, thus testifying by our works that we do sustain President Lorenzo Snow as the mouthpiece of God to the Latter-day Saints. 

There is a statement in the Doctrine and Covenants having a bearing upon those who are sent out to preach the Gospel, and it applies to those who preach the Gospel at home, not only as missionaries bearing offices as general authorities of the Church, but it applies to every Bishop and Elder in Israel, and to the Seventies and Presidents of Seventies, to the lesser Priesthood and all who administer in the various offices assigned unto them. It is this: "Treasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be given you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted unto every man." It is not for the purpose of dwelling upon this quotation that I read it, but to call your attention to another matter: It is the duty of the servants and handmaidens of the Lord, who constitute the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to treasure up the words of eternal life, and then, under the inspiration of the Almighty administer that portion of the  of God that is especially adapted to the wants of the people on the occasion, it is also the duty of every Latter-day Saint to know what is the matter with himself or herself and to know exactly wherein they have come short in keeping- and observing- the commandments of God. I will venture to say that the instructions of this conference are applicable, to a greater or less degree, to every individual, male or female, who has been in attendance at this conference. It is the duty of the Latter-day Saints to take to themselves that portion of the word of God which is- applicable unto them, or which they have not fully exemplified by their conduct and lives heretofore, and make a distinct and personal application of the tame to themselves in the future. If there is any one here who has exemplified these instructions fully, who has not been derelict in his or her duty, having fulfilled it to- the fullest extent, taking into consideration every injunction of the Gospel and every requirement of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, please hold up your right hand. I would like to see you. And I presume we are all a little derelict and that there is a necessity for a reformation upon our part. 

It is certainly unnecessary for us to rehearse this afternoon the promises extended to those that are faithful, unto those who are diligent in keeping the commandments of God, and the great disadvantages and the disapproval of Heaven if we keep not the commandments of the Lord. We must remember that we have taken upon us the most solemn obligations that were ever assumed by men and women upon the face of the earth. This is the great and last dispensation, a dispensation in which is comprehended all the keys, blessings and powers and every measure of divine authority which has been enjoyed by any and all previous dispensations of the Gospel, from father Adam down to the present period of time. Upon our shoulders rest the responsibilities of all these dispensations combined together, as it were. It is the dispensation of the fullness of times. We have made sacred covenants, in sacred places, and those covenants mean something. When the Lord revealed them through His servant, the 

Prophet Joseph, as applying to this dispensation, it was designed that they should be attended, when strictly observed, by the blessings and power of Almighty God, and it was designed that if those sacred covenants should be violated and trampled in the dust of the earth, God would not be mocked, and that His judgments would come upon His people unless they exemplified the principles of the Gospel in their daily walk and conversation. Now, these things, my brethren and sisters, have been brought to the attention of the Latter-day Saints, in the instructions of this general conference. Let us reflect upon them. Let every man and woman ask himself or herself the question, Where have I been derelict? In what duty have I been neglectful? Can I improve? And then let us consider the instructions given at this conference, and especially that portion that would be applicable to us individually. Let us go forth from this time and pay our tithes and offerings, and consecrate as much of our property to the cause of God, to the liquidating of the debts and obligations of this Church, as is possible for us. I say to you that it is the easiest way to secure the blessings and protection of Almighty God. The Prophet of the Lord has said to us more than once, since he received the manifestation in the city of St. George, that the Latterday Saints must pay their tithing or they shall not be entitled to the blessings of the house of the Lord, and shall be subject to the persecution and tyranny of their enemies. He has also said to us more than once that if we would pay our tithing as we should the Lord would bless us abundantly, spiritually and temporally. I would not have you pay your tithing for a selfish motive. I would not desire to pay my own tithing with the idea in view that the Lord would enrich me in a temporal capacity. The riches of this earth are not the choicest the Lord has to bestow. He may bestow them upon us, and they are necessary for the promotion of the work of God, in a material sense, but the choicest blessing that comes to the Latter-day Saints is the rich and choice inspiration of the Holy Spirit, to enlighten our minds upon the things of God and to give us an Influence among the children of men that will enable us to verify the injunction of the Savior when He said, "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven." These are the choicest blessings, my brethren and sisters. 

Let me encourage you to make a more earnest effort to enlist your young people in the work of Mutual Improvement and Sabbath School work, and to get them to take advantage of the opportunities that are afforded them in the Gospel, that our sons and daughters may be efficient in proclaiming the Gospel, both at home and abroad. There is a great necessity for this. 

I must not occupy your time much longer. It is nearly up. May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may we go forth from this conference, to the various Stakes of Zion where v e reside, and to our various labors, and to the nations of the earth, with the spirit of this conference, disseminating it among the people of God and among the peoples of this earth. 

I bear to you my testimony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the living God. I bear testimony to you that the Father, the Almighty, and His Son, Jesus Christ, presented themselves to that boy Prophet in this dispensation. I bear to you my testimony that he received the keys of the gathering of the house of Israel, from the hands of the Prophet Moses, that he received the keys for the building of temples and the redemption of the dead, from the Prophet Elijah, who appeared personally to him and restored those keys. I bear testimony to you that the great Prince Michael, the Archangel, has delivered to him the keys connecting, by genealogy, the generations of men, and binding them together in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, from the beginning down to the latest period of time, in this dispensation. These keys have been restored to the earth. I rejoice in the Gospel. I am under obligations to the Almighty, and I feel my obligations to Him. God has always given me something to do and has opened up the way before me and shown me what my calling was. I want to say to the young men in Israel, if you are laboring in any doubt as to what you should do in , go to God in prayer and ask Him what you should do, and let Him guide you by His Spirit, and He will do it. We are the people of God, and He has promised to hear and answer our prayers. I want to admonish you to resnp*»*. the principles of the everlasting Gospel, no matter what they are, no matter if they be the principles that are assaulted by our enemies. They are the principles of eternal truth, and God has revealed and established them upon the earth, and He will maintain them, and Zion will be established, and the kingdom of God will grow in power, and the Latter-day Saints will be prepared for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ and His reign upon the earth. 

These are my testimonies. May God bless you, is my prayer, In the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MARRINER W. MERRILL. 

There is one subject to which I wish to briefly refer. I wish to call your attention to your temple work. This is a very important consideration, or should be, in our lives and in our home affairs. Let us contemplate it. Thousands, and I might say millions, of dollars have been expended by this people, through the commandments of the Lord, in building temples. We have four in this State. They are convenient to a great majority of the people of the Church, not only in this State, but in the surrounding States. Now, we must all remember, that a hundred years hence, in all probability, every one of us will be on the other side of the veil, and we have kindred there, fathers and mothers, grand-fathers and grandmothers, and great grand-fathers and great grand-mothers. A great many of our kindred have left this existence, any many of them without a knowledge of the Gospel, perhaps the majority of them. We are here as their children, and they have an interest in us and we have an interest in them, because the keys have been revealed whereby the hearts of the children are turned to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children. Those keys and powers have been revealed in our day and time, and we now have opportunities, while in life, to prosecute  labor in their behalf and to extend to our kindred beyond the veil the greatest redeeming- plan of salvation. The opportunity is now afforded us. Opportunities are also continually opening before us, whereby our genealogies may be obtained. I have learned, through experience, that people who have an interest in their temple work, records and genealogies, obtain those genealogical records, to a great extent. Some people spend hundreds of dollars, perhaps thousands of dollars, in traveling and gathering up the records of their forefathers, while others are indifferent in this regard, and scarcely think of it from one year's end to another. We are not going to live forever, none of us. We may pass away any moment. I have known of many instances of this kind, where people have put off from time to time and from year to year, their work in behalf of some of their kindred dead, and have finally passed away themselves without doing this work. I know of such cases in Salt Lake City and all over the country. Now, brethren and sisters, do not forget this labor. Do not put it off until you are entirely ready, because, if you do, perhaps you will not get ready at all. Your way may be hedged up, for Satan is on the move and is looking into our affairs continually and he may hedge up our way, wherever the opportunity is afforded him, that we shall not be able to redeem our kindred dead. Therefore, I wish to urge this matter upon you. Tn the midst of all our duties and labor, let us not forget our fathers and mothers, and our kindred on the other side of the veil. 

God bless you, and may He lead us in the paths of life; that our minds may be stirred up by way of remembrance of the duties pertaining to us in this our second estate. 

The meeting was brought to a close by the singing of the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God for a Prophet." 

Benediction by Elder Marriner W. Merrill. 

AT THE TABERNACL