Morning
06 10 1899




PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

I wish to say a few words at the opening of our conference this morning. I feel myself, and I hope every Latterday Saint does, very grateful for this beautiful morning and the prospect of good weather while we are convened. I trust that every Latter-day Saint will exercise faith that this beautiful weather may continue during conference. Many people that are here this morning and who will be here during our whole proceedings, have come from a long distance, and some have perhaps made what may be called sacrifices in order to come. I want to say to everyone that it is our privilege to be blessed to such an extent that we will feel perfectly repaid for all the inconvenience that may have resulted to us in coming to this gathering. As Latter-day Saints the Lord has placed us in relation with himself, and in order to carry out the condition that we are in we need His blessing above any other class of people. 

Our prospects are sufficiently grand and glorious to cause us to put forth every exertion that we possibly can, in order to secure the blessings that are before us. Nothing should deter us from the exercise of every power that God has bestowed upon us, to make our salvation and exaltation sure. All men and women who are worthy to be called Latter-day Saints should live hour by hour in such a way that if they should be called suddenly from this life into the next they would be prepared. The preparation should be such that we should not fear to be called away suddenly into the sDirit life. It is our privilege to so live as to have the spirit of light and intelligence to that extent that we shall feel satisfied that all will be well if we should be called away at any hour. 

If we look back at our experience since we received the Gospel, we can see and know that the Lord has blessed us abundantly. If we have been faithful, as we should have been, or if we have not been so faithful as we should have been, but now feel to do right, we have assurances, from our past experience, that everything will be well with us in the future as we tread the path of exaltation and glory, walking in the light of the truth and carefully observing everything that is required of us. If there should be any Latterday Saints within the sound of my voice that have not reached this assurance in regard to their future, they should not rest satisfied until they have secured it, so that they may know that everything is right with them. 

What I want of the Latter-day Saints is that during this conference, as the Elders shall arise to address us, our faith and our prayers may be exercised for each one who speaks, that he may say such things, and that we may have the spirit to receive such things as shall be beneficial to all. This is our privilege and our duty. We have not come here accidentally; we have come in this conference expecting to receive something that will be advantageous to us. The Latter-day Saint9 most assuredly need to receive good things. Of ourselves we can do nothing. 

As Jesus said: "Verily, verily I say unto you, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do; for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise." He came into this life to do the will of his Father, and not his own will. Our desire and determination should be the same. When things come up that require an exertion on our part, we should bring our wills into subjection to the will of the Father, and feel to say, what is the will of our Father, whom we are here in the world to serve? Then every act that we perform will be a success. We may not see its success today or tomorrow, nevertheless it will result in success. 

We have received principles of truth, but not in blindness. We do not walk in blindness, but we walk in the light of truth. We know what we are about and what will be the result of our faithfulness. But we should be wise and prudent; we should learn to govern ourselves, to control our passions, and to bring all our faculties and powers into perfect obedience to the mind and will of God, so that these bodies, which God has given to us, may be governed and controlled in all respects as He would wish. The Latter-day Saints, by being wise and prudent, can make this life a tolerably happy one. We need not live in misery; we need not feel that we are sacrificing all the time, but that what we call sacrifices prove a blessing to us, which we would not receive were it not for this experience. Everything that transpires affecting us individually may be made a blessing, and will be a blessing to us if we act wisely and prudently. 

We are not here to fight anybody; we are not here to contend with anybody. We are here to move slowly along, perform the duties that are required at our hands, mind our own business, and let others mind their business^ or not as they see proper. In this way we shall progress and gain an experience that will be useful to us, not only in this life, but in the life to come. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters. May we walk in obedience to the commandments of God continually, and if we do I will assure you that we will receive blessings far greater than we ever anticipated. God bless you, Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

A Lesson to be Drawn from the Career of Kin" Saul — Ti.e Obligation of ObeciieDce to God— The Law of Tithing. 

Brethren and sisters: In taking up the Bible this morning, I was very much impressed with certain words that I read therein which touched upon the principle of obedience. President Snow this morning has dwelt somewhat upon this principle. I have many times thought and still think it is one of the cardinal principles of the Gospel. We read in the 9th chapter of I Samuel that God designed to make a king over Israel. He chose a young man by the name of Saul, the son of Kish, a Benjaminite. It is said that he was a choice young man, and there was not among the Children of Israel a goodlier person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people. It seems that the father of Saul had lost his mules, and he sent his son Saul in search of them. As he went forth he met the Prophet Samuel, who had been made acquainted with the fact that God had selected this young man to be king over Israel. Samuel called him in and anointed him to be king. But let me tell you, brethren and sisters, that it was not sufficient that this young man should be a choice young man, of fine appearance and taller by head and shoulders than any others in the House of Israel, but in order that he might be the king and a servant of God, a change must come over him. Man can serve man by the spirit of man, but in order to be a servant of God we must have the spirit of God. So it proved to be in this instance, for Samuel instructed Saul that in returning to his parents he would come up with a company of prophets, and that he should join the prophets, and that the spirit of the Lord would come upon him. Samuel further said to him: 

"And thou shalt prophecy with them, and shall be turned into another man. 

"7. And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as occasion serve thee, for God is with thee. 

"8. And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace offerings; seven days shalt thou tarry, till I come to thee, and shew thee what thou shalt do." 

Now mark what follows: 

"And it was so that when he turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all those signs came to pass that day." 

We can see, brethren and sisters, how this man was favored of God, not only in being called to be king and in presiding over something like three hundred thousand people (for they were numbered in those days, and that was said to be the number) but also that he should receive of the Lord another heart and be changed into a new man. Notwithstanding this, however, there was a flaw in the character of Saul that proved in the end his ruin. 

You will remember that Saul was instructed to go down to Gilgal and to remain there seven days, when the prophet would meet him there, and together they should offer burnt offerings and a sacrifice to the Lord, and upon that occasion also the prophet was to tell him what the Lord required. Saul went down to the place appointed, and he waited there for the prophet, but the prophet did not come exactly as the king expected. He may possibly have delayed his coming. At any rate, the king became nervous, for there was some disturbance among the people and the Philistines were about to come against them in battle. So, instead of waiting for the prophet, Saul undertook, of his own authority, to offer up burnt offering and sacrifice, contrary to the commandment of the Lord. When Samuel came down he said to Saul: 

"What hast thou done? And Saul said, because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou earnest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash; 

"12. Therefore said I, the Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto the Lord; I forced myself, therefore, and offered a burnt offering. 

"13. And Samuel said to Saul, thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of the Lord thy God, which he commanded thee; for now would the Lord have established thy kingdom upon Israel forever. 

"14. But now thy kingdom shall not continue; the Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart, and the Lord hath commanded him to be captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee." 

Now to Saul it may have appeared a very simple matter that he should not wait the coming of the prophet. Why could not he, a king, make offering and supplication to the Lord? Why should he wait for the coming of Samuel? Because it was the will and commandment of the Lord, and he did not obey it. In this we have an evidence of the goodness of God in one way and of his strictness in another way. The king was assured by the prophet that if he had obeyed the commandment of God, his kingdom would have been established over Israel forever; but that having departed therefrom, his kingdom should not continue. We have another illustration in the life of Saul of the great importance of being obedient to the commandment of the Lord. When the Children of Israel came to the promised land from Egypt, under the guidance of the Almighty, on one occasion, when they were weary and footsore, the people of the Amalikites came out against them, and harassed them upon the right hand and upon the left and slew their women and their children and their tender ones. 

Because of this piece of treachery and unfriendliness to a people who had never injured them, the Lord determined that they should be destroyed, and he told the prophet to write it down in a book of remembrance, that when the people were established in the promised land and became strong they should go against the Amalikites and carry out the commandment of the Lord with respect to that people. Saul was selected by the prophet to perform this duty. He was told to gather together the hosts of Israel and to give battle to the Amalikites. He was commanded to destroy them from the face of the earth, because they had fought against Israel in the day of their weakness and trouble. Saul gathered the hosts of Israel and went against them, and destroyed them. But it is said in the scriptures that Saul and the people spared Agag the king and the best of the sheep and of the oxen and of the fatlings and all that was good, but everything that was vile they destroyed utterly. Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him: 

"Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have brought Agag  king, and have utterly destroyed the Amalikites. 

"21. But the People took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in Gilgal. 

"22. And Samuel said, hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. 

"23. For rebellion is as tne sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry." 

The Lord did not say to Saul that there was anything wrong in burnt offering and sacrifice, but he said that obedience was better than sacrifice. 

And later on Samuel said unto Saul, "I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel." 

In another place it is said that the Lord repented that he made Saul king over Israel, because he had forsaken him and failed to keep his commandments. 

It seems to me, brethren and sisters, that we can draw a lesson of wisdom from this story of the king of Israel. We can see that when the Lord gives a commandment to the children of men He requires the strictest obedience to that command. When the Lord speaks he means something. It is not as the conversation of one man with another, when we do not weigh our words and think not of the result thereof, but when the Lord delivers a commandment to his people it is binding upon them. We have the commandments of the Lord in the Bible, in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, in the Book of Mormon and in other Church works, wherein is set forth the mind and will of the Lord unto His people. Furthermore, we have the living oracles; we have the prophet of God to stand forth in the midst of Israel and deliver unto us the mind and will of God. 

The Lord has said in these last days that he will not be mocked, and that we cannot disregard or treat lightly his words. We know that many troubles and evils have come upon the people from time to time because of the disregard of the word of the Lord. We have been told, publicly, by the President of the Church that if the Latterday Saints had heeded strictly the word of the Lord delivered to them through the Prophet Joseph Smith, they would now have been established in those eastern lands from which they were driven, and would be today the wealthiest community upon the earth. The Lord would have watched over and de livered them out of the hands of theii enemies. It does not follow either thai if they had been obedient to the command of God they would not have been brought to this land. I believe they would have been directed to this favored spot, and also established here and blessed abundantly. No doubt some of the evils under which we are struggling at the present time are due in a measure to our disobedience, for we have been instructed that Zion might have been redeemed long ago if the Saints had been faithful. 

We have strayed in a measure from the commandments of the Lord. Some of our people have put private interpretations upon the laws of God. Take the law of tithing for instance. It is very simple and easy to be understood. Very few words are employed by the Lord to set this law before his people. He says that He requires of his Saints one-tenth of their interest annually. It seems to me that every man, woman and child could easily determine what their interest is annually. It is not a command of man; it is a command of our Heavenly Father. I have no right to put a private interpretation upon it, or to vary from it, or to say that a man is entitled to figure out this that and the other until he has nothing to pay tithing on, and in some cases until the Lord himself is brought in debt to the individual. I take the law as it comes to us in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. I have had no trouble in determining just what my tithing is. I have had no trouble in paying my tithing when I have paid it as I, went along. The only trouble I ever experienced was when I left it until the end of the year, and when I figured it up it was a source of anxiety to me as to whether I had paid my tithing or not. But if we pay it as we go along, it is a simple matter, and the probabilities are that we will be honest in it with the Lord. It is so with all of the commandments of God. 

There is a blessing predicated upon the observance of every commandment. We cannot ignore it or depart from it or change it to suit our own notions and then expect to obtain the blessings. The Lord does His part, we must do ours. So I have rejoiced in contemplating this great and glorious principle of obedience. It has strengthened my faith. It has caused me to make new resolves. I have come to understand a little more than I understood last week or last month, the strictness of the Lord and how careful He is that his servants and people should obey Him, a.nd what is meant when it is said that the Lord would choose a man after his own heart. It meant, I think, that He would choose a man who would obey his commandments. We know that the Savior was a man after the Lord's own heart. We are told that if we would have salvation we must follow the example of the Savior, and the great distinguishing quality of the Savior was his obedience. He came not to do His own will, but the will of the Father in all things. We too should feel that we are not here to do our own will, but the will of the Father. With respect to tithing? Yes. With respect to the Word of Wisdom? Tea With respect to faith, repentance, baptism and the laying on of hands? Yes. With respect to all the great commandments which the Lord has delivered unto us? Yes. And not one more than another. 

We do not single out the principle of tithing and say it is the greatest commandment God has given. We simply say, it is a commandment of God and we should obey it. We do not say that a man will be saved and exalted simply because he obeys the law of tithing. We must live by every word that proceedeth forth out of the mouth of the Lord, and one commandment is as sacred as another. They are all needful for the welfare of the Church and for the accomplishment of the purposes of God. We cannot pick and choose and say we will keep this commandment because it is pleasant to us and we wall slight another because it is not agreeable. 

I pray that we may be greatly blessed in our conference; that the spirit of the Lord may rest down mightily upon the President of the Church and upon the brethren who shall be called to address the people, that we may be edified and strengthened, encouraged and renewed in our faith. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 

Advantages of Colonization and Manual Labor. 

Brethren and sisters, in standing before you this morning I assure you I feel very dependent upon the spirit of the Lord to give me utterance. Without that spirit I feel that it would be unprofitable for me and my brethren to occupy the short time allotted to us in conference, where there is so much to be spoken of and so much business to be transacted pertaining to this great people. Therefore I pray that the Lord may bring to my memory some things that I have had upon my mind, and which I desire to speak a few words upon. I will read a portion of the 58th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"26. For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

"27. Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"28. For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"29. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothf ulness, the same is damned." 

These are the words of the Lord unto this people through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and they are applicable to us at this time. As a people, I believe that when the prophet of God stands before us and says "thus saith the Lord," we all feel in our hearts that he is speaking the mind and will of God. However united we may be in this respect and in other duties that devolve upon us, we are not as united as we ought to be. 

I hold that the Latter-day Saint who goes out from the crowded cities, takes up a portion of mother earth, and seeks to establish a home upon that piece of ground, is just as much engaged in the building up of Zion and in the work  the Lord as they who go out into the world to preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. For our spiritual salvation would not amount to very much if it were not coupled with our temporal salvation. We have the battle of life to contend with, as well as the battle for salvation in the world to come. I feel that there is not altogether the united effort among the people of the Lord that there ought to be in our colonization matters. I deprecate the tendency that appears to be increasing among the young Latter-day Saints to rather earn a livelihood in an easy manner, by the use of the pen at the bookkeeper's desk, or the use of the scissors behind the dry goods counter, than to go out and assist in the great colonization that devolves upon this people. I do not feel that it is the duty of the Latter-day Saints to seek their own ease. The man who chooses a life of ease rather than one which will bring himself and his muscle in conflict with the sterility of the soil, does not develop within his heart the love of God as much as does the pioneer who goes forth with a desire to build up Zion materially. It is true, we are not all fitted for the same avocations in life, but I have noted in traveling among the people who are the colonizers of today that in many instances their sons and daughters have a desire to make an easy living. They do not desire to stay on the farm and to labor as their fathers and mothers have done. They lose sight of the fact that brains can be used in the colonization of new countries and in the cultivation of the soil as well as in callings to be found in the city. It is true, that in any avocation in life there is always room at the top; but it is not easy for young men and women to come in from the country and make a good living in the cities. Very often we find them, after they have labored five or ten years, without a home and without anything laid up for their future welfare. They may have had a pretty easy time of it; they may have been able to take advantage of the theatres, the pleasure resorts, etc., but they have not made any material advancement. It is my firm belief that if this spirit prevails among the young Latter-day Saints, it will only be a matter of a generation or two until our people will be the employed and not the employers. There should be a spirit instilled into the hearts of those who attend the Colleges of the Latter-day Saints, at any rate, to create employment, rather than to seek employment. We have learned by experience that it amounts to but very little to go out into the world and preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus to the people, and then bring them to these cities where they are not able to gain for themselves a livelihood. Very often bad results have arisen from this condition. There should be as great a desire to possess the earth and to become employers as there should be to go out and preach the Gospel. I do not know the reason of it, but it almost appears as if the young people of today abhorred the thought of using the hammer or the plane, or becoming connected with any business that entails hard work. The desire appears to be to make a living by the head, and not with the body and brain combined. I feel that this is wrong, for in time it will create a one-sided education. It seems to me that now is a good time to urge upon the fathers and mothers to teach their sons and daughters that farm life and the life of the colonizer and pioneer is not all drudgery, but that there are many advantages connected with it. The days of colonizing by this people are by no means past. 

There are vast tracts of land which I believe the God of Heaven has kept in reserve for this people. They only wait the diversion of the streams from their natural courses to transform them into thrifty farms and settlements. I believe that for a long time to come this country will furnish to our people places where the climate is good, where there is an abundance of water and land, where they can make good homes for themselves, and where, after a few years of hard labor, they will be able to give employment to others. They will not always have their "nose on the grindstone," nor will they be under the necessity of walking the streets and begging employment of other people. There is scarcely a day passes, when I am in the city, but some one comes to me who desires employment, or better employment than he already has. 

A great many of those who are employed in this city at the present time are spending more than they are making. It may be partially on account of extravagant habits that we have acquired in the last few years. But it is nevertheless a very unsatisfactory situation. Where people are busily engaged and have plenty to do, they are generally contented. If we will labor each day so that at the end of the day we can feel that we have accomplished something, we are able to lie down at night and partake of the God-given rest that comes to a tired body. But, as I have stated, very often the desire is to avoid this kind of life, and to shun labor which would soil our hands. This is not the spirit of the latter-day work. If our people do not take advantage of the vast tracts of land that are around us, and make Latter-day Saint homes thereon, we will ultimately find ourselves surrounded by a people not of us, who will possess the earth and take advantage of these opportunities that we are allowing to pass by, apparently unheeded. I believe that it is a righteous desire for a Latter-day Saint to wish to possess some of God's earth; and mothers and fathers can do much better with their children, so far as rearing them in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is concerned, upon the farm, where they can furnish them employment, than in the crowded cities, where they might have to walk the streets without employment and have nothing to occupy their minds but evil. There are many young Latter-day Saints today being led away in this manner, and I believe that one cause of this is the fact that we are neglecting as a people to make use of the soil, the streams of water, and the elements which surround us. 

My brethren and sisters, these are things that it would be well for us to consider. I feel that the Latter-day Saints need more blacksmiths, more mechanics, more colonizers, more young men and young women who are not afraid to go out and battle with the elements, and take advantage of the opportunities which God has placed within our reach, as our fathers and mothers have done. It has made good men and good women of them. They engaged in occupations that today are considered undesirable, but they are better men and women than we are. We ought to desire to build up the material Zion; and while we may not be commanded in these things, we should, as the revelation which I have read says, be willing to do many things of our own free will and choice. 

Where our people have gone forth in organized bodies, in accordance with counsel, to settle up new countries, they have been able to accomplish much. But where they have gone without the advice of their Bishop, or without the knowledge of the President of their Stake, they have contended one with another, have been disunited, and in almost every instance have made a failure of their canals and their colonization in general. Where, however, they have followed the counsels of the servants of the Lord they have been prospered, they have become a wealthy and industrious people, and their sons and daughters have become men and women of muscle and brain. 

May God grant that we may improve in respect to some of these things; that we may be a people who will keep constantly in view the necessity of union; that we may seek to support one another materially as well as spiritually; that we may desire to build up one another and thus build up the kingdom of God; that we may eliminate the spirit of selfishness from our hearts, and that we may grow and increase in 

the knowledge of God and his purposes. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 

Importance of General Conference — Ti e Sphere and Regulation of Temporal Affairs— Need for Efficient Elders In the Mis.-ionary Field. 

My brethren and sisters, I am gratified for the privilege of being with you at this conference, and especially for the opportunity of being instructed by my brethren. I recognize the fact that I am always in need of instruction and admonition. I believe that this is the case with all the Latter-day Saints. That we may be fed with the bread of life, particularly with that portion of it which is adapted to the immediate wants of the Saints, is the object of this general conference. The Church is sixty-nine and a half years of age; and while the congregation does not entirely fill this tabernacle, it is very large compared with the membership of the Church on the 6th day of April, 1830. Soon after the organization of the Church, we are informed, by the Doctrine and Covenants, conferences were inaugurated and it was enjoined by revelation that the various branches of the Church should send representative men to the conference, that they might, if called upon, represent the condition of the work of the Lord in their respective branches, and also that they might partake of the spirit which actuated the Prophet of the Lord and his associates. 

The importance of these conferences should be impressed upon the Latterday Saints throughout the Stakes of Zion; and I believe that the spirit of them is extended to the various nations of the earth. I know that when I have been abroad preaching th j Gospel, and a conference has occurred during my absence, I have felt the spirit of the occasion. Though I have been absent in body, I have been present in spirit. I have rejoiced in occasions of this character, though thousands of miles away from them. 

When Brother Rudger Clawson read from the scriptures this morning, I was reminded of a statement made in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, which I will read. It is in Section 59: 

"Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments." 

This was revealed to the Prophet Joseph at the time the Saints were assembled in Jackson County, Missouri, that land having been designated by the Lord as the great central gathering place of the Saints of God in this dispensation; and the expression in this paragraph: "Blessed saith the Lord are they that have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory," is very indicative. The importance of it is demonstrated in subsequent history .of the efforts of the Saints of God to lestablish Zion in Jackson County; for in ithe inception of this work the Lord Jcommunicated to the Prophet Joseph 'Smith all the keys and authority and every essential for the complete establishment and accomplishment of the  of God in the last days, and this included the principle of union. Brother Woodruff has been speaking to us this morning relative to the necessity of our having material interest in the work of God. I believe, indeed, I know, that if we confined our worship to the mere singing of hymns and the delivering of religious sermons, the Saints of God would die temporally; and if it were all temporal, they would die spiritually. That which is esteemed temporal and which is deprecated in the estimation of the religious world is sanctioned in the Gospel of Jesus Christ from the fact that all things are spiritual with God. We read in the revelations of God, to the Prophet Joseph, this saying of the Lord: 

"Wherefore, verily I say unto you, that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which is temporal." 

In the establishment of this work the Lord designed to communicate to the Latter-day Saints those principles which should control and govern them in all the temporal transactions of life. Every Latter-day Saint who has the spirit of the Gospel can understand the necessity of this. I maintain that it is an impossibility for men to be engaged for six days in the week in the business transactions of life and to be controlled by the principles which obtain in the world, and enjoy the spirit of the Gospel upon the Sabbath day and to worship Almighty God acceptably. The trouble with us is to a certain extent, we are Latter-day Saints religiously, but Gentiles financially. We are not controlled in the business affairs of life by that spirit of the Gospel which blesses and sanctifies all temporal transactions and makes them spiritual in the sight of God. In my travels among the people I have felt that the Sermon on the Mount, delivered by the Messiah, was the choicest sermon that ever fell from the lips of any earthly being. It is found in the 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of Matthew and also in the third book of Nephi. The injunctions He there gave are practical, essential, and adapted to the wants of the people of God, in every dispensation and in every part of the earth. The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith the principles upon which the Zion of God could be  and perpetuated. He made known unto him that there should be a common interest in the things of God; that every talent should be blessed and sanctified to the establishment of the work of God upon the earth; that no matter what might be the peculiar gifts bestowed upon the individual, they should all be used in the accomplishment of the purposes of God. As a people we are diversely gifted. 

I remember reading a revelation in this book of Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord says that He would not make the Prophet Joseph mighty in temporal things, because his work was in another direction. He was entrusted with the keys and the revelations of God, many of which had been kept hid from the foundation of the world, and He laid the foundation of this work and gave revelations which would enable his successors and the people of God for many years to build upon it. The Lord revealed to him what we call the United Order, by which all the time and all the talents of all the Saints of God should be employed for the general benefit of the cause. I remember reading in this book of a branch of the Church that had come up from Colesville, in the State of New York, and they had made a solemn covenant with the Lord that they would consecrate their property to His cause, but they broke that covenant, and it was a very serious sin in the sight of God. They had broken a solemn pledge, and they were made to realize the fulfillment of the saying that God would not be mocked, although it may not bave been so serious and swift a judgment as that pronounced upon Ananias and Sapphira in the days of the Apostles. The effort was made then to establsh the United Order. Jesus sought to establish the work of God more fully than the house of Judah would accept it. You remember that He said to them: 

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not. 

"38. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. 

"39. For I say unto you, ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." 

The day is coming when they will be willing to accept the principle of gathering which they then rejected. But, as I have said, the effort was made to establish the principles of the United Order subsequent to the ascension of Jesus. They had, it is said, all things in common. On one occasion Ananias came to the Apostle Peter ostensibly to consecrate all that he had received under the blessings of the Almighty. The scriptures inform us that he and his wife had sold a possession and he brought a certain part of it and laid it at the feet of the Apostle Peter, who was the Presiding Apostle of the Church and who had received the keys not only to baptize for the remission of sins, to lay on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost and to administer the sacrament of the Lord's supper, but also to administer in those things that pertain to the celestial kingdom here upon this earth. Now Peter, under the influence of the Holy Ghost, discerned that the man was not honest in his offering, and he said unto him: 

"Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost, and to keep back part of the price of the land? 

"While it remained, was It not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God. 

"And Ananias, hearing these words, fell down, and gave up the Ghost." 

Shortly afterwards his wife came in, and she also lied in relation to this business. These are principles my brethren and sisters, that are attended by the power of God, if they are observed. But they are attended by the judgments of God if they are violated. These principles were carried out in the City of Enoch until the city was translated. They were carried out for a few generations upon this continent by the Nephites, and the Book of Mormon tells us that not one of that generation was lost, because they were equal before the Lord and labored for the same end. The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph the same principles. The Saints of God failed to carry them out because of selfishness. The Lord revealed that Zion never could be redeemed, only by the law of consecration. 

Because the people were not prepared to receive and obey it, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery besought the Lord to know what He required at their hands as a tithing. As a result of that condition, He gave the law of tithing wherein is required a tenth of all the interest of the people annually. The Lord specified what the tithing should be used for, and that it should be disbursed under the direction of the Presidency of the Church. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the people who came to Zion without having an eye single to the glory of God lost their right to an inheritance. When they came up with sinister motives, and their hearts were not devoted to the work of God, they suffered the disapproval of the Almighty. The same statement will apply to us in these valleys of the mountains. We have been led here by the inspiration of the Almighty. The same inspiration has controlled and guided the Presidency of the Church in locating these Stakes of Zion, these cities and towns, throughout the length and breadth of this inter-mountain country. 

God has blessed us with abundance. The great majority of the Latter-day Saints own their own homes. If you were to ask them how many of them owned their own homes in their native lands, possibly four-fifths of them would say that they did not. If you were to ask them how many of them conducted a profitable business of their own before they came here, four-fifths would perhaps have to give the same answer. Yet in the prosperity that has attended us in the establishment of our cities, towns and in the building up of the Stakes of Zion in this country, we have not manifested the gratitude to God for his choice blessings which we ought to have done. We have an abundance of blessings, especially of a temporal character, and we ought to be willing to comply with the requirements that are made of us, and honestly and completely pay our tithing and our offerings. 

I rejoice in this work. I rejoice in bearing testimony to the truth of the Gospel and that we have a Prophet of God standing at our head today — President Lorenzo Snow — who enjoys the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and whose  to the Latter-day Saints comes from the Lord. May God help us to carry it out, and to exemplify in our lives the principles which we testify God has restored to the earth in these last days. I wish to urge the Latterday Saints to teach their sons and theii daughters the principles of the everlasting Gospel. There is a great necessity today, in the various missions abroad, for efficient men to preach the Gospel and to represent the people of God. Many of the young men that go from our Stakes of Zion to preach the Gospel have not studied it. They have not taken advantage of the opportunities afforded them in the Mutual Improvement Association, in the Sunday school and in other organizations. I am sorry to say that some of them have been grossly neglected by their parents. I have found Elders who did not believe in some of the principles of the Gospel. They said they had not been taught to them and they had been neglected by their parents. They had been engaged in herding sheep and other avocations, and had not taken pains to prepare themselves. The result was there was one principle of the Gospel, at least, that they did not understand, and consequently they did not teach or defend it. To my mind this was a very sorrowful condition, and it cast reflection upon the parents and teachers of those Elders. I do not suppose that there is a mission upon the earth that would not desire to have more Elders than they now have, especially Elders who are better qualified and more thoroughly indoctrinated in the principles of the Gospel and more thoroughly imbued with the inspiration of the Holy Ghost before they leave their homes and shoulder the responsibility of carrying the message of eternal life to the nations of the earth. I know this is the case in the United States. I have recently had the privilege of visiting with President Kelch the conferences of the Northern States Mission, and I found the Elders laboring earnestly to spread the Gospel among the people of that region. 

Brethren and sisters, let us heed the instructions that are given to us at this conference and endeavor to apply them to our lives, that we may profit thereby. 

God help us to do so, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. The choir sang the anthem: "From afar, gracious Lord, Thou hast gathered Thy flock." Benediction by Elder Angus M. Cannon. 
