Afternoon
09 04 1911

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order, and stated that President John Henry Smith, who is rapidly recovering from recent serious illness, sends loving greeting to the Saints assembled in Conference. 

The choir sang the anthem, "From afar, gracious Lord, Thou hast gathered Thy flock." 

Prayer was offered by Elder C. F. Middleton. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Awake, my soul;" Thomas Ashworth and Margaret Summerhays rendered the tenor and soprano duets. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

"By their fruits ye shall know them." — Law of investigation before judgment established at Runnimede. — The Church and its members invite righteous criticism. — Love of God and loyalty to country characteristic. — Degradation of "Mormon" women an outrageous calumny. 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

"Even so every good tree bringeth  good fruit : but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit." 

I am a believer, my brethren and sisters, in the infallibility of the law suggested in these words of the Savior of the world. By it all things must stand or fall. However much I might desire to avoid it, I know that inevitably a time must come when I shall be judged according to the deeds done in the body. I know, too, that I shall be judged righteously, not by the testimony of wicked men, men unfamiliar with my life and works, but that I shall have a fair and impartial hearing and a righteous judgment. For. this principle, this doctrine was settled more than six hundred years ago, upon the field of Runnimede, and it has continued to prevail until men, today, stand united in the doctrine, that before conviction there must be evidence. Those stalwart men who stood there with arms in their hands before a tyrant king, declared that the assertion of wrongdoing was not sufficient to justify conviction, and that from that time forth men must be judged by their peers, dispassionately, fairly, honestly judged. Thank the Lord that doctrine has survived the centuries and has become so thoroughly established that I have confidence that eventually intelligent people will be brought to -reach conclusions by having applied it. It is not always easy in the beginning to distinguish right from wrong, truth from error; for vice, sometimes, comes clothed in the garb of virtue; and evil is, sometimes, presented in a manner so attractive that it appears to us to be good; but always we know that in the end the truth must be manifest. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I am reminded that last season I visited the field of a neighbor of mine. He was a good farmer, and had prepared the ground admirably. He had sent up here into the north for seed, and had sown it with what he supposed to be alfalfa. It came out of the ground beautifully, and he was congratulated by his neighbors that his sowing had been successful. I drove down past the field, and as I looked at it in the distance I felt, also, impressed that he had accomplished a splendid work. When we got nearer, I said to my son, "Stop a minute, I want to examine that field more critically." I went over and examined the leaves of the plants, and said, "It isn't alfalfa at all; when it comes to mature it will be a crop of sweetclover;" that plant with little value, almost a nuisance in some instances; and my conclusions proved to be correct. The seed itself had been so similar — perhaps an expert might have detected the difference, but the farmer himself had never suspected the imposition, and it required time until the crop had developed, that he might know that he had been imposed upon. Some years ago, while I lived in Mexico, I sent to a nurseryman in the State of Ohio for a collection of roses. They came, and I planted them. They were just little slips,all looking very much alike. In fact, I gave particular attention to some shoots which looked more vigorous than others, I cultivated them, and they grew. Finally, the second year, they produced blossoms and I was surprised to discover that they were wild roses, just the little roses that grow upon the creek bottoms, that could be found anywhere; but their companions, all around them, were producing the most beautiful flowers. The bud which had been grafted in the wild root or stem had been broken off — I do not suppose it was intentional upon the part of the nurseryman — and the wild buds had come out, and produced wild fruit. I said, there is no avoiding that fundamental truth, "As the fountain is, so will the water be;" as the seed is so will that be which it produces. You cannot gather figs from thistles. A good tree does not produce bad fruit; neither does a bad tree produce good fruit. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints stands upon this ground. 

I think I voice the sentiment of every man and woman who have identified themselves with the Church, when I say they are willing to be judged by their works, by the fruit which has been produced; but they ask that they be judged righteously. They have never been averse to righteous criticism; they invite it; they seek it; but they do object and are opposed to judgment pronounced by those who are unac quainted with the truth, by those who, perhaps for personal reasons, are opposed to the truth and enemies to it, and so must all things stand. The great Catholic church, professing as it does, to be the legal successor of the Church of Christ, as He established it, must show by its fruits that the claim is just and true, or else the time must come when it will be repudiated. Protestantism must stand upon the same ground; for if Protestants produce the fruits of the gospel of Christ, if they show by their works that they are in reality reformers, who have improved upon conditions as they existed in the primitive Church, and that they are doing the will of the Father, as exemplified in the life and teachings of the Savior of the world, they may stand; but if it shall be shown, eventually, that 117  lack the power of God, that the fruits of the gospel of Jesus Christ have not been produced, they must be rejected. 

The day was when it was popular to attack the doctrinal principles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The articles of faith of the Church, contained upon this little card which I hold in my hand, a card printed in a foreign language, which I used in my youth as I preached the doctrines of the Church, have been before the world for eighty years. In the beginning it was not unusual that these doctrines were attacked; but you do not hear so much of that in these days; men have learned by experience that it is useless to attack those principles, if they profess faith at all, if they accept the Bible as their guide in religious life; they have long since discovered that those doctrines are invincible, and have ceased to assail them. They attack us now in another way, publishing to the world that while the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints appear to be good, while they appear to be scriptural, while the things we proclaim to the world and teach publicly at home appear to be good, that there is underlying it all a sinister motive. They say the Church is not sincere, that it is not a Christian organization at all, but that it has behind it all some sinister motive by which it is hoped that men and women may be deluded and led into error until a great establishment may be builded up antagonistic to the spirit of Christianity, antagonistic to the institutions of our country, by which the government may be overthrown, or some other awful thing, I do not know just what it is that they apprehend, accomplished. Now, I want to ask in  candor, you Latter-day Saints who have been identified with the Church from the beginning, have you ever, any one of you, discovered in the published utterances of the representatives of the Church, or secret counsels anything which would suggest, in the faintest degree, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a treasonable organization, that it has in it anything which is antagonistic to the principles of civil government as they exist in this republic, or in any of the other governments of the world? I know what you will say; every one of you would rise up to say, No; there is nothing of that kind in it. Then I would like to ask the world to review the history of the Church, during the past eighty years, and let us see if we can find some single act of the Church itself, or any individual, which suggests treason; for treason and sedition, if it were true that they existed in the Church, would make it unworthy a place in this government or any other; because treason, or sedition, that which seeks to destroy, that which seeks by improper means to establish itself and overturn existing conditions, is unworthy in any state, unworthy any community, unworthy of any Church. 

I do not expect, this afternoon, to go into detail in establishing the truth of what I say, but I want to make this appeal to the American people. I feel as though "Mormonism" is on trial today; it has been on trial, in fact, from the very beginning. Two thousand representatives of the Church are out in the world; they are preaching the doctrine of repentance; they are preaching the doctrine of good works; they are emphasizing the doctrine contained in this scripture. GENERAL CONFERENCE.  I have read, that without works it is impossible to please God, and that men and communities and nations must, eventually, be judged by the deeds done in the body. They are admonishing men and women to lives of righteousness, and virtue, and truth, and goodness, and are lifting up their voices in opposition to the very appearance of evil. On the other hand, millions of people are reading today the declaration that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a treasonable organization; that it does not stand for truth; that it does not stand for righteousness; that it does not stand for morality; that it does not stand for the institutions of this country of ours. I simply want to ask the American people — and I have faith in their integrity and the justice of their conclusions — that before deciding this great question, you take the trouble to investigate, that you take the trouble to determine what have been the fruits of "Mormonism" during these past eighty years, and then be ye the judges as to whether the fruit is good or bad, and be slow to listen to men who have been cast from the Church because of their unrighteousness. Be slow to listen to men who, because of their own disappointment, would seek to make it appear that the Church is doing the very things which it has positively refused to do in their behalf. I ask you to suspend judgment until you shall have thoroughly investigated the truth. The Church has no fear of the ultimate result. We are not a people who blow trumpets before us as we go. 

We believe that good citizenship consists in obeying the law, in defending the government in which we live. We do not hasten into war, because . we do not believe in; we believe it to be unnecessary; but, nevertheless, if it shall come, we believe it to be our duty to defend those principles of liberty and right and equality which were established by the Father; and as an earnest of our belief, circumstances considered, we have performed our full duty. We went into the war with Mexico, under conditions that no other people in the world have furnished an army. We did our part, small though it were, in the Civil War. We have done our pari in the Spanish-American war. We stand ready, distasteful though the duty might be, to perform our part wherever necessity may require. It stands to the credit of this people, so far as I am aware, that not one of the members of the Church has ever been found in armed opposition to organized government. Some one, perhaps, says : "Why, were you not in armed resistance to the government of the United States?" No; we never were. It is very true that in 1857 an army came to Utah — and why? Because, as I said in the beginning, vice clothed in the garb of virtue had made it appear to the president of the United States that out here in the Salt Lake Valley a people were in rebellion; that they had destroyed the records of the courts; that they had expelled the representatives of the United States; that they refused to recognize the properly appointed governor of the territory. So the president of the United States, believing these things, sent a new governor, with an escort to establish him in the place to which he had been appointed. What did the Latter-day Saints say? They said, "We want an impartial hearing; these things are not true;" and they did take up arms that they might delay the 119  of that army, and the dreadful results which might have followed its arrival, until the truth might be known. What was the result when it was known? When an impartial man came, he found the records intact; he found the people ready to welcome that new governor, and to install and protect him. There was not one scintilla of truth in the charges which had been made. The end had come, so far as that question was concerned, and deception was no longer possible; and it was proven, just as it always has been and always will be proven that the Church was true to the government, true to their professions of righteousness. Now, my brethren and sisters, I bear witness to you that just as this question to which I refer was shown to be an effort upon the part of those who were opposed to that which was right, to bring trouble to an innocent people, so has every other question which has arisen and which has appeared to place the Latter-day Saints in opposition to the government of this country, upon close examination proven to be wrong. It always must be so; it can be no other way. 

They say that "Mormonism" goes out into the world and gathers up women; that it brings them here to degrade them; that it is a menace to the sanctity of the American home. Who says that? Any woman who has ever been converted to the truth, any woman who has repented and lived the life which ought to characterize a follower of Christ? No, not one. It may be that some man or woman has fallen away; it may be that some man or woman who has come from abroad and been gathered up here with the Church, has gone back to the world and again be addicted to sin; but if that is the case in a single instance, it is because they have gone away from the truths of the gospel and the covenant which they made, and have lost the faith. Now, do you suppose that it would be possible for the Church to dominate one or two hundred thousand women, and keep them here against their wills, to be degraded? It is a ridiculous argument upon the face of it; it is not true. If it were true, the Church would be unworthy, and the opposition shown today would be just; but it is not true. You who have come from abroad; you who have identified yourselves with this Church; you who have been brought out from the sweat-houses of the old world and established in your own homes, and have been made independent, you who have reared families in the fear of the Lord and have become patriotic, law-loving and law-abiding citizens of this republic, every one of you knows that I am speaking the truth. You know that, rather than degradation, there comes to every one through the gospel of our Lord Jesus, an uplifting that can not be found in any other philosophy in the world. We want the world to know that; we want them to understand it. 

Another thought has come to my mind — one that I had not intended to mention. The world says, "You people marry more than one wife, and in this you degrade woman and drag her down." I only want to say that the doctrine of plural marriage, as it existed in the Church, in the beginning, is no more understood by the world than are others of the simple doctrines of the gospel which it teaches. The conception has been entirely wrong. We only ask that the world shall GENERAL CONFERENCE.  acquainted with these women, that they may be witnesses in their own behalf. Why, the government, you know, thought, years ago, that our women were being degraded, and that they would liberate these enslaved women in Utah. They appropriated a large amount of money and came here and built a great home, and said, "Come, now, all of you women, you oppressed women, you degraded women; come up here; the government will give you protection; its strong arm is around you, and its hand over you." I believe there was one woman who availed herself of that opportunity; (President Smith: "And she was not a member of this Church") and some one says she was not a member of the Church. (Laughter.) 

Now, my brethren and sisters, and my friends, I refer to these things because they are true, and we want you to know the truth; we want you to believe in us; we want you to believe that the virtue of the Latter-day Saints, as a people, stands today pre-eminently above the virtue of any other people. I will not say equal to it; 1 know that I speak the truth in the statement I have made. Yet, men would have you believe that somewhere in the Church, back of it all, there is a system by which men may gratify their carnal desires and by which women are debauched. A more abominable misrepresentation of truth could not be presented to the world. No man can stand in this Church who violates his virtue; I do not care who he is; and it is a fundamental law of the Church, that men cannot and must not consort with women, except they be their wives; neither young men, nor old men, nor middle aged men; and if they do that they are  out from the Church. That is one thing that is the matter with some of them who are villifying the Church. When they get out, their wicked work begins. The very first effort that was ever made to discredit the Prophet Joseph Smith, so far as I am aware, and to discredit the Book of Mormon, was by a man who had been cast out of the Church because of his wickedness, because of his adulterous practices. So it has been from the very beginning. 

They say we have a great religiopolitical organization here which has in it a design to dominate the politics of this nation; and there is great danger that this little handful of people, in the very near future, may become  so powerful in the United States that they will control its destinies, or a part of them, at least. Suppose a thing of that kind were possible — what would be the result? Would it be a menace to this nation, that there should be dominant here a community of men and women who believe in God the eternal Father and in His Son, Jesus Christ; who believe that this government was founded of God, by inspired men? Would it be a menace that there should be industrious, God-fearing, religious men and women in greater number in these United States? Would it be a menace to this government, let me ask, if there were a few more men in the Congress of the United States who stand above the contemptible things of this world, men of faith? Are you going to disfranchise a whole people because they believe in God and His destiny, and His power? Are you going to prevent a man from exercising the rights of American citizenship, because he is a religious man? We ask you to judge those 121  who have gone up from among the Latter-day Saints to the Con. gress of the United States in the past, those men who are there today. All we ask of you is to judge them righteously, to judge them by their fruits, to judge them by comparison with their co-laborers. Then we ask you, would it be a menace to this government or to this people if there were more such men there? I think you will conclude, with me, that it would not be a menace, but on the contrary, that it would redound to the credit, the honor, and the blessing of this people, could such conditions be established. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I must conclude. By their fruits ye shall know them. We stand ready to be judged by it, and we are not going to be driven away from the truth; we are not going to be driven away from our loyalty to this government; we are not going to be driven away from our great mission which requires us to preach repentance in all the world and establish righteousness; we are not going to be driven away from these duties by any man or set of men who shall seek by ralsehood and misrepresentation to drive us away from the position that we occupy. I know, and you know that deep down in the heart of every Latterday Saint, every boy and girl, every man and woman in the Church, there is that profound faith that no other flag on earth shall wave over this nation. You know that deep down in the heart of every Latter-day Saint there is a sentiment that justice and right must ever be maintained in this nation; and you know, just as well, that down in the heart of every Latterday Saint is that determined faith that no sect nor creed, be it "Mor," or Catholic, or Protestant, shall ever dominate this nation to the exclusion of any of the rights of citizenship which are guaranteed to people under just laws. You know it is there, and wicked men will never be able to drive the Latter-day Saints away from that position, however much they may try. We may have to pass through the narrows; we may surfer, for sometimes the truth does suffer. I am reminded that they said the same thing of the Savior of the world that they have said of us; they said that His doctrines were treasonable, that He was not Caesar's friend, that He pretended to be a king; and He answered, "Yes, I am a king, but my kingdom is not of this world." The kingdom of God which we preach is the kingdom' of righteousness, that should be in our hearts and in our lives, and that kingdom teaches us obedience to the laws of the land, the civil laws, and we shall sustain and uphold them; that we are going to do. 

My brethren and sisters, be obedient. The Lord will take care of this work; it is His, and He will vindicate it. The time will come, and it is not very far distant either, when its calumniators will be known; and just like that wild rose, away down there in Mexico, they will be dug up and cast into the fire and burned, because they will have been proven worthless. But the good will remain; truth will prevail, and righteousness cover the entire earth. When that time comes we are not a bit afraid to meet the issue, because we know that we can make a good showing, and that our conscience, before God and man, will be found to be void of offense. 

May the Lord bless you; may He GENERAL CONFERENCE.  His work; and may we always be able to properly defend it, at home and abroad, wherever we are, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Lizzie T. Edward and the choir sang the anthem, "The nations bow to Satan's thrall." 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MUBRIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

In standing up in the presence of this great congregation this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, I certainly feel, as others of the brethren have expressed themselves, a great need for the help of the Lord, and for the inspiration of His Holy Spirit. It is not my intention to occupy much of the time, as it is very valuable, and there are others of the brethren to address the people who are assembled together in this sacred building. I feel, however, that I desire to say a few words regarding the many misrepresentations that are made relative to the doings of the representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Reference has been made, in our meeting this afternoon, to the stories that are in circulation against the people of the Latter-day Saints, and in relation to the motives of the missionaries who are sent into the world to preach the gospel. It has fallen to my lot, my brethren and sisters, upon various occasions, to go abroad as a missionary. I recollect very distinctly, at the present moment, when I was called upon my first mission, about thirty years ago. In a meeting with other elders, who had received a similar call, inrtructions were given by the presid authorities of the Church, as is the custom prior to missionaries going out to various fields of labor. I do not think I can forget the stress that was laid upon one feature of the work, by those brethren, in giving the instructions to the missionaries who were at that time going abroad in the world, and that was in relation to their deportment with the opposite sex, and also in relation to respect for authority in the home, more especially for the authority of the head of the home. We were instructed that we were not, under any circumstances, to baptize any woman, who was a married woman, without having obtained the consent of her husband; and we were also instructed that we were not to baptize children who were under age, unless we had obtained the consent of their parents or guardians. It was the instruction that we should teach women to hold sacred the obligations that they had taken upon themselves at the altar of marriage, that they were to have respect to the feelings and wishes of their husbands, and that we were not to be instrumental, in any way whatever, in breaking up homes. I have been abroad in the missionary field, since that period and have had the privilege of laboring as one of the presidency of one of the great missions of the Church; and in that position have received many elders who arrived in the country where I was laboring. As one of the presidency I joined with my associates in giving the elders instructions along the lines I have named; and I wish to bear witness that just such instructions have been imparted to the missionaries, according to my own knowledge, during the past thirty vears at least. The instructions that I have received mvself, 123  the instructions that I have imparted to other missionaries who have been going abroad or, who have been appointed to labor under my direction have always been in conformity with the words that I have spoken. Missionaries have always been careful, in the world, not to induce either men or women to forsake their homes, but more especially have they been particularly careful not to interfere with the gentler sex. No men in all the world are as free from improper conduct with women. I thought that I would like to bear this record and this testimony in the midst of this great congregation of peoople. 

My brethren and sisters, I do not know whether we appreciate the blessings that have come to us as members of the Church of Christ, whether we have been able to recognize the wonderful power that is in this work. I once heard a very noted infidel bear a remarkable testimony in regard to the strength of "Mormonism," Mr. Charles H. Bradlaugh, the great English apostle of infidelity. On one occasion, while laboring in the British mission, I attended a lecture delivered by him. The subject was: "Is Christianity a persecuting religion?" He told a very startling and remarkable story in relation to the evil that had been wrought among men in the name of religion. A young man who attended the lecture asked some questions of that noted infidel; he wanted to know how it was that the early Christians had survived the persecutions of the mighty empire of Rome? and why it was that their determination to destroy the Christians and break them up had failed? — if that failure was not an evidence of the superior power of God, and that  was some supernatural influence over those early Christians? otherwise, they would have been destroyed, as the weak power usually succumbs to the greater or stronger power. In answer to the questions that were propounded on that occasion, which I do not give in detail, the noted infidel said : "Young man, away off in the western part of America, there is a people who have had a like experience, who have been opposed by a mighty nation, and who have come in conflict with the religious prejudices of all the peoples of the earth, and in spite of that opposition, and that religious prejudice, and the bitter persecutions that have followed them they still survive; and their survival, and the success to which they have attained is more remarkable than the history of the early Christian church. Are you prepared to say that because of their remarkable story they have had the special favor of God resting upon them ?" My brethren and sisters, I felt to thank God for that testimony. When one of the great intellectual men of the age sought for a parallel for the community that was established by the Lord Jesus Christ in the meridian of time, afar off in this western land, in these mountains that we inhabit, he found that people. I could not help but feel that like causes produce like effects; and because of the call of God and the authority that has been bestowed upon men in this dispensation, like unto the former dispensation, we have met with this opposition. 

Thank God for the truth, and power, and strength of "Mormonism." I bear my testimony that it is the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ, that it is the power of God unto salvation, and that it will re GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and accomplish that which has been spoken concerning it by the mouths of inspired men. God help us to remain with it, and be true to it forever, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

The greatest event in the modem world. — The gathering a fulfillment of predictions of ancient prophets. — Rejection of the Gospel of Peace will bring God's displeasure. 

"And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people, which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hammath, and from the islands of the sea. 

"And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth." 

Eighty-one years ago, in the little town of Fayette, Seneca county, New York, the Lord set up an ensign to the nations. It was in fulfillment of the prediction made by the prophet Isaiah, which I have read. That ensign was the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which was established for the last time, never again to be destroyed or given to other people. It was the greatest event the world has seen since the day that the Redeemer of the world was lifted upon the cross, and meant more to mankind than anything else that has occurred since that day. No event should have been heralded among the people with greater effectiveness, and received with greater evidences of joy and satisfaction. The nations should have rejoiced and welcomed  with gladness of heart, for with it came the establishment of divine truth in the earth, — the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation unto all who believe. The world had been without this gospel for many hundreds of years; ever since the great apostasy and turning away from the truth which had been established by the primitive Church. 

Following the raising of this ensign, the Lord sent forth His elders clothed with the priesthood and with power and authority, among the nations of the earth, bearing witness unto all peoples of the restoration of His Church, and calling upon the children of men to repent and receive the gospel; for now it was being preached in all the world as a witness before the end should come, — that is, the end of the reign of wickedness and the establishment of the millennial reign of peace. The elders went forth as they were commanded, and are still preaching the gospel and gathering out from the nations the seed of Israel unto whom the promise was made. Thus our fathers were gathered and brought into the true fold in fulfillment of the prophecies made in ancient times by men inspired of the Lord, that He would recover a remnant of His people from the four corners of the earth. Scattered Israel is being gathered into the fold. Some have rejected the testimony of the elders through ignorance and prejudice, not understanding the significance of the message delivered unto them. Others have rejected the truth wilfully because of the evil in their hearts and their subjection to unrighteousness. 

From time to time, some one, filled with hatred of the truth, in 125  blind desire to destroy the work of the Lord, appeals to the nations to cast out the elders of Israel who are carrying this message of salvation unto all who will believe, and warning others that they may be left without excuse. It would be a sorry clay for any nation, where the gospel is being preached, should it conclude to drive the elders of the Church from its borders and deny them the right to preach the gospel among the people. The elders insure peace unto the nations, so long as they will hear the message of salvation and will protect and defend the truth. When the time comes that the nations will cast the elders out, and no longer receive their testimony, but "bow to Satan's thrall," as we heard in the anthem this afternoon, woe be unto them. We read in the word of the Lord that after the testimony of the elders will come wrath and indignation upon the people. For after their testimony will come the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause suffering and sorrow and men shall fall upon the ground for fear. There shall come also the testimony of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. All things shall be in commotion and men's hearts shall fail them because of fear that shall come upon the people. These things shall follow the testimony of the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, when the people of the world reject them and drive them from their borders. We go unto them with a message of peace, of truth, of eternal salvation, calling upon them to repent of their sins and enter into the true fold, where they may receive rest. When  will not do this, but to the contrary, will listen to the unrighteous and condemn the truth, then God will withdraw the Gospel from among them. In that day the time of the Gentiles will be fulfilled, and the gospel will be carried to the Jews. For this gospel must be preached to them as well as to the Gentile nations, and a remnant of the Jews will gather — as they are gathering since the dedication of their land for their return — in Palestine, and as a remnant of Ephraim and his fellows are now gathering to the land of Zion. The Jews, in due time will be established in their own land, and the Lord will come, according to His promise, unto His people in the hour of their distress, and will deliver them from their enemies. Then will they look upon Him and discover His wounds and shall say : "What at e these wounds in Thine hands." And He- shall answer them : "Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends." Then will they fall down and worship Him as their Redeemer — the Son of God. After that they will be cleansed of their sins and shall receive the gospel. And the nations that seek to destroy Jerusalem in that day will the Lord destroy, for he shall be King over all the earth and righteousness shall prevail among the people. Zion shall be established on this continent; Jerusalem will be re-established on the old continent, and wickedness Will depart from the earth; for when Christ comes and the righteous with Him, the wicked will be as stubble and will be consumed. 

Therefore, I desire to bear my testimony unto all people and say unto those who raise their hands against this work, see that you do it GENERAL CONFERENCE. , for this is the work of God. He has established it, and when you reject it, you reject Him, and after the testimony of the elders will come the testimony of trouble and distress as the prophets have predicted. 

May the Lord bless all the Latterday Saints and all the honest and upright everywhere, and help us to be faithful and true, that we may keep His commandments and escape from the destruction that in due time will come upon the wicked, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUDITORS' REPORT. 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the report of the auditing committee of the Church, which was as follows : 

Salt Lake City, Utah, April 5, 1911. President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors : 

Dear Brethren — The undersigned committee appointed to audit the books and accounts of the Church, have completed their labors, and have to report that they have examined and audited the books of the various departments and offices to whom are entrusted the collection, care and distribution of the income of the Church, and, commencing with the accounts of the Trustee-inTrust, which as you are aware, cover the bulk of the concentrated income and disbursement of the income of the Church, we are pleased to report were found in excellent shape from an accounting standpoint, and that all receipts and disbursements appear accurately entered on the books. We also found the books and accounts of the Presiding Bishop's office as heretofore, in an excellent and accurate condition. When you bear in mind that this office has to deal with some 62 , 700 wards, and 21 missions, not to mention the great number of accounts of the various auxiliary organizations of the Church, you can well understand the great volume of business transacted in the Presiding Bishop's department; and it is a pleasure to say that this great complex and voluminous amount of business is economically, carefully and correctly entered in the books of this office, and that we found everything in a satisfactory condition. This office also collects and enters on proper books and records a large amount of statistical matter, not having to do with financial matters, but pertaining to Church activities, which we found very valuable and interesting, and we commend these to your consideration. 

Very respectfully, submitted, your brethren, 

W. W. Riter, August W. Carlson, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft. General Auditing Committee 

of the Church. On motion, the report of the Auditing Committee was accepted, and approved, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

STATEMENT BY THE FIRST PRESIDENCY. 

Elder Grant also read the following, self-explanatory statement by the First Presidency of the Church : 

To the officers and members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in general conference assembled : 

Dear Brethren and Sisters : 

Ever since its organization, April 

6, 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ 127  Latter-day Saints has been bitterly assailed, the chief darts of slander being aimed at its leaders. Its first president, Joseph Smith, was the target for the shafts of abuse even before that date, as he was attacked by professing" Christian ministers when he first announced, in 1820, that he had received a heavenly manifestation of vital importance. Misrepresentations followed him until the day of his martyrdom, in 1844, when he was cruelly and lawlessly slain at Carthage, Illinois. His successor, the great pioneer and colonizer and patriot, Brigham Young, came in for his full share of calumny and abuse, during all the years of his successful career as the founder of a splendid commonwealth in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. Each head of the Church, in his turn, has been libelled, lampooned, caricatured and vilified, and, until they closed their eyes in death, their names were associated with everything that is evil, although they were men of the highest type of honor, integrity and sincerity. 

It is not strange, therefore, that the present incumbent of the office they held so worthily, should be subject to similar treatment. And vet, in view of the fact that the various falsehoods uttered against the Church and its presiding officers have been repeatedly refuted and exploded, it is somewhat surprising that the old, stale and shattered fabrications are raked up and used anew in the opening years of the enlightened twentieth century. But they have been for some time newly exploited through respectable magazines (mostly from pens that cannot be regarded as worthy of such recognition), with the same purpose as that which animated anti-"Mor" writers and speakers from the beginning. 

It is a question whether silence should be maintained, as a sign of that contempt that is felt for those attacks and their authors by the objects of their spleen, but there are so many requests for replies, or at least explanations, for the benefit of inquiring minds, that perhaps it is proper that something should be officially stated for the good of the reading public. 

The investigation by the committee on privileges and elections of the United States senate on the right of the senator from Utah, Reed Smoot, to the seat to which he was duly elected, that was prolonged for nearly four years, disposed of most of the old stories now revamped and patched up for current use. But several large volumes have to be waded through to obtain that definite information, while the mingled nonsense and venom poured forth from month to month is in present view and in popular form. Yet, after all, there is so much of frothy verbiage and proofless assertion that it' is difficult to grasp anything definite enough, in the adroitly framed sentences, to hold up to view and expose its fallacy. However, there are some charges that are more or less direct, which it may be well enough to briefly answer. 

The Church is accused of violating certain pledges to the national government. It is also asserted that the president of the Church receives several millions of dollars annually by enforced levies upon the members, this revenue being in his absolute control, unaccounted for and nt his personal service. It is further alleged that he, with a few other ecclesiasts, dictates the political affairs of the state, sending senGENERAL CONFERENCE.  and representatives to Congress, and ruling the community with an iron hand, to the subversion of individual liberty and the destruction of American citizenship. In support of these charges there is nothing presented except vituperation and the repetition of fictitious narratives, really grotesque in their palpable absurdity. We hereby denounce them as utterly false and without foundation. 

First, as to pledges or compacts by the Church to the United States government : This charge, on its face, is ridiculous no matter how often or forcibly it is repeated. The compacts or agreements between Utah and the government on which statehood was achieved, were not made, and indeed could not be made, by the Church or its authorities. They were required by the enabling act framed by Congress and were fully compiled with by the state in its constitution, and this was officially announced in the president's proclamation. The only pledge made by the authorities of the Church that could be construed as a compact, was that contained in a petition for amnesty for certain persons who were in legal jeopardy, or imprisonment, upon charges growing out of the anti-polygamy laws of Congress. This was framed in December, 1891, and signed by the then presidency and apostles of the Church, and the promise made was in these words : 

"As shepherds of a patient and suffering people we ask amnesty for them, and pledge our faith and honor for their future." 

This may be coupled with the socalled manifesto of President Wilford Woodruff, adopted by the Church in conference assembled, Oct. 6, 1890, in which he announced  intention to live according to the laws of the United States, and declared : "My advice to the Latterday Saints is that they contract no marriage contrary to the laws of the land." Since that time the Church has not performed any plural marriages or authorized any violation of the law thus forbidden. But there were some persons who construed the language of that manifesto to signify plural marriages within the boundaries of the United States, that being "the land" wherein the laws spoken of extended. They therefore went or removed to Mexico and thus acted on that which they believed to be right without violating the manifesto. They looked on plural marriage within the United States as malum prohibitum and not malum in se. 

When this condition was discovered a further declaration was made by President Lorenzo Snow, who succeeded President Woodruff, in which he announced that the manifesto extended to every place, and that "the Church has positively abandoned the practice of polygamy or the solemnization of plural marriages in this and every other state, and that no member or officer thereof has any authority whatever to perform a plural marriage or enter into such a relation." This was published in the Deseret News at Salt Lake City, Jan. 8, 1900. 

Rumors of surreptitious unions contrary to these official announcements being circulated, the present president of the Church, on April 6, 1904, reiterated the universality of the inhibition, and proclaimed that any person entering into or performing a plural marriage would be liable to be dealt with according to the rules of the Church and excommunicated therefrom. 129 

Such violation of these positive declarations as have been reported, wherever proven by sufficient evidence, have been dealt with by Church tribunals, and the offenders have been disciplined or excommunicated. This course will be maintained, with due regard to the rights of individuals and the laws of the Church, common rumor or gossip without evidence being insufficient in a trial either civil or ecclesiastical. We protest against the charge that the Churcn or its leading officers encourage the resumption of plural marriages, and hereby declare the same to be absolutely false. 

As to the insinuation that the Church has broken a compact not to dominate again in political matters, we challenge the production of any such pledge. There is no such agreement to be found. The authorities of the Church never assumed to dictate to members politically. The Church never attempted to dominate the State, and has not done so since the Constitution was framed. There are political aspirants who have attempted to dominate the Church, and who, failing in their endeavors, have become so rancorous in their disappointment that they waste time, money and reputation in fighting the Church and those officers thereof who have refused to employ the influence thus desired. In Utah every citizen is perfectly free to vote as he or she elects by an absolutely secret ballot. Primaries, conventions and the political machinery used by the several political parties are in vogue, and senators are chosen by the legislature, and representatives by popular vote as elsewhere. One striking fact for the consideration of fair minds is,  with all the stories of Church dictation not a solitary instance can be cited in which any Church member has been disciplined for voting for or against any candidate or proposition. Advocates of each party take the platform and freely ventilate their views and feelings as to their opponents, and if there is anything really objectionable, it is the excess of that liberty in the indulging in personalities and other extremes of partisanship which are greatly to be regretted and ought to be condemned. But the Church does not interfere with or attempt to curtail the freedom of its members. The principal accusers of the Church as dominating in politics are persons who have sought for that influence in their own behalf and are enraged because they could not obtain it. There are politicians who exercise their personal influence to effect their own ends, and yet deny to a Church-man the right to express an opinion even when asked for it. We claim for Church officers as well as Church members all the rights and privileges of American citizens, no less and no more; and do not claim, or exercise, power to compel, or coerce, or infringe upon the liberties of any person, and all assertions to the contrary are infamously untrue. 

Charges of disloyalty, treason, and kindred absurdities that appear from time to time, to disturb the public mind, are sufficiently answered by the responses which have been made invariably when our country has called for aid in times of war or seasons of peace. There is no instance referred to by our detractors of anything we have done or attempted, to give color to their monstrous untruths. But history affords striking incidents of the furGENERAL CONFERENCE.  of men on the plains to protect the mails from Indian depredations, of service during the Civil War, and of devoted warriors in the Spanish war, and in the Philippines, who were scions of leading "Mormon" families. 

The subject of Church revenues may be touched upon perhaps with profit. The Latter-day Saints believe in tithing. It is a principle of their faith. It is an ancient observance reaching back to patriarchal times, as related in the Bible. It was established in the Church in the year 1838. The manner of its payment and disbursement is revealed by Divine authority and has appeared .in the Church books ever since that date. It is complied with religiously by the Church authorities themsleves. It is not the property of the president. He does not claim it or collect it. Tithing is received and receipted for by the local bishops in the respective wards, who are under the supervision of the local presidents of stakes. The whole income is accounted for to the presiding bishopric of the Church and is under their direction. Their office contains complete records of all the tithings paid during each year. Each tithepayer will firid in that office his record. The entire receipts and disbursements are there accounted for in the most complete detail. An auditing committee composed of men well known in the community for their independence of character and business integrity, not of the leading authorities of the Church, chosen by the general conference, thoroughly inspect and report annually upon them. The funds thus received are not the property of the president of the Church or his associates, nor of the Presiding Bishopric, nor of the  bishops. They belong to the Church and are used for Church purposes, including the building and maintenance of temples, meetinghouses, schools, colleges, universities and other structures, the aid of the poor and afflicted, the extension of missions abroad and the help of new colonies at home, and sundry other objects, and but a small amount is used for the support of persons devoting their whole time to the service of the Church, and that not out of the tithing, but from the proceeds of investments made with profit. This includes the presidency and other Church leaders. All the monstrous tales told of the wealth at the command of the heads of the Church are distorted emanations from disordered brains, or wilful untruths manufactured in order to deceive the public. 

It is impossible to take up all the misrepresentations given to the world by anti-"Mormon" preachers and writers. They have one merit. They stir up interest in what is called the "Mormon" question. People are led thus to investigate and many of them find out the truth, and unite with the people who are so greatly maligned. Our doctrines are open to the world. They are not secret or clothed in mystery. We proclaim the pure gospel of Christ as revealed from heaven in these last days through the great prophet of the nineteenth century, Joseph Smith. We invite all mankind to look into our teachings and promise all who obey them a witness of their truth by the power of the Holy Ghost which makes men free indeed. 

We love our country, and pray for the perpetuity of its government, we support its institutions, we venerate the Constitution. We are 131  of our state, and no one on the face of God's footstool need fear the growth and spread of "Mormonism," for it is the truth revealed anew from heaven, and it promotes freedom, peace, industry, temperance, faith, hope and charity, and stands for human rights, the salvation of mankind, and the glory of the most high God. 

Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, John Henry Smith, First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

On motion, the document submitted by the First Presidency was received, and the statements therein contained were heartily endorsed, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Hyrum M. Smith presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

John Henry Smith, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins and Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and Joseph F. Smith. Jr., Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, and Heber Scowcroft. 

Tabernacle Choir: Evan StephGENERAL CONFERENCE. , Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Qrganist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the Members. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

President Joseph F. Smith, after announcing the commencement of organ recitals in the Tabernacle, said, "These will be free as usual. I do not think any church in the world gives to the world and to the members of the church more free literature, more free art, or more free gospel than does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

Folowing which President Smith said : "It is also proposed that Brother A. William Lund be sustained as an assistant historian." Carried. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

I regret that we haven't a little more time, but we will try to make the best we can of the little remaining. 

I have a resolution, forwarded to me by the Ogden tabernacle choir, which I desire to read, because I think it shows a very excellent spirit : 

"At the regular rehearsal of the Ogden tabernacle choir, Thursday evening, last, the following motion was made and carried unanimously : 'That we extend to the director and members of the Salt Lake tabernacle choir the sincere hope that they may be truly successful in holding up high ideals while on their trip to New York. They will represent the entire state of Utah, and as such representatives we desire to uphold and sustain them in every way possible. Bon voyage to the Salt Lake tabernacle choir.' " 

The choir sang the anthem, "There's a sound from the vale." 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at all the conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

Duncan M. McAllister, Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY^ CHURCH 

Volume Six Now in Press 

Have you secured Volume I, II, III, IV and V ? Procure them as they are issued. 

The history of the PROPHET JOSEPH, written by himself, with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. Low prices have been fixed by the First Presidency, that the work may secure the widest possible circulation. EveryAssociation, Sunday School, Quorum and private library should-have it. 

POSTPAID 

Cloth, Embossed, per volume . . . $1.50 Half Morocco, Gilt Top, per volume . 2.50 Half Calf, Gilt Top, per volume . . 2.50 Full Morocco, Gilt, per volume . . 4.00 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 Main Street Salt Lake City 

DESERET NEWS 

BOOKSTORE 

THE LEADING BOOK CONCERN 

WE CAN SUPPLY YOU WITH 

Books For all departments of Sunday School work. 

Books For the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, including the new reading course. 

Books For the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, Traveling Libraries and New Reading Course. 

Books Of reference to study in connection with the Seventy's Manual or new course of study for 1911. 

Books For Primary Associations, Stories to tell children, Short Stories, Dialogues, Recitations, Speakers, Music Books. 

Books For the Religion Classes, including the new Manual now ready. 

Books For every day in the year, especially for summer reading. Immense lines, new and attractive. 







