Overflow
09 04 1911

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, April 9th, 1911. The services were presided over by Elder Joseph F. Smith, Junior. 

The Farmer's Ward choir, under direction of conductor Einor Christofferson, rendered the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell, By faith and love, in every breast; 

Then shall we know, and taste, and feel The joys that cannot be expressed. 

Prayer was offered by Elder George H. Brimhall. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, 

Unuttered or expressed; The motion of a hidden fire 

That trembles in the breast. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

Speaking at the anniversary meeting of the organization of the Relief Societies, in Denver, about three weeks ago, I chanced to refer to the condition of the women in our Church, how we honored and respected them, as God expects us to honor them, and, at the conclusion of our meeting, some of the sisters, who have never had the opportunity of living in Zion, said to me that they were glad the subject was brought before them in that light, because they had not, up to that time, heard any particular reference to the women by the other elders whom they had met. I said to them that had it been their good fortune to live in Zion, or at least in some of the stakes of Zion, that  might hear frequent reference made to the women of our Church, and the important positions they occupy in our organizations, and associated with the affairs of men. But their remarks led me to think, Is it possible that when our elders go abroad that they forget the mission of women in our Church? Is it possible that they forget the important work accomplished by their mothers, their wives or their sisters? Is it possible that they minimize in any way the wonderful part that woman plays in the great plan of life and salvation? It occurs to me now that there are many here who have been on missions, and many others who may go, to such I say, I hope that wherever you are, either at home or abroad, that you will always be found voicing the praises of the women of "Mormondom," and testifying in regard to the great sacrifices they have made in the interest of the work of God. 

A short time ago, in one of the magazine articles that are appearing at this time, I read some of the statements attributed to a man who is considered to be a prominent writer, and he said, among other things, that the women in Utah are degraded, that they are nothing more nor less than slaves to the work of the home; that they are ignorant, and that, with the exception of bearing children to unscrupulous men, they know little of the real mission of woman. I though' how I would like to hear the voices of the women of this Church, if their voices could be heard abroad in this land, proclaiming to the world what their actual condition is, in refutation of those false assertions. I have spoken to some men who are well acquainted with writers of this country, and I asked  what the reputation of this man was, who had made such a slanderous statement about the women of Utah. "Why," said one of them to me, "that man's word cannot be taken on any subject. He does not state the truth. It does not matter what subject he writes, upon, he grossly exaggerates it." It is very surprising that one of the great magazines of this country has opened its pages to a writer of that kind, a man who came to Salt Lake City, last year, and sought from a cab driver, one of the many dispensers of fairy tales that can be found upon these streets, some of the information which he is now giving to the world. 

I read some lines of poetry sometime ago, by Ella Wheeler Wilcox, who shows the real condition, in America at least, today, and I should like to repeat them to you, and possibly make comparison with our people : 

"When God had formed the universe, 

He thought Of all the marvels therein to be wrought, And, to His aid fair Motherhood He brought, 

" 'My lesser self, the feminine of me, She will go forth throughout all time,' 

quoth He, "And make my world what I would 

have it be. 

" 'For I am weary, having labored so, And for a cycle of repose would go Into that silence which but God may know. 

" 'Therefore I leave the rounding of my plan 

To Motherhood; and that which God began, 

Let woman finish in perfecting man. 

" 'She is the soil, the human mother earth; 

She is the sun, who calls the seed to _ birth; 

She is the gardener who knows its worth. 

" 'In me all seed of any kind must spring; 

Divine the growth such seed and soil 

will bring, For all is me and I am everything.' 

"Thus having spoken to himself aloud, His glorious face upon his breast he bowed, 

And sought repose behind a wall of cloud. 

"Come forth, O God, though great thy 

thought and good In shaping woman for true motherhood — 

Lord, speak again, she has not understood. 

"The centuries pass, the cycles roll along, 

The earth is peopled with a might} throng, 

Yet men are fighting and the world goes wrong. 

Lord, speak again, ere yet it be too late; 

Unloved,unwanted souls come throusrh 

earth's gate; The unborn child is given a dower of 

hate. 

"Thv world progresses in all ways  save one, — 

In motherhood, for which it was begun. 

Lord, Lord behold how little has been done. 

"Children are spawned, like fishes in the sand; 

With ignorance and crime they fill the land. 

Lord, speak again, till mothers understand. 

It is not all of Motherhood to know Creations' pleasure and deliverance's woe. 

Who plants the seed should help the shoot to grow. 

"And 'tis not alone for Motherhood to breed 

The human race, but to know and heed 

Its holiest purpose and its highest need. 

"Lord, speak again, so woman shall be stirred 

With the full meaning of that might} word, 

'True Motherhood;' she has not rightly heard." There can be no question, referring to the first half of these lines, that this woman speaks the truth'as God would have it known to humanity. The greatest law that He has given to man and to woman is to multiply and replenish the earth. Motherhood is the greatest blessing that God confers on woman. Woman's lot is hardest in this life, I believe; and that is one reason that she, is better than the average man, — because of having to pass through so much tribulation. It is said that woman, every time she bears a child into this world, lays her life on the altar. It is indeed a wonderful sacrifice. And. then this thought, that 

"Woman is the soil, the human mother earth; 

She is the sun who calls the seed to birth; 

She is the gardener who knows its worth." 

Had these words been spoken by an inspired man, either in ancient or in modern time, they could not have been more truly said. The latter part of the poem brings this thought, that many women today do not know what that message is to them. If they do, they do not appreciate it, for they do not live in accordance with this greatest commandment of God, they are not bearing children, they are not raising them properly; but, on the other hand, 

"Children are spawned like fishes in the sand, 

With ignorance and crime they fill the land." 

The imputation contained in this verse surely cannot be urged against the women of "Mormondom." The figures that were given out by President Smith in his remarks at the opening of this conference, on Thursday last, will give  lie to any such thought. When we consider the birth-rate among the members of this Church, and compare the figures with those of the rest of this great country of ours, or with other countries of the world, I say to you that any one who declares that women of our Church are not keeping this greatest commandment of God says something that is untrue. 

The Savior said that "man is not without the woman, neither woman without the man in the Lord." My brethren and sisters, God expects us to care for and to love our wives and our children; He expects us to provide for them and love them all the days of our lives. I hope that all who are here today will see to it that no man or woman shall say in your presence, unrebuked, aught against the women of the Latterday Saints. They have borne serious hardships and trials when their husbands and fathers have gone on missions, hardships even exceeding those borne by those who have left their homes and gone into the world to preach the gospel. They are entitled to our love, to our consideration, and to our blessing. 

God bless us all in this work, and make us equal to every emergency that we may be called upon to pass through in life, is my humble desire in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN F. TOLTON. 

(President of Beaver Stake.) 

I have been very much impressed with the proceedings of our conference thus far. I have rejoiced under the inspiration and teachings of those who have addressed us. It seems to me that the principal theme of the teachings that have  given unto the people, during the conference, has been that upon each member of the Church there is a responsibility resting that he, or she, must bear evidence unto the world, in conduct in life, of the purity and sincerity of the teachings proclaimed by the Latter-day Saints. We stand as a light upon a hill before the world today. In other words, "Mormonism" is on trial; the acts of the Latter-day Saints are being watched by the world, and we are being judged by that which we engage in and do as a people. I rejoice in .the spirit of this work, for I know it is the work of God. We who have embraced this Latter-day work have a great mission to perform in the world. That mission is to bear witness of the Lord Jesus Christ, to bear testimony of the truths of the gospel, as revealed in the day and age in which we live; not so much in word as in deed; not so much in endeavoring, by conversation, to convert those who are in our midst, as by our daily lives. We are required to let our light so shine that all men beholding our good works may realize that this is indeed the work of our Father. "Mormonism" stands today for truth, and righteousness. It stands for the liberty of men, from a religious and social point of view. We bear the message unto the world, that those who will accept "Mormonism" and live in the true spirit thereof, that it will bring joy into their lives. We truly testify that it brings happiness to our homes and families. It places mankind on a higher level, makes better citizens, better husbands and wives, and so we bear evidence of this to the world. 

There is a spirit manifest in the world of mankind today to belittle the work of our Redeemer, to place  a standard for men the precepts of their fellow men, directing our attention from that course in life that the Gospel has prescribed for us to follow, holding out for veneration the ideas and thoughts of men, in contradistinction to the great eternal plan of salvation that God has revealed. One of the tenets of our faith, or principles of our belief as enunciated in the Articles of Faith, given unto the world by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is this : "We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important truths pertaining unto the kingdom of God." There may be some matters in connection with the great plan of life and salvation that have not been entirely made clear to the Latterday Saints; but if we will act upon that which God has revealed for the salvation of His children, if we will follow the teachings of the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints, and manifest those teachings in out lives, there is no need for us to go into channels of science, so called, and endeavor to demonstrate by that means some of the great and eternal truths. We are not in the line of safety when we depart from the revealed word of God and seek to ascertain, by scientific principles, which have not yet been proven entirely true, a means of salvation for the human family. 

God has revealed himself unto the children of men in this day and we have learned from the revelations of Jesus Christ unto the people in this age of the world, that we are in the express image of God, we are His children; that Jesus is the Savior of the world, that He came in the meridian of time and gave His life as an atoning sacrifice for the sin of our father Adam, thereby removing from the human family that fetter with which they were bound, and opened, through His atonement, a means of salvation whereby we might come forth from the tomb and enjoy a fulness of eternal life in His presence. This applies to all mankind, thus striking off the bands of death, bursting open the grave, and ushering in the resurrection. These are glorious results of the labors of our Lord and Redeemer. Why should we, knowing these things to be true, having a testimony and witness in our hearts that Jesus is the Christ, the Mediator between man and our Father in heaven, the Author of out salvation, and that His is the only name given under heaven by which man can be saved, as stated in the scriptures of divine truth, knowing these things, why should we seek elsewhere for the greatest of all divine blessings, or for a demonstration of these eternal principles ? 

Our young men go into the world to bear witness of the truth, to preach Christ and Him crucified. There is a spirit in opposition to the Latter-day Saints, but when the light of truth has come, when that enters into the hearts of men and women, they can then see and understand what the message of  "Mormonism" is unto the world. It means life eternal. All mankind will be judged by the tenets of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We may in a manner deceive ourselves, in this life, by following after the teachings of men; they may appeal to us and to the desires of our hearts, but there is nothing that is reliable except the word of God, for the word of God is "sure and certain." It is an anchor to our souls, it elevates man from the lower planes of life, gives us higher ideals to live for, and places before  the responsibility attending oui actions in this life. We are interested, in the first place, in our individual salvation. We are interested also in the salvation of the sons and daughters that God has given unto us in this life, and in the salvation of our relatives and friends. We are also interested in the extensive plan of salvation, in bringing to a knowledge of the truth those who are honest in the world, who have not yet received the message of "Mormonism." 

I rejoice today, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity of engaging in the work of the Lord. I bear testimony to you that this is the work of God. If the world, who do not believe in "Mormonism," 01 the message that we have to bear, could witness the large attendance at this conference, and the interest that is manifested by the Latter-daySaints, it would be to them, it seems to me, a testimony that they could not ignore, for there is evident sincerity in our form of worship, in our devotion, in our acceptance of the revealed will and word of God, If we live up to that testimony, manifest its'truth in our lives, show the fruits thereof, then we have accomplished, in a measure, that for which we came upon the earth. I have heard it advanced, by honorable men with whom I have spoken, that the great duty of our lives is to observe the Golden Rule, to "do to others as we would have them do unto us." But the Savior gave us, in His day, to understand that that was not sufficient, that there is something greater for us to live for than the mere observance of this golden rule. We are told that when a certain young man came unto Him and said, "Master, what must I do that I may have eternal life?" the Savior said unto him  he should keep the commandments, that he should love the Lord with all his might, mind and strength, and his neighbor as himself; that he was to honor his father and his mother, and commit none of the crimes that were forbidden in the Law of Moses, etc. But the young man said unto him : "Lord, all these things have I observed from my youth up; what else must I do in order that I may obtain eternal life?" Then the Savior said unto him, "Sell all thou hast and give unto the poor, and take up thy cross and follow me." The proclamation of Christ's gospel is our mission to the world, the mission of "Mormonism." We declare unto the world that we must love God, the eternal Father, honor our earthly parents, observe to do those things that are in harmony with the scripture, the revealed will of God, and, in addition, we are to practice charity, giving unto those who are in destitute circumstances, then take up our cross and follow God. 

I bear testimony unto you that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been revealed in this day and age of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. In so far as we are following in the footsteps of the prophet, Joseph Smith, observing those things that the Lord revealed through him, we are the chosen people of God. Our mission is to convert the inhabitants of the world, and bring them to a knowledge of the truth. Our mission is to proclaim the truth unto all mankind, calling upon them to accept the testimony of the Latter-day Saints, and repent. 

May the Lord bless us, inspire us with His Spirit, direct our footsteps in the paths of duty, that we may come nearer unto our Father in , that our testimonies may be strengthened from day to day, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The ladies' chorus, "lift up thine eyes," was rendered by members of the choir. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission. ) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel in my heart that we should be a very grateful people. One of the great poets said that the crime of ingratitude was among the basest of crimes, and I believe it. I am grateful unto God for the prophets and apostles that He has established in this Church. I am thankful unto Him that one of the apostles presides in this meeting. They are given us by the Lord "for the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of the faith." 

The Apostle John said, that "if we walk in the light, as he [God] is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanseth us from all sin." What joy, what pleasure is there outside the pale of the fellowship of our brethren and sisters ? To have fellowship one with another, to have a membership in the Church of the first born, is worth more than all the joys of the world, or the gold and the silver that are hidden in the depths of the earth. If a brother dislike a brother, if he has a feeling in his heart against one of his brethren, that feeling engenders prejudice in him against other brethren. It colors his opinions, and it is apt to warp his judgment with respect to all mankind. It is necessary that we walk in the light in order that we may have fellowship one with another, and we will not then depart from the path of virtue and rectitude, and make shipwreck of our faith. 

The Apostle Paul said : "For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye, through his poverty, might become rich." What have we gained by reason of the earthly poverty and sufferings endured by the Lord Jesus Christ? We have gained eternal life, or the means of obtaining eternal life, and God has said : "Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich." We can see this same principle exemplified in the lives of the Latter-day Saints who are sending their sons and daughters into the world to preach the Gospel. Many a mother in Israel, because of the strain upon her financial resources in keeping her son in the mission field, is wearing a last year's hat, dress and coat. As a servant of the Lord, I say unto you, that the sacrifice you are making is sacred unto the Lord. By your faith and selfdenial you are placing within the reach of men and women the means of securing the riches of eternity. 

We are walking in the path of humility, and God is making us a power for good in the world. After all, brethren and sisters, there is more strength in the humility that comes from trusting in the Lord Jesus than in the strength of worldly power. "When I am weak," said Paul, "then am I strong." So long as the Latter-day Saints put their trust in God; so long as they walk in the light, they will be clothed with a power that is invincible. They are guided and led by men who  blessed with inspiration and revelation from God : they have been led out of the darkness of the world into the sunshine of political and religious liberty. If we continue to pray to the Father and work hard to have our prayers fulfilled or answered, God will give us a goodly portion of His Holy Spirit. No man or woman need ever be afraid that the Almighty will suffer His chosen people to be led astrav by any man or set of men. I care not for the theories men may frame as to our existence, or the beginning of our existence. I know that God has said, through His Holy Spirit, that we are His sons and daughters, and that is comforting to my soul. We stand upon a sure foundation, for our faith rests not in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. 

It is true that many of our young men who go into the world to preach the Gospel, are not learned, that is, so far as worldly wisdom is concerned; but I believe, my brethren and sisters, that you and I, in a measure, at least, are responsible for this. God, in His wisdom, has caused Church schools to be established. He has placed at the head of these great institutions men of God, men of wisdom, men of character like President Brimhall, whose whole souls are in the work of the Lord. They yearn for the redemntion and the advancement of our young men and young women. Are we giving them earnest support ? Are we giving them, not only the "tipport of our faith and prayers, but are we sending our children to these schools, in order that they may become qualified to go forth as ministers of the Lord Jesus Christ? I have noticed in the mission field that young men who have attended  Church schools, are ready and qualified to enter upon their missionary labors at once. Thev are learned, to a certain extent at least, in proportion to the time that they have been under the instruction of teachers in .these institutions, in the principles of the Gospel. But, more than all that, they come to the mission field with the Spirit of God in their hearts. They have the spirit of the work, which, after all, is of infinitely more value than the letter of the law, for "the Spirit giveth life." And when these boys, if you please to call them boys, stand before congregations, they speak, not in the wisdom of men, but by the power of the Holy Ghost. The Book of Mormon declares that when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost his words are carried unto the hearts of the children of men. In many of the pulpits throughout Christendom today men are preaching more to win the praise of men than the approval of God, and their words, therefore, are as "sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal." But the servants of God, blessed with the Holy Ghost, the power that comes from above, and which enlightens the understanding of the people, preacn under that influence, and their words go direct to the hearts of their hearers. 

A long time ago there were certain men, alchemists, they were called, who sought to transmute the baser metals into gold, but they failed. By right use, we. mav convert our gold and silver into "treasures in heaven." Croesus, the rich king of antiquity, when he was dying, said: "What I have kept I have lost; what I gave away I have." His worldly possessions were slipping from his grasp but the money he had given for good  holy purposes was treasure laid up in heaven awaiting him "where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." We shall not be blessed for the amount of money, nor for the number of acres we have left behind us, but we shall be blessed and rewarded for that which we have given for the upbuilding of God's kingdom, and the advancement of righteousness in the earth. Is tithing a sacrifice? No, not in one sense of the word. It is the best investment we can make, for it is a treasure laid up in heaven. The tithing that we pay will make us rich, but the means that we leave behind us will not be to our advantage when we go to the spirit world to be judged according to the deeds done in the body. 

Let us bring up our children in the fear of the Lord. Let us educate them properly; send them to institutions where they are taught the word of God, where the heart, as well as the intellect is educated. God sets great store on the heart. Solomon said : "Keep thine heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life." 

I am reminded of a story told by the late Count Tolstoi, which I think will illustrate the point I wish to impress upon your minds, viz : that there is something else that should be sought besides worldly wealth; and that, after all, the pursuit of, and the acquisition of earthly riches do not bring lasting pleasure and joy. The Count relates the story of a man who was land hungry. You know lots of men, don't you, that are land hungry, they want to go into a strange country and get much land. This man was one of that class, his present possessions were insufficient for hi<= dpsires. So he journeyed to a faroff country, where there was a large tract of land to be secured for a low figure. He came to a vast domain, and the owner of it said to him : "Leave your money here, and all the land you can encompass between now and sunset shall be yours, but if you fail to get back to this point by sunset, -you lose your money and the land, too." This was at sunrise, the man laid down his money and started out on a line due east. He walked at first, but the greediness of his soul quickened his pace into a run. He went in this direction as far as he dared to, for the sun was mounting high in the heavens. Then he ran in a northerly direction until the sun was in the meridian. Weak, and well nigh exhausted he laboriously and painfully ran toward the west, and the sun was rapidly nearing the western hills. Mustering all of his remaining strength for the final effort, bordering on the verge of absolute exhaustion, he managed by painful exertion and agony of mind and body to reach the starting point just as the sun sank out of sight. He had won the land, but in doing so, sacrificed his life, for he fell down, beside his money, dead. His servant dug a hole to bury his body, and the man was soon forgotten. Do we not find similar cases among people we know? They exhaust their lives, spiritually and physically, to amass wealth. They disregard the welfare of their children. Their sole object in life is gathering money. They neglect their Church duties. They feel that they cannot afford to pay their tithing; and when life's race is ended, when they are nearing the end of their earthly existence, behold,, thev are so exhausted that they pass away  miss their reward in the eternal mansions of our Father. 

God grant, my brethren and sisters, that our souls may ever be attuned to the dictates of the Holy Spirit; that our lives may begin and end in the service of the Lord, in the spirit of sacrifice, that every one of us may always have a humble heart and a contrite spirit. God grant that we may never forget what hath been done for us by the Lord, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

EIDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY. 

(President of Millard Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I hope to be led by the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, to be perfectly in tune with His Holy Spirit, that He shall manifest through me something, or some lesson, that He would wish taught. 

It is my privilege to preside over a stake of Zion that, from point of territory, is perhaps one of the largest stakes of Zion, but, from the point of population, it is one of the smallest. Our stake boundaries are exactly the same as the boundaries of Millard County. At this time there is hardly a county that is receiving more attention, perhaps not a county receiving more advertising, from the point of available land and water, than is Millard County. All of the waters of the Sevier river have been filed upon, and title obtained and reservoirs prepared for the impounding of that water. We think that, within the next year or two, we will not have to report that Millard Stake is one of the small stakes of Zion in point of population. There is no county within the State of Utah that has as much  land, and as much water that is available to apply upon this land, as the County of Millard. Under the wise direction of those who have charge of these projects, we hope, and believe, that our county will be well populated, that the broad acres, which President Lyman is pleased to term desert, which lies between the eastern and western part of the stake, will be largely cultivated, and be inhabited by good, thrifty citizens. 

I was thinking, while the brethren were talking here today, that we could preach a good gospel sermon by the lives of the Latter-day Saints of that stake. I believe that we have not, not to my knowledge, at least, in a population of five thousand souls, one case of immorality at this date. I believe that we are free from the bondage of debt. We are not given to speculation. We have no producing mines, and but few people that leave the farm; as a consequence, our people are of modest means. As a witness to their faithfulness in the payment of tithes, let me make this announcement, that while we have suffered from loss by dams being swept out of the Sevier river, and while we had the responsibility and expense of building an academy which cost about twenty-one thousand dollars, yet the tithes of Millard Stake have increased until the year 1910 is shown to be the best for the payment of tithes in the history of that stake. When we listened to the figures that were given by President Smith, regarding the birth rate among members of the Church, which we were pleased to hear was heavier than among the people of any other country upon the face of the earth, it was gratifying to us to know that Millard Stake really exceeded the  record that was made by the Church. 

As a people we live in peace and harmony. Only a small percentage of the population of Millard County are not Latter-day Saints, and among the small percentage there is no enmity toward us that I know of. Those that are not of our faith are good citizens, and there are no poor in Millard Stake. The Latterday Saints, I believe, are recognized by all as neighbors that are honest, true, just, virtuous and benevolent, and that they believe in doing good unto all men. One of the greatest testimonies that I have, that appeals to me, is the fact that we never have a Latter-day Saint who is true and faithful in the discharge of his duty but who is contented and satisfied, and lives in the enjoyment of peace, under the direction and influence of the Spirit of the Lord that gives joy and satisfaction. 

I thank the Lord that the rewards for faithfulness in the Church are not all postponed until after the resurrection. I thank the Lord that while we live in hope and faith, and in a knowledge of the glorv and blessings that await us in the future, yet the Lord rewards us every day of our lives by the whispering of peace unto our souls, giving us a knowledge of divine approval when our lives are in harmony with the requirements of the gospel. I appreciate this. The Lord teaches us through the gospel that we should lend a helping hand unto the erring, reach out and reclaim them, and save them, if possible. In the beautiful lesson taught in the parable of the prodigal son, we learn that when he had gone off and had wasted his goods, until the day of repentance came, he then thought of that which he had left behind and longed to return unto his father. We can appreciate the spirit of that father when he received the repentant son back, placed his splendid mantle upon him, killed the fatted calf for him, and placed a ring upon his finger. I also appreciate the lesson that is taught in the case of the other son, who had remained at home and who had been faithful, but was somewhat jealous of the attention that had been given to the wayward son, the father said unto the faithful one, "All that I have is thine." So, we learn that it is never too late to repent. We can repent and we will be rewarded for true repentance for returning unto the Lord. But if we never do that which necessitates repentance and returning, all that the Lord has will be given to those who are thus faithful from beinning to end. 

I thank the Lord that I have a testimony of the divinity of this work, and I rejoice in the knowledge that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I rejoice also in the knowledge that Brigham Young, and the other presidents of the Church who have died and gone, were prophets. In my faith, I sustain also Joseph F. Smith, the present living head of the Church, as a prophet, seer and revelator. When I lift up my hand to siistain the authorities of the Church, the apostles and the presiding patriarch, as prophets, seers and revelators, I mean, before the Lord and before my brethren, that I sustain them in very deed as such; and when they speak, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, I accept it as the voice of the Lord unto me and unto His people. I thank the Lord for all that he has done for us, and pray that His Spirit shall abide with us and lead us in the path of duty. We  teach the gospel by our daily walk in life, for that is the most magnificent sermon that it is possible for us to preach. My words would be of but little value to the Latter-day Saints if I should teach them that the Word of Wisdom is the mind and will of the Lord, if my daily walk in life did not conform to my precepts. I think that the mother's word and influence are seriously affected if she, through any weakness, real or imaginary, feels justified in partaking of tea or coffee, while she admits before her family that such indulgence is contrary to the mind and will of the Lord. It breeds a spirit of disrespect for the revelations of the Lord when we treat any of His requirements or commandments with indifference, or as of little consequence. The Lord desires that we shall prove ourselves the best people upon the face of the earth, having received the truth, that we shall exemplify the truth in our lives. 

I have this hope, and I speak now of Millard Stake of Zion, that if those who shall come among us and make their homes with us, shall go upon the irrigation ditches or upon our construction work, that they shall discover that the young men of Millard Stake of Zion, who do such work, do not indulge in profanity, and that they keep the Word of Wisdom. I trust they shall discover that the voice of prayer is heard among those who work daily upon those public works; that a blessing is said upon the food before it is partaken of. If they go among the families of the people, I hope they shall discover that the father, the mother, the son and the daughter prays. If they purchase from us our farm products, I trust they shall discover that we give two  pounds for a ton; and that we are not dissipated in any way, but that we teach and practice the gospel of Jesus Christ in our daily walk in life. We brand as infamous the lies and misrepresentations that are made against our people. Those who are honest that come into the midst of our people shall see and undertsand that we have been accused falsely; they shall discover, that our lives bear witness to our faith in the Lord and the saving power of the gospel; that they may do so is my praver in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. SMITH, JR. 

Blessed are they who obey when they hear the truth. — Admonition to reverence the Sabbath day. 

I was asked the question, yesterday, why the Latter-day Saints meet in general conference twice a vear. There are many reasons that might be given why the Saints so assemble. The most important one, perhaps, is that the Lord has commanded it. We meet together to hear inspiring words and to be built up in the faith. We meet to be instructed in our duty as members of the Church that we may more humbly and perfectly walk in the way of the Lord, keeping His commandments that faith might increase among the Saints, and our hearts be inclined towards our heavenly Father. For the same reason we meet from time to time in stake conference in the various stakes, and in ward conference in the several wards throughout the Church, that we might be taught the commandments of the Lord. 

We have heard many things during this conference that will be for our profit, providing we reflect up them and remember them, putting into practice such things as have been presented to us for our consideration. What does it profit us in assembling together to hear the words of the Lord as they may be given unto us from His servants, if we go back to our homes and forget all that we have heard ? What will it profit us when we are admonished to keep the commandments of the Lord if we go home and forget those commandments, and return, if we have been in the habit of walking in the ways of men, back into those ways? The Lord will judge us according to our works; He will judge us according to our knowledge and our opportunities. We are His people, with whom He has made covenant. He has gathered us out from the nations of the earth through the preaching of the gospel of salvation that we may learn of His ways and walk in His paths and rejoice in His truth. 

It is eighty-one years since the Church was established; and during all that time the people have been admonished and instructed in the way they should walk. The parents have been taught almost daily the things that have been presented to us this morning — that they should teach their children the principles of the gospel, that they might not depart from them when they grow up and reach the age of accountability. We have received the truth and we know the truth. If we live not in accordance with the truth, then we will be held responsible. We know that it is required of us to pay our tithing. Blessed is the man who keeps this commandment. We know that the Lord has commanded us that we should observe the Word of Wisdom. Blessed is the man and blessed is the woman who keeps this commandment, for the Lord will nor forget them. We know that we have been commanded from the beginning that we should pray; that we should gather around us in our homes our children and teach them the spirit of prayer; that they might offer up their thanksgivings to their heavenly Father for His mercies and blessings unto them. We have, been taught to observe the Sabbath day from the beginning, and to keep it holy. And many other commandments, which we hear reiterated from the stand and which we read in the Scriptures, God has given unto us, that we might grow nearer unto him and be built up in the faith and strengthened. No commandment, at any time, has He given us, that was not for our comfort and blessing. They are not given merely to please the Lord, but to make us better men and women, and worthy of salvation and exaltation in His kingdom. We know our duty; we know what is required of us, and that the Lord will not hold him guiltless who, understanding these things, will go contrary to that which he has been commanded. 

The time has nearly expired, but I want to say just one word or two in relation to the Sabbath day. We have heard of many other things this morning, the word of wisdom, of prayer, of tithing, and other principles. I want to say a few words in regard to the observance of the Sabbath day and keeping it holy. This commandment was given in the beginning, and God commanded the Saints and all peoples of the earth that they should observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy — one day in seven. Upon that day we should rest from our labors, we should go unto the house of the Lord and offer up our sacraments  His holy day. For this is a day appointed unto us on which we should rest from our labors and pay our devotions unto the Most High. On this day we should offer unto Him our thanks and honor Him in prayer, in fasting, in singing, and in edifying and instructing each other. There was a time when the people throughout the world observed this commandment better than they do today. I can remember the time in this city, not many years ago, when it was considered a sin for a baseball game to be played on the Sunday. It was an unknown thing for a theatre to be open on the Sabbath day; but today things have changed, and such things are common among us. This very afternoon and evening in this city and in other parts of the great nation, theatres will be open and crowded to the doors. I fear, so far as the community in this city is concerned, that all who attend those places will not be from among those who have no membership in the Church. Some who call themselves Latter-day Saints will be there, as will also those of other faiths who profess a belief in the Redeemer of the world. Yet the Lord has commanded that we should observe this law. During the greater part of the past week and extending into this week, out near the lake, there is what is called an aviation meet. Men with machines of marvelous construction are flying in the air. They will do so today. I trust no Latter-day Saint will be there on the Sabbath day, disregarding the divine law. I have heard that two of the men who have been flying out there, who are representing the Wright brothers of Ohio, have refused to take part in the program on the Sabbath day. I hope this is true; it comes to me  as a rumor. I understand that these men, Orvil and Wilbur Wright, will not take part nor permit those who represent them to take part in any such exercise on the Sabbath day, thus setting an example to others; setting an example of righteousness to the Latter-day Saints and to all the world, and showing that they are not afraid, even in the face of opposition and ridicule, perhaps, to keep this commandment which God has given them. 

I hope the time will come — I don't know that it will before the millennium — but I hope it will come in this State, when we can have men in our legislature who will have enough regard for the law of God to give unto the people a legitimate law for the proper observance of the Sabbath day. We have not been able to accomplish it yet; and, I am sorry to say, some of the members of the Church sitting as legislators have been numbered among those who have not seen fit to give unto the people a law that would be suited to the proper observance of the Sabbath day. They have lacked in courage, I say it with shame, for it is a disgrace to them and a reproach unto the people. 

Now, brethren and sisters, when we go from this conference to oui homes, let us go filled with the Spirit of the Lord, with the determination to live our religion, to keep His commandments faithfully that His Spirit might be with us. The time will come, just as sure as we live, that there will be a separation between the righteous and the unrighteous. Those who will not keep the law of the Lord will deny the faith, for He will withdraw His Spirit from them if they do not repent, after laboring with them  doing all that is possible to keep them in the line of duty. He will withdraw His spirit from them and they will be left unto themselves. They must take one side or the other, for this separation must surely come. Let us see to it that we are numbered with the children of the Lord. Like one of the prophets of old, let us say: "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." And may He bless us. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Hosannah." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Reuben G. Miller. Adjourned until 2 p. m. 


