Outdoor
09 04 1911

Thousands of people gathered on the Temple grounds, unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle or Assembly Hall, and an outdoor meeting was held for their benefit, at 2 p. m., near the Bureau of Information building. The services were presided over by Elder Seymour B. Young. Music was furnished by Prof. Wm. C. Clive's orchestra, and Prof. Andrew G. Bowman led the singing. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, 

But with joy wend your way; Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Benjamin Goddard. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President Eastern States Mission) 

I feel quite at home in speaking in the open air. There are very few States in the Union in which I have not spoken in the open air. As a missionary that has spent some sixteen or seventeen years in the missionary field, it has been my lot tu bear witness to the cause which we represent, many times; and I think 103  is no place where an elder can speak where he enjoys more of the Spirit of God than when speaking in the open air. The cause that we represent should be very near and dear unto us, and if we thoroughly understand it, it seems to me as though nothing but going back into darkness will cause us to lose the faith. 

An impression was made upon my mind while we were singing the opening hymn. My mind reverted back to the history of this Church, and a panorama of the trials and the tribulations seemed to pass before my gaze. I am reminded of the hardships passed through by i he Prophet Joseph, and the weapons which were used against him in trying to destroy him during the early history of this Church. I recall the trials in Manchester, the trials in Kirtland, the tribulations in Missouri, the hardships passed through by the Saints in all those places, which finally terminated, so far as the mortal days of the Prophet Joseph Smith were concerned, in the tragedy at Carthage. I remember also the history of the trials of the Saints, our fathers and our mothers, in Nauvoo, and after that time, when they were driven from their homes there, and finally, with that unfaltering faith they had in the leader God gave to them to take the place of the Prophet Joseph, they set their faces toward the setting sun, to go into the unknown west. It was when they were ready for this journey that President Brigham Young called William Clayton to him, and said to him, "Brother Clayton, I want you to prepare a hymn that the Saints can sing while we are camped upon the prairies, and wherever God will lead us, something that will give them hope." And Brother Clayton went , and, I think, in the course of a couple of hours, he had not only composed the hymn, but he had set it to music, and he sang it before that great leader, Brigham Young. Now, with this little piece of history, knowing how this hymn had its origin, so that you will appreciate it more, I am going to read the hymn that was sung at the opening of this meeting: 

"Come, come ye saints, no toil nor 

labor fear, But with joy wend your way; Though hard to you this journey may 

appear, 

Grace shall be as your day. "Tis better far for us to strive, Our useless cares from us to drive. Do this, and joy your hearts will 

swell — All is well! all is well! 

"Why should we mourn, or think our lot is hard? 

'Tis not so; all is right! Why should we think to earn a great reward, 

If we now shun the fight. Gird up your loins, fresh courage take, Our God will never us forsake; And soon we'll have this truth to tell — All is well! all is well! 

"We'll find the place which God for 

us prepared, Far away in the West, Where none shall come to hurt or 

make afraid; There the saints will be blessed. We'll make the air with music ring, Shout praises to our God and King; Above the rest these words we'll tell — All is well! all is well! 

"And should we die before our journey's through, 

Happy day! all is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow too; 

With the just we shall dwell. But if our lives are spared again To see the saints their rest obtain, O how we'll make this chorus swell — All is well! all is well." 

What do you think, my brethren and sisters, of the faith of that band GENERAL CONFERENCE.  pioneers? This country was unknown to them. They believed that God had given to President Young a vision of the future home for the Latter-day Saints. They had faith in their leader, and they were willing to go into the unknown with him; and felt that if they died before their journey was through, all was well with them. We are the children, the grand-children, we are the offspring of men and women to whom this gospel was carried in various parts of the world; and what a debt of gratitude do we owe to their bravery, their faith, their integrity to the cause of God! God is no respecter of persons, and He is as near to us as He was to them. The faith that God planted within their hearts. He is willing to plant within our hearts, if our works are like unto the works of our fathers. There is a price set upon every blessing from God, but it is not measured in dollars and cents, it is within the reach of all alike; and the price consists in works, works of righteousness. There should be no one to whom the gospel has been brought, and whose condition has been bettered thereby, who should ever forget the faith, the integrity, the honesty, the bravery, of those who had such confidence in Brigham Young as to follow him into these valleys of the mountains. 

It is sung that "God moves in a mysterious wa)',His wonders to perform," and perhaps if all had been peace with our fathers and our mothers, all of the purposes of God would not have been fulfilled so quickly, so minutely, as they have been fulfilled, notwithstanding the trials and tribulations that came upon our people. "It needs be that offenses come, but woe be unto them by whom they come." The offenses that did come hastened the fulfill of the revelations of God Almighty. 

There stood upon the earth a great and mighty Prophet of God seven hundred years before the birth of Christ, whose prophecies were translated into different languages over three hundred years before His birth, in the city of Alexandria. God gave to him a vision of the future, and a vision of that building yonder (the temple) showing him that the Mountain of the House of the Lord would be established in the tops of the mountains, and that people from almost every nation upon the earth would say, as they are now saying, "Come, and let us go up to the Mountain of the Lord, to the House of the God of Jacob, where we can learn of His ways, and walk in His paths." That great miracle, if you are minded to call it a miracle, the fulfilling of that prophecy, was brought about largely by our people being forced to come up into the tops of the mountains. 

When we speak of miracles, we call them miracles, but, when rightly understood, there is no such thing as miracles. We call those things miracles simply because we do not now understand the law by which they are brought about. It is true, upon the rough seas, the Savior of mankind stretched forth His hand and said to the angry waters, "Peace, be still," and the waters were calmed, and the ship was safe, but the one who uttered these words was the King of heaven and earth, to whom all power had been given, and when He commanded the intelligence of the winds : listen and obey! and the waters became calmed, it was more the principle of obedience that brought about the calmness of the sea. We plant the grape vine, we pour water 105  the ground; it goes into mother earth; creeps up through the sap of the vine, it finds its way into the bud of the flower, and then into the berry, the grape; it is then crushed, and other elements work upon it, and we have the wine. But, when they filled the pots with water at the" behest of Jesus of Nazareth, and He commanded, all the necessary elements went into the water, and turned the water into wine, the seeming miracle was done by Divine authority, by obedience to that Being to whom was given all power over the elements, and who could, if He had so desired, have summoned the armies of heaven to His defense. "The glory of God is intelligence." "No man can be saved in ignorance," and this faith that God has given to us is intended to exalt us in the presence of God, with intelligence, so that we can know, and control, even as our Elder Brother was able to control, while He was upon the earth. Faith will take immortal men into the presence of God; not only that, but will make them like unto God, exalt them as kings and priests in the celestial kingdom of our heavenly Father. The race is not given to the swift, but to him who endures to the end. 

I see before me many elders who have labored under my direction, both in the Southern States and in the Eastern States, during the period of th.rteen years that I have presided in these missionary fields, and 1 wonder if your enthusiasm is the same as it was when you were standing in the open air, preaching the gospel of life and salvation. Do not let it cool off. Do not be afraid. The work of God is true, and it is going to rule this universe some time. It has been decreed by the Almighty that sometime the earth and the fulness thereof "will be  to the Saints of the most high God, and they shall possess it forever and forever." 1 did not receive my testimony from men; I know it with every fibre of my being. Wl.en I go over on the othei side, I want to meet my parents who were among the pioneers of 1847, and not be ashamed when I look them in the face. I want to keep the faith as they kept the faith. You keep it as your fathers and mothers kept it, and remember that God Almighty brought our fathers to this country, therefore we are indebted to Him for every blessing that we enjoy today. 

May God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JUNIUS F. WELLS. 

In looking about from this temporary stand over the heads of this large assembly, my soul rejoices in reflections that are started by listening to what we have heard of the coming of the pioneers, of the faith that led them to these valleys of the mountains, and that has converted us, and brought us here from the various parts of the earth to worship God, to participate in this conference, and to enjoy the spirit of it. 

In my youth, in my childhood, I played upon this temple block. I recall it before any buildings that we now see were erected upon it, although the house of the Lord, the temple of our God, was commenced before the time that my memory goes back to. The great tabernacle — I recall well when it was being built, and the old tabernacle in the corner, that stood before it, and ten or fifteen rods northwest from here, the old bowery, which stood before it. In it was held the nearest thing to an open air meeting that GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I was acquainted with in my childhood. In the old bowery, I remember listening to the words of President Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, and other leaders of the Church. I have lived to see, since those days, which were in the beginning of things in this great city of Salt Lake, the wonderful development and progress that has taken place. I have lived to see the fulfillment of the prophecies of God concerning the growth of this people; to see the triumph of truth over error; to see the mercies and blessings and support of our Father in heaven, in preserving His people in possession of this land, and in control of its greater interests. 

I rejoice when I look upon these buildings and contemplate the spirit and feeling that led President Young to erect the tabernacle, that there might be room in which the Saints could assemble to worship God at our conferences. When I think of this glorious house of the Lord, in which the ordinances of everlasting life can be performed for the living and the dead; when I look yonder and see one of the finest educational institutions that there is in the west, a creation of our faith and the labors of our hands; when I see, in fulfillment of one of the earliest revelations given in the dispensation of the fulness of times, this splendid hostlery that has been reared, a monument to the good taste, the hospitality, and the good will of our people toward mankind; because it was said we should have in Zion a house in which the stranger might be received and entertained within our gates, into which the noble, the great, and the learned of the world should come, and should receive of our hospitality. I am happy when I think of this great institution across the road, the larg and finest publishing and printing establishment in the west. Out from its presses go tens and hundreds of thousands of copies of sacred and glorious works, bearing testimony to mankind of the intelligence, the faith, and devotion of the people, whose lives were planted in these valleys of the mountains in the days when they were desert, and of their determination to be in the forefront of all things that make for the comfort, happiness, intelligence, education, development, and progress and uplift of mankind. I am glad that we have upon the site of the old school house, where I first went to school, the Vermont building, the Deseret Museum, now being prepared so that you can go there and see an accumulation of some of the most wonderful things that have ever been discovered in these mountains. 

We have all about us the evidence of God's help, of His support, of His good will towards us. We have survived the onslaught of every influence and power that could be raised against us, as a people, to prevent the achievement that you see here manifested in these structures round about you. The very first thing that I remember in my life was standing by my mother's knee in an open air meeting at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, while my father read before the congregation assembled there, the announcement that an army, the army of the United States, was marching toward us to destroy the Mormon people. I remember, five years after that, scurrying caticorner across this block, from the old school in Union Square, where Brother Rich and Judge Smith, and some others, I see here, used to go, because the guns of an army were being trained upon our homes and )07  home of the President of the Church. I recall the efforts that have been made by legislation and by extra judicial procedure to hinder the progress of this work, to embarrass and hurt, and if possible, destroy, those who are engaged in it; and how futile all these efforts have been. Today, while we may not be the most numerous, and it is not our destiny ever to become so, we occupy a unique position before mankind. We are setting an example of the best that there is in the world, and right here in Salt Lake City, in spite of all opposition, in spite of the incoming of wealth from the outside, from wealth that our people have produced from within, we have thus far maintained the lead. We have, as I have stated, the best churches, the best hospital, the best school-houses and gymnasium, the best hotel, the best printing establishment, and the best of everything that makes for religion, for social progress and welfare, for education, and for the entertainment and happiness of the people. 

Now, if God will continue to be as good to us as He has been in the past, we should be able to maintain this position with respect to our fellow men. It is my testimony, and my belief, that it is the destiny of the Latter-day Saints, to occupy that oosition in the lead, and that God has called us by His own voice to take the lead; to teach mankind the truth, to declare that He is, and that He loves His children, and is concerned with respect to them; and that He calls them from the length and breadth of the earth to come up to Zion, that they may learn of His ways and be taught the truth, the everlasting truth, that will save their, souls. 

May He grant to us, every one  us, the opportunity of bearing the testimony that is within us of the divinity of the work that we are engaged in. I know, as Brother Rich has said he knows, in every fibre of my being, that the truth has been taught by the leaders of Israel : that the Prophet Joseph was called of God; that Brigham Young was a man of God, a prophet, a seer, a revelator, to this people; a mighty leader, made great and powerful and influential, by the blessing and inspiration of the Holy Spirit. I know the men that have succeeded these in the leadership of this Church, have been men of God; and that there never breathed a truer, more faithful, devoted, sincere, honest, servant of Almighty God than Joseph F. Smith, the present president of this Church. 

My brothers and sisters, my friends, the truth that has been given to us has made us free. We stand here, and before all men, delivered from the shackles of traditions that are false, made acquainted with the mind and will of the Almighty, concerning us; knowing that we may walk according to His will and live according to His design and purpose in placing us upon this earth; and that we may assist in bringing to pass the redemption of mankind and the establishment of truth and righteousness that is destined to prevail over the earth. 

May God grant that our testimonies and our faith may ever increase within us, for Jesus' sake. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH B. KEELEK. 

(President of Utah Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters and friends, this is a new experience to me, but I trust that I shall have GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the Spirit of the Lord that I may say a few things that will be of interest and comfort to those who are assembled here this afternoon. 

I was reminded, when listening to the brethren speak, of a word that is set forth in the Doctrine and Covenants, in the first revelation, wherein the Lord is giving the reason for His Church to be organized in these, the latter times. Speaking of the commandments, these commandments that are in this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and why they were given to His servant, Joseph Smith, he says, among other things, "That every man might speak in the name of God, the Lord, even the Savior of the world; that faith might increase in the earth." Tnat is one of the reasons for this great latter-day work, that faith may be increased in the earth, because, without faith it will be impossible for men and women to be saved in His kingdom. The brethren have referred to the many and mighty works that have been performed by the Latter-day Saints, and to the words of prophecy, wherein they look forward to the budding up of a great commonwealth in this western country. They have referred to material works, wherein these great structures that have been referred to. have been reared. Now, why all of these things, is more than we can tell upon this occasion — why all of these things? They have been accomplished because of the faith that was generated in the hearts of men and women, our parents who came here, who started out, many of them, without knowing whither they were going or where their feet would find rest, and came here because they had implicit faith in God — the very thing that God de that men should have — that faith should increase in the earth. Now, what we behold today, what we see ?nd understand of this great work, is a result of the faith of those who have lived before us, and those who are living now. How shall we, the posterity of these pioneers, how shall we, men and brethren, increase our faith, that we, likewise, may accomplish something in -he earth toward our present, our temporal and our spiritual salvation. We will get this faith by living the gospel as it has been revealed to us in these latter times. We will generate faith sufficient that we will be enabled to accomplish that which God desires us to accomplish, we who are living in this day and generation. 

The mind of man is peculiar, it is wonderful. It is past finding out how it is that it can be wrought upon by the Power from on high, that it can accomplish things that are wonderful in the sight of men. If men would live and women would live day by day, as best they know how, as they associate one with another, in their various walks, in their various businesses in life, if they, under the light of the Spirit of Truth, would seek to do, day by day, that which their hands find to do, and that which their hearts desire to do, they would generate this faith, they would build it up in their hearts, and they would become a mighty power. 

Brother Wells referred to the fact that this people are few. There is an old prophet in the Book of Mormon, who looked down to our time, before the coming of the Savior, and noted that the Church was small, its members were few, but there was a mighty power with the few. 

My brethren and sisters, we have one of the grandest opportunities that was ever presented to a people upon the face of the earth, to learn the things of God. The Lord has made Himself manifest to this people, and, although their numbers are few, they have the power, through God, within them, to accomplish everything that has been promised that the people of God should accomplish in these latter times. This Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is broad enough, high enough, deep enough to comprehend all things, and to save every man and every woman that has come upon the face of the earth; not only those that have lived when the oracles of God have been upon the earth, but those who have died and passed away. This gospel will be preached to all, to every creature, everyone will have an opportunity to accept or reject the principles of the gospel. 

There stands before us a monument of God's goodness, that wonderful temple, in which the ordinances for the dead may be accomplished. There is only a little beginning in that work. The dead are being redeemed, children are being united to parents, husbands and wives are being united in eternal relationship, and the great links of kinship from Adam down to the pi esent time are being welded. Those who have passed away at times when darkness has been upon the earth, and gross darkness found in the minds of the people, will have u chance to hear the everlasting gospel, the gladsome sound, and embrace the same; and the work will be done for them here upon the earth by their children whose hearts will be turned to them, and there will be great rejoicing in heaven and on earth. 

Now, there have been committed to the Latter-day Saints these pre principles, principles of salvation, which are to make happy all of the duldren of men, and place them in z position to enjoy all that is possible for their souls to enjoy, and this all has come about by the goodness of our God. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters and f riends,that this is the work of Almighty God. 1 know it; no man has told me, I know it for myself, and not for another. I bear testimony that inasmuch as we will be obedient to the principles of the gospel, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, we shall come to a knowledge of these things. We need not. depend upon any man for this knowledge, each will know it for himself, and know it better than anyone can tell him. I testify to you that the living oracles are upon the earth today, that President Joseph F. Smith is really and truly a prophet of God, and president of God's work here upon the earth. May this testimony be in the hearts of every one of you, my brethren and sisters and friends, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN. 

(President of Alpine Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I trust that during the few moments that I occupy, I may be impressed to say something that will be beneficial and of profit to those who may listen, as well as to myself. I have had many reflections while the brethren have been speaking to us. I have thought of the power of God that has been made manifest upon many occasions, that has been an evidence and a testimony to me of the divinity of this great latterday work, in which we are engaged. 

I have listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks of our GENERAL CONFERENCE. . I have been acquainted with these men for many years, and I know them to be men of God, men of great worth in the community, in the labor of love that we have espoused, in preaching the gospel, in building up Zion and instilling into the hearts of the young and rising generation the principles of the gospel. The power that attends these principles in the growth and development of our young people is what we need in our midst. 

I was reflecting when President Rich spoke of the young men who had been on missions continuing at home in the same good missionary spirit that had predominated in their hearts and in 'their labors in the mission field. I have had the pleasure, and the privilege of preaching the gospel in some of the nations of the earth, and I can say that the spirit that is usually manifest among the elders, is a spirit of love, the spirit of charity, the spirit of forgiveness, the spirit of willingness to go and to come at the bidding of those who preside over them, in preaching and presenting the principles of the gospel to the inhabitants of the earth. 

We discover that some of our young men, on their return in our midst, become somewhat luke-warm and careless pertaining to their duties and labors in the stakes of Zion. It has been my prerogative and privilege to preside over a stake of Zion now for ten years, laboring with the young people, preparing them to go abroad and preach the gospel, and to labor at home in the various organizations of the Church, schooling them in the principles of the gospel, so that they would be more useful in the sphere in which they operate. We occasionally discover among our young people, es among the young men, a spirit of indifference and carelessness as they grow up in our midst. I think perhaps this is due to the fact that we, as fathers and mothers, do not follow up, as closely as we should, our young men and young girls in their amusements and in their work. We too freely allow them to go and come as they please, and they have acquired more or less a spirit of independence and freedom in having their own way. 

This reminds me forcibly of a play put upon our stage at one time, where a young man, who had formed a habit of drinking and smoking, and possibly profaning and doing other things that sometimes young men subject themselves to, he, singing upon the stage, made the statement, "I have had my own way. Don't I look it?" He certainly did look it; and I think this is the great trouble with some young men, they have had their own way, and they look it. 

Solomon said, "Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it." Some of our people, I think, mistake this reading. They think if they teach their children correct principles that they ought to grow up and be all right; but this is not always the case. Our children should be trained to make themselves useful from their infancy up, they should be doers of the word aa well as hearers, and when they get old, they will not depart from it. It has been my experience and observation that among the young men who go upon missions and receive honorable releases, when they return home there are some who resume objectionable habits in which they had indulged before they went away. In most of such cases Ill  they do fall away, it is because they had not formed proper habits in their earlier lives. 

I was reading, a short time ago, a statement of one of the professors in a California university, where he said : "You permit young men to sow their wild oats, as you call it, and as a rule, they will continue to sow wild oats in their manhood." I believe there is regretable truth connected with this. 

I notice young men and young ladies who take active part in our Mutual Improvement Associations, our Sunday Schools, Primaries, and other organizations and quorums of the Church, if they work and labor diligently in these quorums, they grow and develop in the gospel. These are the young men and women who remain stable as a rule, in the Church. These are the young men who fill honorable missions and then come home and remain faithful, who are obedient under the direction of those who preside over them. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you, increase your faith, and strengthen your testimonies concerning this work. I testify to you that I know, as I know that I am standing here, that this is really and truly the work of God. It has not been instituted by men, it has been instituted by God, and it will stand forever. 

May God bless you, and may we hold on to the iron rod, which is the word of God, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(Supt. of Bureau of Information.) 

I am glad to meet this large assembly here, and to join with you in the spirit of praise that goes out  every heart for that which God has accomplished for Israel. I realize that you have already expressed your feelings in the song of praise, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." I believe that you meant every word that you sang, that you are grateful unto God for every revelation that He has given, for having sent unto us a Prophet in the person of Joseph Smith, and that unto that Prophet He gave sacred revelations and has given unto us also light and wisdom, and made known unto us the will of God. 

I rejoice that God and His Son, Jesus Christ, vouchsafed to appear unto the youthful Prophet, and established in his young heart the truth that a mighty, a marvelous, a wonderful work, was about to come forth among the children of men. I rejoice with you that God fulfilled His promise, that Moroni, the prophet, appeared, giving unto Joseph the Prophet sacred records pertaining unto the ancient people who lived upon this continent; that subsequently other messengers appeared, and made clear unto the Prophet's mind every principle pertaining to the restoration of the gospel in the latter days. 

We thank God that He has blessed the efforts of our prophets, that He has blessed our elders, our "boys" who have gone forth in weakness unto the nations of the earth, and that He has made them mighty in gathering in scattered Israel. I rejoice in the opportunities given to spread the truth upon this sacred block, and to correct the many misrepresentations that are made concerning us. Some people delight in telling stories which mislead the visitors. 

Two weeks ago, a gentleman acGENERAL CONFERENCE.  a few tourist friends upon this block, and declared : Why, the "Mormons" believe that the statue Moroni, on the top of the temple, in a very short time will come down and minister unto the children of men — that the bronze image will come to life. Of course, it afforded us opportunity to declare the truth. We say that the statue represents Moroni, the angel of the last dispensation : and that Moroni lives. He lives now . He appeared, a resurrected being, unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and declared unto him that the time had already come when the records of the people who lived upon this continent should be brought forth. We are pleased when we have such an opportunity of declaring more forcibly the truth, that this is the work of God, that the angel, Moroni, actually lives now, and has ministered in our day. 

Other misrepresentations are made regarding our sacred temple, and we have opportunity of explaining the work associated with salvation of the dead; and that in accordance with that which God has revealed, our people go there and are baptized for their dead, that they might live : for we are seeking to save souls, not to destroy them. We bear testimony to all, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people that our work is for the salvation of souls, and for the redemption of the living and the dead. It is the plan of salvation. God has revealed it, and as He gives us strength, we will declare it. "This gospel of the kingdom must be preached as a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come." 

May God help us to be true, unto that which God has given, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Prof. Andrew G. Bowman sang the sacred hymn, "I need Thee every hour." 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Of First Council of Seventy.) 

What we have heard from the brethren today in regard to our faith, and the introduction of the gospel in these latter times, are testimonies that have come from the hearts of these elders who have been faithful during long years of experience in proclaiming these great principles pertaining to the Gospel of our Lord, Jesus. 

I had designed, in arising before you, to make some remarks in relation to this building here, the Bureau of Information, which was found to be a necessity when vast numbers of tourists and visitors, from all the civilized nations of the earth, with their faces set toward Utah and the great west, began to come here by thousands and tens of thousands. At one of our general conferences in the year 1901, or just prior to that, one of the brethren said it would be a very good thing to establish a place where tourists and visitors could come and be informed concerning the history of the Latter-day Saints, and of their intentions for the future, and regarding the life of the people in their homes throughout this intermountain region. Accordingly, in 1902, the Church erected a small, frame building, near where this beautiful structure now stands, and when that was finished, the people began to flock to it, visitors from the United States, and from the old world. 

Two years later it was found that a larger and a better building was needed, and so the frame one was removed and the present brick structure was erected. In the year last past, 1910, the eastern portion of the building was added, for the benefit of the numerous visitors to this temple block. Brother Benjamin Goddard, the director of this institution under the Presidency of the Church, with fifty or more helpers, male and female, are daily engaged in receiving the visitors. I am proud to say to you that since the opening of this building, the establishment of this bureau of information, we have, in the ten years, had visitors to the number of about 2,000,000 generally intelligent people, averaging about 200,000 each year, among whom are found the very best classes of people that the world contains today, and including some of the nobility of Europe. 

When I use the word nobility, I speak of the ranks established among the crowned heads and noble families of Europe, as they are recognized there. But, I recognize this grand truth, my brethren and sisters, and friends, that there are no more noble people in the earth, nor ever will be any more noble people visit these grounds than I see before me today. I realize that, of the working men, manufacturers, and the many other classes of people who have come here as tourists and visitors, the farmers, tillers of the soil rank among the best on the earth. There are no more noble people than those who cultivate the soil God has given them, make it produce the necessaries of life, and provide comforts and blessings for themselves and their families. I refer not only to Latter-day Saints, but also to our friends that are gathered in the different states, neighbors to our people in these great  communities. I say again, they are among the noble people of the earth. We are trying to teach them the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we have learned it. We have learned that humility was necessary, and that faith in God was also a requisite. When we have attained humility and faith, we desire further to learn how to serve the Lord and keep His commandments. Hence, our elders teach that it is necessary to be so humble, so contrite in spirit, that we will desire, that we will not rest contented, until we have done as did our Savior, our Lord Jesus, when He came to John in the wilderness, and said : I seek baptism at your hands, John. He demanded, it is worded, and that demand was no doubt made in such gentle language that this prophet, (who was that prophet who had lifted his voice against Herod's sin and iniquity), this prophet from the wilderness, John, said to him : "I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?" We know, my brethren, sisters, and friends, this fact that, if it was necessary for our Lord, our Redeemer, to receive baptism from the hands of one who was called and ordained to minister in that service, it is absolutely necessary that we follow His great and glorious example. We must go into the waters of baptism, for the remission of our sins, that we may stand spotless and clean before our Maker; then receive the laying on of hands, by one called and appointed to that authority, for the reception of the Holy Ghost, which shall lead the minds of all who accept these glorious principles to greater light, greater knowledge, and greater wisdom than could be possessed without it. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

My brethren and sisters, speaking of that great temple which is in our view, I remember very well the days of the dedicatorial service therein, and I remember one fact I learned there that brought to my mind great comfort and joy; I heard a prophet of the Lord testify that he had received a vision from the eternal world. In that great Rouse President Woodruff stood up and testified : "About three years ago," said he, "I recived in vision a visit from President Brigham Young. President Brigham Young came to me, and said, 'Brother Woodruff, take the keys of the temple, and unlock the doors and let the people in.' " 

Brother Woodruff said, "At that time I was president of the apostles, President John Taylor was then living, and was President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints; and I marveled that Brigham Young had come to me and given me this commission; but today," said he, "President Taylor has passed away, and I have been called to occupy this responsible position, of president of the Church; and now I no longer marvel, for I have done as I Was commanded, and I have taken the keys to this holy house, and I have opened the doors and I have bid the people enter." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, as has been testified to you today, that building stands as a monument of the faithful labors of the Latter-day Saints. When Brigham Young came here, a pioneer, with his faithful little band of one hundred, and forty-three persons, he placed the point of his cane in the ground, nearly at the southeast corner, it is believed, of where the building now stands, and he said, "Here we will build the house of the Lord, a temple to our God." Forty years after  commencement it was finished; it was begun in 1853, and completed in 1893. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, it was for no ulterior or wicked purpose or plan that that magnificent structure was erected. It was reared by the faithful labor and toil of the Latter-day Saints; and, especially in the first few years of its progress, the building was continued by the help of the people while in extreme poverty, with very little means to push it forward. Hence its development was slow. But, at its completion we were satisfied, because testimonies were borne in that sacred building, during the dedicatorial services, that God had indeed accepted it, even as He accepted those temples that had been builded before. This fact was verified by the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord resting upon those brethren who testified that God had indeed accepted the labors of the Latterday Saints, and sanctioned the placing of His name upon that sacred building. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I thank you very much for your attention here this afternoon, and I thank our visitors also. I say to all those who have been here to view these temple grounds, and hear about the Latter-day Saints, you are welcomed, heartily welcomed by those who labor here in this bureau of information. I repeat, you are welcome here today, my brethren, sisters, and friends; we greet you as friends, and we are glad to see you always. May God bless you wherever you go, in all your walks of life. If there are any here who have not had faith in the gospel, as we have faith in it, I trust that vour hearts mav be softened to that degree by what you have heard, and 115  you may hear in the future, that you too will receive the spirit of repentance, and draw near unto God, and be enabled to work out your salvation and redemption; in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn; 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus anointed that "Prophet and Seer"— 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Francis McDonald. 





