Afternoon
08 04 1917

The Tabernacle choir sang the anthem : "Come unto me." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Wm. A. Hyde, president of the Pocatello stake of Zion. 

Horace S. Ensign and William Worley sang a duet : " Come unto him, all ye who weep." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Our religion not a thing apart from life — The laws of the gospel provide for physical health, temporal success, educational development, ethical culture, social purity, music, art, and all that therein is true and beautiful — The laws of the Church teach loyalty and the true relation of Church and State — They encourage the acceptable home life, proper marriage relations, and define the true relationship of man to God and man to man — The brotherhood in the Priesthood of God the most satisfactory known to men — It is the true fraternity of God and brotherhood ,of man — All worth having in life may be obtained within the pale of the gospel which completes the full circle of requirements of a hviman life — May we all learn to live to be worthy of its truths. 

I cannot tell you with what difficulty I have approached this undertaking. When I realize that the body of the Church has come up to Zion for counsel and guidance, to hear the word of the Lord, and that in a measure a portion of that responsibility of giving the word of the Lord to the people of the Church, rests even but slightly upon me, I am almost overwhelmed. I have prayed to our Father for the guidance of his Spirit, and I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, for your sympathetic co-operation, in the hope that I may be able to say something that will be of profit to the Latter-day Saints. I recognize the fact that but a comparatively small portion of the total number 137  the Church members are here present, but I also recognize the fact that the whole of the Church is here represented and that the priesthood of the Church, which presides over it in its various departments, is here present in a very large number, and that there are present a sufficiently large number of the people of the Church to touch the lives of all those who claim membership therein. 

I, with you, have received great joy and satisfaction in the words that have been spoken to us in the sessions of our general conference. It seems to me that all queries that were within our minds as we came from up and down the land to this central place of meeting for advice and counsel have been answered, and that all of the questions which have troubled us in these momentous times have received such treatment and discussion as to satisfy our souls and direct us in our course of action. I have been intensely impressed with the practicality, the beneficient practicality, of the teachings of our religion. 

We came together two .days ago with our hearts and thoughts bent upon discovery of a true course of action for us to follow as individuals, as a people, in the great problems that present themselves to us, and I feel sure that each person who has listened to the counsel of our brethren, and has heard the principles of the gospel expounded by divine inspiration has received guidance and direction for himself personally, as well as for the great body of the people. President Smith, in his opening remarks, suggested that the brethren who might follow him would see fit to touch upon and emphasize some of the cardinal principles of the gospel,  were mentioned by him so forcefully in his opening address, and in conformity to that suggestion most of the important principles of the gospel, which affect us at this time and are calculated to determine our course of conduct, have been dwelt upon in such manner as to make plain to us our duties. 

Our religion is not a thing apart from our life. It is incorporated in it, and forms a part of the very tissue and sinews of our being. It provides a rule of conduct and of action for us, not only in our occasional worship but in our lives, in our work, in our play, in all that we do in the whole course of our conduct. It is this intense practicality of it that appeals to me as its greatest strength, constituting its greatest salvation for the human family. There has been in times past, to my thinking, too much of Sunday reh'gion. There is comparatively too much of that notion that our religious views are to be considered separate and apart from the lives we live, and that has led to a devitalization of the religion which has been professed by Christianity; for modern man, if he is anything, is practical, — he desires to see the end of that which he begins, — the application of the truth which he considers, and if it cannot be demonstrated to him that religion, as a profession of belief, will work out in his every day life an influence, that will develop for him success, happiness and joy, he cannot be made to be interested in religion. Within the purview of the gospel, there has been given to us, as I view it, a remedy for every ill, a precaution for every evil into which we might fall, and a safeguard against all harm. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

To those who would have health and enjoy the blessings that come from healthful bodies, there is the Word of Wisdom given to the Church in its earliest days as a guiding principle in the conduct of their lives. How much the world needs that principle today! How much benefit and good would come to humanity at large if they could but understand and adopt in their lives those simple and comprehensive principles and truths taught in that which we denominate the Word of Wisdom. 

There are those who seek after temporal success, who seek to bring to themselves wealth, renown, and power. The gospel provides a plan whereby that success, in righteousness, may be attained. The law of tithing, as laid down in the Church and as practiced by the Church, to my thinking is the surest guide to follow in the accomplishment of success in our temporal affairs, and I bear you my testimony, as you have heard it from thousands of men and women in the Church, that those who will obey the Lord's law of tithing and contribute of their substance that which is demanded of them, for the Lord and his work, will prosper in their temporal affairs. The gospel teaches frugality, thrift, industry, — all of those componant qualities that go to make the successful, happy, prosperous citizen of our land. 

There are those who seek after culture of the mind, who see in the development of the intellectual processes the great height of ambition for which they strive. There is no religion, there is no philosophy, so far as I know, which accentuates human intelligence as does the gospel of Jesus Chrst. "The glory of God is intelligence," and to one  holds that view the culture of his mind assumes a broader, a bigger, a finer view point than can possibly be had by anyone who does not so regard it. 

The Church has promulgated and stands for the most complete system of ethics and morals that the world has ever known. It was highly gratifying to learn not long ago that a company engaged in disseminating news, in looking for one to write for the newspapers which they published, an article devoted to "social purity," had selected our own beloved . president, believing that he, representing the people of the Latter-day Saints, could write a better article upon the subject of social purity than could be obtained from any other source. We believe and know that to be true, because we profess what we practice in that regard. 

To those who look for the beautiful in art and in music, and who would dedicate and consecrate their lives, as many have done, to development along these lines, our religion offers encouragement of the highest type and order. I think that it can be safely said that there are no communities to be found anywhere in which the love of music is developed to a higher degree than among the communities of the Latter-day Saints. I doubt if there can be found any people upon the face of the globe who love to sing, to praise God in song, whose songs come from the heart more than do the Latter-day Saints. Our love of art in its true sense is exemplified in our temples and majestic edifices that have been erected for the worship of God, and to all who love that which is beautiful and true' in the arts, and in the sciences as well, our Church, our religion, offers en139  and provides a broad plan of understanding whereby all may be comprehended in its true light. 

We have been favored at this conference with more than one exposition of the attitude of our people and our Church toward the government in which we live. I feel safe in making the statement that there can be found in no place hi this great republic men and women more devotedly consecrated to the principles of liberty and freedom for which our nation stands than our own Latter-day Saints. Why should it not be? Do we, perhaps, not owe more to the protecting care oi the government than any other people? Have we not more reason to be greatful for liberty and for freedom than the people of any other section of our great republic ? Brother Ivins said, in eloquent language, that th's government has been the guardian of the Church. Certain it is that it has afforded us opportunity to develop the great truths which have been revealed in the gospel, and certain it is that we love it and that we are willing as a people to protect it in every way that is necessary. I was also much impressed by a further statement made upon this subject in that our religion teaches us the true relation of Church and State, and affords us a solution to that much agitated problem that has concerned our people at many times. It teaches us that we live under a constitution which was wrought out at the hands of divinely inspired men and that that constitution is our safeguard against encroachments upon principles of justice, of truth, and of liberty, and so I say there can be no more loyal, no more patriotic men and women, from the Atlantic to  Pacific, than can be found in these few small states that harbor the Latter-day Saints. 

If you would build a home filled with love and charity and divine affection, you can go to no place that will give you a more adequate conception of the proper way to rear and maintain a family, of the proper way to lay the foundations of a home than among the Latter-day Saints. The gospel has revealed to us higher and loftier principles in connection with the marital status, in relation to parents' relationship to their children, than has ever come to man in all the history of the world from the time of the Savior down to the time when the restored gospel came to earth, never to be taken away again. And how fundamentally important it is that, we should have revealed to us, made known a plan to us, by which to make good homes, for I tell you a great nation can no more exist without good homes than it can exist without the loyalty and patriotism of a devoted citizenship. It is impossible that we should have a great country, fulfiling the lofty purposes of its destiny, unless we have good homes throughout the land. It is my humble belief that there are to be found among our people more good, true, honorable, simple homes than can be found among any other people in this great, wide world. I believe there are more fathers who are fathers in very deed, who honor their wives, the mothers of their children, as they should honor them, there are more good women consecrating and devoting their lives to their children and their husbands and their homes. I think there are more true children loving their fathers and loving their mothers and their GENERAL CONFERENCE.  with a great unselfish love, to be found among- our own people than can be found upon the face of this globe; and I thank God that this is true. God bless our homes. Our homes are the foundation of the nation. They are the corner stone of society itself. If the good old-fashioned American home, as we have it, should vanish from the earth nothing could take its place and there would come faster than there is now coming in many sections of the country, decay by reason of its absence. 

But I think the one great thing in the gospel for which I am most grateful is that it broadens and enlarges the scope of our vision, that it enables us to see more clearly the true relationship, not only of man to God, but of man to man. There are so many people in the world so engrossed with their own little undertakings, so devoted to the accomplishment of the purposes that they set about to do, that they fail to grasp the great significance of all life, and they fail to understand and comprehend their true place in God's world. I have seen men engaged in the various professions who lived and breathed and slept their professions to such an extent that nothing without the pale of their work received any attention or any consideration from them. I have seen, as have you, men so entirely engrossed and absorbed in the pursuit after wealth or in the pursuit after renown and praise and glory that come from men that <Jiey could not give, or would not give, any consideration, any attention to things other than those which immediately concerned themselves and the vocation or pursuit in which they were engaged. It is a great blessing to be able to stand  higher than the mere foot stool upon which these men stand, and to see life in its true aspect. It is a great thing to be able to see the relative value, or the relative values, of the things which enter into and constitute our lives, our lives' work, and I regard it as a most unfortunate thing that many of the men most gifted with talent, men whose bfains have comprehended great designs and schemes, for the progress of civilization, and the race, should be so narrow and contracted in their views that they are not able to see the relationship of themselves and their work to the work of God, and to the ultimate destiny which he has in store for his people. That to me is one of the greatest blessings which comes to Latter-day Saints, for no matter how engrossed we may be in our life's work, no matter how intensely interesting it may become to us, we still see above the petty things of life, with which we are so engaged from time to time, and we see the eternal purposes of God being worked out in all our workaday world, and it gives us hope and encouragement and faith and strength to go forth and to .devote and consecrate our lives, by doing whatever little duty we may, to God and the accomplishment of his purposes. 

There are those among us who maintain that the highest gratification that can come to them comes from their association with men and women in fraternities, in clubs, in social organization^ of one kind and another. I have heard men of my own profession say that the most intense joy that they ever had in their lives came from their association with the brethren of their own fraternity. I have heard men who have been engaged in college 141 , in universities and colleges of the land, say that no higher pleasure has ever come to them than the close associations and comradeship which they formed and maintained at their schools. Why you, my brethren of the priesthood, know that their associations and their comradeship dwarf into insignificance compared to brotherhood in the priesthood of God. You know that the warm clasp of the hand given by one who holds the priesthood to another, pledging, as it does, fidelity, loyalty, trust, confidence, is worth more, a thousand times, than all that so-called social pleasure and fraternity that may be outside the pale of the gospel, for with those true feelings of affection there is interwoven the Spirit of God which permeates the heart and opens up our mutual understandings and brings a closer confidence and a greater love than can come from any other source in this world. And so, my brethren and sisters, if there be any among you or among your friends who seek for true fraternalism, let them come into the quorums of the priesthood and the organizations of the Church, there to receive the true fraternity of God and the brotherhood of man. 

Every one seeks after happiness. It is said to be the goal of our life and our life's work. You who have labored in the service of the Lord know that no happiness can compare with the joy of service in God's work. You know that no real joy is comparable to that which comes from having done a helpful thing to a neighbor, and demonstrated your love for him, and so having kept the second great commandment. 

So that, as I view it in my humble way, all of those things that are  having in this life may be had within the pale of the gospel. So far as I know there is nothing worth striving for, there is nothing of truth, there is nothing of true beauty, of refinement, of culture, that may not be had within our own Church, within the principles and ordinances of the gospel itself. It completes the full circle of requirements of a human life. It provides a never failing rule of action for life and life's conduct. Someone has said, "what is there about 'Mormonism,' what one thing is there about it, which more than anything else demonstrates its truth?" And someone answered, "everything." And so my brethren and my sitsers, to my thinking those who have spoken to you in this great conference have in outline and in many instances in detail offered to you a plan of conduct for your lives that will insure your success while on earth and what is greater still, will bring to you salvation in the eternal kingdom of our Father in the life to come. 

I want to bear my humble testimony to you that I know we are engaged in the work of God and the work of truth. I would that the same testimony should come to all my brothers among mankind and to all my sisters. I wish I knew some way, as President Smith said, to so build a beautiful mansion that all the world would be attracted to it and would come to it and dwell within it and partake of the holy Spirit which is given so abundantly for the help of mankind, and in such merciful fashion to those even who do not obey the teachings of the Lord. I think our Father is abundantly merciful in the way that he has dealt with us, and in the way that he has dealt with the GENERAL CONFERENCE. . I have no doubt his judgment will be brought to pass upon the wicked, but I have no doubt that he is filled with mercy and compassion for all of those who have within them a spark of repentance and a spark of love for him and his work. May the Lord help each one of us to so live that we ourselves may be exemplars of the truth, that our lives may be shining monuments of the great truths which have been given to us and which we profess, and that we may show ourselves worthy of the great blessings of the gospel which have been given to us in such multiplicity for our well being, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Prof. J. J. McClellan gave the organ solos: "O My Father," and "Nearer, my God to thee." 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

We live in perilous tim.es when it behooves all to contribute to the increased production of foodstuffs — Prizes offered by the 'Church for the best yield of potatoes and wheat, to encourage increased production — What we can do for our country in its present crisis — The question at issue, the old one; the life of liberty, on the one hand, and its death on the other — The law of liberty one of love and common consent — Our Church constitution on the subject — Length of the war — Our duty to practice strict economy. 

These gatherings of the Latterday Saints are among the most wonderful, T think, of any gatherings of people in the world. I do not know where you will find another such gathering as this, and one which will produce such beneficient results as these gatherings of Latter-day Saints do. 

We have been told, during this conference, of many of our duties and obligations to the Church and also to our Country. The Latterday Saint who performs his full duty to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will always perform his full duty to his Country. A man cannot be a good Latter-day Saint and not be a good citizen. 

We are living in perilous times. Our country is in a state of war. It is true we are in the chambers of the mountains and comparatively secure, but we each, nevertheless, have a duty to perform. President Smith stated in his opening remarks that in view of the condition that our country is in at the present time, it is the duty of every person, every farmer, every brother or sister, who can do so in any way, to help to contribute to the increased production of foodstuffs, and all should do everything they can in that direction. Our country may need all the aid we can give in this way before we get through, and everyone can do something toward the promotion and increase of the food supplies of the. state and nation. 

It was decided at the priesthood meeting last night that certain prizes should be offered to encourage the ward Priesthood quorums, high priests, seventies, elders, priests, teachers or deacons, — in each ward, and the Relief Societies, Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement organizations, Sunday School and Primary and Religion Class organizations in every ward in the Church, to start work at once. That, as soon as you go to your homes you should call your societies or quorums together and see if it is not possible for each of these organizations and quorums 143  grow at least an acre of potatoes. The Church, through its Trusteein-Trust, offers certain prizes for the best yield from an acre of potatoes and the best yield from five acres of spring wheat. This will give our boys and girls an opportunity to do a little practical farming. Good choice land should be secured, even if it has to be rented by the association, and the education of a practical nature that the boys and girls will acquire will alone be worth the effort. Here is the resolution or memorandum that was voted upon at the priesthood meeting last night : 

"With a view of stimulating the production of foodstuffs which may be badly needed in these war times, the Trustee-in-Trust offers to any ward quorum of the priesthood, or any ward Relief Society, Young Men's or Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, Sunday School, Primary Association ,or Religion Class, for the best yield from one acre of potatoes, $1,000; for the second best, $500; third best, $250; and for the best yield from five acres of spring wheat, $1,000; for second best, $500; third best, $250. Those organizations which desire to contest for the above named prizes will notify the Presiding Bishopric on or before May 15, 1917." 

We will arrange with bishops of wards and presidents of stakes to collect the necessary information and send to us concerning the planting and growth and yield of these products. And the necessary information will be duly publishel in our Church papers. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, here is something that we can do for our country. As the English say, "I can ,do my bit." You can do your part, and everyone ought to feel in his or her heart that there is something we can do and should do,  the time is momentous. The issues, as Brother Ivins stated to us yesterday, are the greatest that were ever thrust upon any people in this world. It is liberty on one hand, or the death of liberty on the other. To my mind this contention has seemed to be the contention of the ages. The fight that has been going on for the last three hundred years or more which has won for us our precious heritage of liberty, now lies in the balance. I do not need to try to state the great issue to you because the President of the United States has stated it so fully, so forcefully, so pla'nly, that a wayfaring man, though a fool, need not err therein. It is made clear even for such as he. But it has seemed to me that all through this great world conflict, the same influence and spirit has been fighting for supremacy and rule as it has fought down through all the ages. We read of the contention that existed in heaven before this world was organized, and in that great conflict, we are told that onethird of the hosts of heaven were overpowered and thrown out. But the spirit of that contention did not cease to exist. It has existed and has come down to us through the ages; one side contending for individual liberty and the rights of man, and the other side contending for rule by force and by compulsion. That was essentially the issue in that great conflict before the world was. Christ stood for government by persuasion, by long suffering, by kindness and gentleness and love unfeigned. The other power was for government and salvation for all, to be secured by the spirit of force and compulsion, wherein all would be saved without agency, or what we call common consent. That GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the evil one has never been suppressed up to the present hour. In this present world conflict that same issue is at stake. One side is contending for liberty, freedom, government by the consent of those who are governed, what we in this Church call common consent; the other side is the old contention for the divine right of kings who claim they can give to the people better and more efficient government through compelling them to do what the rulers believe to be right. And in that way Lucifer proposed in the beginning to save all people by force and compulsion. 

The spirit that was making for liberty was in Henry the Eighth when he broke with the Pope of Rome and fought against the power that was being exercised upon the bodies and souls of the children of men, which was in the last degree tyrannical, and was destructive of human liberty and human rights. It was the old fight reappearing in a new form, but with the same spiritual influences opposed to each other as in the beginning. Those same spiritual forces were at work in the contest with Oliver Cromwell, on one side, and the Stuart kings on the other. Cromwell was fighting under the spirit of Christ for greater liberty. The Stuarts were fighting under the old Lucifer spirit for the suppression of liberty and for government by force. Those same influences were in the fight with George Washington and the continental army on the side for greater liberty, and Great Britain on the other side against the extension of liberty and the plain rights of humanity. Those same influences were at work in the fight of Abraham Lincoln and the northern states, contending for liberty and  rights of man, freedom from slavery, with the South represented by the coercive spirit which Lucifer always prompts and which is against liberty and in favor of coercion and compulsion. Therefore, the issues in this great world war are most momentous. All of our liberties that have been won by so many years of turmoil and strife, all the aggregation of the ages of that which makes for the rights of the individual and blessings to humanity, are at stake and lie in the balance today. Every Latter-day Saint knows which side of the great conflict he should be on. For there is nothing in this Church, nothing in its organization, but what makes for liberty and righteousness and must be done by common consent. These are the words of our Church constitution : "No power or influence can, or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned." And when any man tries to exert authority or exercise compulsion, or force, or secure dominion over the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, then the spirit of the Lord is grieved and it will soon be withdrawn from such a man. That is the spirit of liberty which this Church is governed by, wherein is the agency of man, that he is left a free agent unto himself to choose the good and reject the evil. Now then, my brothers and sisters, we can do our part. We can at least do something in this great conflict on the right side. Let us take the counsel of our President, and at least try to produce food more in abundance than we have ever done before. That is the word of the Lord to you and to me. And, 145  stimulate that effort, there has been offered by the Trustee-inTrust the prizes that I have mentioned. I am sure that our sisters can economize and help in these matters. They can knit stockings and underclothing. I am sure that all of us brethren can be less extravagant. It is a time for economy. The most rigid economy may be forced upon us by the government itself, even in the food we eat, and in the clothes we wear. It may yet come to that. I hope not, but it has come to that in the older countries : in England, in Germany, and in other countries, it is already in force among the people. In the meantime, we can economize more than we have done. We can do without some of the things jwe think we ought to have, until next fall, in any event, and let us see then how the wind blows; see what turn things shall have taken by then. We will know a little more about it, six months from now, and yet it is quite within the range of possibilities that this war that we are in may last more than a year; although, of course, we all hope it will be over in a few months. 

I remember when in New York, two years ago last September, after the war had started, I was enquiring of different prominent leading men whom I met, as to the probable length of time that the war would last. I remember one of the ablest of these men, who stands at the head of one of the very largest business affairs in the United States, said to me that he did not see how it was possible for the war to last longer than about three months. Well, it has lasted now two years and seven months, and may last another year or longer. One thing we do know and can rest  of, that the purposes of God will not fail. *In the very beginning, his purpose was to give liberty to all his children. That purpose will not fail. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let me counsel you to use economy in all ways. Save everything that will sustain life. Save your breadstuffs, wheat, potatoes, and all food products. Save the potato peelings for the chickens and the pigs. Let us economize and save wherever we can. Let us try to make ourselves feel poor for six months, and we will all be benefited through it and by it. God bless you. Amen. 

A solo was sung by James Montcar, entitled, "My Redeemer." 

ELDER HYRUM W. VALENTINE 

('Late President of the Swiss-German Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters: I appreciate very greatly the privilege that has been accorded me to make some little report concerning the work and the conditions in the Swiss-German mission. I would not forget to thank you, my brethern and sisters, and I rejoice that I have this splendid opportunity of thanking you for the sympathy, for the love, for the interest that was felt for the Saints in that mission, in 1914, and more particularly in April, 1915, when we received from your bounteous hands the sum of ten thousand francs to be distributed among the poor and oppressed of that land who were engaged in that mighty conflict. That sum was afterwards repeated, once again in full, and once again by half; and that was more than anything perhaps that might have been done by GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Saints at home for those Saints abroad in that land who had been deprived of their shepherds, and it did our hearts good. We felt that you were with us, that you were sustaining and supporting us. I doubt not that a repetition of that very kind act would be thankfully received by our brethren and sisters who are located in that war stricken country today. I speak now of Europe in general, and not any part of our mission. 

One of the last priesthood meetings that we were permitted to hold with the elders of our mission was held on August 29, 1914. And I think upon that occasion the Spirit of the Lord directed us most marvelously and we were filled with the spirit of testimony, concerning the subject of obedience. I don't believe that the spirit of obedience ever rested so mightily upon our elders or upon our priesthood meeting as it did upon that occasion. 

We returned to our headquarters at Basel, after the priesthood meeting was over, and Sunday morning, August 30, 1914, before we were out of bed, we received a telegram from President Hyrum M. Smith, then presiding over the European mission, to release every elder who was in the Swiss-German mission and take steps at once to have them reach Liverpool by Sept. 16 and 30. The tears rolled down my cheeks, my brethren and sis, ters, and I said to my wife: "I don't see how we can do it, how are we going to get along ?" I thought a moment and I said : "Oh, yesterday when we enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord in such abundance, and the spirit of obedience was so impressed upon our souls, little did we think that before the sun should rise we would be called upon to exercise  obedience;" and I said: "We will do it." 

Well, I think almost every trial that comes to us in life, almost every commandment that comes to us, the sense of doubt that beats within our own bosom will vanish like this difficulty vanished before our eyes, the very moment that we make up our minds we will do it. I . went to the bank on Monday morning, I told the cashier of the bank what had happened. It was necessary for us to have about twentyfive thousand marks. We had no available money. We had some resources but they were tied up, and I said: "Will you be willing to pry that money loose and give it to us that we may comply with this request?" He sent me up to the directors. I had a most beautiful opportunity to bear my testimony and to talk to those directors and tell them what had occurred, and they said: "Why certainly, certainly. It is unusual, but we will be glad to do it." They gave me the money and we started on our journey. I never made a more successful journey through the mission in my life. Within the time of twelve days we visited every conference and organized almost every branch throughout the mission, returned to our home in Basel in safety, and provided every elder with sufficient money to pay his bills and carry him to Liverpool. More than this, we returned to our homes feeling that the Lord had spoken, and that the word of the Lord was being carried out in that work. 

On September 27, the first Sunday after all our elders had left that mission, we went to the branch of St. Gallen, in Switzerland, in order to complete the organization that had been effected there. Our branch 147 Basel was placed in the hands of Brother Spoerri. Many of you may know him. He was not the most qualified man, according to the eyes of men, for that responsible position, but we felt certain, through the inspiration of the Lord, that he was the man for the place. Upon our return on Tuesday, from St. Gallen, our good Sister Closios, who is known to some of you — and a more faithful Latter-day Saint it would be hard to find — met us at the door, and I said : "How did you get along Sunday?" She threw up both her hands and said : "Why the Lord blessed and magnified that man, Brother Spoerri, in our eyes, and we had such a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord that we all knew of a surety that the word of the Lord had been given to us, and that we were not going backwards but forwards." This is my testimony to you, not only in the branch of Basel but throughout the entire mission. 

We have about sixty branches in the Swiss-German mission. We have about seven thousand souls belonging to that mission, and not one branch amoiig those sixty branches has been closed by reason of the elders having been taken out of that mission. The work has gone on most beautifully. In 1915, we had the banner year in the history of that mission on the subject of tithing. We had one of the banner years in the history of that mission, in the matter of fast offering, and we had the banner year in that mission in the sum total of the charity that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was able to distribute among the people of that mission. In 1916, the year that has just closed, — and the figures and the remarks that are made are based  the nine months' .experience that we had, the reports for the last three months not being in our possession — we baptized over three hundred souls in that mission. There was paid, according to the best estimation that I am able to furnish, twenty-two thousand dollars in tithing, one hundred ten thousand francs. Now that is an enormous sum of money for those seven thousand Saints to pay, and a more honest tithing was never paid in all the history of the mission. Why, there were five hundred of our men- from that mission who were taken into the war immediately, and of that five hundred we had lost thirtyfour up until the time I left. Notwithstanding the fact that these men were taken, who were in the .prime of life and were the most vigorous, the most stalwart men that we had in the Church, we surpassed all previous records in our finances; we gave out over two hundred thousand tracts and pamphlets, in the year 1915, and I am satisfied that in 1916 we will have given out three hundred thousand. 

The work of the Lord is progressing; it is the Lord's work. The people are sympathetic with us, and I regret at times to find here a spirit of antagonism toward our people over there. Let me tell you how I feel. I feel there is a conflict between these two governments, but I do not feel that there is a conflict between the people, not between the people but between the governments. We have had sorrowing times. 

I want to say a word about Brother Kessler, one of your citizens of this city. He was sent over there to edit the mission paper. A more faithful man was never sent to us to perform missionary work, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  he found himself in a most difficult position. On August 1, 1914, President Hyrum M. Smith and I were out in the mission traveling through Germany. The war came like a thunderbolt. We never had a word of warning of it at all. Brother Kessler said: "I carry in my pocket a sworn statement, an oath that I will be ready at the moment they call for my help." He said : "I could not look my countrymen in the face and stand here when they call for me to render assistance." He said, "It is true I have been sent here to do missionary work, and I have enjoyed my work most exceedingly, but I can't edit the paper any longer, there is nothing here but turmoil. We will not be able to cross the boundary; I can't cross the boundary; if I do, I will be taken as a deserter and cast into prison and possibly shot. I don't know but that tomorrow the French will rush over the boundary here into Basel; they will discover that I am a German citizen, and I will be taken a prisoner of war and interned. I don't know but tomorrow the Germans themselves will cross over the boundary here and come riding in a street car. They could come in a street car and ride into the city of Basel, and they could come here and take me as a traitor to my country. I may be cast into prison, I may be executed. It matters not," he said, "but I feel I must go!" In the anguish of his soul, he went to serve his country, and there is no criticism. Oh, I know the anguish of his soul, many days after he had gone into the war, how he felt what a burden he had taken upon himself. He might have waited. I have often said he might have waited eight days and President Smith would have been there  he might have counseled with him. I don't think the result would have been any different, but he would not have had the burden resting on his shoulders. I want to say to you, he was just as true a servant and a soldier in his country's army as he was a servant of God in our midst. We know of his example from the letters we received from the officers in the army, in the regiment, in the division where he served, and he is a credit to our people. My brethren and sisters, he died as he lived, — a faithful Latter-day Saint, a soldier of th; Cross, though enlisted for the time being with his country's army. 

Another beautiful illustration of the fruits of the gospel is found in the man who today is writing for our mission paper. I regret that our mission paper does not come through. Many of our people at home have felt that the mission paper was not being published. It is not true. The paper is being published, but it has been unable to pass the censor since about the first of September, 1916. Brother Hofmann is a man who, before he came into the Church, was a Social Democrat who did not believe in anything. Brother William Wright of Ogden was delivering a lecture, one night, and this man was passing the door. He heard him and stepped in. He was susceptible to the teachings of the gospel, he joined the Church. He is a very fine architect and a supervisor of buildings. He was almost ready to pack his trunk and his grip and come to America, come to Zion, that he might serve the Lord more faithfully. We felt impressed to call him on a mission in March, 1914. We called him on a mission and he gave up his plans gladly and went out into the mis149  field. On August 7, it became necessary for him to join his regiment. He said : "Oh! as they buckled on to me that tourn : ster and gave me that shining gun in my hands, do you know what my prayer was?" He said : "I prayed to the Lord every night in secret that it might not be my lot to shoot one of my fellow men. I did not want to shoot anybody; and oh, how I rejoiced when, after seven days in the army, I was assigned to the hospital corps, and I was relieved of the responsibility of shedding the blood of any of my brethren." He said : "I saw an answer to my prayer there; and when I was in that Good Samaritan work, my fellow comrade and I, binding the wounds of a fallen comrade, a grenade fell in between us and tore from him his arm and from me a leg. I thanked God," he said, "today, that I escaped from that terrible war with the loss of a foot and a leg." 

Do you know how pur hearts bled when we saw that big man, after having been released from the hospital, returning to us to enter into the missionary work, he came with an artificial limb, a poorly equipped artificial limb, and two heavy canes, bearing about two hundred pounds' weight largely on his hands. The tears rolled down our cheeks, and I wept. Oh, I wept; and then I saw what many a father and many a mother and many a wife and child has had to pass through in this cruel war. But he laughed and said : "I am thankful to the Lord that I escaped with the loss of a foot and a leg." He is doing valiant service, and has done now for nearly two years, as the editor of our mission paper. I have thought to, as often before, what would we do there today, were it not for this man? He is almost our only support there; because now that we have gotten into turmoil and war the animosity and the hatred that grow up with war will make itself manifest there. 

I want to admonish you, my brethren and sisters; let us deal kindly with our fellow men. We are not responsible that we were born in this country of freedom and liberty. Our fathers before us fought the fight and bled and oh, how their hearts were torn and their paths marked by the blood of their feet while they struggled for the freedom that we enjoy. I feel that such is the struggle that is going on in Europe today. I feel that the struggle over there is a struggle for freedom and for liberty of human rights and human thoughts. Of these great United States our Father in heaven has said : "This is a choice land, choice above all other lands, reserved for my own purposes." I wonder what his purposes were? Here the gospel of Jesus Christ was cradled, and it could not have been restored elsewhere. It has gone out from here to all the nations of the earth, and the messages of freedom and liberty have gone out from here. I .do not feel to be sorry that this war has come as it has. I just hope that these United States will not fall from that lofty place where our Father in heaven has placed them — the guardians of human rights and human liberty and freedom in every land, in every clime. If we stand for that, no harm can come to any nation by reason of our having entered into this war, when the foe has fallen, as fall he must! . I want GENERAL CONFERENCE.  tell you there will be a time when this country needs the assistance of every patriotic citizen, to see that we do not make usury out of the situation that has been placed in our hands. Those people feel kindly toward us, and I feel kindly toward them. I have found out, through my little experience in life, that when I have not loved a brother, or a sister, it has always been because I did not understand them; and coming to understand them, I have learned to love them. 

Now let me illustrate exactly what I mean. On my first mission, seventeen years ago, I labored with a number of men, all of different characters. We had our differences, but I learned to love those men, and I love them today just as much as I love my own brothers. In my last missionary experience, I had the privilege of laboring with three hundred fifty-six elders. They were not all alike; indeed, they were all different, and yet I loved those three hundred fifty-six men, and I am delighted, every Opportunity I have, to see them, to shake their hands, and to speak to them. 

I have .enjoyed the hospitality of those seven thousand Saints in that land. I have eaten their food, and so have your boys and your fathers — when they had none themselves. I have slept in their beds, when they sat down in chairs, and the Lord has blessed them, and I love them for that charity, because I have learned to know them. I think we can do a great work here. There is going to be trouble, no doubt of it, and there will be misunderstandings. A man is likely to say something in defense of his country, and saying something in defense of his country, in times of war, is  to bring some trouble; but let us be full of compassion. Let us be full of love, let us be full of the spirit of the gospel, that we may lead those who are in our midst, who have been placed in this trying position, and not antagonize them, because I want to tell you their hearts are right. They are here because they love the gospel; they love this country; and the fact that they cannot divorce themselves entirely from the country that gave them birth and livelihood is to' their credit and not to their shame. 

The Lord bless us and help us to be faithful and true and to take this spirit of frugality, that has been so emphasized in this conference, into every nook and every clime. 

When we were returning home, coal was selling in Paris for two hundred francs a ton, forty .dollars a ton for coal in Paris. You who have been in Europe know what that means — forty dollars a ton, and they could not get it. Why ? Why there was coal piled up on the wharf at Havre, hundreds and thousands of ship loads, but it was not reach-, ing the people because they did not have the rolling stock to move it to them. Haven't ye got mountains and mountains of coal in this great state? And how many of us have not been on the verge of freezing because they could not get the coal to us? 

As I have traveled to and fro, in the little time that I have been at home, I have seen the cattle standing huddled up beffnd a cedar post, growing smaller every day, and at the same time consuming a good real of feed. Wouldn't it be a good deal better for us to take care of these we have, instead of reaching out and trying to get a lot more, 161  might stand around and freeze to death and turn out to be only hides! Frugality is what we want. "Why, we have got the money to pay for it," says one, but what good will it do that we have the money to pay for it if we can't get what we want? The same with potatoes, the same with wheat, the same with trimmings of the orchards, and the same with these waste places that have been spoken of that we should cultivate, not only for the crop that we get, not so much for the prize, but what a valuable lesson to our boys and girls and to our men and women, if we can instil in their hearts the spirit of thrift and frugality, and curb this spirit of extravagance and extrem : ty; because, some day, as sure as the Lord lives, we will be brought to acocunt. If I can interpret the spirit of the gospel, it is- one great round of frugality. The law of God is the law of nature. Who ever saw nature wasting anything? Who ever saw the elements wasting anything? Why, they conserve everything. The law of nature is the law of God, and the gospel of Jesus Christ is the law of God to man, and it is frugab'ty from beginning to end. Let us remember it and husband our resources. » 

The Lord bless you all, my brethren and sisters. I am talking too long, but I appreciate the opportunity of giving you this little report, and bearing my testimony to you with respect to the integrity of the people who comprise the Saints of the Swiss-German mission. Let us be charitable with them, and with those who are in our midst who are placed in a most trying situation by reason of the war that has been projected. The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

AUDITOR'S REPORT. 

Elder George Albert Smith read the following report of the auditing committee : 

Salt Lake City, April 6th, 1917. Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Dear Brethren: We, the undersigned members of the Auditing Committee of the Church, beg leave to report, that we have made an examination of the books and accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust as well as those of the Presiding Bishopric, for the year 1916, and, incidentally, also of the various organizations of the Church, in relation to their financial affairs. We have found everything in a very satisfactory condition. The method of accounting is intelligently and skilfully done. 

It is gratifying to the committee to say that the disbursements of the funds of the Church have been made along beneficent lines and for the general good of the whole body of the Church. We desire to make special -mention of the very useful work done by the Latter-day Saints Hospital, and the Dee Hospital of Ogden, and the Deseret Gymnasium, and it is pleasing also to note the erection of the new Church  Office building. It reflects the advancement of the Church. The appropriations made for the support of the poor, and for the cause of education, and for the erection and enlargement of stake houses and meeting houses, both at home and abroad, is a matter of gratification. In a word, we have found everyGENERAL CONFERENCE.  satisfactory, and we so certify. 

You will observe that this report is signed by only three members out of a committee of five. It has been a cause of regret to us that, through the demise of Joseph S. Wells, we lost the assistance of a very valuable and intelligent man. Judge H. H. Rolapp has been absent from the city during our audit, and we lost the benefit ' of his intelligent services. 

Hoping that God may continue to bless you and give you strength and wisdom for the great responsibility resting upon you, we subscribe ourselves, 

Your brethren in the gospel, (Signed) W. W. Riter, 

John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, Church Auditing Committee. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Hyrum M. Smith presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, which were voted upon by the assembly, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Heber J. Grant, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As Members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, 

Jr., James E. Talmage, and Stephen L. Richards. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As Members of the General Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith'Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church' Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen, and Guy C. Wilson. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, and Peter G. Johnston. 153 

Tabernacle Choir : Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign and B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductors; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; and all the Members. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were sustained in the positions .designated, by unanimous vote of the people. 

The choir sang: "Hail bright abode." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Seymour B. Young. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Anthon C. Lund conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the conference meetings in the Tabernacle. Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken in the Tabernacle by Elder Franklin W. Otterstrom, and in the Assembly Hall and at the Bureau of Information, by Elders Frederick E. Barker and Fred G. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, 

Clerk of Conference. 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

THE RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, A. M., of the 

University of Utah. 

With an introduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of 

the Twelve. 

Adopted by all L. D. S. Church Schools. Bound in 

cloth, 75c postpaid. 

TWO BOOKS THAT EVERY L. D. S. 

FAMILY SHOULD HAVE 

The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. 

Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. $1.25 and upward. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, 75c postpaid. 

nun 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG FREE 

DESERET NElWS BOOKS STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and Published by the Church 

IN SIX VOLUMES COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 'The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a 6et. 

Cloth- — Embossed, per Vol $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per Vol 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top,perVol 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, per Vol. 4.00  

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG, FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







