Morning
08 04 1917

President Smith announced overflow meetings to be held in the Assembly Hall this morning under direction of Elder Joseph E. Robinson, of the California mission; also an open air meeting at the Bureau of Information, under direction of Elder Walter P. Monson, president of the Eastern States mission, both for the accommodation of persons who could not find seats in the great Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle choir sang : "The Lord is my Shepherd." 

Prayer by Elder James H. Robinson, president of the South Davis stake of Zion. 

The Tabernacle choir sang an anthem : "They that sow in tears shall reap in joy." 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

The moral and religious condition of the world today is no better than in the .early nineteenth century — There is a lack of geunine faith among the people in Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God, in his resurrection, and in his atonement for the sins of the world — The Latter-day Saints possess faith in these doctrines, and believe in the literal resurrection of the body from the grave — After the resurrection our bodies will be tangible, purified, bodies of flesh and bones, as was the body of Jesus before he ascended into heaven — Schools and colleges troubled with vain philosophies, theories, and "scientific fiction" — Duty of the Saints is to consider false any doctrine that conflicts with the revealed  of God, and to seek the Lord and obey his commandments. 

It is, my brothers and sisters, trusting in the Lord and hoping for the direction of the Holy Spirit that I stand before you this morning for the purpose of bearing my testimony in regard to the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and to give expression to such thoughts as may come to me while I am here in this position, for I fully believe in the gospel which has been revealed in these latter days for the salvation of all mankind who will repent and believe. I have a firm testimony of the mission of our Redeemer, and it is my duty, so far as I have the power, to raise my voice and to declare unto the people, not only of the Latter-day Saints, but in all the world, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. I desire to read a few verses from section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants which, I think, are very timely. This revelation was given in the presence of s : x elders of the Church after their return from a mission where they had been preaching the principles of the gospel in the western lands, as it was understood at that time. They had returned to Kirtland, in Ohio, rejoicing in the testimony of the truth, in the manifestations of the Spirit unto them and the goodness of the Lord in their ministry, and the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation in their presence in which the following occurs : 

"And I now give unto you a commandment to beware concerning , to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life; 

"For you shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. 

"For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ; 

"And the Spirit giveth l : ght to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit; 

"And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit, cometh unto God, even the Father; 

"And the Father teacheth him of the covenant which he has renewed and confirmed upon you, which is confirmed upon you for your sakes, and not for your sakes only, but for the sake of the whole world; 

"And the whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin; 

"And by this you may know they are under the bondage of sin, because they come not unto me. 

"For whoso cometh not unto me is under the bondage of sin; 

"And whoso receiveth not my voice is not acquainted with my voice, and is not of me; 

"And by this you may know the righteous from the wicked, and that the whole world groaneth under sin and darkness even now." 

That was true when this revelation was given, in the year 1832. It is true today, and perhaps these words can be expressed with greater force regarding the conditions that prevail in the world in this day than could be the case, speaking of the people in the day when the revelation was given. I  not one of those who believt that the world is growing better; I do not consider myself a pess : mist either, but I do not believe that the world is becoming more righteous, that the inhabitants are drawing nearer unto God, that there is in the hearts of the people a greater desire today to serve him than in the year 1832; but, on the other hand, since that day the peoples of the nations of the earth have been drifting, and drifting farther and farther from the truth. When I make this statement I am fully aware that there has been progression in certain directions. I am aware that in these latter days there has been a movement among the nations and in our own land to overcome the evils of strong drink, and all these things will bring their results for good, but so far as their observance of the doctrines of the gospel is concerned, so far as their righteousness is concerned, I do not believe that they are any better, nay, I do not believe that the people are as good now, as they were when this revelation was given. The world today is full of vain philosophy, full of doctrine that is not of the Lord, full of false conclusions, ideas and theories that were not a part of the gospel in the days of the Son of God, and hence are not a part of it now, but on the contrary are in absolute contradiction of the truth. There are fewer, in my judgment, among the Christian peoples, who believe in the Son of God as the Redeemer of the world. The tendency has been, during all these years, to get farther away from the principles of the gospel as they are contained in the holy scriptures. The worship of reason, of false philosophy, is greater now than it was then. Men are depending upon their own research to find out God, and that which they cannot discover and which they cannot demonstrate to their satisfaction through their own research and their natural senses, they reject. They are not seeking for the Spirit of the Lord, they are not striving to know God in the manner in which he has marked out by which he may be known, but they are walking in their own way, believing in their own man-made philosophies, and teaching the doctrines of devils and not the doctrines of the Son of God. 

Today, throughout the world, the people of the various Christian denominations are assembling in their churches because it is Easter Sunday. They have not assembled there because they have faith in the literal resurrection of the Lord; they have not assembled there because they believe in the literal resurrection of all mankind through the atonement of our Lord, and they have not assembled because they acept him as the Son of God. I want to make honorable exceptions, because there are some who have done so, but I speak generally. They have assembled there for a very different purpose — because it is the custom, because in, many cases among the sisters they want to show their millinery and the styles of their clothing, their dress. They are there more in the nature of a social function and fashion show than to worsh : p the Lord, and I say this notwithstanding the expression that appears in one of our morning papers to the effect that anybody who expresses this kind of an idea is cynical and expresses a perverted opinion. 

The people of the various nations, who call themselves Chris, today do not worship the Lord Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world to the extent that they did even in the day of the organization of the Church. The doctrines today that prevail are in opposition to that truth, and ministers stand before their people 'denying the atonement of Christ, and hence showing their lack of faith in and understanding of the resurrection of the Son of God, and denying the universal resurrection which the scriptures promise shall come to all mankind. I have an expression here that I desire to read. This is taken from a book published in the year 1914, the title of which is, A Century's Change in Religion, and the author, Mr. George Harris, speaking of these changes has the following to say in regard to the Son of God : 

"The virgin birth is not regarded as an essential doctrine of Christianity. The belief that Jesus transcended humanity, that he was sinless, rests on his life, teachings, and work, not on the manner of his birth. There are only two accounts of the miraculous conception and these are stories, written thirty years later, of visions that Mary and Joseph were said to have had. There is no reference to the virgin birth elsewhere in the New Testament or by Jesus himself. 

"The resurrection of Christ signifies the everlasting Lord. Whatever the appearances of Jesus to the disciples may have been, whether actual manifestations we cannot understand, or subjective visions in which his person seemed real, it is certain the disciples were convinced that Jesus lived. * * * 

"The physical world and the bodies of men are but temporary conditions in which the spirit is localized, while it responds to the  forces which know nothing of distance, but flash from life to life instantly, as the lowly plant responds to the light and heat and magnetism which pervade the universe." This is found on pages 99 to 101. Again he says: 

"My influence, shaping the life of others, has in view the values that constitute the man immortal. And the thought of immortality cannot be banished, but persists in one form or another, even if it be in so attenuated a form as influence on others. Corporate immortality, as the only immortality, is not much debated now, though we believe in it and delight in it, have pride in the family, — backwards to ancestry, forward to descendants; even as the scriptures saith, the promise is to the children's children, to a thousand generations. A rather hold writer, thinking of past generations of faithful, noble men, links them to the present, which surpasses them in knowledge of the truth, saying that not only do they help us, but also that we help them; that 'apart from us they should not be made perfect.' 

"The Jews at the time of Christ believed in the resurrection of the body, except the sect of Sad.ducees, who said there is no resurrection. For several centuries of the Christian era it was the common belief. The earlier creeds affirmed it in so many words : T believe in the resurrection of the body and the life everlasting.' The Apostle Paul disclaimed it, and called that man a fool, a foolish one, who supposed that this very body of flesh and blood will be raised up. It is not a physical body, that will be raised, he says, but a sp : ritual body. There are celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial; Out the glory of  celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. And as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. I suppose nobody now believes in the literal resurrection of the body. When we repeat the pharse in the Apostles' Creed we think of that for which it stands and which immediately follows — the life everlasting." This is taken from pages 177 and 178. 

Another writer commenting in an Easter sermon, or editorial, in one of our leading magazines, a year or two ago, had this to say, speaking of the doctrine of the literal resurrection of the body : 

"All this is a beautiful and facile faith. It takes the world quite too easily. It rests everything on the power of God. It is harder for us, in these .days of science, to believe quite so readily what seems unreasonable, and on authority of a creed which the apostles never heard." — That in reference to this Apostles' Creed already mentioned. — "We prefer to talk of the spiritual body which is not the body of this flesh. It is the spiritual body which will arise, that is, will survive; and the spiritual body is the soul immortal. We do not understand any other body. So we interpret Paul. And in the assurance of the eternal life with Christ we rest on his promise, 'this .day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.' " 

That is the doctrine of a large part of the Christian world, and I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that it is false doctrine, that it is not the gospel taught by Jesus Christ, and there is no warrant in the scriptures for any such conclusions. Paul .did not express anywhere in his writings that there should not be a resurrection of the body and a re-uniting of the body with the spirit, and those who interpret the writings of Paul — and they have reference to his statement in the fifteenth chapter of first Corinthians — do not understand the scriptures. They have no idea of what Paul was speaking; they misinterpret, they put a false construction upon the teachings of the scriptures, not being led by the Spirit of the Lord. I believe, and you believe, all Latter-day Saints believe, in the literal resurrection of the body and its reuniting with the spirit, thus becoming, as the scriptures informs us, the soul of man. The resurrection of the Son of God was typical. We are informed that his body did not see corruption, although it was placed in the' tomb and remained there for the three .days, according to the predictions in the scriptures. Again, that body was taken up and spirit and body again united inseparably, and in that form he appeared unto his disciples who were unconvinced when he appeared to them and "were terrified and affrighted," the scriptures say, thinking they had seen a spirit. He manifested to them that it was himself, and called upon them, in order to convince them that it was the body that was laid in the tomb, to come and handle him and see for themselves that it was his body that had been pierced and they thrust their hands into the wounds in his hands, his feet and his side. 

As he arose from the dead, so shall all men rise; both the just and the unjust shall come forth from the grave. The sea shall give up its dead; the grave shall give up its dead; all shall come forth and stand before the judgment seat of God to be judged according to their . They shall not all come forth at the same time. Those who are Christ's shall come forth at his coming. Matthew informs us that following the resurrection of the Son of God "the graves were opened, and many bodies of the Saints which slept arose and came out of their graves and went into the holy city and appeared unto many." 

These modern blind teachers of the blind have a very false understanding of what is meant by a spiritual body. They have based their conclusion on the statement that Paul makes that the body is raised a spiritual body, and that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. They cannot conceive in their minds a body raised from the dead, being composed of flesh and bones, quickened by spirit and not by blood. When Paul spoke of the spiritual body he had no reference at all to the spirit body and there they have made their mistake. They have confused the spiritual body, or, in other words, the body quickened by the spirit, with the body of the spirit alone. They think that those who believe in the resurrection of the literal body believe that it shall be raised again, quickened by blood, which is not the case. I want to read another verse from the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Now, verily I say unto you, that through the redemption which is made for you is brought to pass the resurrection from the dead. 

"And the spirit and the body is the soul of man. 

"And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul; 

"And the redemption of the soul is through him who quickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the poor and the meek of the earth shall inherit it. "Therefore it [the earth] must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory; 

"For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with glory, even with the presence of God the Father; 

"That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it for ever and ever; for, for this intent was it made and created, and for this intent are they sanctified." 

"And again, verily I say unto you, the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation and transgresseth not the law. 

"Wherefore it shall be sanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it; 

"For notwithstanding they die, they also shall rise aga : n a spiritual body : 

"They who are of a celestial spirit shall receive the same body which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your glory shall be that glory by which your bodies are quickened. 

"Ye who are quickened by a portion of the celestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness; 

"And they who are quickened by a portion of the terrestrial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness;" and so on. 

After the resurrection from the dead our bodies will be spiritual bodies, but they will be bodies that are tangible, bodies that have been purified, but they will nevertheless be bodies of flesh and bones, but they will not be blood bodies, they will no longer te quickened by blood  quickened by the spirit whxh is eternal and they shall become immortal and shall never die. 

Now, if our good friends understood this, they would not fall into this error of thinking that Paul's doctrine was in conflict with that of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, when Paul declared that the body that would be raised would be a spiritual body. You read in the Book of Genesis, where the Lord said to Noah after the flood, that the blood was the life of the body; the blood is the life thereof, he says. Therefore, whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed, because blood is the life of the mortal body, but with the body brought forth in the resurrection, which is the immortal body, that is not the case, in it blood does not exist, but the spirit is the life-giving power and hence they are no longer bodies quickened by blood but bodies quickened by spirit and hence they are spiritual bodies, but tangible bodies of flesh and bones, just as was the body of the Son of God. Now this is the doctrine of the Lord and Savior of the world. 

I had a conversation with a man one time, a minister, and he took this view which prevails so largely in the world, and I forced him, by the reading of the scriptures, to admit that when the Savior appeared to his disciples and said unto them, "Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have," that the Savior really spoke the truth, and I asked h : m, "that being true, then how in the world do you believe, how can you believe, that today he sits in the heavens without a body of flesh and bones?" His answer was, "After he ascended from the Mount of Olives he shed his body of flesh and bones." I asked him for the chapter and verse and, of course, he was unable to give it. 

The Lord has very clearly set forth the doctrine of the resurrection. He declared shortly before his crucifixion that the hour was coming and, he said, now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live. Even his disciples wondered what he meant. They marveled at it, they could not fully comprehend it, notwithstanding the fact that they believed in the literal resurrection of the body in those days, and the Savior seeing their perplexity said unto them and unto the people who were there assembled: "Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming in the which all that are in their graves shall hear his voice and shall come forth, they that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation." Now the world interprets that to mean those who are dead in trespasses and sin, those who are in bondage of iniquity should hear his voice, but the Lord meant literally just what he said when he declared that the dead should hear his voice and should come forth, they that had done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that had done evil unto the resurrection of damnation, for the resurrection shall come upon all mankind for they are not responsible for death. The Lord will not punish them for Adam's transgression. Therefore, he took upon him the sins of all mankind and redeemed every creature from death and granted unto each one of us a resurrection, but not eternal life, not salvation, not an existence in the presence of his Father in the  kingdom. That comes through faithfulness, through diligence, through perseverance on our part and through our belief and acceptance and our keeping of the commandments of the Lord. Now I said in the beginning that the World is full of philosophy. One prominent and intelligent writer has called these theories, "scientific fiction." I think he is right. We have the theories of evolution, of higher criticism, the ideas that prevail in the schools throughout our land that are dangerous, that are striking at the fundamentals of the gospel of Jesus Christ, trying to destroy the faith in the minds of the students who attend the schools. We are troubled with it to some extent even in our own state and the colleges throughout the country are full of it, and the professors teach it, they believe in it, at least they profess to believe in it, and it seems to me that the sole purpose of it is to undermine and destroy the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that it is our duty to put our faith in the revealed word of God, to accept that which has come through inspiration, through revelation unto his servants, the prophets, both ancient and modern, and whenever you find any doctrine, any idea, any expression from any source whatsoever, that is in conflict with that which the Lord has revealed and which is found in the holy scriptures, you may be assured that it is false and you should put it aside and stand firmly grounded in the truth in prayer and in faith, relying upon the Spirit of the Lord, for knowledge, for wisdom, concerning these principles of truth. If you will walk in the light as I have read here, and will receive  doctrines of our Redeemer, he will grant unto you, through the inspiration that will come from the Spirit of the Lord, a testimony of the truth and you need not walk in darkness nor in doubt, but may have a clear and a distinct comprehension, and understanding of the truth which will make you free. It is our duty to seek the Lord, to obey his laws, to keep his commandments, to put away from us light-mindedness, foolishness, and the false theories, notions, and philosophies of the world, and to accept with fulness of heart and in humility these solemn, God-given principles which will bring unto us eternal life in the Celestial kingdom. That we may do this is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A tenor solo was sung by James H. Nielsen, entitled, "If with all your hearts." — Mendelssohn. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

The Kingdom of God and the Kingdom of Heaven. — Our Literal acceptance of the Scriptures. — The Lord's second advent affirmed. — The consummation of the ages near at hand. 

"Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven." 

Thus did our Lord and Master teach the Saints in olden times to pray. The pattern whicli He gave for prayer has never been superseded nor abrogated. Thus does the Christian world profess to pray today : "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven." If ever there were rational and imperative need for such prayer as this, today witnesses that need. Who will dare affirm that  need no longer pray that the kingdom of heaven may come, or that the will of God is being wrought upon the earth as it is in heaven ? 

Do you believe that the kingdom of heaven has been already set up upon the earth? I do not. I know that the kingdom of God has been established upon the earth, but the kingdom of God is a preparation for the kingdom of heaven, which is yet to come. The expressions "Kingdom of God" and "Kingdom of Heaven" are ofttimes used synonymously and interchangeably in our imperfect English translation of the Holy Bible, particularly in the Gospel according to Matthew, where the expression "Kingdom of Heaven" is most commonly, used. But in these instances, as in so many others, the light of modern revelation clears up the darkness of ancient passages; and the Lord has in this day and age made plain the fact, beyond all question, that there is a distinction between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of God is the Church of Christ; the kingdom of heaven is that system of government and administration which is operative in heaven, and which we pray may some day prevail on earth. The kingdom of heaven will he established when the King shall come, as come He shall, in power and might and glory, to take dominion in and over and throughout the earth. 

Thus spake the Lord in the year 1831, calling attention to the imminent duty of the Church and, the Saints : 

"Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men. — Prepare ye the way of Lord, make his paths straight. 

"The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth; 

"Yea, a voice crying, — Prepare ye the way of the Lord, prepare ye the supper of the Lamb, make ready for the Bridegroom; 

"Pray unto the Lord, call upon his holy name, make known his wonderful works among the people; 

"Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet, the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth; 

"Wherefore may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thy enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, for ever and ever. Amen." 

Thus reads the revelation known to us as Section 65 of the Doctrine and Covenants. The kingdom of heaven shall come, and then shall justice rule in the earth. No longer shall men rise in unrighteous dominion over their fellows. No longer shall men exalt themselves on thrones, nor adorn themselves with crowns and scepters. The best form of government possible unto man is a monarchy with the right kind of a monarch, who will do only justice, full justice, and with due regard to the claims of mercy, give unto every man his right. Such a government will be democracy and monarchy combined, and such is the government of the kingdom of heaven. 

The work of the Church of Jesus 

Christ of Latter-day Saints may be summed up as the preparation of the earth for the coming of its Lord and King. As in the meridian of time the voice of the Baptist was heard in the wilderness, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand," so has the voice of that same John the Baptist been heard in this day, restoring the authority of the Priesthood requisite to the administration of the ordinance of baptism, whereby remission of sins may be obtained; and the proclamation is made now, "The kingdom of heaven is at hand." That proclamation is authoritatively sounded throughout the world; and the work of the Church, which is veritably the kingdom of God, is to prepare the earth for the coming of the King of earth and heaven, and for the establishment of the kingdom of heaven upon the earth. 

We Latter-day Saints are peculiarly literal in our acceptance of plain scripture. We believe that the Scriptures are very simple to understand, if we can only get the theologians to leave them alone and not confuse us with explanations. The Spirit of the Lord will enlighten the mind of the earnest reader, and will interpret the Scriptures, for that is the spirit in which the Scriptures were written. When we read in prophecy, ancient and modern, and find in all predictions bearing upon th : s subject a strict unanimity, without any shadow of contradiction or inconsistency, we hold it to be a fact beyond question that the Christ, Jesus of Nazareth, who lived in the flesh, who was actually crucified, and who .did take up that same body of flesh and bones that had lain in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, shall come in that same body and stand upon the earth and  with His people, and rule and reign. 

Forty days after the day in commemoration of which this Easter Sunday is celebrated throughout Christendom, Christ led out His faithful servants, those who had been commissioned to administer in the authority of the holy Priesthoo.d after He would leave, led them out to the historic little mount, Olivet; and there after communing with them and giving them final instructions, answering some of their eager questions, and putting others aside with but partial answer because the brethren were unprepared to fully comprehend, He ascended from their midst. They saw Him ascend; there was no shedding of body or robe; and as they watched Him disappearing in the upper deep they became aware of the presence of two white-robed angels, who addressed them saying: "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven." 

I admit that we Latter-day Saints are behind the times in many respects. We are still simple-minded enough to believe what the Scriptures say, which is the truth, and which cannot be gainsaid. Time forbids me citing even the most important and most striking of ancient prophecies relating to the coming of the Son of God in the .dispensation of fulness, which is known as the day of vengeance. It was shown unto the prophets, however, even in the most ancient of times. Adam learned of it. Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of it, declaring that in the last days Jesus the Christ would come with ten thousand of His saints to rule in  upon the earth for a thousand years. I find nothing ambiguous in that, nothing requiring an interpreter. If I understand English at all, if I am more than a child in understanding, I can comprehend what that declaration means; and I believe it in its impressive literalness and in all its grand and glorious simplicity. 

In preparing the world for the coming of the Lord there is a duty laid upon the Church as an organization, and upon every member of the Church individually; and that duty or obligation is to carry the word to our neighbors, to all with whom we may come in contact. Remember the mission of the Church is not wholly and solely to convert men to the acceptance of its principles and to bring them into membership. The duty laid upon us is also that of warning the world of the judgments that are to come. Can you doubt that the present dread scenes of conflict and slaughter on land and sea, in the air and beneath the water, are insignificant as signs of the times ? 

In that solemn interview which Christ had with His apostles just after their departure from the temple for the last time, in the course of the evening walk back to Bethany, He rested on the slopes of Olivet, and the apostles came to Him privately to ask certain questions regarding the time of His coming, which He had in part explained to them. Read for yourselves the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew and the twenty-first chapter of Luke. The burden of the Lord's instructions was this : Watch, for ye know not the day nor the hour. He went so far as to tell them that not even the angels in heaven, nor at that time did the Son himself know the time appointed for His return in glory to exercise dominion on the earth. That knowledge He said, rested with the Father only. So in our assurance that the Lord shall come, and that His coming is very near, let us beware of those who undertake to set dates, to .designate months and years; for the Lord hath positively declared that that shall not b.e given to man to know, nor even to the angels who stand in the presence of God. But certain signs are specified, and those signs are today ripening like the fruit in autumntide, when the fulness of summer is past. Who can doubt the imminence of this event, which shall be known as the consummation of the ages? 

We do well to bear in mind the fact that the coming of the Christ is not the event spoken of in the Scriptures by the figurative phrase "the end of the world". That is not to be the occasion of the final judgment. Yet when Christ comes He shall execute judgment; and the wilfully hopeless, the unregenerate wicked shall be destroyed. Then there shall be a general resurrection of the righteous .dead, and a change from mortality to immortality in the case of many who are living in the flesh at the time of His coming. But following the millennium, a thousand years of peace, shall be the final resurrection, in which men shall stand in their bodies of flesh and bones before the judgment seat of God. 

I ask your attentive consideration of one of the many utterances of the Lord concerning His coming, given to us in these modern days, as recorded in the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Tn 1832, the Lord said unto His elders  the Church generally, through the mouth of the Prophet Joseph: 

"And I give unto you a commandment, that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom; 

"Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; # $ $ ♦ * 

"Behold I sent y,ou out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath be.e:i warned, to warn his neighbor. 

"Therefore, they are left without excuse, and their sins are upon their own heads. 

"He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken. 

"Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord come; 

"For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man, and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light, and the moon shall be bathed in blood, and the stars shall become exceeding angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig tree. 

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indigation upon the people; the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground, and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people; 

"And angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump ,of God, saying, Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the judgment of our God is come; behold, and! the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him. 

"And the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened, and be caught up to meet him. 

"And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth; for they shall he caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven." 

I believe it all without question or mental reservation. And now, as I know that I may be criticized by some, who pride themselves on scholarship, for the child-like simplicity of my acceptance and for my belief in the literalness of these events, I say to you in paraphrase of the utterance of Paul : Brethren, I come not to you with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I am determined not to know anything amongst you save Jesus Christ and him crucified, the Christ who is to come. And I am with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching unto you is not with the .enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. That our faith may not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. So be it, in the name of Christ. Amen. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

Testimony that the Lord lives — Christ's love for little children is boundless; they cannot commit sin, and are saved without baptism — Comfort assured to mothers who have lost little children — The Lord loves the .obedient, and such as have faith as a little child — More poignant sorrow comes from disobedience than from separation for a time — Let us honor the law of the Lord that we may claim our loved ones in the glorious day of the resurrection. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being permitted once more to see this vast throng of people in this place of worship, and I bear testimony that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us in every session of this conference, both with those who have spoken and with those who have sung praises of the Lord, also with those who have offered prayer. The Spirit of theLord has prompted all the exercises of this conference thus far, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord will be with me in my brief testimony, that what I may say may be so impressed upon the minds of those who have gathered "here that it may be beneficial. 

We have heard much about the mission and characteristics of our Savior and our Redeemer. We have heard the testimonies of his servants in these the last days, and I bear testimony to their truthfulness, and would like to add my testimony thereunto. I know that the Lord lives, that he actually lives, and my faith in my Father in heaven is as firm and clear from doubt as the faith of a little child, knowing that his father and his mother are his actual guardians, protectors and providers here upon the earth. 

I have a great deal of sympathy and love for little children, and I bear testimony that the Lord loves little children. The instance related of him, where his disciples would forbid little children to come to him, he rebuked them and said, "Suffer little children and forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven" (Matthew 19:14). 

"Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power ,over them; and the law of circumcision is done away in me. 

"And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children. 

"Behold I say unto you, that this thing shall ye teach, repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little children. 

"And their little children need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfiling the commandments unto the remission ,of sins. 

"But little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and also a changeable God, and a respecter to persons; for how many little children have died without baptism. 

"Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell. 

"Behold I say unto you, That he that supposeth that little children need baptism, is in the gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity; for he hath neither faith, hope, nor charity; wherefore, should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go down to hell. 

"For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism. 

"Wo be unto him that shall pervert the ways of the Lord after this manner, for they shall perish, except they repent. Behold, I speak with boldness, having authority from God; and 

T fear not what man can do; for perfect love casteth out all fear; 

"And I am filled with charity, which is everlasting love; wherefore all children are alike unto me; wherefore I love little children with a perfect love; and they are all alike and partakers of salvation. 

"For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a changeable Being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity to all eternity. 

"Little children cannot repent; wherefore it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are all alive in him because of his mercy. 

"And he that saith, That little children need baptism, denieth the mercies of Christ, and setteth at nought the atonement .of him and the power of his redemption. 

"Wo unto such, for they are in danger of death, hell, and an endless torment. I speak it boldly, God hath commanded me. Listen unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the judgment seat of Christ. 

"For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and also all they that are without the law. For the nower of redemption cometh on all them that have no law; wherefore, he that is not condemned, or he that is rnder no condemnation, cannot repent: and unto such baptism availeth nothing" (Moroni 8:8-23). 

There are many of our Latterday Saint mothers who have mourned the loss of their litle children, and many mothers have felt that they themselves had committed some great sin, else their little ones would not be taken from them. Now, to such mothers let me say, do not accuse the Lord of taking vour little ones from you, nor feel that you have committed any great sin, that those little ones are taken from you, because the Lord loves little children and he will not treat them unkindly, nor without mercy, for through the blood of his atonement they shall come forth in the  of the resurrection with his Saints, and they shall be glorified according to the works they would have accomplished in the earth had they lived. I have great hope and great consolation in the blessings of our Lord, in the promises of our Redeemer, that through our faithfulness in keeping his commandments we shall meet our loved ones, and especially those who have left this life in the time of infancy and innocence. Now, with the little children, the Lord loves those who keep his commandments, those who obey him and render faith like unto that of little children; and those who are obedient to his commandments will receive his greatest love, and his greatest blessings. 

I am very grateful to my Father in heaven for the testimony that I have of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know that my Father in heaven actually lives, and that he will hear and answer our prayers when we seek him in faith and in humility. I have a testimony of the power of faith in the earth, and I know that the Lord will accept our faith when we humble ourselves, and that he will help us to exercise our faith, that his purposes may be accomplished in the earth through our efforts. 

Now, there is one thought that comes to me in speaking of the lives of little children, and of the bereavement that is left in the homes on the separation from these little ones. To my mind it is only typical, and perhaps there is some sadness in it, but it will be no comparison to the sadness that our fathers and mothers will partake of when they come forth in the morning of the resurrection with a desire to meet their loved ones, if  find that they have not obeyed the law of the Lord which is now being administered, in the holy temples, by the servants of the Lord. When these fathers and mothers discover that they have no claim upon their little ones who have left them in this life, because of their own disobedience to the law, having heard and known the law, and never obeyed it, then will there be sorrow and weeping and wailing that will be sorrow indeed. 

With the moments that are left me this morning I urge my brethren and sisters, the sons and daughters of the Latterday Saints, that we honor the law of the Lord, that when this glorious day of resurrection shall come, which we know will come, that we may hold cla : m upon our loved ones in that glorious day, through our obedience to the law of the Lord that is now administered in the houses of the Lord, by the authority which God has placed upon the earth, and the work performed by that power will be acknowledged both in this life and in the life to come, both before the resurrection and after the resurrection. I urge this principle to be taught in your homes, and to be obeyed by the Latter-day Saints both young and old, and I bear you my testimony to the truthfulness of it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Tabernacle choir sang the chorus : "My pilgrim staff may rest thee here." 

Benediction by Bishop David A. Smith. 


