Morning
07 04 1917

The large assembly was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The representative choir and congregation sang: "O ye mountains high." 

Prayer was pronounced by Elder Willard Young. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Divinity of the mission and ministry of Jesus Christ, and the certainty of his resurrection— The iris. 1 faith and doctrine of a recent writer on higher criticism — Our knowledge of the resurrection gained largely from the Book ,of Mormon — Its' certain uncontaminated testimony quoted — Jesus declared by the Father four times, the fourth time to the Prophet Joseph — Jesus was resurrected with a body of flesh and bones — The resurrection is the reanimation of the physical body, the calling forth of the dead bodies that are in their graves, to life again. 

It is a solemn and almost fearful thing to stand in the midst of the assembled hosts of Israel with the responsibility of addressing them upon the living principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ; and. yet it is also a grand privilege to proclaim those glorious principles and to testify of those things which we ourselves do know. I have been greatly strengthened by the remarks of the brethren who spoke to the congregations yesterday. They spoke in the same manner as the servants of God usually speak. 

They proclaimed the gospel in no uncertain terms. There was no equivocation, no hesitation, but they declared the truth as the Holy Ghost gave them utterance, light and knowledge. I am led to repeat in my mind the words of that hymn which we have just sung, whenever I hear the servants of God preach the gospel : 

"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in his excellent word." 

The testimonies of Presidents Smith and Penrose, concerning the divinity of the ministry and mission of Jesus Christ, and concerning his life, death and resurrection, are sure. They are according to the facts, and are in great contrast to the beliefs of the world upon these great principles. I was reading, last evening, an article by one of the most prominent and perhaps influential and renowned representatives of modern Christendom, and also one of the chief exponents of what is known as higher criticism. 

It was an article upon the same theme which formed so large a part of President Penrose's discourse, and which was referred to also by President Smith. This paper is the concluding one of a series of papers written on "The Last Days of Jesus Christ." This paper is entitled : "Victory," and the author says, in a foot-note with reference to his paper : "This paper  not, and does not purport to be, an argument. It is simply a confession of faith, often expressed by me before in sermons, essays and books; not peculiar to me, but as old as Christendom, and the common heritage of Christ's pupils." Notwithstanding he declares his paper to be a simple confession of faith, I wish to read it by way of contrast to that which was said yesterday, and to the truth upon this doctrine as it is set forth in the holy scriptures. The gentleman says : 

"The resurrection of Jesus Christ was not an extraordinary event. It was an extraordinary evidence of an ordinary event. All men die as Christ died. All men ever since God breathed into man the breath of his life have risen from the dead as Christ rose. Death and resurrection are synonyms. They are simply different aspects of the same fact. They are both the separation of the spirit from the body. Resurrection is the upspringing of the spirit from the body. Death is the decay of the body when the spirit has left the temporary tenement. If I believed that the resurrection of Jesus Christ was an exceptional event, I might have the difficulty in believing which is experienced by some of my sceptical friends. But I do riot think it was an exceptional event. It is exceptional only in this respect, that somehow the despairing disciples had evidence of their Master's continuing life which banished their despair, transformed their characters, and endowed them with new life. Did the spirit of the Master return to reanimate the body which he had left? Or did the disembodied spirit appear to the unsealed eyes of his disciples? I do not know. There are some incidents narrated in the gospels which indicate one conclusion, some incidents which indicate the other. It is not material to determine which opinion is correct." 

And that is what this man declares a simple confession of faith. 

I do not know how a man could . make a more emphatic confession of unbelief, or, perhaps, a more positive profession of disbelief. Death and the resurrection synonymous! It is astonishing how far away from the truth the learned who are uninspired by the Spirit of God can wander. Death and the resurrection are antonymns of the most pronounced type. One is the exact and perfect antithesis of the other. Death is the dissolution of the body, and'the resurrection is the reanimation of the body; yea the actual and literal reuniting of the Spirit with the body. "Not material to determine" whether or not the "Spirit reanimated the body it had left?" What folly! It is, possibly, the most material, fundamental, and vital question of the whole gospel. For if Christ be not raised from the dead, as related in the scriptures, then our hope is vain, and there is no salvation. If this man's doctrine is true, then the whole life and ministry of Christ is false, and Christ is not the first fruits of them that slept, and Christ did not break the bands of death, nor open the graves for those who die. He says that death and the resurrection both are the separation of the spirit from the body, or "simply different aspects of the same fact." The separation of the spirit from the body is not the resurrection at all. The resurrection is the resuscitation of the body which shall be taken up again by the spirit, and that resurrection or re-uniting of the body and the spirit will be the redemption of the soul of man. 

It is the mortal body that dies, not the immortal spirit. The spirit which is alive and does not die cannot be resurrected. The body dies when the spirit departs from it. Resurrection means to come from death unto life, and as it is the body that dies, it is the body that must be raised up and brought to life again. The term resurrection is never used save in connection with the body. Now, he declares in his confession of faith he "does not know," that the disembodied spirit reanimated that body which .died when it hung crucified upon the cross and which was taken down and buried. Thank the Lord that the scriptures as quoted yesterday set forth in no uncertain terms the fact that that very body was reanimated and resurrected and taken up. It did rise again on the third day. "If there are" as set forth here, "some incidents narrated in the gospels which indicate a contrary conclusion," it is only because men who find such incidents are not enlightened by the spirit of truth, which would testify to them of the fact that Christ did arise and did show himself to his servants and did minister among them. And if this is to be held as uncertain, if it is to be held up by the spirit of .higher criticism to doubt, then what is there in the Bible history, or account of the life and ministry of Jesus Christ that can be relied upon ? Can we not likewise hold up to doubt every other incident recorded there concerning the Lord Jesus Christ? May we not doubt the account of his birth, and of the appearance of the angels upon that glorious occasion singing that song of peace on earth and good will to men? May we not, and are we not justified, in doubting the story that his parents took him into Egypt; in doubting that, as a boy, he stood among the wise men discussing the great principles of scripture? May we not doubt his sermon on the , and doubt his miracles, doubt his selection and choosing of twelve apostles, and sending them forth to preach the gospel? We may doubt, nay, are we not forced to doubt? all of his doctrine, everything he said or did as recorded in the scripture, if we cannot rely upon that which is declared concerning his resurrection from the dead. Multitudes of Christians have already rejected the Bible as history because of such "simple confessions of faith," as here made by this man. There is no doubt of any of these things in the minds of the Latter-day Saints. 

We have a knowledge of the "truth of what is set forth in the holy Bible, and in this we are more fortunate than the world. If it is true, as revealed in this dispensation, that many great and precious things have been taken away from that book which was delivered to the Jews,- the Bible, the history of Christ and of his disciples, and as a result of this the world is wandering in unbelief, in disbelief, in doubt, and in denial of the things which are set forth in the holy scriptures, — we Latter-day Saints are more fortunate than the world, and it is our mission to so declare the glorious truth that the world may become as fortunate as are the Latter-day Saints with respect to understanding it. These many precious things which have been taken out of the word of God by wicked men, the result of which has been to obscure the true word of God, as we find it in the scriptures, have been revealed again in the last days in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. This is a volume of scripture of equal authority and equally divine with the Holy Bible. It is an historical record wherein is pre in fulness and purity the great truths that are recorded in the Holy Bible, — with perhaps this difference, that those precious parts, which make clear the truth to the understanding of every rational man, are not missing, but they are supplied. President Penrose yesterday set forth the truth concerning the resurrection of the Lord, as it is plainly written in the New Testament. He explained his appearing before his disciples in his body that had been crucified, his exhibiting before them the wounds in his hands and feet and side, inviting them to handle him and see for themselves that it was not a spirit, but Christ himself, who had been crucified and buried, but had risen from the grave. He set forth the truth that Christ broke bread with them; that he ate fish and honeycomb with them; that he ministered among them and made them understand, not in some way uncertain, but in a most sure and positive way, that he indeed was alive again. Corroborating the scriptures and as a witness of the New Testament with reference to these great questions, stands the Book of Mormon. Let us read a word or two from that sacred record : 

"Jesus Christ sheweth himself unto the people of Nephi, as the multitude were gathered together in the land Bountiful, and .did minister unto them; and on this wise did he shew himself unto them. 

"And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land Bountiful; and they were marveling and wondering one with another, and were shewing one to another the great and marvelous change which had taken place; 

"And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ of whom the  had been given concerning his death. 

"And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard, and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a small voice, it did pierce them that did hear to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn. 

"And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they understood it not; 

"And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came; 

"And behold the third time they did understand the voice which they heard: and it said unto them, 

"Behold my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name; hear ye him. 

"And it came to pass as they understood, they cast their eyes up again towards heaven; and behold, they saw a man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe, and he came down and stood in the midst of them, and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them. 

"And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying, 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world; 

"And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning. 

"And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words, the whole multitude fell to the earth for they remembered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself unto them after his ascension into heaven. 

"And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying, 

"Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world. 

"And it came to pass that the mul titude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the mails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth one by one, until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes, and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety, and did bear record, that it was he of whom it was written by the prophets that should come. 

"And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying, 

"Hosana! blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him." (Ill Nephi 11.) 

There is a record untrammeled and uncontaminated, revealed by the power of God, translated by the power of God, come down to us as a history that cannot be refuted, to corroborate the history that we may read in the Bible concerning this great and important, all-important, incident and fact of the resurrection from the dead, the reanimation of the crucified body of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Joseph Smith, in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when he went to inquire of the Lord for knowledge and understanding, had the great and glorious privilege of a visitation from the Father and the Son, and again for the fourth time  recorded history, God bore record of his divine son, by his own voice. Three times the Lord had witnessed him out of heaven, but the fourth time he declared it in the presence of Joseph the prophet. On the banks of the Jordan, when he had come from the watery grave in newness of life, and to fulfil all righteousness, the voice of God sounded from heaven declaring, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." Once again on a high mountain in Palestine, at the time of the transfiguration, the same voice of God out of heaven was heard saying, "Th : s is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." Again, to the multitude gathered about the temple, in the land Bountiful, on the western hemisphere, during Christ's personal appearance to the Nephites, God, his father, bore record of him in these words : "Behold my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name; hear ye him." Then to Joseph Smith the Prophet, in the year 1820, in the grove at Palmyra, N. Y., accompanied by his Son Jesus Christ and both in the presence of the Prophet Joseph, God, the Father, pointing to the Son and addressing Joseph said, "This is my beloved Son, hear him!" 

He was resurrected, he had a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's and so had the Father. So will all men have when they arise from the dead. The resurrection is not the separation of the spirit from the body. The resurrection is not synonymous with death. The resurrection is the opening of the graves, the calling forth of the dead that are in them, the giving up from the sea of the dead that are  it, the re-animation of the physical bodies, the mortal bodies of men that have been "sown in corruption and raised in incorruption," "sown in .dishonor" and raised in honor and glory, sown in mortality and raised in immortality, "sown in weakness but raised in strength," and glorified like unto the glorious body of the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no other resurrection, no matter what the confessions of faith, of the agnostic and unbelieving of the world may be. 

I rejoice in the truth, in the knowledge of the truth as it has been revealed to the Latter-day Saints in these last days. I rejoice that men can stand up and by the power of the Holy Ghost declare the truth as God declared it in, as I say, no uncertain terms, but in a manner that carries faith and conviction and knowledge and testimony with it, even unto eternal life. God bless the Latter-day Saints, make them true and faithful. These things have been revealed once more in these the last days. I testify of their truth, and I live in the hope of the glorious resurrection, that I, with the faithful in Christ, may be permitted to come forth in the resurrection of the just, clothed with glory, immortality, and eternal life, and may God implant this faith in increasing ratio in my heart and in the hearts of all who take upon themselves the name of Christ the Lord, that we may endure faithful to the testiony to the end. Then I know that we shall arise again, to be exalted and to sit in glory in the celestial kingdom of our God, and praise be to God the Father and to Jesus Christ the Redeemer of the world, for this hope forever, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A sacred solo, entitled, "O rest in the Lord," was sung by Sister Lillie S. Shipp. 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Duty of the Saints to teach the gospel — Because of prejudice many will not hear the truth from the elders of the Church — It is the duty of the .Saints to break down this prejudice — The appearance of the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith began a new religious .era in the world — Some points of difference between our belief and that of other Christians — A prayer that the Saints may be strengthened to carry the burden of preaching the true gospel to all nations. 

I crave an interest in your faith and prayers, my brethren and sisters, that the time occupied by me may be profitable, and that the Lord may bless me to say something that will be worth remembering. It is often quite a difficult task for me to stand in the presence of the Latter-day Saints to explain the gospel, and I sometimes would shrink from the call but for the fact that I know that our heavenly Father inspires us when we put our trust in him. 

We have heard many splendid things in this conference and have rejoiced in the companionship of the Spirit of our heavenly Father. Today, how grateful we ought to be at being permitted to assemble as we have in this comfortable building apart from the turmoil and strife that exists in the world. We are not here as a matter of indifference, but because we believe in God the eternal Father, and in the divine mission of his Son Jesus Christ. We are here because we desire to be taught under the influence of the Spirit that comes from on high. There are many religious congregations in the world, that assemble from time to time, and many beautiful truths are taught them. The ethics of life are enlarged upon, and people go away determined to live better lives. There is a disposition on the part of many of our Father's children to learn what he would have them .do, and it devolves upon you, my brethren and sisters, and your associates in this Church, to teach them what they ought to do. The world has had the Bible for hundreds of years, and it has been explained by the wisdom of men, but because of departing from its teachings and because of iniquity the children of men fell into darkness, and it became necessary for the Lord to restore his priesthood and authority upon the earth that the truth might be proclaimed in power. Sometimes our brethren and sisters of other faiths feel that we are egotistical in the claim we make. That this is the only Church recognized by the Lord is' our claim. This is our Father's work, and he established it. The Lord himself daclared to Joseph Smith that he was not pleased with the churches that existed in the world, in the year 1820. That does not mean that he was not pleased with the virtues of those humble people who went to him in prayer and desired to learn of his will, but he was not pleased with the man-made churches, and the unauthorized ministers who preached for doctrine the commandments of men. Because of a misunderstanding, or a lack of understanding, of the scriptures, gradually his children were being led farther from the truth. In his own way, he preached the gospel to the children from the beginning, by means of Moses and the prophets, by means of his only  Son in the flesh. From generation to generation and from age to age, he refreshed the memories of men and renewed unto them his sacred teachings through the servants that he appointed himself. Because of the wickedness that existed in the earth after the apostles and prophets were slain, the minds of men were darkened. While they had the scriptures, they wrested them to their own confusion, and in many cases to their own loss of faith. The world was groping in darkness, so the Lord chose another servant, not a king nor an emperor nor a president, but he chose a boy, a humble young man not yet fifteen years of age, to restore to this world the knowledge that he is God, and that Jesus is the Christ, and that the resurrection is a reality. 

With the thousands of missionaries who have gone abroad in the world, with millions of tracts and books that have been distributed broadcast, teaching the truth of the resurrection, it is strange that so many of our Father's children fail yet to comprehend it. The adversary has used his strongest effort to prevent the spread of this and other truths of the gospel. The good people of the world would receive it in their hearts if it could be explained to them, but because the adversary has vilified and maligned and misrepresented the servants of the Lord, the honest in heart all over the world are afraid of us and will not listen to the pure gospel of Jesus Christ, as it is proclaimed by our missionaries. Yet, when it is offered to them by other means than an elder of Israel it appeals to them. It is your duty and mine, as bearers of the priesthood, by tact and brotherly love and , to overcome the prejudice that the adversary has sown in the hearts of our Father's children against us, to break down the animosity that exists in some cases even in the minds of good men and good women, and teach them the gospel of our Lord, that it is the power of God unto salvation unto all those who believe and obey it. I do not become discouraged because this truth does not find its way more rapidly. On the contrary I see in the events of today the hand-dealing of an allwise Father to prepare the way for the spread of the gospel that he has restored to the earth in our day. He has determined that the message that was proclaimed by his servants in ages past, renewed and promulgated by his servants in the latter days, shall be heard, and by the power of his might he will level the conditions of this world and humble the children of men until they are repentant and willing to listen. The truths that we are teaching, that is, the truths that God required us to teach in the world, are finding their way. The distinction between this great Church and that of all other churches from the beginning has been that we believe in divine revelation; we believe that our Father speaks to man today as he has .done from the time of Adam. We believe and we know — which is more than mere belief — that our Father has set his hand in this world for the salvation of the children of men. It is gratifying to me to find various denominations of the world accepting the truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ as they are portrayed in the scriptures, and explained by the gift and power of our heavenly Father in our day. I am grateful to find my Father's , your brothers and sisters and mine, here and there, comprehending the truth. When they receive the gospel in their hearts they are impressed by some portion of it, and they are not afraid to promulgate it in the world. 

In the year 1830, when this Church was brganized, there was not upon the earth a church organization that would announce that they believed that God would reveal himself to the children of men. The teachings of the churches were all contrary to that, and our Father saw the futility of trying to save his sons and daughters until they could be inspired to come to him with the belief that he would hear and answer their prayers. When the boy prophet, in the woods of Palmyra, saw the Father and the Son, and realized that they were indeed personages, that they could hear and reply to what he said, it began a new era in this world, and laid a foundation for the faith of the children of men. They could now pray to our Father in heaven and realize that he could hear and answer their prayers, that there was a connection between the heavens and the earth. Time will not permit me to go into detail and point out that there is development even in the churches of the world along this line. I would like to digress far enough to say that I personally do not desire to be understood to be finding fault and criticizing the people who belong to the various denominations of the world. I am thankful that there are in so many of them good men and good women who believe in him and with the l : ght that they have serve God; but the fact remains that our Father has established in this world, his Church. He has conferred upon men in this day his authority, and there is no other authority in the world that he will recognize but that which he himself has instituted; and when I say that, I do not say it in unkindness or with a feeling of harshness towards any of our Father's children. I, with my brethren of this Church, desire their welfare, and we have evidenced our desires by lives in the mission field, begging our bread from door to door, traveling without purse or script, living among the people, to share with them the glorious truth that our Father has made known unto us. While the adversary may inspire in some a feeling of distrust of us, the time will come — and that time, in my judgment, is not far off — when they will realize that this body of men have dedicated their lives to the salvation of mankind. Occasional changes in the creeds of the churches, indicate the tren.d of the times. I believe I will read to you just briefly three Articles of Faith, in order that you may have in mind what we believe that was different to the belief of the world. The principles outlined in these Articles were believed by us in the year 1830, and are as follows : 

"We believe in God the eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. 

"We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that he will y,et reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God. 

"We believe in the literal gathering of Israel, and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth, and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisaical glory." 

That, in brief, is a portion of what we believe as the members of  Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that was not believed by the Christian world when this Church was organized. The Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum laid down their lives in Carthage jail, and sealed with their blood, their testimony to the truth of the articles that I have just read, in connection with some of the others. Now, after all these years have gone by, we find the various churches adopting some of these, among them the Congregational Church in the United States. We find them revising their creed, and I call your attention to the fact that since 1830, practically every Christian church has revised its creed to conform to the advancement of civilization and the demands of its members. As far as I know the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints stands alone, having announced its creed to the world, in 1842, and it is in force today as perfectly as the day that it came from the pen of the Prophet. In the Outlook of November, 1913, is the following: 

"The triennial meeting of the National Council of Congregational churches in the United States, at Kansas City, Missouri, during the last week of October, was noteworthy for the constitutional changes it adopted, with a view to greater denominational efficiency. Since its meeting^ in 1910 at Boston a committee of nineteen has been engaged in working out the improvements which have now been adopted, with but a single negative vote, by a body of six hundred delegates." 

Note the change in the creed in the year 1910. "The changes thus effected consist in a new confession of religious belief." 

Why a new confession of religious behef ? Because they have felt  they have outgrown the old confession, and that, to my judgment, is a step in advance. Continuing : 

"The changes thus effected consist in a new confession of religious belief, and a new plan of church polity. As to the former, it is remarkable for 'its brevity and evangelical simplicity, condensed, as it is, into less than two hundred words, strongly contrasting thus with the extended statement set forth in 1883 [when they announced their creed]. A close approach to it was made in 1906 [when they reannounced their creed], by the statement drawn up and agreed to for the then proposed union of the Congregational, Methodist, Protestant and United Brethren churches." 

Now I call your attention to the fact that reference is made to the change of their creed and a new policy, in order that they may satisfy those who worsh-p in that great church. Why the necessity of change? Because the creed of the Congregational church, good as it may have been, helpful as it may have been to its members, was not the work of our heavenly Father, but was the work of man. That is the distinction between the creed of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and all others. This is their creed, the new one just adopted, and I would like you to compare it, if you will, with the Articles of Faith of our Church that I have read to you already. Continuing : 

"We believe in God the Father, infinite in wisdom, goodness and love, and in Jesus Christ his Son, our Lord and Savior, who, for us and our salvation, lived and died, rose again, and liveth evermore." 

Now, that is very much, it seems to me, in substance, what the 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has been teaching from the beginning. 

"And in the Holy Spirit who taketh of the things of Christ and revealeth them to us, renewing, comforting and inspiring the souls of men. We are united in striving to know the will of God as taught in the holy scriptures, and in our purpose to walk in the ways of the Lord, made known or to be made known to us." 

Is that not a plain and distinct announcement of a belief in revelation, in that God will make known his will to the children of men — the very thing that differentiates this Church, and has done from the beginning, from all the organizations of the world? 

"We hold it to be the mission of the Church of Christ to proclaim the gospel to all mankind, exalting for worship the one true God, and laboring for the progress ,of knowledge and promotion of justice, the triumph of peace, and the realization of human brotherhood. Depending, as did our fathers, upon the continued guidance of the Holy Spirit to lead us into all truth. We work and pray for the transformation of the world into the kingdom of God, and we look with faith for the triumph of righteousness and for life and glory everlasting. Amein." 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice that another great organization has taken a step forward and is willing to announce its belief in the ability and power of God to teach his children upon the earth. I am grateful for this announcement, and for many others that have been made in the last few years, that time will not permit me to refer to this morning. 

I am thankful for the blessing of our Father that has been extended to the Latter-dav Saints, that we have received the truth, and I do not feel that we are egotistical, or feel that we have been chosen above our fellows, but rather that with the blessing that has come to us the Lord has placed upon us the responsibility, that we must go into all the world and preach the gospel unto every creature, before the end shall come. 

May the Lord strengthen our backs for the burden. May he inspire us to righteous living that will increase our faith and strengthen us for the work we have to do. May he give our brethren and sisters of this world an understanding of our purpose, that they may realize thai it is with genuine love and devotion that we strive to extend the glorious message of life and salvation to them. I know that this is our Father's work. I know that it is the power of God unto salvation; and, standing as I do in your presence, and in the presence of the Lord, expecting in the not far distant future to give an account to him for the time that I have lived in the world, I bear my testimony to the divine mission of the Savior, and to that of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The first requisite in a servant of God — The Book of Abraham — Truth sneaks for itself — The willing and the unwilling — Optimism versus pessimism — Duties of the Twelve Apostles — Their spirit and attitude. 

"I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, Over mountain or plain or sea, I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord, T'll be what you want me to be." 

This little verse embodies, to my mind, the true spirit of a Latter Saint, the spirit that should actuate every man and woman in the Church of God. It is the spirit of the gospel, whose divine Author came not to do his own will, but the will of the Father who sent him. I used to think that the first requisite in a servant of the Lord — say a bishop, was that he be an able business man, and I still believe business ability to be a very valuable asset in a bishop of this Church. But I have learned that it is not the first requisite. The first requisite in a bishop always has been and always will be, that he manifest a willingness to serve God. I used to think that the first requisite in an apostle was that he be a preacher and a writer, and that he go somewhere; but I have also revised my opinion upon that point. The first requisite in an apostle is that he shall be a willing worker for God, to go where he is sent, to stay where he is put, to say what the Lord wants him to say, to be what the Lord wants him to be, to go and come as directed by proper authority, and do whatever the Lord requires at his hands. This is the spirit that should animate and inspire every member of the Church of Christ. 

One of the main purposes for which man was placed upon the earth was to demonstrate whether or not he would do all things that the Lord required of him. In confirmation of this statement I will read you a passage of scripture, one of the most comprehensive to be found in any of the sacred writings, ancient or modern : 

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, 

Abraham, the intelligences that were 

organized before the world was; and 

among all these there were many of 

the noble and great ones; 

"And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

"And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." 

The passage I have read is from the Book of Abraham, translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith from papyrus found upon mummies exhumed from the catacombs of Egypt. This book was made the object of a rather fierce polemic attack a few years since, its authenticity being questioned by a scholarly gentlemen who then resided among us. His strictures were replied to by quite a number of our brethren, and the replies were published in the daily press. 

Subsequently I conversed with this gentleman, and he asked me why I had not replied to him. I told him that I had been replying to him all over the country where I had been traveling, but that my reply had not happened to get into the papers. "Oh, indeed," said he, "and what have you been saying?" "I have been saying this, in substance : That it matters not where  is found, whether ,in the catacombs of Egypt, or in the mounds of North America; whether it comes through the lips of an ancient sage or a modern seer; that it matters not who translates it, or how many imperfections the translation may show; that truth is truth; and that the best criterion of judgment when the authenticity of any literary work is passed upon, is the spirit and character of its teachings." Said he : "I agree with you; that is the best standard by which to judge the authenticity of such a work." "Then," I affirmed, "the Book of Abraham needs no defense. It speaks for itself. It manifests its own divinity; for no one but God could have delivered such splendid teachings in such a majestic and sublime spirit as this book contains." 

There is something in every great author that stamps itself upon his writings and renders them peculiar, or characteristic of himself. There is a Shakesperean ring to Shakespeare's writings; there is a Byronic ring to Lord Byron's poetry; and a Miltonic ring to the productions of Milton; and any literary expert can distinguish between them. Many poets have described the sunrise, but when one of them says: 

"Night's candles are burned out, and 

jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain 

tops," 

we know that Shakespeare has spoken; and no other poet could have worded it in just that way. Another calls upon God for inspiration, 

"That to the height of this great argument I may assert eternal providence, And justify the ways of God to men." The lines are Milton's, and the style is peculiar to that mighty son of song. It is the same with all great writers. The creation testifies of the creator. Is it. surprising, then, that when God speaks there should be some distinguishing feature to characterize the utterance and make it different from any utterance of mortal man? There is a spirit, an indescribable quality, a divine power in the word of God that cannot be successfully counterfeited. Men have tried to counterfeit it, but have failed ignominiously. 

In the early days of this Church certain of its members who thought they had made the Prophet Joseph, because they had had a little more schooling than he, presumed to sit in judgment upon the revelations that he had received from the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord, by the Prophet, told them the thoughts of their hearts in these searching words : 

"Your eyes have been upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and his language you have known, and his imperfections you have known; and you have sought in your hearts knowledge that you might express beyond his language, this you also know; 

"Now seek ye out of the Book of Commandments, even tlie least tha: is among them, and appoint him that is the most wise among you; 

"Or, if there be any among you, that shall make one like unto it, then ye are justified in saying that you do not know that they are true; 

"But if you cannot make one like unto it, ye are under condemnation if ye do not bear record that they are true." — Doctrine and Covenants, 67: 5-8. 

Well, one of them, who thought himself the wisest, and who possessed some learning-, took up the challenge and actually attempted to frame a revelation; but it was a  failure. He could utter, of course, certain words, and roll out a mass of rhetoric; but the divine spirit was lacking, and he had to acknowledge himself beaten. 

It is not so easy to put the spirit of life into things. Man can make the body, but God alone can create the spirit. You have heard, have you not, of the scientist who took a grain of wheat and endeavored to make one just like it? First he separated the grain of wheat into its component parts, and found that it contained so much lime, so much silica, so much of this element and that; and then he took other parts corresponding thereto, brought them together by means of his chemical skill, and produced a grain of wheat so exactly similar to the other that the natural eye could not detect any difference between them. But there was a difference, a vast difference, and it was demonstrated when he planted the two grains. The one that God made sprang up, and the one that man made stayed down. Why? Because the manmade grain of wheat had no spirit — only a body, and the body without the spirit is dead. Man cannot breathe into the body of things the breath of life; that is a function and prerogative of Deity. It is not so easy to frame revelations from God. A vain boaster making ridicule of the proverbs of Solomon, said : "Anybody can make proverbs." His friend answered, "Try a few," and the conversation ended. 

Back now to the subject of willingness, referred to in the Book of Abraham. I repeat that willingness to serve God is manifestly the first and prime requisite of a Latter-day Saint. 

Some wit has declared that the  is fast resolving the human race into two great classes — "the quick and the dead" (Laughter). But long before the automobile was thought of there was an influence at work dividing the sheep from the goats, separating humanity into two grand divisions — those willing to do right, and those determined to do wrong. Even in the Church of God this spirit is manifest. The gospel makes us willing to do anything that the Lord requires; and that spirit can be trusted. When we are dominated by the opposite influence, it is a sure sign that we are skating where the ice is thin, and we had better get over to the other side of the pond. The spirit of the gospel is optimistic; it trusts in God and looks on the bright side of things. The opposite or pessimistic spirit drags men down and away from God, looks on the dark side, murmurs, complains, and is slow to yield obedience. There is a story told of two buckets that hung in a well, on either end of a long chain, so that when one went up the other went down, and vice versa. They were both drawing water out of the well, both doing precisely the same kind of work, but one of the buckets was an optimist, and the other was a pessimist. The pessimistic bucket complained of its lot, saying : "It doesn't matter how full I come up, I always go back empty." The optimistic bucket, with a bright smile, retorted : "It doesn't matter how empty I go down, I always come back full" (Laughter). Much depends, you see, upon the spirit in which a thingis viewed. 

If I have achieved anything in the whole course of my life that is worthy to be called success, it is  I have been willing to do the things required of me by rightful authority. Not always have I done them perfectly — I admit that freely; but God has been merciful to me, and in spite of my faults I have done enough to show him that I was at least willing to do what he required, and a certain measure of success has followed. When called upon my first mission, I had had little religious experience, but I possessed that first requisite in a servant of God — I was willing to go; and when I returned and was asked to serve as a block teacher, I was willing to so serve. A few weeks later I became the bishop of the ward — not because I wanted to be, but because the Lord wanted me to be, and I was willing to respond to the call made upon me. I was a ward bishop for nearly twentyeight years; and the highest compliment I ever received from our beloved President Joseph F. Smith, and about the only one, as a bishop, was when he told the people of my ward that there must be something to a man when they could "stomach him" for twenty-eight years as their bishop (Laughter). Well, they "stomached" me because they had to; for I was there to stay until wanted elsewhere. I never thought I had the right to resign my bishopric any more than I had the right to release myself from my mission. My mother wrote to me saying: "Why don't you come home? All the missionaries have returned that went when you did, all but yourself. Why don't you come?" I answered: "Because I have not been released, and I will stay till I am released, if it be ten years or more. I will never ask for a release, will never return till the servants of God say, 'It is enough; come home.' " And I meant it. 

I have much enjoyed my labors as an apostle. I did not seek this exalted station, but was willing to accept the call when it came; and I stand here today ready to do anything that the Lord requires of me. I have never promised to do everything that man wants me to do; but that is not the divine requirement. We are here that it may be seen whether we will do all that the Lord requires at our hands. I am ready to do that, and my brethren are also ready. 

There is a great deal of talk indulged in about the duties of the Council of the Twelve. Some people think that we should be always "on the go." Well, we are pretty much "on the go," all the time. As President Lyman was wont to remark, in his humorous way, "We are somewhere every Sunday." But the trouble is that we don't go far enough away to suit some people. It reminds me of that story told by Mark Twain about the governor of Nevada in early clays. The governor's relatives flocked to him in large numbers, and as he had nothing for them to do and wanted to be rid of them, he set them to work surveying a railroad "to a certain point east." They went out surveying, and the first night came back to the point from which they started. They did likewise the second night, and the third. But after that they were too far away to return at night, and becoming anxious sent back word, "How far do you want this railroad to go ?" The governor replied: "To the Atlantic ocean, blast you, and then bridge it and goon" (Laughter). That message brought the whole gang back again. 

Even people outside the Church  sometimes worried lest our apostles should not be going somewhere all the time. Two years ago last summer I found myself in Kirtland, Ohio, once the headquarters of the Church, the birthplace of my father, and the place where my grandparents received the gospel. Ohio was also one of the states where I labored during my first mission. The Kirtland temple is in the possession of what is known as the Reorganized Church, and a young man from West Virginia had charge of the building when I was last there. He was a recent convert to their faith, a part of which is that "the Utah Church," as they call us, is in an apostate condition. He was full of information and an overweening desire to impart it. Not knowing who I was or where I was from, he began upon me, saying: "One of the distinctive features between our church and the Utah Church is that our apostles are always out in the field, while their apostles are always at home." I knew I had him (Laughter). I answered : "Is that so? Why, I am just from Utah, and I happen to know that Hyrum M. Smith, one of the apostles of the Utah Church, as you call it, is now at Liverpool, presiding over the European mission; and I happen to know that Reed Smoot, another of their apostles, is at Washington, D. C, a member of the United States Senate; and I happen to know that still another, namely, your humble servant, is here talking to you in the state of Ohio." "Oh," said he, and changed the subject (Laughter). 

Brethren and sisters, I bear my testimony that the members of the Council of the Twelve are just as ready today as they ever were to go  they are sent. But they .do not travel to and fro on their own account, independently of the authority above them; and they do not take their instructions from every Tom, Dick and Harry who thinks he understands their duties better than they do themselves. They are ready to go and come under the direction of the First Presidency of the Church — God's servants, the only ones .empowered to direct their labors. In conclusion let me read to you a little paraphrase of my own upon the beautiful verse that I quoted at the beginning. This expresses my spirit, my attitude, and the spirit and attitude of my brethren : 

"I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, I'll go whenever you say; But till I am sent, I'm .not going to go, I'll stay where you want me to stay." 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I hope you will pardon me for expressing a single thought. It is well understood that there are in the world two great principles or powers, and these two are opposed to each other. One is the principle or power of truth; the other is that of error and ignorance, which is evil. That is, God's truth and its adversary. It is too true often that the adversary of truth has been compelled to adopt or mix a little of God's truth with his errors and heresies, in order to better prevail over the whole truth, and more effectively to defeat it. These apparent improvements on the part of error are no great evidences of concurrence in the purposes of God; and we should not forget it! 

The choir and congregation sang : "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

Elder William J. Kuhre, president of the Jordan stake of Zion, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


