Morning
05 04 1920


ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

The gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. Salvation so designated means temporal as well as eternal salvation. 

THE GOSPEL COMPREHENDS OUR WHOLE COURSE OF LIVING. 

I believe that within the plan of the gospel are laid down all of the laws and principles that underlie our lives, here and hereafter. It sets forth a rule of action for our conduct that leads us to happiness and joy in this life, as well as to exaltation in the life to come. An interpretation of the gospel is desirable, in order that men may know what is held out to them by it and in it. Its fundamental laws and principles comprehend completely our whole course of living. 

HEALTH. 

The gospel lays down the rules that will bring to us one of the first essentials, that of health. There is contained within that simple and understandable law of the Church, the Word of Wisdom, principles, commandments, exhortations which, if lived up to and obeyed, insure health. That health is desirable goes without saying. I know of no other people who take quite the same view of the human body as do we. We regard the body as something more than an organization of the materials of this earth. The body to us has a religious as well as a temporal significance. The body is the tabernacle wherein is housed our spirit, which is a child of God and which is our greatest possession. We cannot desecrate these bodies that have been given to us without offering affront to him who gave them. They are sacred to us. It is our obligation to preserve them in purity and in wholesomeness. We are taught that we cannot live proper and righteous lives without caring for our bodies in a proper and righteous way. We cannot take into our bodies those things forbidden without desecrating them, without militating against the efficiency of the body, and without bringing upon us the effects which follow the infraction of natural  just laws concerning health. So that if one would have health, he should live the laws of the gospel with reference to health. 

WEALTH. 

The gospel teaches the fundamental laws of wealth — its aquisition and proper use. It teaches industry, thrift and economy; honesty in business and unselfishness. It points out that all means and substances are gifts from God, committed to the care of men as stewards or trustees, to be used for the benefit and advancement of the people of the world. It tells us the real meaning of proprietorship. It attaches to wealth, as it does to every other material thing, a religious significance and makes plain its proper relation to our lives. 

It bids us return a portion of our interest to the Lord for the immediate use of his Church and Kingdom, thereby ever reminding and impressing us with the true source of our riches. If the gospel conception of wealth were prevalent in the world there would be no such estrangement between rich and poor, between so-called capital and labor, as we see today. The perplexing problem of its just distribution would be solved and a large portion of the difficulties of human society would be eliminated. 

SOCIAL ORDER. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ lays down also the laws which provide for the proper maintenance of our social order. By adherence to its principles man learns, in the first place, his relationship to society; and, in the second place, to act in such manner as to properly discharge his obligations to his fellowman. Every problem that confronts society today has its solution in the application of the simple principles of the gospel to human life and living. The gospel points out that the foundation of society is the home, and the marital relation. We are advised in the gospel what that relationship should be, what it should produce, and how it should stand at the basis of all social order. So far as I know, there are no other people who subscribe to the same doctrines in which we believe, concerning the institution of marriage, the perpetuity of that relationship, and the relationship of children to parents. The application of the principles of the gospel to this relationship means good homes. Good homes mean good communities. Good communities cannot mean anything other than a great, good nation, a good country, a good people. 

Not only are we taught that our homes are at the very foundation of our social order and relations, but we are taught in the gospel the proper relationship of man to man. Charity, kindness, benevolence, long-suffering one with another, brotherly help are all principles embraced within the gospel of Jesus Christ and all of them are necessary to build and maintain a society that shall be fit for people to live in, and to be advanced in. We are given the institutions of the Church, in part, at least, to sustain the proper social intercourse among the people. There are provided within the Church agencies and facilities, which meet every requirement of social life. Our wards, to my thinking, constitute the most advantageous social units that have ever been devised or suggested in the history of society. There are presented within the organizations of the wards opportunities for every person to receive legitimate training in society, proper social intercourse and the cultivation of all the desirable traits of character that go to make up good men and good women. 

GOVERNMENT. 

Not only does the gospel provide the laws, the rules and the regulations that govern health, wealth, and society, but the principles of the gospel lie at the very foundation of just government. 

The teaching of reverence, of obedience, of respect for law, order and authority is indispensable to the maintenance of proper and just government. Men who have not been taught to respect authority, whether that authority be superimposed upon them, or from whatever source it comes, will not respect the authority that they themselves set up. I believe firmly that men who believe in God, men who- believe in his power to rule, to lay down laws for their guidance and direction, are trained by virtue of that belief to be the proper subjects of government. I believe that such training is indispensable to good citizenship. Obedience is not only the first law of heaven, but obedience is the fundamental requirement of all good government, and until men can come to realize that they must yield obedience to the law and the authority which has been established, there can never be any proper legitimate and adequate government. HAPPINESS. 

Not only does the gospel lay down the laws and rules which provide for health and wealth for the maintenance of society, for government, but it lays down the foundation for that which is indispensable in human life, real, genuine happiness. There can be no true happiness and no true joy, in my judgment, without righteousness. When I say happiness and joy, I do not miean the superficial pleasure that comes to one in the gratification of personal appetite and desire. I refer to that inner feeling of satisfaction, contentment, love and genuine joy, that come to the man with a clear conscience, a life devoid of offense, with love for God and his fellowmen in his heart. That supreme happiness and joy, so far as our experience goes, can be obtained only in one way. That is by willingly-given service in the cause of our Father in Heaven, for the benefit of his children. The gospel provides the ways and means in which that service can be most efficiently done. The organizations of the Church are established in such manner that service may be rendered by everyone within its membership to the ultimate benefit of every other member. It is a mutual plan whereby each may help every other and the common good may be promoted. 

UNDERSTANDING THE ALL-COMPREHENDING NATURE OF THE GOSPEL, 

WHAT IS OUR DUTY? 

So that, in brief, the gosel fulfils every requirement of a human life. It satisfies every need. It is so comprehensive that it embraces all the good that we desire to be brought into our lives and it helps us to work out our salvation here and hereafter. What is our duty? Our duty, in my judgment, is to so interpret this great gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that men and women everywhere shall know what it means, that they shall know its great significance in the development of their lives and in their salvation. It is our first duty to so interpret it for our children and for our people at home that they will see it and understand it; for I cannot but think that if they can be brought to realize what it means in their lives, the security that it gives them against the incursion of evil and danger, the happiness and joy that it insures to them by obedience to its teachings and commandments, they will not fail to lay hold of it. Our second duty is to present it to the world in like manner. I cannot bring myself to think that we discharge our full obligation when we merely issue the challenge to the world and set forth that here is the everlasting gospel, the authority of God, the power to save, without explaining, persuading and inviting the men and the women of the world to join in this great life-saving plan. I believe it to be our obligation to present these great truths in such manner, both to ourselves at home and our fellow men in the world, that their real significance shall be felt, that men shall be acquainted' with their great need, and that they shall know that in no other way than by compliance with the laws, the rules and regulations of the gospel can they achieve the great purpose of life and be brought back into the presence of God from whom they came. Our Church is a great institution. Favorable attention to many of our principles has come from various parts of the world. Many there are who have come to look upon us as a great people. Let me say to you, my brethren and sisters, that we shall not discharge the full obligation that our Father has given to us unless we bear out in our lives the reputation for good that we enjoy and vitalize in our living the eternal principles of truth revealed to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

OUR MESSAGE TO THE WORLD. 

Therefore we say to all the world, if you want health, live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ; if you want wealth, if you want that which is necessary to sustain life and to secure the necessary comforts of life, obey the laws of the gospel, pay tithing to the Lord. If you would solve the great problems of society, apply the gospel of Jesus Christ. If you would understand government, if you would create and train citizens who will make a great government, live the gospel of Jesus Christ, for a good citizen in the Church of God is a good citizen in any good government on the face of the earth. If you GENERAL CONFERENCE.  happiness, if you want that great joy that comes into the hearts of those who know the truth, if you want contentment, peace of mind, opportunity for service, live the gospel of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Master. 

God help us, my brethren and sisters, to appreciate what this great gift, the gospel, means to us. God help us to be worthy of the honorable names we bear: Latter-day Saints in the Church of Christ, I humbly ask, in his name. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

The meetings of our conference have been notable, as have been the meetings of earlier conferences. It is indeed an impressive fact that our people come up from the stakes and in from the missions at conference time in such large numbers, and assemble to receive instruction, admonition, advice, encouragement and such good gifts as the Lord holds in store for them. I have sometimes heard men try to describe great gatherings to which people have come for some definite purpose, and when all other comparisons seemed to be inadequate, they have said the movement was almost like the "Mormons" coming to conference. No matter what the weather may be, or the seasonal conditions, a very great number of the Latter-day Saints are willing to lay aside their material affairs to gather here in the appointed place, at the time selected and announced, for the conferences of the Church. In a measure this is comparable to the assembling of the tribes in ancient Israel at the time of the Passover, though we come not as distinct tribes but as members of one body, all upon one footing, everyone representing a unit in the great Church of Jesus Christ. 

THE CHURCH A UNIQUE ORGANIZATION. NOT SECTARIAN. 

In this respect we are unique, and in many other respects is the Church unique. How could it be otherwise when the conditions of its organization and the occurrences immediately preceding are considered ? The Church of Jesus Christ stands, in a particular sense, alone. Not even a hostile commentator or an unfavorable critic has ever yet ventured to put forth the assertion that this Church has any relationship of origin and development with any other church or denomination on the face of the earth. We are not regarded as an offshoot of any mother church. Churches generally treat us for what we are, a body of religionists standing alone in the world. 

That does not mean that we shall refuse to lend our ready cooperation with other religionists or religious bodies in any movement for the general good, in any civic or patriotic duty; but it does mean that, so far as the essential characteristics of our organization are concerned, this Church has no counterpart amongst the sects and denominations of the day. 101 

TOLERATION DOE'S NOT IMPLY ACCEPTANCE. 

Toleration is a specified characteristic of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and we have crystallized that principle into a terse expression embodied in our Articles of Faith. We affirm that we do not merely beg and ask, but that "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege; let them worship, how, where, or what they may." But while our toleration is thus practically boundless, for we respect as sacred the religious convictions of men, we do not carry it to the absurd extreme of saying that therefore we are under obligation to adopt what others believe. I am willing to tolerate my brother's belief, because it is his, not necessarily because I think it is true. He is welcome to it; I may have no use for it; but it is his and he may have it. I shall not ridicule it, and I shall not denounce him, provided, of course, his belief is not opposed to law and order; but I should be very glad to sit down with him and in a kind, friendly, neighborly and brotherly way, try to show him something better, if I know that my religion is true and his is not. 

CENTENNIAL OF A GLORIOUS MANIFESTATION. 

Practically a full century ago, in the year of which this is the glorious centennial, there occurred an epoch-making event in the history of the world. Reference was made to this yesterday. I venture to call your attention to the actual record. You know the story, I know; but it is well sometimes that we be reminded of what we know. You know the testimony of the young man Joseph Smith, to the effect that he was greatly wrought up in his mind as to which among the many (contending sects of the day was in reality the Church of Christ, for he had common sense enough to know that they could not all be right, for they were opposed to one another. There was not only opposition but hatred among them, and one sect sometimes directed the batteries of its assault toward another particular sect, and in the year 1820 there was much confusion and much dissension. The young man afterward wrote: 

"During this time of great excitement, my mind was called up to serious reflection and great uneasiness; but though my feelings were deep and often poignant, still I kept myself aloof from all these parties, though I attended their several meetings as often as occasion would permit." In his study and thought he turned to the Scriptures and was particularly impressed by this wonderful precept and the marvelous promise associated therewith : "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." (James 1:5.) Joseph felt that he lacked wisdom. He was in search of it, and he asked of God. He went into the woods in the early spring of 1820 to pray; he knelt down and poured out the desires of his heart to God. 

THE ETERNAL FATHER AND JESUS CHRIST APPEARED IN BODILY PRESENCE. 

"I had scarcely done so," he afterward wrote, "when immediately GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing 1 influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction." But though the powers of evil were thus trying to stop his utterance and to crush his effort, he called all the more fervently upon his God, and he avowed that there appeared a pillar of light, as he says, "Exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other — This is my beloved Son, hear Him!" 

THE CHURCHES OF THE DAY HAD GONE ASTRAY. 

The Celestial Personage thus indicated answered the question the youthful seer had specified in his prayer, namely, which of the sects or denominations of the day he should join, and, as he averred, "I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that 'they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandment^ of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof.' " 

We have been severely criticized because of the declaration that the sects and denominations of that day were wrong. Remember, please, the declaration was not of Joseph. He had not before known that to be the case. Those words were the words of One greater than he, greater than you, greater than all of us here assembled, the words of the Son of God. Wherein were those churches wrong? Had they not much within them that was good? I venture to affirm that they had. I doubt not that there were amongst them men of God, who were trying to live according to the best light they had received; but as churches they were wrong because they were making false pretentions. They claimed to possess the power of the holy Priesthood, and they essayed to administer the ordinances thereof, all in compliance with what they understood to be the rule of the form of godliness. We can create many a variation of the form of godliness. We can make it intricate and enticing; but no men or body of men can gather together or work independently and originate the holy Priesthood upon the earth. To do so would be a greater miracle than for one to originate life in dead matter. There is a chasm between inanimate and organic matter, between the living and the dead, and man cannot bridge it He may take living things, plants and animals, and rear and nurture and tend them, and by selective breeding he may produce new varieties, but the man never lived who, with all his science, and all his facilities of laboratory and other research, brought 103  existence one microscopical living cell, except, indirectly, through the operation of the laws of life, which are not of man. 

This Church, therefore, from its beginning, has been unique, for the organization of the Church was forecasted in this declaration that at the time of Joseph Smith's first vision there was no Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth; and I do not see why people should take issue with us for making that statement. A man of one political party professes to believe that the other political party is wrong; and he has a right to believe it, and if he can demonstrate that fact to his own satisfaction he has the right to promulgate his belief; but he should do it with regard to the rights of the other party and the members thereof. We are not assailing churches; we are not attacking sects; we have no war with any of the numerous denominations on the face of the earth. We are sending out our missionaries, we are using the columns of the press, not to attack Catholicism or Protestantism, or any form of religion, but to preach in a positive and constructive way the principles of . the gospel of Jesus Christ as that gospel has been restored to the earth in this dispensation, in strict accordance with the predictions of ancient prophets. 

THE CURRENT MOVEMENT FOR CHURCH UNION. 

We are aware that at the present time there is in progress a great world movement having for its object the federation of denominations and sects professing belief in Christianity. It is known as the InterChurch World Movement. Already we find in the daily press many contributions explaining the purpose of the movement. Already the advertising pages of the great magazines are being used. Already plans have been made for a great assembly to take place, most probably though not certainly, in London, appointed for the coming summer; and sects and denominations are called together for the purpose of forming some kind of a merger or combination. 

It is a very important question to ask : Just where does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stand in relation to that matter? I answer, it stands aloof and alone. 

Intimations have been given out that this Church is trying to get in; that it is trying to curry favor with the sects in order that it may have a place in the great combination that has been planned. Why, to think such a thing would be sacrilege on our part. We have not derived our authority to administer in the ordinances of the gospel from any of them, nor from any common source. We are no offshoot of the Church of Rome. We are no outgrowth of any of the Protestant denominations. We constitute a Church that has been organized and named by the Lord Jesus Christ. So far as these combinations go we wish the participants well. They have been foolishly, as they profess and declare, spending vast sums of money for the erection of meetinghouses, chapels, churches that they could not use; and they say they can save money by what they are proposing to do, though they are trying to raise a great sum by a world-wide drive in order to bring about the saving. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

THIS CHURCH CANNOT BE A PARTY TO IT. 

If they can do anything better for the common good by joining together, let them join. Those churches were formed by men, and men have the right to do with them as they please; we shall not interfere with them. But this Church was not formed on man's initiative, it was not called into being because of some brilliant leader who stepped forward with a new plan; and therefore we cannot, we have not the power nor the authority, to make any kind of affiliation with any other church; and let me -say with equal earnestness, no other denomination, no church, no sect can ever affiliate as such with this, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There have been overtures made by some religious bodies to find out the terms under which they probably could come in with us; and the answer has been : Come in as every member of this Church has come in — through the door; and note that the door is just wide enough to admit you, one at a time, the door of baptism, that ye may receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. , 

Students of human affairs, theologians and other thinking men have expressed their amazement at the vitality of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and they say we have some secret for our unprecedented development. Now let me tell you what that secret is. I take you all into confidence. But instead of saying to you, don't tell anybody else, I invite you to tell the world. This is the secret. Every member of this Church stands upon his own feet, upon his own testimony, upon his own conviction that this is the Church of Jesus Christ. He can not receive that testimony from any other man. No president, no apostle, no patriarch, no bishop, no officer in the Church has any testimonies to sell, nor any assurances of the divinity of this work to give as a personal possession to anybody else. There are some riches you cannot share. Now, in a great building such as this Tabernacle, one part depends upon the other parts. Knock out one of those columns and that part of the gallery would be endangered. Remove several of them and a section of the balcony would collapse. But suppose that every part of the building rested upon its own foundation. Then the destruction of one part would not affect the others. Now, that is the secret. Latter-day Saints are individually answerable to their God, for individually they receive that great gift of God, the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I pray that we may be individually true to it. Oh, my brethren, my sisters, this is the day of which the prophets have spoken, this is the day of trial and of test notwithstanding the many favorable conditions in which we rejoice. Beware of those who would try to lead you away from the foundation of your own testimony. Beware of those who would set up factions for themselves, for all such will follow the course of those that have gone before and come to grief. Stand ye in holy places and be not moved. I ask it for us all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. A sacred baritone solo, "The Valley of Shadows," was sung by John Robinson. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

One theme has stood out very prominently, and properly so, in the remarks of most of the speakers who have addressed this conference. That has been the subject of the great vision given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The previous speaker stated that this is the day of which the ancient prophets spoke. With this I fully agree. 

A SCRIPTURE PASSAGE APPLIED TO JOSEPH THE PROPHET. 

There is a passage of scripture recorded in the seventh chapter of St. Luke that I shall apply to my remarks this morning. The occasion referred to in this scripture was one following the manifestation of great power on the part of the Son of God when he raised the widow's son from the dead. St. Luke wrote of the event as follows : 

And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God. saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people. 

And this rumor of him went forth through all Judea, and throughout all the region round about. 

And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things. 

And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another? 

With all sincerity and in humility I shall apply this scripture to the Prophet of the nineteenth century and dispensation of the fulness of times. There is nothing sacrilegious or improper in this, for I fully believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet, and is a prophet of God, who received divine approval from the Lord Jesus Christ. And his fame has gone forth throughout all the land, and many people have said, "A prophet is risen up among us, and God hath visited his people." 

JOSEPH SMITH, THE MESSENGER TO PREPARE THE WAY FOR THE SECOND 

COMING OF CHRIST. 

But the point I wish to make is here : We are living, as all admit, in the latter days, when many people are looking for the coming of the Savior of the world in the clouds of glory. Of necessity, before that day shall come, there must be one sent into the world clothed with authority from on high, and commissioned to establish anew in the earth the fulness of the everlasting gospel as it was in former days. For Christ cannot come to establish the reign of peace until some such messenger appear with authority to prepare the way before him. Therefore, paraphrasing the nineteenth verse, I will apply it as follows : "Art thou, Joseph Smith, he who should come? or look we for another?" 

We read in the third chapter of the prophecy of Malachi, where it is written the Lord will send his messenger, and he shall prepare the way before him, "and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his GENERAL CONFERENCE. , even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in." This does not refer to the former coming when the Lord was born into this world, for we read further, "But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth? for he is like a refiner's fire, and like a fuller's soap." Every indication is that this refers to his second coming. 

The Lord, in the former dispensation, sent a messenger to prepare the way before him, and in this dispensation it was just as necessary that a messenger be sent to prepare the way for the coming of the Lord and the establishment of the reign of peace. If Joseph Smith was not that man, then we must look for another. Now, I say to you, the issue is clear, the line is sharply drawn and there is no occasion for misunderstanding. Either Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and all that he claimed to be, or he was the greatest impostor this world has ever seen. There is no middle ground. You cannot say he was deceived, that he was mistaken, that he believed that he was called of God and thought that he had seen a vision of the Father and the Son but he was in error. He was all he claimed to be, or else he was a base deceiver. To be consistent, either the one view or the other must be taken, in regard to his mission. I repeat, there is no middle ground. Certain writers have attempted to explain the mission of Joseph Smith in that manner, that he was honestly deceived, but the issue is one that is sharp and clear. There is no possibility of his being deceived, and on this issue we are ready to make our stand. I maintain that Joseph Smith was all that he claimed to be. His statements are too positive and his claims too great to admit of deception on his part. No impostor could have accomplished so great and wonderful a work. Had he been such, he would have been detected and exposed and the plan would have failed and come to naught. In the plan of salvation as it was made known through Joseph Smith to the world, there are no flaws. Each part fits perfectly and makes the whole complete. Attacks have been made from the beginning to the present, and yet every one has failed. The world has been unable to place a finger upon anything that is inconsistent, or out of harmony in the revelations to Joseph Smith, with that which has been revealed before, or predicted by the prophets and the Lord himself. 

Oh, it is an astonishing thing to me, a remarkable thing, that there could be a doubt in the mind of any man who has made a study of this situation. I cannot comprehend how he could fail to understand the truth,, and be impressed with the fact that Joseph Smith was sent into the world to restore that which was lost, the fulness of the everlasting gospel. Now, I say again, if he is not the man who was to come, then we must look for another, for that man must come, if he has not come, to prepare the way before the Lord. The time is growing short, the signs of the times point to that, and there is much that must be done or the words of the prophets shall not be fulfilled. But he was the man, and as the Savior, on this occasion to which I have made reference, sent those messengers back to John filled with information be107  of the mighty works which he performed, so the message delivred by Joseph Smith and his works testify of him to all the world that he was called of God. There is no gainsaying it. 

Is it not rather a remarkable thing that in every revelation given to Joseph Smith he has been found absolutely in harmony with the scriptures? The Lord, as I have stated, declared through one of his prophets that before his second coming a messenger should be sent to prepare the way and make it straight. You may apply this to John if you will, and it is true. John, the messenger who came to prepare the way before the Lord in the former dispensation, also came in this dispensation as a messenger to Joseph Smith, so it applies, if you wish to apply it so, to John who came as a messenger to prepare the way before the Lord. But I go further and maintain that Joseph Smith was the messenger whom the Lord sent to prepare the way before him. He came and under direction of holy messengers laid the foundation for the kingdom of God and of this marvelous work and a wonder that the world might be prepared for the coming of the Lord. 

JOSEPH SMITH FULFILS THE PREDICTION OF THE PROPHETS AND THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE FORERUNNER OF CHRIST. 

Speaking of the marvelous work. Is it not rather remarkable also that Joseph Smith fulfils the prediction made by Isaiah, as recorded in the twenty-ninth chapter of his book, as follows : 

For the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep, and hath closed your eyes: the prophets and your rulers, the seers hath he covered. 

And the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I cannot; for it is sealed; 

And the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I am not learned. 

Wherefore, the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear towards me is taught by the precept of men: 

These are almost the exact words spoken by the Savior to Joseph Smith : 

Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. 

This portrays the condition of the world just one hundred years ago when this prophecy was fulfilled. Now, to continue; if Joseph Smith did not introduce that marvelous work and wonder, some one else must come to do it before the Lord will come. He fulfilled the first part of this quotation which refers to words taken from the record of the Book of Mormon, as all who have read Church history know. If this marvelous work was not established by the Lord, through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, then some one must come to do it. 1 his prophecy, as you discover by reading the whole chapter, was to be GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the latter times. The world is not looking for any one to come to establish that work.  No one claims to have done it, other than Joseph Smith. He fills the bill. 

Again, the gospel was to be restored as it was in primitive times, before the coming of the Lord. All will admit, whether they believe in the mission of Joseph Smith or not, that at least there has been a departure from the teachings and the organization which existed in the days of the Savior's ministry and the ministry of the Apostles. That must be, and is, conceded. You cannot find that organization anywhere in the world, and you cannot find those doctrines anywhere except as they have been given through the agency of Joseph Smith. This gospel was to be declared, so John the Revelator has written in the fourteenth chapter and sixth verse of Revelation, by an angel who was to fly through the midst of heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, calling on them to repent for the hour of judgment is come. Nobody else, except Joseph Smith, ever claimed that an angel did fly and did appear to him with this message, and he was commissioned to send it forth to all the world. 

Joseph Smith declared that he, with Oliver Cowdery, his companion, received the keys of the gathering of Israel. No one else ever claimed to have had them revealed to him. If Joseph Smith did not receive them, then some one must be empowered with this authority before the coming of the Lord. For Israel is to be gathered, and it must be by authority given to some one. Israel is being gathered, which indicates that Joseph Smith must have held those keys. Malachi has said that the Lord would send Elijah before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. The Prophet Joseph Smith said he (Elijah) came to him and Oliver Cowdery with the keys of that power. If he did not, and they have told a falsehood, then Elijah must come before the great day of the Lord, or the earth will be smitten with a curse. No one, save Joseph Smith, has claimed that these keys have been revealed. No one else knew what was meant by this passage of scripture. The hearts of the children are turned to their fathers, as Malachi predicted would be the case, after the coming of Elijah. This indicates that Elijah has come and it must have been to Joseph Smith. 

So I might go on with many other predictions in the scriptures. You may search from the beginning to the end, all the revelations given to Joseph Smith in the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, which contain a message to the world from the Lord, and you will find that in every instance they are in harmony and agree with the revelations of other times. You will discover that in all things Joseph Smith fills the bill, he fits into the niche which was to be occupied by the messenger who was to come to prepare the way before the coming of Jesus Christ. No one else has claimed to be that man. Why, then, should we not heed his mission ? I say to you, I believe with all my heart, I know it to be true. Two themes stand out uppermost always in my mind. That Jesus Christ is 109  Son of God, who was crucified for the sins of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet called and appointed to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. That is my message to the world, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS 

My brethren and sisters, I earnestly desire an interest in your faith and prayers during the few moments that I stand before you this morning, for I feel that I need it. 

ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF THE LAST GOSPEL DISPENSATION. 

All during the proceedings of this conference, as I have listened to the remarks of my brethren who have preceded me, I have been thinking of the one outstanding incident of interest to the Church, which has been so often referred to: that one hundred years, approximately, have elapsed since the ushering in of this the greatest, the most important gospel dispensation that the world has ever known. Prophets of old looked forward to it, prayed that they might see it, and participate in its activities. The Apostle Paul said: "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings, * * * having made known to us the mystery of his will * * * that in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him." 

There have been other dispensations in which the gospel has been brought to earth, all of which have been of great importance to the people: that of the meridian of time, when the Redeemer ministered in person, being, without doubt, of greater fundamental worth than any which came before or will follow after, for the redemption of the human family depended upon the atonement which he made, by which we are redeemed from the fall and made heirs with hirm to the kingdom of his Father. But the great work which he commenced, the glorious triumph of right over wrong, of light over darkness, the fulfilment of the words of all of the ancient prophets, the consummation of the purposes of the Lord, and the redemption of his covenant people, is left for the dispensation in which we live. Proper conclusions can only be drawn by comparison. If there were no tall people, there would be none short. If there were no short people, there would be none tall. If there were no clouds, as there are today, we would not appreciate the sunshine; and if there were no sunshine we 1 would be happy, I suppose, with the clouds. 

THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIME, AND THE FULNESS OF 

TIME COMPARED. 

So, as we contemplate the events of the past century, we naturally compare our experiences, our accomplishments, our joys and sorrows, our successes and failures, with those that others had before us. While GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Christ's ministry did not begin until a considerable time had elapsed after his birth, the ushering in of the dispensation of the meridian of time may be said to date from that eventful night when shepherds who watched their flocks upon the hills of Judea were overshadowed by the glory of the Lord, and a multitude of heavenly hosts sang, "Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good will to men," as the Christ was born into the world. 

So, in the day in which we live, while the Church had not yet been organized', the ushering in of this gospel dispensation dates from the occasion to which Brother Talmage and others have made reference, when the Father and Son appeared to Joseph Smith in the early spring of 1820. While there was some development in the primitive church subsequent to the crucifixion of the Redeemer, before a century had passed, Jerusalem was besieged and taken by the Roman armies, under V espasian and his son Titus; the great temple, in the construction of which Herod had employed eighteen thousand men, for a period of nine years, was destroyed, the Jews were made captive and scattered to the four winds of heaven. To what extent the members of the Church who were at Jerusalem at this time suffered, we do not know, but we are told that, remembering the admonition of the Redeemer, and taking advantage of the temporary withdrawal of the Roman armies, they had been led by Simeon, bishop of Jerusalem, to the little mountain town of Pella, where for a time they were safe. 

In the meantime the gospel had been taken by the apostles to other nations than the Jews, and at Corinth, Ephesus, Rome, and other places, more fruitful fields were found than at Jerusalem. At Rome many converts were made to the Christian faith, and as usual, with the spread of truth, the powers of darkness arrayed their hosts against the Church, and its members suffered persecution, the like of which the present dispensation has never known. 

Under Nero, who appears to have been a very fiend incarnate, who had murdered his own mother; who burned Rome that he might witness a great conflagration, and then charged the Christians with the offense, the /emissaries of Lucifer, the enemy of all that is good, and particularly the. enemy of the Redeemer, were given full license to wreak vengeance upon these hapless and innocent people, whose doctrines of peace, good will and righteousness, endangered the dominion of their master upon the earth. The Christians were accused of being rebellious, of holding disorderly meetings, of murdering their own children, of being cannibals. If earthquake, famine or pestilence came, the Christians were held responsible. It was popular to denounce and bear false witness against any suspected of affiliation with the Church, and when brought before tribunals for trial, if they denied that they were Christians, they were condemned because of their obstinacy. If they admitted that they were members of the Church, they were sent away for execution. Their condition, I am reminded, was not unlike that of one suspected of witchcraft among the early Puritans of New England. We are told that the suspected persons were thrown into the water. If they did not sink and drown it Ill  evidence of guilt, and they were burned. If they did sink and were drowned, it was proof that they were guilty. 

To satisfy his own morbid and savage nature, and please the rabble, Nero ordered Christians thrown into the great amphitheatre at the Coliseum of Rome to be torn by savage dogs, killed and devoured by hungry lions, or tossed upon the horns of vicious bulls. He caused Christians to be smeared with pitch and tar and burned as torches with which to illuminate the city at night. Notwithstanding these atrocities, my brethren and sisters, the truth rapidly spread. The maid whispered it to her mistress. The toiler, as he labored in the field, told the wonderful story of the Christ to his fellow workmen, and bore witness of its truth. The soldier whispered it to his companion in arms. The shepherds, as they tended their flocks, told of those other shepherds upon the 'hills of Judea, and thus, each convert doing the work of a missionary, very many people were added to the Church. 

. There was at Rome, at the time to which I refer, a great series of underground passages or chambers, abandoned quarries from which stone, for the construction of the city, had been taken. Had you been there at the time to which I refer, and desired Christian worship, you would have gone at a late hour of the night, after the city had ceased from, its revelry and debauchery, possibly with some friend, more likely alone, cautiously toward these abandoned quarries. Silently you would have slipped into one of the dark passages, and felt your way forward until a glimmer of light appeared in the distance. A man would salute you as "Brother," and demand the sign of identification by which he might determine your right to be there. You would hear the sound of distant voices engaged in singing or prayer, and would soon emerge into one of those large underground chambers dimly lighted, and find yourself in the presence of a large congregation. All classes of people would be represented there. Beneath the outer garment you would recognize the uniform of an officer of the royal legions of Rome, the rich attire of the patrician, the poorly clad plebeian. Here they met as brothers and sisters, uniting their voices in hymns of praise and prayer to God for strength to endure the persecution of their ignorant and blinded enemies. 

Peter or Paul, if they had chanced to be present, would doubtless have exhorted the assembly devotedly to continue in the faith, bearing witness to them that death in the service of the Master assured more glorious entrance into his Kingdom. Bread would have been broken, blessed, and partaken of; wine blessed and drank, and then you would have stolen quietly back to your home, not knowing whether, before the setting of tomorrow's sun, you, too, would be thrown to the lions. Such was Christian worship during the latter part of the first century after Christ. 

THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH AND THE CHURCH OF OUR DAY HAVE HAD - ANALOGOUS EXPERIENCES. 

So, by comparison, my brethren and sisters, the experiences of the primitive Church and the Church in the dispensation in which we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  are analogous. Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist when thirty years of age, and was condemned and crucified three years later. Joseph Smith was baptized under direction of this same John, when twenty-four years old, and was martyred fifteen years later, in the thirty-ninth year of his age. Each lived but a short time after his ministry began. Both died for the establishment of the same truths. Each met death violently at the hands of his enemies, but under entirely different conditions. Jesus was formally arraigned, tried and condemned by a legal tribunal, although not entirely in legal form. Joseph Smith was killed by a mob, without pretense of legal formality. 

Before a century had elapsed after the birth of Christ, all of the apostles whom he chose, with the single exception of John, were violently put to death by their enemies. During the century which has just passed, the Church has experienced' no such conditions as these. In both dispensations the Church was unpopular, and its members bitterly persecuted; in our day, thank the Lord, not with the same wicked, relentless spirit which was manifest toward the primitive Church. 

THE CONDITION OF THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH ON THIS CONTINENT. 

The condition of the Church and its members during the first one hundred years after its establishment upon this continent, by the Redeemer, was in direct contrast to that of the Church in the old world. 

Permit me briefly to read : 

And it came to pass that the thirty and fourth year passed away, and also the thirty and fifth, and behold the disciples of Jesus had formed a church of Christ in all the lands round about. And as many as did come unto them, and did truly repent of their sins, were baptized in the name of Jesus; and they did also receive the Holy Ghost. 

And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another; 

And they had all things common among them, therefore they were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly gift. 

And it came to pass that there was no contention among all the people, in all the land, but there were mighty miracles wrought among the disciples of Jesus. 

And it came to pass that the seventy and first year passed away, and also the seventy and second year; yea, and in fine, till the seventy and ninth year had passed away; yea, even an hundred years had passed away, and the disciples of Jesus, whom he had chosen, had all gone to the paradise of God, save it were the three who should tarry; and there were other disciples ordained in their stead; and also many of that generation which had passed away. 

And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. 

And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, rior lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely 113  could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. 

OUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS COMPARED WITH THOSE OF THE NEPHITES. 

We have not succeeded, during the past century, in accomplishing that which was accomplished by the Nephites, notwithstanding the great results which have come from our efforts. The people have not yet all been converted to the Lord. We have not reached that condition, which I sincerely believe that we must some time reach, when we are united in temporal things, as were the Nephites. We have not reached a condition where there is no envy, nor strife, nor malice, nor whoredoms, nor any manner of lasciviousness among the people. We have not reached a condition that we are in one the children of Christ, as the Lord would have us to be. 

It is true, my brethren and sisters, that the conditions under which we have labored are entirely different to those which existed among the Nephites. The Church was established among them by the Redeemer in person, and the power of the Father was manifest in his life and works, as he ministered among them, as it never has been, and never will be manifested through any other person. In the dispensation in which we live the Church was established by Christ through his chosen agent, and it is true that the signs have followed the believer in a remarkable degree, but never with the overwhelming, convincing proof which characterized the ministry of the Son of God. They were a people of one race, speaking one language, with the same ideals, the same traditions, occupying a single country. 

Our efforts have been among the people of many different nations and countries, people with different languages, with different traditions, with different ideals, many of whom, after their conversion, have left their native lands, all that the ordinary man holds dear, and have come to a strange country, to identify themselves with a strange people, to be surrounded by a new environment, which was entirely contrary to that which they had been accustomed to. 

So I feel, my brethren and sisters, that as we review the events of the past century, we have very much to be grateful for, that we may justly take pride in what we have, with the help of the Lord, accomplished, because all that has been done has been through the Lord and by the help which he has given us. 

WE MAY LOOK, WITH CONFIDENCE AND FAITH, TO THE FUTURE. 

It appears to me that we may look forward with absolute confidence and faith in the future, knowing, because of the experiences of the past, that the Lord is on our side, and that with his help the development of the Church will continue; that in this dispensation in which we live he will consummate his purposes; his covenant people will be gathered; Christ will come to reign personally upon the earth; all of the purposes of the Lord will be consummated, and his kingdom be established upon the earth as it is in heaven. May the GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Lord give us faith and strength to continue the effort's of the past century, until these glorious purposes shall be accomplished, is my earnest prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

After a number of announcements had been given out, the choir and congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

Elder Soren Rasmussen, President of the Jordan Stake of Zion, pronounced the benediction. 


