Afternoon
06 04 1920

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission) 

I have been impressed, my brethren and sisters, during this conference, in the same manner that a good brother was impressed that I heard make a report in one of the stakes of Zion a few years ago. He had just returned from Salt Lake City, where he had been in attendance at the general conference. He was one of the presidency of the stake where he resided, and while talking in one of the meetings of the stake conference he made a statement to this effect : his family had inquired of him on his return from Salt Lake City how he had enjoyed the general conference, and his answer was : "It was the best conference I ever attended in my life." And then he said: "The family smiled, and the children said: 'Why, father, we have heard you make that statement after every conference as long as we can remember.' " He informed the congregation that he had been attending general conference regularly for fifty-two years. I was very greatly impressed with his statement that after being in attendance at the general conferences of the Church on more than one hundred occasions he could return home and in truth say the last one attended "was the best conference I ever attended." A similar feeling of satisfaction has been in my soul during this conference. From the opening remarks that were made by President Heber J. Grant, when he presented in so strong and inspired a manner the feelings of his soul in regard to the great work that God has established, I felt the Spirit of the Lord was present directing him and that an enjoyable time would be had in the conference meetings. As I have listened to the brethren who have occupied this position and who have borne testimony concerning the truth of the gospel, that feeling has increased in my soul. 

I praise God today, with my brethren, for the wonderful work that has been revealed by the Lord our God. I feel in my whole being that it has been established among men for the salvation of the human family. It seems marvelous to me, my brethren and sisters, that I should enjoy the privilege that I enjoy here today of speaking in this great conference which is commemorative of the prophet's first vision one hundred years ago. I praise the Lord for the privilege of bearing testimony concerning the work of God this day. 

I have been thinking, while sitting on the stand looking at this great congregation, of the coming of my parents from abroad, about sixtythree years ago. The message of the gospel was sounded in the ears of my parents in a* far-off land, and they yielded obedience to the teachings of the servants of God a little more than sixty-five years ago. About sixty-three years ago they entered this valley in the same distressed condition that a great many other people entered the valley after they had passed through a very trying experience in crossing the plains. They landed here worn out by the long journey and in comparative poverty, and afterwards passed through the experiences common to those early pioneers who' came into this inter-mountain region a long time ago, when there was little of an inviting appearGENERAL CONFERENCE.  to be seen in this great desert valley. I thank God today that the principles of "Mormonism" had taken a firm hold of the affections of my father and mother, and that to those principles they remained true through their lives, and that to their family they faithfully taught the truth of the everlasting gospel, and bore unswerving record by word of mouth, and by example, that the work of God had indeed been restored to the inhabitants of the earth. To them I am indebted for the great privilege I this day enjoy. I believe in this restoration and in the necessity for the opening of the heavens, that the promises of holy prophets of old might be fulfilled, as has been declared by practically all of the speakers who have given instructions during this conference. 

I have here a little item that I will read that has impressed me upon various occasions. It was not written by one of our people; it was written by a convert, in fact, a priest of the Catholic Church. T feel sure it will be quite appropriate to read these words in this congregation. While visiting a great cathedral in Europe, I picked up a bumphlet many years ago at the time I was doing missionary service in the European mission. The booklet was entitled: "Why I am a Roman Catholic." The title impressed me. I thought I would like to know from a Roman Catholic point of view why an individual should be connected with the Roman Catholic Church. I had discovered from my own experiences, as no doubt many of you have, that when men who were out of the "Mormon" faith attempted to expound "Mormonism" they ofttimes presented malicious, and also grotesque ideas in regard to the "Mormon" faith. I have never in my life, so far as I remember, read from the pen of any non-"Mormon" writer a correct representation of the faith and doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. As I read the views of this priest in relation to his reasons for being a Roman Catholic, I was very greatly impressed with the following words : 

And again when Luther, Calvin, Henry the Eighth, and their followers, were starting in their mad career, either the true religion was then in the world or it was not. If it was, they committed grievous crimes in making new religions to oppose it. If it was not, they were powerless to create it. It takes a Christ, not a Luther, to create a Christianity. On either supposition, therefore, Protestantism is not the true religion of Jesus Christ. 

I think that is a true representation. If the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ was had among men in the period spoken of as the Reformation, then the men that were referred to as reformers were guilty of grievous sin in attempting to establish new religions. This statement is in harmony with the word of God. It is the teaching of the holy Scriptures, as we can read in the epistle of the Apostle Paul when he wrote to the Galatians, I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel : "which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ." The apostle then bore record' in the most positive and solemn manner that if they received any 149  religion, or if either men or angels taught any other religion or doctrine than the religion that had been expounded to the people by the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, then they were to be accursed. So that whenever men, in any dispensation, attempt to introduce new religions, that differ from the gospel of the Redeemer, they are not doing the things that God, our Father in heaven, would have them do. I think we can all accept the teachings of the priest as presented in the words that I have read in your hearing. If the true gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ did not exist among men in the sixteenth century, it is a solemn truth that Martin Luther had no power to bring back the lost gospel and his fellow reformers were just as powerless. We have great respect for Martin Luther, and other good men among the reformers. I would not leave any wrong impression upon any mind. We believe that those reformers accomplished a splendid work in paving the way for that religious liberty that has come to so many of the children of men. But if the divine authority, the power to administer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ had been lost from among men, it is a truth that Martin Luther, no matter how good his motives might have been, or how good the desires of his associates, they were powerless to restore the authority and the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Savior being the author of true religion was the only source of authority. If the plan of salvation was taken away from the earth, there was only one way by which it could be given to men again; and that is clearly set forth in the words I have read to you. The Redeemer holding all power was the only being who could bring back to earth the lost gospel, which ever has been the power of God unto salvation. 

I rejoice with all my soul that at the opening of this dispensation the story of "Mormonism" is just as it is. Joseph Smith in the strong desire that was upon him to know the right path sought the Lord our God in humble prayer, that he might be directed aright; and inasmuch as there was no man upon the earth exercising the authority of our Father in heaven, the story of the boy is in every way logical, when he declares that God himself made his appearance, with our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, and gave him the instructions that have been referred to in the discourses that have been delivered during this conference. There is no other way by which the authority that had indeed been lost from among the children of men could be restored. Holy beings, who held this divine authority, and who had been ordained to the Priesthood as mortal men, had been given the power to speak and act and minister in the name of the Redeemer of the world. These very men were sent again to earth and gave to Joseph Smith every key of authority they possessed. Let the world think what it may, and say what it will, that authority, in the manner portrayed in the words of Joseph Smith, was restored by the Lord our God, and in the restoration of authority the promises of the holy prophets have been fulfilled; and the great work of the living God that was not only spoken of by our Father in heaven in the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, but that was spoken of by the ancient prophets GENERAL CONFERENCE.  "a marvelous work and a wonder" has indeed been established in this dispensation, and is the dispensation of the fulness of times. This work has been understood and comprehended more or less, by the prophets in all dispensations. It has now been revealed' according to the promise of the Lord God of heaven for the last time. It has been established by his wisdom and by his will, with the promise that it shall endure forever and forever, and so it shall be, as the Lord God Almighty lives. 

May our Father in heaven help us who are privileged today to assist in the establishment of that marvelous work, to be faithful, and steadfast, and determined, that we may bring to pass the purpose of God, and work out our own salvation, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER HYRTJM G. SMITH 

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church) 

 My brethren and sisters, in one respect I have not enjoyed this conference very much, because Lhave sat here with fear and trembling throughout every session of the conference. In other respects, I praise the Lord for his Spirit that has been with my brethren who have addessed this conference, for I testify that their words have been directed by the Spirit of God for the strengthening of the faith of the Latter-day Saints and for the advancement of God's work upon the earth. 

I have in my heart a desire that all the faithful in Israel today shall be blessed of the Lord. I have in my heart a blessing for the Saints of God who have come to this conference and have so faithfully remained in such goodly number, even to this last session, and I pray God to bless you, sustain you, strengthen your faith, provide for your necessities and help you, as my brethren and sisters in the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ, to carry out his purposes in the earth, to fulfil the wonderful work and mission which have been themes of this conference. 

I also desire to remind my brethren and sisters that the eyes of the world are upon us, upon you and upon this work, that we have been called upon to perform. Therefore, we should be as near to what we profess to be as it is possible for us to be. And although the adversary made an attempt to thwart the purposes of the Lord when Joseph Smith went into the woods to pray, he was overcome and his plan was set aside by the powers of the Father and of the Son, who came in glory and dispelled the agents of darkness and the very evil one himself. That evil influence still exists in the world, that battle between light and darkness is still going on. The adversary has not given up the fight. He is still sniping here and there and carrying on other plans to thwart the purposes of the Lord. In a revelation to the prophet, we are given counsel, advice and instruction which, if we obey, will help us to triumph in this battle for the truth and for the right. 151 

I read from section fifty-nine: "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; for verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors; and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times." 

Also, in section sixty-eight, further counsel and advice are given upon this same subject. The Lord has given a word to the parents who have children, directing how to care for them and to teach them: "For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized; and their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands, and they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord * * * And a commandment I give unto them, that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people." 

So, let me admonish you, my brethren and sisters, to observe the counsels given in these revelations, for they are the words of the Lord unto us today regarding this principle which will give us power and favor with our heavenly Father, in battling with the powers of darkness, that we may triumph and secure the blessings prepared for the sons and daughters of God. 

Now, you may say, we do pray, we are a praying people, and that is true. The Latter-day Saints are a prayerful people, but we are admonished to pray not only for ourselves, but to pray always — and to pray for our enemies, also to teach our children to pray and to pray in season thereof, — pray night and morning, every day, in public and in secret. I am grateful that we have men and women who have been blessed with the spirit of prayer, whose hearts are filled with the desire to keep the counsels of the Lord. They are the leaders in Israel, and I admonish you, my brethren and sisters, to follow their counsels, because the Lord has always had leaders in Israel and he always will have as long as this work shall remain in the earth. 

I am grateful for the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ that I have been blessed with, .for I feel in every fiber of my being that the testimony of Joseph Smith is true. I have never doubted from my earliest boyhood days that the story told by the Prophet Joseph is the absolute truth. I have always honored my birthright as far as I have been able to and think myself very fortunate indeed to be numbered among those whom the Lord has honored with responsibility in his work, and for the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ that has come to me, not alone through teachings but through diligent study and humble prayer. And never have I doubted the teachings of the leaders in Israel, nor my parents, concerning the life and mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I pray God to bless his memory and the work of the Lord which he has been the instrument in accomplishing and establishing upon the earth. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I admonish my brethren and sisters to be more prayerful in the future than they have been in the past, and to be more diligent in teaching their children to pray, that we may triumph in the end over the powers of darkness, and be permitted to join in this glorious work with our Prophet on the other side and with all other prophets of God. I acknowledge the hand of the' Lord in his blessings unto me, and although a weak and humble instrument in his hands, I have observed many sacred testimonies which have come to the Latter-day Saints through the words that have come to me as a servant officiating by virtue of the Holy Priesthood and by that authority, I bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and all the faithful members thereof, especially you, brethren and sisters, who have been given responsibility and leadership. My heart goes out to you in blessings from the Lord, because I say to you in his name that he is pleased with those who are true and faithful, with those who can stand up, as the brethren have in this conference, in the different sessions thereof, and testify in boldness and in wisdom pertaining to the growth and truth of this work. God is at the helm. This is his work and not ours, although we are his agents, authorized with power and with authority to carry it on. These are instruments for our guidance, and a principle of power with us and our children, my brethren and sisters, is prayer. May you take it home and cultivate it and practice it to the glory and honor of God and his work in the earth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

The work of God is in very deed a marvelous work and a wonder. It began before the foundations of this earth were laid and that great and marvelous work is still in progress. It has to do with the salvation of our Father's children — all that ever have lived, in all the ages that are past and gone, and it has to do with all that now live and all of those yet unborn who shall yet come forth and have an existence upon this earth, or upon any other earth or planet; all of which have been made or created by tht Almighty for the express purpose of providing habitations for his children. "God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform." We live in the midst of those marvelous things and every student of history cannot review that which has transpired in connection with this world, without feeling in his whole being that God is moving in his majesty in bringing about his glorious purposes. He who created the heavens and the earth in the beginning, as we read in Holy Writ, did not regard that work as the goal of his labors. That was merely a preliminary toward the accomplishment of his great and glorious work, that marvelous work and a wonder. We read in The Pearl of Great Price what his great and glorious work is : "This is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of 153 ." We heard from President Penrose that we were all the begotten children of God before we tabernacled in these bodies of flesh and bone, and ever since the coming of our first parents, Adam and Eve, in the Garden of Eden, this work of the Lord has been developing here upon the earth. Let no one think that the teeming millions that now inhabit the earth, even the wicked and ungodly, those who, through their sins, are bringing down upon themselves such terrible woe and suffering; let no one think that their lives are all in vain, or that they have no part in the work of the Almighty, for they shall all be saved eventually in the consummation of God's great work. Only those who are the sons of perdition, who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him, who sin against light and knowledge, shall be deprived of every degree of glory and salvation, but all the rest, even those that do wickedly, — and the world is full of them — now living upon this earth, after they have paid the penalty, even to the utmost farthing, for all the evil they have done, shall eventually be saved in the telestial, or the lesser, degree of glory, concerning which we read that it is so great that it surpasseth all understanding. And, therefore I say, their lives are not in vain, notwithstanding their wickedness. They have received their bodies of flesh and bone they have been schooled in 'this world of sorrow and sin; they shall be cast down and pay the penalty; but when that is done they shall be redeemed and receive a glory prepared for them, which, notwithstanding they may never come where God and his Christ dwell, yet nevertheless is so great that it surpasseth all understanding. The opportunities for an exaltation in the presence of God, have been given by our Father in his mercy and goodness and offered to all those that would yield obedience t£ his gospel, and how grateful we ought to be for that. If the wicked are to receive such glory what then will be the glory of the faithful? 

We have been listening to the narration of a most wonderful event — the appearance of the Father and the Son to the boy prophet, Joseph Smith. Indeed, it is wonderful, and so have the events that have transpired in other dispensations of God's providence been wonderful. Think of the wonderful ministry of our Redeemer. One great American statesman when asked: "How can you believe in the divinity of Christ and in the miracles he wrought?" answered, "I find it much more difficult not to believe in them." 

I believe in the vision that was given to the prophet, Joseph Smith. I have always believed it all my life. I find it more difficult not to believe it. The evidences are so complete that not one shadow of a doubt remains with me as to the truth of that great and glorious event. Let no one confuse in their minds the two words "credulity" and "faith." They do not resemble each other. Credulity is a weakness; faith is strength. Credulity is founded frequently upon false testimony, but faith is unfailing. Faith is listening to the whisperings of God unto our souls, and he that resists faith is fighting against God, and without faith it is impossible to please him, but GENERAL CONFERENCE.  faith we can accept the truth, for the Lord manifests it by his unfailing and unerring- Spirit that bears witness of the truth. 

"There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth him understanding." The Lord did not leave us alone or in darkness when he placed us here on earth. He opened a channel of communication that we might receive the truth direct from him. Faith then is the gift of God — the assurance which we receive from him of all that is true; it is listening to the still small voice of God. Then through our faith, which is the natural impulse, he has placed in every human heart, God is striving to bring us back into his presence, and will continue so to strive until we, shut him out by refusing to hearken to his voice, and, giving a more willing ear to the voice of the adversary of our souls, we fall into the ways of wickedness and sin. Both God and his arch enemy are striving with each and everyone of us. Let us have faith in God and hearken unto him and reject the. counsel of the adversary. What will faith avail us? Absolutely nothing unless it is united with the works of obedience to his divine will. 

Before me is a vast congregation of men and women, who believe in the divinity of the call that came to the prophet, Joseph Smith; — the inspiration of the Almighty has given to their souls an understanding of the truth of this marvelous work in which we^are now engaged. Their very presence here is a manifestation of that faith. I find still further evidences of that faith in the sacrifices that our people have made and are making, in carrying the gospel message to the world in the free giving of their time and means; in their devoted and unselfish labors both at home and abroad; in the payment of their tithes and offerings; in the building of temples and the performance of holy ordinances therein for the living and the dead, and in the erection of houses of worship and school buildings for the education and development and enlightenment of the people both young and old. 

Here then is a manifestation of a living faith in God; in the glorious vision which he gave to Joseph and in the marvelous work which he has inaugurated through the instrumentality of this Latter-day Prophet, whom he raised up to usher in this great and glorious dispensation of his providence — the dispensation of the fulness of times. The way to exaltation in the presence of God, then, is through faith, combined with the works of obedience to his divine will. He desires that we shall live by faith. The time will come when all shall know him, even from the greatest to the least — when every knee shall bow and -every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ. Some will be converted by outward evidences. The Savior said to Thomas, who would not believe without seeing the print of the nails and the wound in his side, — "Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed; blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed." Some are blinded by their prejudices and by the sophistries and false philosophies of men; and men and women who have been thus deceived, not through any fault of the Lord, but because they failed 155  hearken to the voice of the ever-striving Spirit of God, or, in other words because they had not faith, which means simply they were not living in communication with the Lord, which is the privilege of every child of God, and not to thus live and hearken to the whisperings of his voice is resisting his efforts to bring us back to him.. Then let us live by faith and couple that faith with the works of obedience; have faith in God and put your trust in him. Have faith in his servants and hearken to their counsel. 

With all my soul I believe in the restoration of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ through the instrumentality of the prophet, Joseph Smith. I know that it is the power of God unto salvation and if we live in accordance with its teachings we shall receive God's greatest gift unto his children — Eternal Life in his presence, which is the greatest glory and promise, and is made only to those who are valiant for the truth, who live by faith and reject not the counsels of God; a glory which the wicked and ungodly shall not attain; a glory far superior to the terrestrial glory, which shall come to the many honorable men and women of the earth, who have been blinded by their prejudioes and sophistries and vain philosophies of men; a glory that is to be enjoyed exclusively by those who live by faith, who hearken to the voice of God and render obedience to his divine will, even the celestial glory, the highest of all. All the Father hath he giveth unto such. 

May we all attain unto this glory, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Senior President of the Council of Seventy) 

My brethren and sisters, I have been impressed during this conference with the weight of testimony that has been given by those who have addressed us in regard to the divine mission of the Savior of the World and also of the mission, the sacred mission, of the prophet Joseph Smith. 

In his autobiography we read: "As we were translating from the plates, we came across the sentence in relation to baptism for the remission of sins, and so impressed were we with this sacred principle we immediately repaired to a secret place and prayed unto the Lord concerning the administration of baptism for the remission of sins." 

And when searching the record of the Book of Mormon I felt impressed to seek for the evidence that is there produced, in regard to the ordinance of baptism. In the eleventh chapter of 3rd Nephi I found the full direction and explanation of this beautiful subject. The few Nephites who were gathered around the temple were conversing together in regard to the changes of nature that had been produced by the upheavals of the earth during the crucifixion of our Savior. And then, as they were conversing and comparing the events that had recently transpired, impressed as they were that the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of his crucifixion had passed, that the time of his rest in the tomb had passed, and that he had been resurrected, they all at once heard a voice, and at first they did not understand what was said. And a second time they heard the voice, and then the third time they looked up into heaven from whence the voice proceeded and they saw a man descending from on high, clothed in a pure white robe. And the Savior came and stood in their midst, and he called upon Nephi, so the record says, and Nephi stood before him and the Savior gave him the commission to baptize in his name, to immerse in the waters of baptism and so impressed was Nephi with this great power and with the condescension of the Savior to him that he fell down before the Lord and kissed his feet. Others were also appointed to minister in this scared ordinance, so the record proclaims. You are well aware, my brethren and sisters, of the history. 

In answer to the prayer made by the Prophet Joseph, at this time, came John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Christ, the great prophet that had the privilege of ministering baptism to our Lord; and he conferred upon Joseph and Oliver, the Aaronic Priesthood, which gave them the power to teach and minister in the principles of the gospel, and to baptize for the remission of sins. 

In the first chapter of 3rd Nephi we have a very direct account of the evidence of the birth of the Savior. The Lamanite prophet, Samuel, predicted that the time would come when there would be a witness of the birth of the Savior^manifested upon this land, manifested to the Nephites and to the Lamanites; and it is recorded that those who were members of the Church were in the minority to that degree that their enemies proclaimed to them that if the sign that was predicted by Samuel, the Lamanite prophet, was not immediately fulfilled that all those who believed in this prediction should be put to death. Nephi went out into a secret place and pleaded with the Lord to know if this sign would be given of the coming of the Savior, that at his birth there should be a day and a night and another day without any darkness between the two days. As Nephi was praying to the Lord with all his heart, bowed in sorrow because of the distress and the destruction that was threatened to come upon his people, the Lord whispered to him: "Lift up your head and rejoice; be of good cheer, for this very night shall the sign be given, and tomorrow come I into the world." So the history continues, that very night the sun went down as usual, but no darkness followed, and when the sun arose again in the morning there had been no darkness upon the face of the land. Then the believers and the faithful Church members knew that Christ was born. Then the enemies that had threatened their destruction knew that they were thwarted in their designs and they became frightened and were inspired with the feeling of fear and the desire to make peace with those who had been faithful. Many of them repented of their sins and were added to the Church, so says the record. 

In the Mutual Improvement Association of the Church they have adopted a slogan for this year. That slogan is: "We stand for spirit157  growth through attendance at sacrament meetings," and the members endeavor to induce others to do so with all the ability that they possess. In the eighteenth chapter of 3rd Nephi, this same glorious record that I have alluded to before, we find that the Savior visited the Church and instructed the people how to officiate in the sacred ordinances of ministering the Lord's Supper. It is recorded that he said to his disciples : "Bring bread and wine." And while they were gone for the bread and the wine he called to the people and bade them to sit down in groups upon the earth, and when the bread and the wine came he took the bread, blessed and brake, and gave to his disciples and said to them : Eat of this in memory of me, and inasmuch as ye shall do this and remember me and the offering that I have made, you shall have my spirit always to be with you. And when they had partaken he commanded them to give to the multitude. And then he took the wine and blessed it and when the disciples had partaken he commanded them to give to the multitude, and he said : "As often as ye shall do this in memory of my blood which was shed for you, you shall have my spirit to be with you." 

My brethren and sisters, I am glad that I am present at this splendid conference. I have listened to some of the greatest testimonies during the sessions that have been held. I have listened to inspired men who have spoken as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, in testimony of the divinity of this great work, in testimony of that great man who, as a little boy, went before the Lord in humble prayer and asked that he might know which was the true Church, for he was impressed with the desire to be a member of that Church, and you know the answer that came to him. It has been rehearsed here during this conference, and you know the condescension of our Father and of his Son Jesus Christ, when they appeared to the boy and gave him the necessary information, and answer to his question. The same spirit inspired the Prophet Joseph when he wanted to know of his standing before the Lord, three years after his first vision, and again he prayed to the Father that he might know and the Lord sent his messenger again. The Nephite prophet this time came and visited and gave him a high commission. Then, at the time that he wanted to know in regard to the principle of baptism for the remission of sins for the third time he went before the Lord. He went to that unfailing source of intelligence and inspiration, and he did not appeal in vain, and the Lord, according to the record, sent his messenger to give him the desired answer and information. 

And when he was in prison in Liberty jail, Clay county, Missouri, he again sought the Lord in fervent prayer, beseeching him with all the anguish and sorrow of his soul : 

"Oh God! where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place?" 

"Oh Lord God Almighty, Maker of the heaven and earth, * * * stretch forth thy hand; * * * let thy hiding place no longer be covered; let thine ear be inclined; let thine heart be softened * * * toward us." 

"Remember thy suffering Saints, O our God \ and thy servants will rejoice in thy name forever." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment." 

"And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high. * * * 

"Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against mine anointed, saith the Lord, * * * they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves." * * * 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven." 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant campanion, and thy sceptre an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means, it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

I testify to you that Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet of God, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the World, that his Church is on the earth today and that this people are led by a prophet of God, I give you this testimony with all my heart and soul, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

. ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

(Owing to the unavodiable absence of Elder Roberts from the Conference on Monday and Tuesday, he was not given an opportunity to speak; hence, on request of President Heber J. Grant, this address, given at another meeting, during the Conference, is here presented) : 

I wish to say, my brethren, that I appreciate, beyond any power of mine to express it, the opportunity afforded me to say just a word to you at the invitation of President Grant. You may be assured that my absence through two days from the General Conference was unavoidable. 

THE MORMON BATTALION MONUMENT. 

There is one matter that I think I ought to mention here — and I do so with very great pleasure — and that is, you will remember that at a similar "meeting to this, six months ago, I was granted the privilege of presenting the matter of making a drive to raise the funds for the Mormon Battalion Monument. The State had appropriated $100,000 provided the commission raise $100,000 from other sources. With the consent of President Grant, I presented the matter six months ago. You doubtless remember the very fine spirit in which that subject was received by you, and what a very hearty response it met with. Well, I now have to say to you that in December the State Commission made the necessary organization throughout the counties of Utah, and throughout the stakes of Zion, outside of the counties of Utah, but we have been conducting this campaign for funds under very discouraging circumstances. We began right in the midst of the holiday season, and shortly after in very many of the communities the "flu" broke out and hindered our work. In addition to that, it seemed 159  me that never before were the people called upon to meet so many demands made upon their generosity, as at that time. "Drives," four and five deep, followed upon ours but' notwithstanding all these disadvantages, through the very excellent response from the stakes of Zion, I, can say to you that the amount that is now in the banks, and that which has been reported to us, as being in hand, but not yet sent up to our treasurer, — the account being kept open in the hope that further additions will be made, — satisfied us that we now have contributed, of this $100,000, from seventy to seventy-five thousand dollars; and I have not a doubt but that we shall be able to make such appeal to those who have not yet responded — as we think, to the fulness of their generosity — that will easily make up the remainder of that sum, and that it will be deposited with the State treasurer in time to make available the State's appropriation for the monument. 

I thought it was only fitting to make this report to you since you took so splendid a part, and responded to the appeal with such spontaneity, that you ought to know the progress we have made. We are now so near to the top of the hill, that I am very sure we shall reach the summit of it splendidly, and, in due time, we shall be able to commemorate one of the greatest historical events connected with our pioneer history, and establish a monument of it for all future generations. 

TESTIMONY. 

Now, in relation to my joining the rest of the brethren in testimony concerning God's great latter-day work, mentioned by President Grant. Here, if anywhere, I feel entirely at home; and I experience the thrill that comes from a consciousness of being, with you, one of the sons of God. With all my heart and soul I thank God, the eternal Father, that he has given to me a sure testimony of his existence, his being, and the kind of being he is. For to me he stands revealed through Jesus Christ, our Lord; the Christ, resurrected and immortal, is the exact image and likeness of the Father's person; that as the Son is, so also is the Father; and that united with them and bearing witness to the children of men of their existence, is that personage of the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, with whom we may have fellowship, into whose fellowship we have been inducted by the holy ordinance of confirmation, the laying on of hands, by which we have access unto him and the light and intelligence and power and glory that emanate from him; and from the Father, and from the Son, and from the Holy Ghost. Thereby proceeds forth from these, to fill the immensity of space, the Spirit of the living God, in whom we may live and move and have our being. As we live and move and have our being on a summer day in the glorious sunshine, so in the everywhere presence of God about us, our souls may be in touch and in harmony, in union and fellowship with the Holy Trinity, through fellowship with the Holy Ghost. 

I rejoice in those great and fundamental truths, and I thank God that he has given me a knowledge of these great doctrines, and the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the whole gospel of Jesus Christ, including a knowledge of the truth of the blessed atonement, by which the mercy of God is introduced into the economy of God with reference to the human race, making forgiveness of sin possible, and man's fellowship with God a reality through the ordinances of the gospel. I know that these things are true, for God has given me the witness of them. Looking back over my life, I may say to you, though I may at times and in part have wandered from God, that is, I may have displeased him by the manifestation of my human weakness and imperfections, yet God in his mercy has never left me; and I can speak of and rejoice in the fellowship of God today, and in the clearness of the knowledge of God and of these great doctrines of the gospel, I have referred to, with all my soul. I know that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; that the gospel is true; that his Church is established, no more to be destroyed; that the elements of preservation and continuity are in it, and will continue, and it will enlarge; it will grow stronger; its foundations are laid broad and deep, and it will remain in the earth to function for God in the work of salvation for the children of men, its glory increasing, its power enlarging, until it shall deliver such a message to this world for God, that it will lead to the redemption of the human race. In these things, my brethren, I rejoice with you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

University of Utah, April 6, 1920 

President Heber J. Grant, Salt Lake City. 

My dear President Grant: — I have been called this morning to attend an important meeting of the Board of the State Industrial School at Ogden. I am compelled, therefore, to ask to be excused from the sessions of the conference today. I regret this very much, for I was anxious to attend the meetings, particularly on this sixth day of April. 

The general theme of this conference has been a spiritual uplift to me. As the days and years add to my little knowledge of life, the beauty of the gospel of Jesus Christ grows. The vision of God the Father and the Son Jesus Christ to the boy Joseph Smith in the spring of 1820 is the one event that has ushered in a new period of the world's history. Ancient days were then left behind, and modern days began. It was the most natural thing in the world for God to reveal himself to a child whose mind was pure and who had not learned the theories of philosophy of that day. I look upon Joseph Smith as the greatest prophet of all history, for his was the work of the greatest age of man's development since the fall of Adam. 

May we all go forward with the testimony ringing in our hearts that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world; that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; that the Priesthood of God has been restored; that the Book of Mormon is a record of the fathers of the American 161 

Indian preserved to us for this age by the power of God; and that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been established by the divine power of the Lord. 

May we turn to the glorious doctrines of the resurrection, and give our hearts to God, that he may give us life everlasting. May we each day have God's holy blessing, to perform the duties of the hour. As we stand before the ever-increasing responsibilities of life, may God make us humble before them. May we all seek in our hearts and minds the Divine Guidance, that we may learn the path of larger service and wider usefulness. May we serve the Master by serving his children. 

I trust, President Grant, that the day may be happy for you and for all assembled in divine worship. My heart is ever with you in the work of the Lord. 

Sincerely your brother, 

Levi Edgar Young. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Announced that there were 20 minutes of time left and that he desired to hear from four brethren of the authorities who had not yet spoken at the conference : 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church) I thought while our Patriarch was talking that he had one advantage over me, in that this was not the first time he has been called upon to face such a congregation. Sunday, President Penrose stated that he approached the task of speaking with grave concern. I tried to imagine what my feelings would be if I should be called upon to occupy this position. I can now assure you that my imagination paints a very poor picture. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity I have had of attending this conference and of hearing the testimonies that have been borne to us, and I bear witness to you, this day, that I approve of all that has been said, that in my heart it finds a lodging place. It is not difficult for me to know in my soul that Joseph Smith did, in very deed, see the Father and the Son. It is not difficult for me to understand that he did, under the hands of Peter, James and John, receive the holy Priesthood. You might say, How do you know? I find an answer to that when I am called upon to act under the authority of the Priesthood which has been conferred upon me, and I lay my hands upon the heads of the sick and bless them by that authority, commanding disease to depart and health to be restored, and I see the blessing almost instantly fulfilled. I then know whence that power comes, for I have no right in and of myself to cast out disease. When I exercise the right which has come to me through the Priesthood to act for God, who acknowledges that right, it is not difficult for me to understand these things. 

Some time ago we had a brother come from the islands, away GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the South Sea. I had the pleasure of taking him through the hospital. I started at the boiler room. He was very much interested in the mechanical workings of the institution. I showed him the placing of coal in the fire box, the turning of the water into the boiler, the creating of steam through contact with the heat and water. I explained to him how the steam, going through a dynamo, produced electricity, which was carried into the building on wires. He could not understand how that could be, so I tried :to explain further. I showed him as we approached the operating room the cotter iron, how it became red hot when the electricity was turned on. I showed him the electric light; the operation of the elevator, and many other things for which electricity is being used. We finally ended with the ioe machine. I drew my hand along one of the pipes and scraped off some snow. As I put it into his hand, he looked at me and said, "Take me away quick, you are driving me crazy." He quit; he was unwilling to investigate further. Had he studied diligently and faithfully 'he could have known for himself how these things were done. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that this is the work of the Lord. I know that the men who have been chosen as leaders in Israel are men of God, that they have authority to act for him, here on earth, and that they do so act under his guidance and his direction. I bear testimony to you that I have faith in this work. I have faith in the gospel, and I know that just so far as I am faithful and diligent, exerting myself to keep him commandments, I will be given strength and ability to overcome evil. 

May God bless us, my brethren and sisters. May we be faithful in this work, is my prayer and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church) 

My brethren and sisters, I thank the Lord that he has given me a testimony and a knowledge of the truth of the gospel. During this conference my heart has been thrilled with the testimonies that have been borne by my brethren. The story of the first vision of the Prophet, of the visit of the Father and the Son to him, never tires me. I love to hear it, I love to muse about it . To me it is as sweet as the story of the birth of Jesus Christ. When my brethren testify to these great truths, my soul is filled with gladness because the Lord has given me a testimony like unto those that I have listened to. When we listen to those who testify to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, no matter how humble their walks of life may be, if we are attuned to the same spirit, our souls are full of gladness because of their testimonies. This is the reason that when we leave conference we always say that this has been the best conference we have ever had. 166 

I thank my heavenly Father that I belong to a Church that has placed upon me the duty of working out my own salvation; where I can labor in the cause of the Master; where 1 can be one of the ministry, serving him and assisting to bring about his purposes on the earth. 

I am glad to say to you that the Lord has given me an assurance beyond doubt that this great latter day work is his work. He gave me a testimony of the divinity of the Book of Mormon before I became a member of the Church. I remember in my younger days, reading that passage on the last page but one, of that wonderful record which the Lord has given to us, known as the Book of Mormon. In this passage he told his servant that those who would read it in faith with prayerful hearts if they would ask the Lord if it was true, it should be manifested unto them. I need no arguments, nor philosophy, nor opinions to convince me of the truth of the Book of Mormon. The bringing forth of this book was one of the great works of the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, which was brought forth to the world before he was twenty-four years of age. It has stood the test of critics, historians, and our opponents for all these years. It was translated not by any power of Joseph Smith; he didn't claim that, but rather through the power and inspiration of the Lord, and I hope my brethren and sisters will return to the habit of reading the word of God because this book, the Book of Mormon, contains the fulness of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

May the Lord bless us that we may go home with renewed faith, may our tithes and offerings to the Lord increase. If we want to see temples dotting this land of Zion, this choice land above all other lands, let us remember that it can be done by the payment of our tithes and offerings. If we want beautiful houses of worship, let us pay our tithes and offerings. If we want to be content in this land that it shall be a land of Zion unto us, let us pay our tithes and offerings. The Lord has said to his servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith, that, "If my people observe not this law to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you it shall not be a land of Zion unto you." Zion to a Latter-day Saint means peace and contentment. 

May we go home with a spirit of the work of God in our hearts, and with a desire to do better in the future to bring about his mighty purposes in the earth, I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission) 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that I have never attended a conference where more men have borne testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the work of the Lord than at this conference. I appreciate the privilege that the Lord has granted me GENERAL CONFERENCE.  being present at this time. I know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God. I know that those mighty men who followed him — Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith, have been, and that Heber J. Grant is now divinely appointed to lead Israel in these the last days and that the power of the Lord has rested upon them as leaders in Israel; that God our eternal Father will never forsake his people; that he will continue to be with those men and women who honor him and keep his commandments. If they serve him, he will give everyone an individual testimony that they may know that he does live, that he is present among the children of men wherever his Priesthood can be found. I positively know that the Lord revealed his Priesthood in these the last days. I know that the words he spoke unto the bishop of this Church, Bishop Partridge, when he was called to the ministry, are true : 

Thus saith the Lord God, the Mighty One of Israel, Behold, I say unto you, my servant Edward, that you are blessed, and your sins are forgiven you, and you are called to preach my gospel as with the voice of a trump; 

And I will lay my hand upon you by the hand of my servant Sidney Rigdon, and you shall receive my Spirit, the Holy Ghost, even the comforter, which shall teach you the peaceable things of the kingdom (Doc. and Cov. 36:1, 2). 

Lie laid his hands upon Bishop Partridge by the hands of his servant Sidney Rigdon, and that is the order in this Church; when men are appointed and called and chosen to act in the name of God, whether they be serving as the elder who travels abroad or the high priest at home, Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, calls and ordains them by his own personal supervision, as he has organized his Church here in the earth. I pray God to bless each and every one that we may have the power and spirit and desire to serve him and that we may pray in our homes, and pray individually, that we may know, ourselves, that God lives, and that he rules and reigns in the heavens above and in the earth beneath. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

In the 15th Chapter of I Samuel we read: "Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." It is in pursuit of my calling as a minister of the gospel, as a missionary in the Church of Jesus Christ, that I stand here in obedience to the call that has come, to bear my testimony. 

To me there is nothing in life comparable with the feeling, the faith, the knowledge that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. To feel and know without a doubt that one hundred years ago this spring 165 

God in his mercy to his children opened the heavens and permitted the great truth of his personality and the truths of his gospel, his plan of salvation, to be made known to the children of men, is a real blessing. To me the joy of working and preaching that gospel in the world is beyond anything earth offers. The joy, the satisfaction, the great pleasure of being a missionary, a bearer of his word to the peoples of the world, to know the responsibility of working with the young men and the young women of Zion in preaching this great gospel message is a rare privilege. 

I say, my brethren and sisters, to obey is better than sacrifice. It is the obeying of the call, not the sacrifice that is made, that makes these men and these women mighty. When God gives a command, that command has a purpose. I read in the holy scriptures that, "Though be were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered, and, being made perfect, he became the Author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." 

The gospel of Jesus Christ is the biggest thing in the world today. A testimony of that gospel is the most precious possession that a human soul can have. To stand up and bear that testimony is the greatest privilege that comes to any Latter-day Saint. Unto you, my brethren and sisters, unto every member of this Church and especially to those who have been specifically designated to be missionaries is the great responsibility of declaring to the world that God has spoken from the heavens in these the last days. There is nothing under heaven to compare with it. What is wealth, what is position, what is influence, if in gaining these things you jeopardize your place with God? I say, unto you, my brethren and sisters, is this responsibility given. 

The command has come to you. You must obey, there is no other way under heaven whereby you can be saved. There is no other name under heaven whereby you may obtain salvation. Knowing this to be a fact, and being spurred on by the testimonies that have been borne during this conference, dare you stand back, dare you let the adversary conquer you, dare you let pass any opportunity to declare that God has spoken from the heavens in these the last days? I declare to you as a servant of the Lord, as a missionary in his great cause, that nothing that you will ever possess will give you the satisfaction of retaining, by righteous living, by obedience to his law, by obedience and respect to the Priesthood, that testimony which has been given you, and which has been greatly strengthened during this conference. God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The Government of the United States is endeavoring to the very best of its ability to encourage the people to be thrifty and to save. It is trying to overcome the wave of extravagance that at present seems to be sweeping over the country, notwithstanding the high cost of living. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

IN THE INTEREST OF ECONOMY, NO LARGE PARTY WILL BE TAKEN TO 

THE SACRED GROVE. 

We desire to announce that the Church authorities are in full accord with this campaign of the Government in favor of thrift. In view of the present conditions and of the marvelous and wonderful rendition of the "Vision" last night in this building, the cantata by Professor Evan Stephens, it has been deemed wise — in view of the immense amount that it would cost to carry a large number of people, probably a thousand, judging from the many applications that have come to us — not to take a large party to the Sacred Grove. We feel it would be an expense that ought to be avoided; and therefore only a small company, if any company at all, will visit that sacred spot. 

We had here" last night the most magnificent audience that has ever been in this building for any entertainment of any kind or description. The receipts were larger, although the admission was only 50c, than when we have had the world-renowned artists of the country here, charging $2 and $3 admission. Hundreds, yes more than a thousand, I am sure, were turned away last evening. 

THE "VISION," BY STEPHENS, TO BE REPEATED IN JUNE. 

We expect to repeat "The Vision" again during the June conference, and to make that occasion as memorable as this conference. We believe that more good will come from this conference and from the June conference than by having an excursion to the Sacred Grove. 

auditors' report. Salt Lake City, Utah, April 3, 1920. To Heber J. Grant, President; Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, Cunselors, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Dear Brethren: — We, the undersigned, auditors for the Church, beg leave to report that we have examined and audited the accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust's office and also of the Presiding Bishop's Office, for the year 1919, and we are pleased to say we have found all receipts and expenditures correctly entered in the respective books of the above offices, and that all the bookkeeping is done in a highly intelligent and scientific manner. 

With profound respect, we are, W. W. Riter, John C. Cutler, Peter G. Johnston, 

Auditing Committee. Note : Heber Scowcroft is absent from the state, and Henry H. Rolapp is indisposed. — W . W. R. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities of the Church who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

First Presidency : Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 167 

Anthon H. Lund, First Counslor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Penrose, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. President of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Anthon H. Lund. Acting- President : Rudger Clawson. 

Council of Twelve Apostles : Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard. 

Presiding Patriarch : Hyrum G. Smith. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young 

Presiding Bishopric : Charles W Nibley, Presiding Bishop. 

David A. Smith, First Counselor. 

John Wells, Second Counselor. 

Church Historian and Recorder: Anthon H. Lund. 

Assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph Fielding Smith, A. William Lund. 

Church Board of Education: Heber J. Grant, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, Willard Young, Rudger Clawson, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Trustee-in-Trust : Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund. Conductor: B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer. And all the members of the Choir. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I want to indorse with all my heart the very wonderful testimonies that have been borne here. I want to say that there has been a response in my heart to these marvelous testimonies. I want to pay my tribute of respect to the splendid audience that was here last night and to the wonderful rendition of the "Vision" by the choir. I desire to thank Professor Stephens and each and every one of those who took part in that very remarkable rendition, and to pray God to bless them and inspire them, that when it is repeated the same wonderful spirit may be with them. I am grateful for the splendid speech that was made here last night upon the "Vision," brief, but to the point, by Elder Melvin J. Ballard. I pray that the spirit and inspiration of the living God may accompany each and every one of the Latterday Saints to their homes. It is the spirit that giveth life. I reGENERAL CONFERENCE.  in listening to the testimony of our Patriarch whose great grandfather was the father of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, who lost their lives as a testimony for the divinity of this work. 

My heart was filled when I thought of the missionary labors time and time again of John Henry Smith, as I listened to the wonderful five-minute testimony of his son. They say that "Mormonism" is dying out in the second and the third generations; but "Mormonism" is progressing and growing day by day, year by year. This is no mushroom growth but it is the growth of the sturdy oak. We have in very deed the truth. God lives; Jesus is the Christ, Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and he is a prophet of God. He stands at the head of this dispensation. He did see God, he did receive a message from the Redeemer of the world. We have the truth. May God help us to live it, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

We will now sing the hymn, "O My Father." The great majority of this audience I am afraid are not acquainted with the old English tune, by which tune Aunt Eliza R. Snow said she loved to hear her hymn sung, better than any other. The choir will lead us in singing the hymn by that tune. 

I was once asked by Professor John J. McClellan, "Why did you learn 'O My Father' by the old tune instead of the Moody and Sankey tune?" I said: "Because it is all wool and a yard wide and the other is shoddy." He said : "Had you been a musician, you could not have made a better criticism." 

The choir and congregation sang, "O my Father," to the old 

tune. 

Conference was adjourned for six months. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Bryant S. Hinckley of the Liberty Stake of Zion. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund, conducted the singing in the Tabernacle. Professor John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses in the Tabernacle were taken by Elder Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Clyde Rasmussen; in the Assembly Hall and the Bureau of Information by Elder Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of Conference. Page 

Authorities Present 1 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 35 

Why Latter-day Saints are Positive in Their Religious Declarations, 35 — The Glory of the Resurrection of Christ, 40 — A Testimony that Christ Arose from the Tomb and Lives, 40. 

Ballif, Elder Serge . . 58 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 163 

Callis, Elder Charles A 44 

Clawson, President Rudger 64 

After One Hundred Years, 64 — Three Precious Volumes, 64 — Appreciation of the Ogden Tabernacle Choir, 66. 

Clawson, President Rudger 136 

Eternal and Temporal Values, 136 — An Investment of Eternal Value, 138 — The Word of Wisdom as an Eternal Investment, 139 — Marriage an Eternal Investment, 140. 

Duckworth, Elder James 46 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

The Saints Absolutely Sincere, 2 — Disposition of Tithing, 2 — Revelation to Prophet's brother, 3 — Tribute to Latter-day Saints, 4 — By Senator Smoot, of Utah, 4 — A statement of Refutation, 5 — By Senator Ashurst of Arizona, 7 — By Senator Thomas, of Colorado, 9 — By Senator Henderson, of Nevada, 10 — Latter-day Saints Work Against Destruction of Property, 

10 — Must respect rights of others, 10 — Progress in the Missions, 

11 — Respect Growing for our Church, 12 — Make Sacrifices for Gospel, Joseph's Vision, 13 — Vast Multitude have Testimony, 14 — Testimony of President Joseph F. Smith, 14 — Closing Testimony, IS. 

Grant, President Heber J 22 

The "Era", and "The Vision" by Evan Stephens, Endorsed, 23 — Statistical Announcements, 23 — In Memory of Richard V/. Young, 23 — In Memory of Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, 24 — They 

Gave Their Lives for Service to the People, 25. . 

Grant, President Heber J 145 

Grant, President Heber J .161, 165 

In the Interest of Economy, No Large Party will be taken to the Grove, 166 — "The Vision" to be Repeated in June, 166 — Auditor's Report, 166. 

Grant, President Heber J 166 

General Authorities Sustained. 166 — Closing Remarks, 167. Hart, Elder Charles H 140 

How Evidence is Measured, 140 — The Testimony of Joseph Smith the Prophet, 142 — Improbability of Supernatural Events, 142 — Futility of Accounting for "Mormonism" on the Ground of Wilful Imposture, 143. 

Iverson, Elder Heber C 83 

Ivins, Elder Anthony W o 109 

One Hundred Years of the Last Gospel Dispensation, 109 — The Dispensation of the Meridian of Time, and the Fulness of Time Compared, 109— The Primitive Church and the Church of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Day Have Had Analogous Experiences, 111— The Condition of the Primtive Church on this Continent, 112— Our Accomplishments Compared with Those of the Nephites. 113 —We may Look, with Confidence and Faith, to the Future, 113. 

Jack, Elder William T 

Jensen, Elder Nephi 

Jenson, Elder Andrew 

Kirkham, Elder Oscar A 

Knight, Elder John M , 

Lee, Elder Norman S 

Lund, President Anthon H 

The Latter-day Saints Not Recognized by the World as Christians, 16 — The Saints Believe Sincerely in Jesus Christ and Try to Obey the Commandments of God, 16 — The Saints Enjoined to Attend Sacramental Meetings, 17 — The Lord Blesses Those Who Pay an Honest Tithing, 17 — Warning Against Following False Teachers, 18 — Thoughts on the First Vision and What Followed, 18 — The Second Vision and Vicarious Work for the Dead, 20 — The Resurrection of Jesus Christ, 21 — The Saints Warned to be Faithful to the End, 22. 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 

What is the Power Behind the Church? 41 — Examples of this Power, 42 — How May We Know the Truth? 43 — Missionaries Learn the Truth Through Service, 43. 

McKay, Elder David O 

An Ensign to the Nations, 114 — To Whom Does the Ensign now Wave? 115 — Many Honest Seeking for Truth but Cannot Find It, 115— Where the Truth May be Found, 116— An Eminent Statesman's Suggestion, 116— Helpful Environment in the Church of Christ, 117 — Another Example — Helping the Poor, 117 — "Mormonism" — The Application of God's Plan to Solve World Problems, 118. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 

Miller, Elder Uriah G 

Nibley, Elder Charles W 

A Wonderful Attendance of Men, 124 — The Centennial of a Great Event, 124 — What are the Fruits of "Mormonism"? 125 — The Missionary System of the Latter-day Saints, 125 — The Results of the "Mormon" Colonization Policy, 126 — A Vitality in "Mormonism" not Found Elsewhere, 127 — The Latter-day Saints is Multiplying and Replenishing the Earth, 128 — Entertainment and Organ Recitals Free, 128 — Honesty and Loyalty of the Latter-day Saints, 128 — The Church is Thoughtful of the Poor, 130— The Spirit that Impels to Sacrifice and Work, 130 — The Tree of "Mormonism" Has Borne Good Fruit, Not Bad, 131. 

Penrose, President Charles W 

The Ch urch of Christ Shall Prevail, 26 — The Vision of Joseph, 

27 — All Things to be Done in the Name of Jesus Christ, 

28 — Jehovah of the Old Testament is Jesus Christ of the New, 30— The Trinity, Three Distinct Personalities, 30 — What is Truth? 30 — The Nature and Resurrection of Christ, 31 — Thanks be to God for the Gift of His Son, Jesus Christ, 33 — The Glory Awaiting the Righteous, 34 — Closing Injunction to Faihtfulness, 34. 171 

Page 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 87 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 96 

Health, 96— Wealth, 97— Social Order, 97— Government, 98— Happiness, 98 — Understanding the All-comprehending nature of the Gospel, What is our Duty? 99- — Our Message to the World, 99. 

Richards, Elder Geo. F 132 

Our Anniversary Celebration Impressive and Glorious, 132 — Significance of Joseph's Great Vision, 133 — The Accomplishments of Joseph an Evidence of the Divinity of His calling, 135. 

Roberts, Elder B. H 158 

The Mormon Battalion Monument, 158 — Testimony, 159 

Smith, Elder David A 161 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 150 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 105 

A Scripture Passage Applied to Joseph the Prophet, 105 — Joseph Smith, the Messenger to Prepare the Way for the Second Coming of Christ, 105 — Joseph Smith Fulfils the Prediction of the Prophets and the Requirements of the Fore runner of Christ, 107. 

Smith, Elder Winslow Farr 164 

Sperry, Patriarch Harrison 145 

Talmage, Elder James E 100 

The Church a Unique Organization. Not Sectarian, 100 — Toleration Does Not Imply Acceptance, 101 — Centennial of a Glorious Manifestation, IC'1 — The Eternal Father and Jesus Christ Appeared in Bodily Presence, 101— The Churches of the Day Had Gone Astray, 102 — The Current Movement for Church Union, 103 — This Church Cannot be a Party to Tt, 104. 

Wells, Elder John 162 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 152 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 119 

The True and Living God, 119— The Father's "Express Image", 120 — The Christian, Deity. 120 — Divinity and its Emanation, 121— Joseph's Vision, 121— What Constitutes Idolatry, 

121— The Final Dispensation, 122 — Not an Accident, 122 

Prophet and Seer, 123— The World's Saturday Night, 123 

House-cleaning- in Progress, 123. 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 160 

Young, Elder Seymour B; 155 



AVE you ever stopped to think how much time ^ * we spend in planning what we shall put on (^ and what we shall put in our children's bodies 

|Qr and how little in planning what we shall put 

in their minds? They go to school, to be sure, 

 that is for only five hours a day for approximately 185 days a year. What of the years before they begin to go to school, what of the hours and days each year in which they are not under instruction? Have wei any deliberate plans to care for the mind's growth as we care for the body's? 

It is just as important that children shall read good" books as it is that they shall learn to read at all. It would be hard to find any one who would declare that it is unnecessary for children to learn to read. Yet reading in itself is not the end we seek, but only a means to the end. The goal of all education is the enrichment of life, and a child's reading carefully guided will deepen and strengthen his future ability to make the most of himself and his opportunities. 

To really love books so that they may be woven into the warp and woof of his life a child should have his own individual library, which grows year by year with his growth, yet which contains friends to whom he will return time and time again, secure in the knowledge of a happy companionship, full of pleasant associations. A large number of books is not esesntial to have, but a few should be added each year and the standard of choice should be kept high. — Seattle Public Library Bulletin. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple Street 6 Main Street 

Centenary of the First Vision 

This year as never before in Church history the saints are eagerly reading books on the life and labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is the hundredth anniversary of the most epochal event in history — save one. 

We have listed a few of the best of these Books that we recommend for cursory or systematic reading. 

THE LIFE OF JOSEPH SMITH, by President Geo. Q. Cannon. 

Cloth 2.00 

THE LATTER-DAY PROPHET. History of Joseph Smith, written for young people, by Pres. George Q. Cannon, Illustrated. 

Cloth 75 

JOSEPH SMITH, THE PROPHET-TEACHER, by 

Elder B. H. Roberts 75 

JOSEPH SMITH AS SCIENTIST, by Dr. John A. 

Widtsoe. Cloth .75 

BRIEF HISTORY OF THE PROPHET, by himself, 

Cloth, fm. A. Morton 25 

"MORMON PROPHET'S TRAGEDY," a review of an article by the late John Hay — the review by 

Orson F. Whitney, paper .25 

JOSEPH SMITH MEMORIAL. Detailed account of the journey and visits of the Centennial Memorial Party to Vermont. 

Paper 25 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS, a classified arrangement of the doctrinal sermons and writings of the Great Latter-day Prophet, compiled by Edwin F. Parry. 

Cloth, with gold title 75 

THE VISION. A Sacred Historical Cantata. Words and music by Prof. Evan Stephens. 

Price, each postpaid „ 1.00 

Special rates on quantities to Choirs and Dealers. 

PROPHECIES OF JOSEPH SMITH AND THEIR FULFILMENT, by Nephi L. Morris (Now being prepared.) 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple Street 6 Main Street 







