Afternoon
04 04 1920

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I am very thankful for this privilege. Just to look at this congregation is a pleasure and a treat. To be called upon to speak — I was going to say — is a task, and it really is, for I do not feel prepared to deliver a discourse upon any particular topic or subject. But I feel thankful that I am able to be here, and to lift up my voice once more in testimony of the truth. I bear testimony that what we heard this morning, that which was delivered from this stand, was true, divinely revealed and divinely spoken. I felt like shouting and singing, "Hallelujah, Praise to God," when President Grant closed his remarks: for I felt that he was inspired of God to give to us words in due season : and I believe the whole congregation, thii immense audience, was thrilled with the same feeling and spirit. I enjoy preaching of that kind. I do enjoy a well said discourse, prepared already in i thought and in language to deliver to a public assembly, but I must say that I do much more enjoy addresses that are delivered by the power of God, accompanied by that splendid spirit which came to us all when we first embraced the gospel. When we first heard the glad tidings of salvation brought to earth in the latter days through the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associates, our whole souls thrilled with joy, with thanksgiving and praise to the Lord: and no matter how often we heard the same simple truths declared, we enjoyed the hearing of them, and the same spirit that rested upon the speakers rested upon the hearers, so we rejoiced together. I felt that this morning, as I have many times during the conferences that we have held in years that are past, and I was impressed with the feeling that the promise made by the Almighty in regard to the continuance of his work, was verily true, and will be fulfilled to the uttermost, no matter what may occur, no matter what changes may come, either through the martyrdom of our prophet or the decease of our leaders, by what we call "natural means." No matter what the opposition may be in the world, though thrones may totter, empires fall, and the systems of men may be broken up and perish, the Church and Kingdom of our God shall continue and abide and increase. 

THE CHURCH OF CHRIST SHALL GROW AND PREVAIL. 

This great audience, this afternoon, is evidence of the truth of the prediction of the Prophet Joseph Smith, addressing his father by revelation, which was read to us this morning. This work will abide. It was so destined by the Almighty, when he revealed it. When he appeared with his Son Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, he ordained and declared that this organization should remain on the earth, and should not be broken to pieces, nor given to any people except to the Saints of the Most High, and they should continue the work and possess the Kingdom and the greatness of the Kingdom until it should spread forth under the whole heavens. 

I know that this is true, and I felt the influence and spirit of it  morning", when I looked upon the great congregation here, and realized that another large audience of Saints was gathered in the Assembly Hall, and that there was a great number of inspired men, ready at the word, when they receive it from the head, to go forth to the nations, or to labor at home, to do anything and everything required of them under the power and influence of the Spirit of the Lord which they hold, associated with their offices and callings in the holy Priesthood. 

It is a joy to my heart to realize and know this, that the work shall not be broken up, shall not be given to another people, but this Church and Kingdom — for the terms are used almost synonymously — shall continue and stand forth and overcome every opposition of every kind that may come against it. I do not say this in the spirit of defiance against the powers of darkness, either in the flesh or out of the flesh, but I say it in humility, and with full confidence that the word of God shall be fulfilled, and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints shall continue and abide, and the gdspel it brings shall be preached to the living and to the dead, until all of the race of Adam, who are able to receive and hear, shall hear the word and have the free opportunity and liberty, if they will, to obey it, to repent of their sins, and to come unto God the Eternal Father, be obedient to him, and bow the knee to King Tmmanuel, Jesus the Christ. 

THE VISION OF JOSEPH. 

We have reminders, frequently now, of the fact that about a century has elapsed since the time when the Prophet Joseph, as a boy, went into a grove near his father's residence — where many of us have been, and have rejoiced in the spirit we found there — and there for the first time in vocal prayer — I presume he had prayed before, in a fashion — but in vocal prayer, from the heart, with faith, he called upon the Lord that he might learn which was the true religion. As we have heard today, and have heard many times before, the Father and the Son appeared to him. He saw them; they were there before him. We may not perhaps exactly explain how and by what means Joseph saw the Father and the Son. He called it a vision. That is right, it was a vision. But what is a vision of that kind? A vision like that which Moses had when he saw the Lord face to face. He saw the Father and spoke to him, and the Lord spoke to him. Moses declared that he saw him, not with his natural eyes, but with his spiritual vision : and that there is such a thing I presume many of us who are here are fully assured. We know it in our own experience, but not perhaps to the same degree as Joseph or Moses had it, when they conversed with the Lord. Rut that there is a spiritual sight or vision we realize, and we can draw very near to our Father and our God in the name of Jesus Christ, and see when others are in the dark, and comprehend when others are blinded in regard to the heavenly truths which come to people from him for their salvation. VIRTUE IN THE PRAYER OF FAITH. 

I rejoice in the knowledge of this great truth, and I know that there is virtue in the prayer of faith. It is the prayer of faith that saves the sick wnen we administer to them in the way that is appointed. The real efficacious prayer must be accompanied by faith, which is the strength and power of it; and by faith we can draw near to him who is our living Head. And by faith we can accomplish the work set us to do, no matter what it may be. If we put our souls in it, and in faith attempt the work that we are entrusted with, in that we shall succeed. In God we trust: in God we have faith; on God we rely : and when we do that with full purpose of heart, the Lord, and the powers behind the veil are with us. The heavenly power of the Priesthood is with us who hold it here in the flesh, and it is by that power that we shall prevail and succeed and overcome, and accomplish the great work of salvation entrusted to us. 

ALL THINGS TO BE DONE IN THE NAME OF JESUS CHRIST. 

Everything in this Church is to be done in the name of Jesus Christ; so we have been commanded. This Church is -called "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints." That was given by revelation and commandment. It is not merely the Church of man : and though men are called of God to work in it, and to occupy prominent places in it, and to use great influence in building it up, we are building it up to him who is our living Head, even Jesus' the Christ. We are to do all things in his name. When Peter was instrumental in curing the lame man by the gate of the temple, he said : Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have, give I unto thee : in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk;" and the man leaped and walked. And so it shall be with this Church, which Jesus Christ has established in the latter days. It shall prevail and overcome every obstacle in the path. 

wp No w , concerning that name: It is the name of Jesus Christ that we are to use. I will read a verse or two from the Doctrine and Covconvlv J' T l ° n u T here are a mimber of othei " sections that convey the same idea, but I will not take time to read them. I will begin with the 21st verse: 

Ind C aYmanv" ° f ? Hst ' l nd Speak the truth J » soberness; 

Arm as many as repent, and are baptized in mv name which 

J Rehnlf 'T and "r^ '? tl \ e end ' lhe sa ™ shall Served ' 

ther i none 1 other 5 ^ n ™ which » given of the Father, and 

mere is none other name given whereby man can be savedth» K - l V en must take u P° n them the name which is given of 

the Father for in that name shall they be called at the list da v 

Wherefore, if they know not the name by which theTL, a ^ cannot have place in the kingdom of my Father * caUed ' they 

 * Some P e °P le ma ) r thi,lk that there is nothing new in that  neither is there, but many of us have fallen into the habit of doing tSs in the name of Jesus, and I notice that when people bless their food  the table, (or ask a blessing upon it) they do it in a sort of peculiar, hurried manner, and close it by saying rapidly, "In the name of Jesus. Amen." When some men dismiss a meeting they are in haste to pronounce the benediction, and they do it "in the name of Jesus. Amen." There are many men in the world named "Jesus" in these latter days. I was reading in a newspaper recently about a murderer whose first name was Jesus, who crucified his own child. He was a fanatic, a madman. I notice, too, when you travel, in many foreign countries you find over the doors the names of men who keep what we call "saloons" or public houses, and it is Jesus So-and-so. Now, we are to take upon us the name of Christ, and you will find, if you will read the Pearl of Great Price, in the revelation of God to Enoch and to Moses 52, 57, that it is specified there, particularly, that Jesus Christ is the name of "a righteous judge who shall come," and that he is the beloved of the Father, that he is the firstborn of the Father; he is the beloved Son, and when speaking in regard to the future in the flesh he is called "the Only Begotten" Son. God's only Begotten Son is Jesus Christ — Jesus, the Savior, Christ the anointed. The two names go together, and they belong to each other. Jesus Christ lias said that is the name he received from the Father, and we are to use that name. When we baptize, we baptize in the name of Jesus Christ : "Having authority from Jesus Christ, I baptize you," and so on. So when we pronounce the blessing upon the sacrament, the bread or the water, we ask the Father, in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, to bless the bread or to bless the water. So, my brethren, in administering in any of the ordinances of the house of God, it is to be done in the name of Jesus Christ. 

Do not be afraid to use reverently the name of Christ. He uses it continually. We can read about it in the Book of Mormon. The Church was the Church of Christ, and in the last days the Church is to be called by that name. You may think perhaps that is a matter of little importance. Perhaps it is so to you; but I have found in my experience, from the beginning of my membership in this Church, that there is power in that name. "In my name they that believe shall cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues," and so on. There is power in the name of Jesus Christ. Demons tremble at that name. They recognize it. But when we, in a slip-shod way, use the name of Jesus, and say nothing about Christ, I don't know that it has so much power and influence. The Lord may in mercy to our omission accept our meaning, but never mind about that, Let us do what we are told to do, and administer in the way that Jesus Christ himself says we are to adminis f °r. I will not take time to read from other sections, that relate to the same subject, but all the revelations in this book [the Doc. and Cov.] given through the Prophet, or to others, are in the name of Jesus Christ, He says: "Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, the great I Am, whose arm of mercy hath atoned for your sins." (See Sections 29, 38, 39 and others.) He is the Great I Am spoken of in the Hebrew scriptures. JEHOVAH OF THE OLD TESTAMENT IS JESUS CHRIST OF THE NEW. 

He is the Jehovah spoken of in the Old Testament. Jesus Christ of the New Testament, is Jehovah of the Old Testament, and he so proclaimed it when he came to the Prophet Joseph and Oliver Cowdery in the temple of the Lord, the account of which we read in the 110th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. They speak of his appearance, the glorious appearance and power, and his voice was like the rush of many waters. It was the voice of Jehovah. I say this for the benefit of some few of my friends who do not believe in the doctrine that Jesus of the New Testament was Jehovah of the Old Testament. Jesus the Christ represents the Father fully. In him dwelleth the fulness of the Godhead bodily, as we read in the scriptures. "It pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell." And so he could tell Philip, when asked, "Lord, show us the Father :" "Llave I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." God was manifest in the flesh, in the personality of Jesus of Nazareth, and he was verily the Son of God, begotten of the Father, and his mother was the virgin Mary. There should be no dispute in regard to this matter, because it has been made so clear and full in the revelations of God to us. 

THE TRINITY, THREE DISTINCT PERSONALITIES. 

There is a trinity in the Godhead, so the Prophet Joseph taught — the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, — and they are three distinct personalities in perfect unity. There is a spirit which "proceedeth from the presence of God throughout the immensity of space," the light which is in all things, and through all things, and round about all things, and the law by "which all things are governed." By that spirit, our Heavenly Father declares, he created all things in the beginning, firstly spiritually, and afterwards temporally. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 29. 

We learn also that this spirit of truth and intelligence and power proceedeth from the Deity, "throughout the immensity of space, and is the law, by which all things are governed, by which God is omnipresent, by which the word of God is declared, whether through Jesus the Christ, or by the personality of the Holy Ghost. That spirit pervadeth all things. The Word is declared through and by its influence in all the worlds that God has created. We should understand the distinction between this universally diffused essence, and the personality called the Holy Ghost, whom Jesus Christ said he would send to his disciples, and who no doubt came on the Day of Pentecost, in person. 

These may seem small matters to some, but we should try and get right on all things, that we may have the unity of the faith, that there may be no discord among us. 

WHAT IS TRUTH ? 

The spirit of truth reveals truth, conveys the light of truth. It conveys intelligence. What is intelligence? It is "the light of truth." 

I was pleased when President Grant read the concluding verse of Brother Jaques' splendid hymn, where it says, "Truth, the sum of existence, shall weather the worst." All the hymn is eulogistic of that divine influence that we call truth. 

Oh say, what is truth? 'tis the fail est gem That the riches of worlds can produce, 

and so on. But here it tells something about what it is. It is "the sum of existence" — things past, things present, and things to come, facts. These are truth, and the Lord says that "truth is knowledge, of things as they are and as they were, and as they are to come." (Sec. 93.) Some of our brethren in writing, and a good many in talking, say truth is the knowledge, or a knowledge of thing's. That is something that you can have or I can have or can reject. The insertion of a or the is a mistake. Truth is knowledge itself, information, intelligence, things that are, things that were, things that are to come — knowledge concerning them. That is truth. It is a splendid definition and answers the question of ages more clearly than anything I have ever heard attempted; even better than "truth the sum of existence," and yet the two in meaning are identical. Now, let us be correct in that little thing, and so in all things that pertain to our doctrines, our duties in the Priesthood, brethren, and in our quotations of scripture let us try to be right, as nearly correct as we can. THE NATURE AND RESURRECTION OF CHRIST. 

This day, as Brother Lund so plainly pointed out to us, is called th*e anniversary of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. I do not know whether it is exactly the right day, and it does not matter. It is something like it is with Christmas Day. We join with the Christian world, as they please to call themselves, in revering the name of Jesus Christ, and celebrating his resurrection. We claim that he actually was raised from the dead; not merely continued his existence' after death, but the body that was put into the sepulchre was brought forth from the tomb, and nothing was left but the napkin and other things that were placed around it when the body was interred. He appeared to his disciples, and to many others, five hundred brethren we are told. They do not give us their written testimony, but it is given in the New Testament. They all saw him at once, and he discoursed with them, and showed his disciples his hands and his feet. What for? To deceive them? To make them think something that was not true? Not at all. He wanted them to understand that that was the body that was on the cross, in which the Roman soldiers drove the spikes or nails through the hands and through the feet. He exhibited himself, and told them to handle him and see, "For a spirit," said he, "hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have." Many of the apostles lost their lives because they testified concerning this fact. They were witnesses of the resurrection, the raising from the dead of the body of the Redeemer, quickened by the spirit, immortalized, beautified, made glorious; -but the changes wrought upon it that it might be immortal did not change the structure of the body. It was the body of Jesus, the Christ, who hung upon the cross, and died for the sins of the world. And that is the great truth that we have to declare, not only his actual resurrection from the dead, but that he is the Savior; through him and by him and of him, the Father declared, the worlds were created and made. We know little about his actual life on the earth during the three years that he labored in the ministry, and still less about his childhood, and we know next to nothing concerning the details of his preexistenoe, except the fact of it. He was with the Father in the beginning; he says so in revelation to us, in the 93rd section of the Doctrine and Covenants : "I also was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn." Now, do not be deceived, any of you, by speculations that people have had about his being "the son of Adam," and other theoretical notions. He was the Firstborn of the Father, as we read in the Epistle to the Hebrews. "When he bringeth his Firstbegotten into the world, he saith, let all the angels of God worship him," Jesus the Christ, whose spirit, whose light is in all the worlds that have been created, and is "the power by which they were made." He was the Firstborn of the great family to which we belong, so we call him not only our Redeemer, but our Elder Brother. 

Well, some ask, did he have a beginning? Certainly, in his individuality. He had no beginning in the essence that composes his spiritual personality. Neither is he, in that, different from us. We also, he says, were in the beginning with the Father, that which is spirit, God says that he created them all. But doesn't he say that intelligence never was created or made? Yes. But what is intelligence? I have quoted to you that "intelligence is the light of truth," without beginning, without end: But "intelligences" are individuals begotten of the Father, created, he says, by him, or organized; and whether you use the term "created" or "organized" or "begotten," it means the same thing. They were his sons and his daughters. But Christ Jesus was the Firstborn, and so he is preeminent in all things, and all things will become, some time, subject to him, and every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the Father. 

Let us get this clearly in our minds, and we will find that there are no contradictions in the scriptures of the Lord. Intelligence is without beginning. It is something that can be imparted or withheld. It is the light of truth, and it proceeds from the Father, and is conveyed to us if we will open our hearts to receive it, and we will receive its gifts according to our organization and capacities and the blessings of God to us. It is the spirit by which God made the worlds, by which he governs them, by which he is present in them and round about them, and the fulness of it is in Jesus the Christ, his Only Begotten in the flesh, and his Firstborn in the spirit. THANKS BE TO GOD FOR THE GIFT OF HIS SON JESUS CHRIST. 

We desire to praise Jesus our Redeemer. Oh, what a blessing was his crucifixion to all the world, to all generations of the sons and daughters of Adam; by and through him and his atonement we can be redeemed from the dead, from death, from hell, from darkness, from the grave, from everything that is hurtful and injurious and that brings unhappiness. And we can be imbued with his Spirit if we obey his gospel, and be able to draw near unto him, and to realize who and what he is, for a fact, for ourselves. For he will reveal himself to us if we will draw near unto him. To use a figurative expression that he used to his disciples; he will come in with us and sup with us and be in us and round about us, and be our leader and our guide. Thanks be to God the eternal Father! Hallelujah, praise his holy name, for the gift of his Son Jesus Christ, for the redemption of mankind from the transgression of Adam, who is our earthly head. He is our father in that sense, the father of all the race. We have had fathers of our flesh, we have obeyed them, and so the chain goes up to the great man who stood at the head, the father of all, Adam. But our Father whom we worship is the great Elohim, who sits on high, who is working, through his Son Jesus Christ, for our redemption, and he is the Savior, after all, of all that are saved. Through and by his Son Jesus Christ are we redeemed from our own sins and also from the sin of our first parents, the transgression of Adam and Eve in the garden. He who knew no sin offered himself as a sacrifice for those who had sinned, and that reaches right back to Adam. It is through Jesus the Christ that Adam is redeemed from the effects of the fall, and through him we are redeemed from death and hell and the grave, from our own sins as well as from the sin committed by our first parents. By obedience to his commandments we vcan be washed clean from our sins and imperfections, but it is the blood of Jesus Christ which cleanseth from all sin. Thanks be to God, I say, for this great gift unto us! 

Let us try to understand the word of the Lord. It is not particularly necessary that we should spend all our time thinking on these ideas and theories, but there is value in them because they are true, and it is the truth that will save. Jesus prayed to the Father to sanctify his disciples. "Sanctify them by the truth, thy word is truth;" and by his wofd we can obtain knowledge of things that are past or present or are to come, and can be in harmony with the Father and with the Son and with the Holy Ghost, and with all the great and mighty beings who held authority from them in the ages that are past, and those who have held it in the dispensation in which we live, those who are living, and those who have passed away. What a glorious kingdom there will be, when sin is banished, when darkness is dispersed, when false governments will perish; when the true Kingdom of God shall be set up, and Jesus Christ as King of kings and Lord of lords shall reign over all the earth; and those who obey his commandments will reign with him in glory. The Saints of olden days and the Saints of modem days will be together there in that great company. There will be no disunion; there will be no darkness; there will be no pain, and there will be no more death, but we shall live, and live because of the atonement wrought out for us by Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. We shall be there, as be will be there, as distinct individual personalities. 

THE GLORY AWAITING THE RIGHTEOUS. 

We shall not be blended into one body, except as an organization of people. Each one will be himself or herself, and will shine in the glory of our Father; and every quality that we have, every attribute, every gift and power of our being that we have obtained from our birthright from our Father, all the knowledge we have gained by our experiences in the spirit life or in mortality will be ours, and the power of endless lives will be in us, because the spirit and the body will be inseparably joined together in glory, never more to be separated, and all eternity will be before us in which to progress and improve and rejoice, and find out more about our Father and Jesus Christ, our Elder Brother, the great Mediator and Exemplar, whom we are to follow always, and joy will be made supreme and perfect. In this life we only have it imperfectly, for the body without the spirit cannot receive a fulness of joy, neither can the spirit without the body. The elements of both are eternal, but each of us has an individual personality. When we were born in the spirit, that was our first estate. Now we are in our second estate, and when the third estate comes, if we have been faithful in both, and obtained this great blessing of the spirit and the body joined together in one, in perfection, in complete harmony with the Father and with the Son and with the Holy Ghost, and all the great and mighty and just and pure and honest of heart of all the centuries into one great kingdom and glory, oh, how happy we shall be in shouting "Hallelujah to his holy Name!" 

CLOSING INJUNCTION TO FAITHFULNESS.  

I feel that I can do that this afternoon, echoing the anthem by the choir. I do not want to take up too much' time. Perhaps I have talked too long already. There are a number of brethren here whom all the people want to hear. I rejoice with them and glorify God to know that the organization of this Church has been fully established. Study the 107th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, elders of Israel. Read it carefully from beginning to end. Weigh every phrase in it, and see the beauty of that organization of Priesthood which the Lord has set up, and, so far, has perfected. Live as servants and priests of the Most High God, perform your duties, and set a good example. Take the hint given to you this morning by Brother Lund in regard to your tithing. We learn from President Grant of the immense amount of money that is being expended and that which is called for. Oh, if all the Latter-day Saints could realize what a blessing there is in the payment of their tithes, honestly, — which means a ; it does not mean a fifth nor a twentieth, it is the tenth, the tenth of our interest before the Lord, — if they would do that we would have no difficulty in complying with the requests that are coming in by the hundreds every clay of our lives there in the office — for appropriations for different objects that are very good, but there are'not means enough now to comply with the demands. 

If all the servants of God, high priests, seventies, elders, and the members of the lesser Priesthood, would obey that commandment of Jesus Christ, that is, to pay their tenth, and the means come into the hands of the servants of God, who are honestly and faithfully and patiently striving to use it and distribute it to bring about the best results, what a blessing it would be to them individually, for they would grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth, and have confidence in God when they pray, and it would be an example to the Saints and be a blessing to the Church to which we belong, this splendid organization that God has set up to continue an,d abide. Faithful and true should be those who have received the authority of the holy Priesthood, honest and pure in their dealings with one another, and in their dealings with the Lord. 

The tithing is called "a voluntary contribution." But what should that be? It should be a tenth, just as the Lord has commanded. And so, of course, in regard to all other duties in the Church. That is not the only one, by any means. Every one of us Latter-day Saints should endeavor to be a member of the Church in the full sense of the word, baptized into Christ, having put on Christ, trying to carry out the commandments of Jesus Christ, trying to live in the spirit of Jesus Christ, so that we shall not be ashamed when we stand up .in the midst of that great concourse in judgment, and behold the face of our Redeemer, and realize that he is indeed what he has been proclaimed to be. Let us be members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the full sense of the word, and use our talents and abilities, such as they are, in the service of the Lord, and we will find the truth of his promise : "Behold I come. My reward is with me, but my work is before me." Do your work, Israel, and gain the reward through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The duet "God With Us" was sung by James H. Nielson, tenor, and Raymond Williams, baritone. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the testimonies that have been borne during the sessions of this conference, and am very happy, for in my heart there are, today, feelings of gratitude to our Father in heaven that I also know that that which the brethren have testified to is true. 

WHY LATTER-DAY SAINTS ARE POSITIVE IN THEIR RELIGIOUS DECLARATIONS. 

It undoubtedly seems a very positive position for us to take, to be able to speak with such certainty concerning the work the Lord is doing in the world, in our day; to speak with such certainty concerning the visitation the prophet Joseph Smith received a hundred years ago, wherein the Father and the Son actually appeared to him. We may impress our friends, by reason of our positive position, with arrogance, but that is not the thought that is in our hearts. We know what we know, and we testify to it in earnestness and in humility. I remember a gentleman, a minister, said on one occasion, in a private discussion which I had with him, that he thought we were too positive about the things of religion. He thought we had not considered the question of God enough to be able to speak with such certainty. He informed me that he belonged to a church that was several hundred years older than the one to which I belonged, and he said that his church had been considering these questions for a long time and had altered their view and their opinion about a good many theological questions. I granted that that was true; and he ventured the assertion that after we had been discussing these theological questions as long as they had, perhaps we would change our opinion also. And in order to establish his point he used this illustration : 

"If you had a problem to give for solution and you selected ten boys to solve the problem, and you gave one of them ten days in which to study it, and then another boy nine days and still another boy eight, and so forth, until you had one boy studying on the problem but one day and one studying ten days; now which boy, at the conclusion of the ten days, would know most about the problem, the one who had been studying but one day or the one who had studied ten days?" 

Well, you would have to concede, as I did, that if all things were equal, of course, the boy that had been studying ten days ought to know most about the problem. 

"Well, there you are," he said; "we have been studying it longer than you have, and you are one of the youngest churches, and so you are likely to change your mind when you study it a little longer." 

"But," I said, "suppose the boy who has had the problem but one day receives the visit of a professor who knows all about the problem and who illustrates it so that now it is perfectly clear to the mind of the boy, who knows most about it, the boy who has thus been aided, only having had the chance to study it one day, or the boy who has been dreaming about it for ten days ?" 

_ "Why," he said, "of course, the boy who was thus aided and assisted knew most about the problem." 

Then I said: "That is exactly where we stand." Joseph Smith did not know, because of earthly wisdom and his reading of the scriptures, more about our Father in heaven and his Son Jesus Christ, than the learned ministers of the world. Not by that means did he obtain his knowledge, but in the few moments that he knelt in the sacred grove in the presence of the Father and the Son he knew more about God the eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ than all the ministers of all the world ever have known, or ever will know, except  shall be, in like manner, informed and instructed. So that the wisdom he had came to him from the source to which men must go if they shall know our Father in heaven. 

While we speak with this certainty and this positiveness, we desire to be charitable to our brethren and sisters who have not this faith. I think of their condition with a feeling- of almost pity and sorrow. I realize that among them are many who desire to do right, who do right so far as they have knowledge, who are blinded because of the traditions of their fathers, who have ears but hear not, eyes and see not, and hearts that can not understand. We have not read the scriptures and obtained this superior knowledge because of our increased intelligence. If we should sweep away the knowledge that has come to the Latter-day Saints in the revelations con- tained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, in the revelations we have conoerning the great plan of salvation, as revealed in the Book of Mormon, and other inspired utterances that have fallen from the lips of the prophets of God from the days of Joseph until this day, — if we should sweep those away, and have nothing but the fragmentary utterances of the Lord Jesus Christ and his apostles, as found in the scriptures, left, we would not know any better than others the truth concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ, nor the plan of church organization. 

Just at this time the whole Christian world is considering the question of a unity of churches, acknowledging that the system that has produced division is wrong, and makes for weakness and not for strength. Now, how in the world will they ever unite, except that which is lost shall come again? Their lamentable condition has been produoed because men have not preserved, from the days of the Redeemer's ministry among his servants on the earth, the truth Jesus taught. When we think of his three years of ministry it must have amounted to hundreds of sermons, hours in length, in which he discoursed upon all the fundamental truths of the gospel. There evidently was no question in the minds of his followers as to what they should do to be saved, but the difficulty with the present situation is that we have but a fragment of what he uttered. If you should combine all the several narratives, as they are found in the Gospels, into one narrative and eliminate the duplication of the story, it is said that it could be read in an hour and fifteen minutes and would constitute but seventeen pages of our scripture. That is a very small part of the great message which the Master delivered to men. No wonder the world is in confusion and some believe in worshiping on the seventh day and others disagree with that opinion and each seems to find some scripture to justify his position. No wonder there is doubt and uncertainty concerning the subject of baptism, concerning the form and the manner of it, because the details concerning that doctrine have not been preserved; and likewise concerning the organization of the church. It is true that the names of prophets and apostles and pastors and teachers occur in the sacred record, but the duties of each are not so well defined; the work and the labor and the relative position of these several officers are not set forth so that men can work out again or reestablish, without further knowledge, the true organization of the Church of Christ. When I think of the contention of our Protestant brethren, that the world had gone into idolatry and had lost the truth, and that a state of apostasy existed up to the time of the Reformation, I cannot blame these men. It seems to me that there ought to be rejoicing among those who belong to the Protestant cause that there is proof of the truthfulness of their contention found in the. utterances of the Lord Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith, who verified what those great reformers had been declaring, namely, that there was an apostasy and the truth was not in the earth. What has happened, from the time they took their stand and made these positive declarations, that gives evidence that the truth which had been lost was restored? For they themselves confessed it did not exist in the earth. None of them claimed that an angel had visited them and restored the Priesthood; none of them claimed to have received any new word from the Lord clarifying the situation, and making the doctrines of the church now plain and simple, so that the way-faring man, though a fool, need not err therein. 

I wish we had all that Jesus uttered. I believe it would be perfectly easy to make it plain to the minds of men who are honest that there has been a departure from the gospel as Jesus established it, and that they themselves ane going at cross purposes to the plan he devised. Why don't we have more of that which Jesus spoke? Simply because years elapsed before some men wrote what they could remember of the sermons, or the substance of the sermons, of Christ; and it was only a very brief account; after all, precious as it is, very meagre and not sufficient to guide all men to a common understanding of the gospel. Every word that fell from the lips of the Master was essential; not one word was idle, not one word was useless, but every word was essential for the salvation of men; and "Mormonism" proclaims to the world that that which has been lost has come again, and until that which has been lost does come again the world will continue to be in darkness and in ignorance of the truth; and not until men shall go to the Source that Joseph Smith applied to himself, when on bended knee he sought the Lord to know which of all the denominations was right, shall they know the truth. Not until all men shall acknowledge that that and that alone is the Source from whence light and knowledge must come, can the world come to a unity of the faith. Until that day we shall find the world wandering in darkness, hither and thither, seeking light, but can not find it, their eyes being blinded. O how the world ought to rejoice that in this day that which so long has been lost has been restored, the fulness of the gospel, the power and authority of the holy Priesthood, the doctrines of the Church, and not only that but the organization of the Church as well in its perfection and in its power. When I think of the efforts of men to rebuild the Church, — and I do not want to belittle their efforts — I do not blame them. I  that Joseph Smith and his associates could not have done any better than Martin Luther, nor than Wesley or others, except for the fact that the Lord revealed himself to him. So I do not belittle the efforts of these men who did the best they could with the light and knowledge which they had, but their knowledge was limited. Their effort to rebuild' and establish the Church of Christ reminds me of the experience I had with my first watch. I wanted to see what it was made of, so I took it to pieces, and I had so many wheels that when I tried to put it together again I could not get all those wheels within that case. I put in as many as I could and it looked like a watch all right; but it did not serve the purpose for which a watch is made, to keep the time. Every wheel was important and necessary And so men have tried to fix up a church. They have read of numerous officers, apostles, and prophets and pastors, but they could not fit them together. They just took a few officers — like I did with t v e wheels of my watch — and made it look like a church, with a deacon arid an elder, or an elder and a priest. It might seem like a church, but it was as useless to accomplish the thing for which the Church of Christ was established, as my watch was useless without its important wheels, each one fitting into the other; for it is said of old that the head could not say to the foot : "I have no need of thee;" but every officer in his place for his purpose, for the work of the ministry, for the perfection of the Saints. 

These, our Christian brethren, have done the best they could, but they have failed, and it remained for the Lord to build his Church again. No man can do it. He is a Master Builder and he has sent his inspired servants who have taught men the plan and the pattern of the organization of his Church and have fitted in these officers, so that, while the "Mormon" Church is admired and even envied by those opposed to us, as the most wonderful organization in the world, the most wonderful part of it is that it works, and that it does not become a machine that easily gets out of joint or kilter, but it works forward for the material salvation of the people as well as for their {spiritual salvatiqn. Men may duplicate the organization of this Church and when they have done it, when they have fitted in the officers and given them their appointed places, still they shall have a dead thing. You may establish a perfect system of electric lighting in this building or this city, you may have your dynamo, you may have your wires running through the streets, properly insulated, your poles and everything complete, and the globes here, but you can have no light, and no power, until through your perfect system there runs light and power and heat. And so you may have a perfect church organization, but it will be perfectly dead and useless unless, going through it, there is the power of the living God, which is the source of life and light to his Church. We have the perfect system and it has, radiating through it, the power of the living God, the authority of the holy Priesthood, and the ordinances thus performed are efficacious and valid for men on the earth and remain sealed upon their heads through their faithfulness, even into the eternal world. THE GLORY OF THE RESURRECTION OF CHRIST. 

I rejoice in the testimonies that we have listened to on this Easter Sabbath day, with respect to the resurrection of the Redeemer, and when I think of his ascension from the grave, I rejoice to know that He is the Life and that he is the Way. And when I think also of removing that last act in the great drama of his life, his coming forth from the tomb- — remove that and you take away the crowning glory of the ministry of the Redeemer. Had the stone not been rolled away and had he not risen from the dead, then it would have been exceedingly difficult for men to have had the faith in him they now have. He had power in his life over disease that the sick could be healed; he had power over death that men could be called from death back to mortal life. Many had witnessed this. He had power over the elements that the winds and the waves should obey his voice. He could speak, and loaves and fishes would materialize under his power. He had more power than had ever been revealed to man from the beginning of time on this earth, but there remained one thing more. He promised, just before he laid his body down, that he would be equal to the emergency and bring it up from the dead, not back to mortal life, but to a newness of life, to immortality and eternal life. And when he arose from the dead and came forth in splendor, a resurrected, immortal and eternal being, he then arose to the height of power, of glory and of majesty, and became the Master of all things, even death yielding to him, and he said he did only that which he had witnessed his Father do. Then, if it brought glory and honor and power and majesty to the Master to rise from the dead, so in like manner did it bring glory and honor and power and majesty to his Father to have in a similar manner arisen from the grave to possess a glorified body dwelling in the eternal world as the great organizer and presiding genius over all his creations, his sons and his daughters. 

A TESTIMONY THAT CHRIST AROSE FROM THE TOMB AND LIVES. 

Therefore, we rejoice in the witness we have that Jesus told the truth, that the testimony of his disciples concerning his resurrection is the truth, and we also know that the testimony of Joseph Smith and his brethren, who looked upon the face of the Redeemer, is true. I bear witness that I know what they have said is the truth. I know, as well as I know that I live, and look into your faces, that Jesus Christ lives, and he is the Redeemer of the world, that he arose from the dead with a tangible body, and still has that real body which Thomas touched when he thrust his hands into his side and felt the wound of the spear, and also the prints of the nails in his hands. I know by the witness and the revelations of God to me that Thomas told the truth. I know that Joseph Smith told the truth, for mine eyes have seen. For in the visions of the Lord to my soul, I have seen Christ's face, I have heard his voice. I know that he lives, that he is the Redeemer of the world, and that as he arose from the dead, 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 41 

a tangible and real individual, so shall all men arise in the resurrection from the dead. 

The Lord bless us to keep this faith in our hearts that we may go forth with charity for our brethren and sisters of the world, intrusted with these glorious truths for their blessings, that we may bring to them that which they sadly need, the fulness of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for their salvation. May they divest themselves of pride and of preconceived notions and prejudices, and not despise the source from whence this message comes, and not be as blind and ignorant as their fathers were before them, who thought no good could come from Nazareth. 

And if it should now happen, as it has happened, that from a despised source there has come the light of the Lord for the blessing of the world from a despised "Mormon," Oh, may our father's children divest themselves of blindness and see the glorious truth that has come that we now offer to the east and to the west, to the north and to the south, for their salvation in this life and in the world to come. 

The Lord bless us to do our part, and bless them that they may see that we are their friends, that we love them, and we would not harm them, that we hold precious and sacred things in trust for them and for ourselves, that we may honor and respect these glorious privileges that are ours, rise to the emergency with due gratitude, embrace every commandment of our Father, and keep it that we may continue to be the light of the world and the salt of the earth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Mrs. Franzeska Raabe Parkinson sang a soprano solo, "The Lord's Prayer." 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

My heart is filled with a desire to say something to this wonderful audience, that will be prompted by the inspiration of our heavenly Father. I regret that, since I was presiding at the overflow meeting this morning, I did not hear what was said at the meeting in this building. I have been thrilled with the testimonies that have been borne this afternoon. The remarks of President Penrose were powerful, although he is nearly ninety years of age. In him we have a living witness of the blessing of our heavenly Father for his servants. 

I was touched, too, with the thrilling faith and testimony of Brother Ballard. 

WHAT IS THE POWER BEHIND THE CHURCH? 

He made some references to an electric lighting system. What is it that makes the light? As he explained^ it is not the globe, nor the wires, nor the poles, nor the generators; but it is the water on the wheel that does the work. One hundred years ago, in the interest of humanity, the heavens were opened. God' the Father and Jesus Christ, his Son, came to the earth and revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith this gospel of Jesus Christ. What is it that gives this Church its power? What is it that has brought all these people together on this occasion? Why have you come from afar to attend this conference? Because of the Spirit of our Father in heaven. It is this Spirit that is the water on the wheel. 

EXAMPLES OF THIS POWER. 

Some six months ago a rather delicate little woman came into my office. She is the wife of one of our missionaries. When her husband came to see me, as he was starting out to preach the gospel, I said to him : "Young man, what is it going to cost you to take this mission?" He replied: "I don't know, I have no idea. But," he continued, "my little wife and I have been saving for a long time. It has been her ambition and mine, as it has been the ambition of my widowed mother, that sometime I would go on a mission. Our savings in the bank amount to $1,500, and we think probably that will be enough." 

"My girl," I said to the little wife, "how are you getting along? Have you spent all that money yet?" "No, not yet," she replied. "How much have you spent?" I asked. 

"Not any, yet," she replied, "my strawberries and peaches and garden stuff have been so profitable that instead of taking money out of the bank I have sent my husband all he needed and have added two hundred dollars to the account." That is water on the wheel. 

Not very long ago I called into my office a young man in whom I am greatly interested. He came with a smile and said : "You have a job for me, have you?" 

"Yes, I have a job for you?" 

"All right, what is it?" 

"I want you to go on a mission." 

"On a mission? I should say not, I can't go on a mission. I haven't been very active in Church work. My folks have been sending me to school. I have just been graduated." 

He was graduated with a bachelor of arts degree. 

"I have been studying all these years," he continued, "preparing myself to make a living. It is my duty now to go to work and help my folks." 

A few words to his excellent mother, a few words to his excellent father, a little encouragement to the boy himself, and away he went to preach the gospel — to induce his fellow men to strive to live in accordance with the perfect life and example of Jesus Christ. 

We are all familiar with the parable of Lazarus and the rich man. This missionary having gone into the field has been touched by the power and Spirit of God. The water has been working on  wheel, and, like Lazarus, he has become greatly interested in his friends who are left at home. He wants me to take up a labor with his associates to get them into the mission field. He urges especially that I talk to his brother. "I want him," he says, "to take a mission as soon as mine is completed." 

In my pocket I have a letter from him of fourteen pages. He writes that he has, during his college course, been studying philosophy, history, logic, ethics, etc., and he is amazed to find that all the wisdom of the wise men of the ages is contained in the gospel of Jesus Christ. He begins to see that there is water on our wheel. 

This young man has gone into the mission field. The Spirit has touched him and he writes giving me the names of his chums. If any of them are here this afternoon they will probably be keeping out of my way. He gives me a long list and asks me to work with them and send them into the mission field. When they are ready to come he says he will give them help, he will give them service, he will send them outlines of the doctrines, he will give them the line of argument that means more than any kind of logic except that which is found in the gospel oi Jesus Christ. 

HOW MAY WE KNOW THE TRUTH ? 

My life has been devoted pretty largely to a study of mathematics The conclusions that I have reached in this work have been based upon some sort of definite and positive hypotheses and in coming to conclusions from these hypotheses, I have moved by logical steps to definite and certain conclusions. 

Now, how can we know that the gospel is true ? This afternoon you heard the testimony of Brother Ballard, you heard the testimony of President Penrose. If I were to ask all those present who know that the gospel is true to stand, nearly all of this great multitude would probably arise. In the Assembly Hall, this morning, three or four speakers each stood up and said he knew that Joseph Smith was a prophet, that Joseph Smith is a prophet, that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. How can they know it? How can they speak thus positively? 

I will tell you how. Jesus himself has said : "This is not my doctrine but his that sent me," and "if any man" — not a few — but "if any man will do the will of my Father which is in heaven, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Therefore I say to you and to all the world, all a man needs to do is to live in accordance with the gospel teachings and he will know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether the man speaks of himself. 

MISSIONARIES LEARN THE TRUTH THROUGH SERVICE. 

Brethren and sisters, it is one hundred years ago this spring since the heavens were opened and the gospel was revealed. Those who have gone into the field to give service, without an exception, so far as I know, have gone not for money, not for honor, not for personal gain, but because they loved the Lord. In the mission field missionaries work for the good of others; they do good to their fellowmen, they live in strict conformity with the Master's teachings and the promise in Holy Writ is fulfilled because into their heart comes that knowledge and each one says: "I know that Jesus is the Christ, that the gpspel has been revealed and that those who keep the commandments of our Father in heaven will be saved in his kingdom." 

Let us struggle on together, remembering that we all have weaknesses; let us live on, struggle on, and hope on, that our shortcomings may be overcome; that we may be thoroughly worthy of the wonderful blessings promised to the faithful, that the purposes of our Father may be fulfilled and that they may be fulfilled swiftly; I ask it, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

It is because of a spirit of obedience to the request of the President of the Church that I stand here at this time. I feel my weakness and utter inability without the aid of the Lord to supplement the splendid discourses that have been delivered at this conference thus far. ' 

It has been impressed upon my mind, by the instructions we have received, that our heavenly Father should be our eternal refuge and our guide through life. God said unto Moses: "I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me." One of old worshiped the god of ambition, and when earthly joys had grown dim, and earthly hopes been crushed, he said, out of the depths of a broken heart, "Had I but served my God with half the zeal I served my king, he would not in mine old age have left me naked unto my enemies." Another one, who was wealthy, when he was dying, said : "All that I have kept I have lost, and all that I have given away I have." What a splendid example of the lesson and value of sacrifice! 

God is our refuge. To him Oliver Cowdery went when he was a school-teacher, boarding with the parents of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. After conversing about the plates, from which the Boole of Mormon was translated, Oliver appealed unto the Lord, and it was revealed unto him that of a verity, in truth Joseph did receive these plates from the angel Moroni. He went to help Joseph translate the sacred record, and in a revelation that God gave to the Prophet, he told Oliver that he had heard his prayers on that night; therefore Oliver knew that Joseph was a prophet, and that the work was true, because no one but himself and God knew that he had prayed for divine guidance in this matter. 

The Spirit of the Lord is given to those who are worthy of it, and by that Spirit, as the Book of Mormon says, we may know the truth of all things. The Latter-day Saints have an anointing of the Holy One, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and this gift and guide makes it necessary that they be taught of men in things pertaining to God. 

As we have been told, this afternoon, by President Penrose, "Truth is knowledge of things as they are and as they were, and' as they are to come." This truth embraces every principle of the gospel. Joseph sought unto the Father and the glorious results are manifest. Elijah, in the power of his Priesthood, gave to the prophet the keys of salvation for the dead. 

"An angel from on high, The long, long silence broke, Descending from the sky, These gracious words he spoke; Lo, in Cumorah's lonely hill A sacred record lies concealed. 

"It speaks of Joseph's seed, And makes the remnant known, Of nations long since dead, Who once had dwelt alone. The fulness of the gospel, too, Its pages will reveal to view." 

So the sacred Nephite record came forth, another witness to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. Moses came and restored the keys of the gathering unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and behold the miraculous development of the gathering in all the earth, especially the gathering of the Jews, and the events that are making that great movement certain and near of accomplishment. 

Brethren and sisters, we have the knowledge, in this Church, that will enable every man and woman to secure salvation. We are told by the Apostle John : "Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God : Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: and every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God : and this is that spirit of anti-Christ." 

With some sects a belief in the divinity of Christ is not required. Spiritualism, particularly, aims to destroy belief in the doctrine of the essentiality of the atoning blood of Jesus Christ. But the gospel teaches the divinity of Christ. It testifies that he is the Redeemer, the Son of God. 

The Apostle Paul says : "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ." And so I testify unto you, that in the gospel, in the Church, is every blessing and ordinace to be found which will bring forth eternal happiness and joy in the kingdom of God. How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in his excellent word. What more can he say. than to you he hath said, You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled? 

I hear my testimony that Jesus lives; that he is the Christ, the Sou of God, the Redeemer of the world; that Joseph Smith is a prophel of Hod, and that the men who have stood at the head of this Church, and who now stand at the head of this, God's Church, as prophets, seers, and revelators, arc wise shepherds, faithful leaders, fathers to the people and to all mankind who will listen to their instructions. 1 hear this testimony humbly, in the fear of God, and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem. "The Lord Victorious" (Mascagni), with great beauty and effect, calling forth much commendation for the leader and members of the chorus. 

Conference adjourned, until Monday morning at 10 o'clock. Benediction was pronounced by Elder William L. Rich, President of the Bear Lake stake of Zion. 


