Morning
06 04 1920


ELDER GEO. F. RICHARDS 

Ninety years ago today the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized in Fayette, Seneca county, New York, with six members, and today we celebrate in conference the anniversary of that glorious event. 

OUR ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION IMPRESSIVE AND GLORIOUS. 

One hundred years ago, possibly today, that other great event transpired when God the Eternal Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, condescended to appear unto the boy Joseph Smith, not yet fifteen years of age, whom the Lord had raised up to represent him in the ushering in of the gospel dispensation of the fulness of times. In our conference we have been celebrating also this glorious event, and taking, in connection with our conference sessions, the presentation last even133 , by Brother Evan Stephens and the choir, of that beautiful cantata, "The Vision," with the words so appropriate, the story so beautifully told and set to music and sung with such inspiration, I feel that the celebration has been most fitting, impressive, and glorious. 

I was pleased to hear expressions from some distinguished visitors we had with us yesterday that they were profoundly impressed by our services. I feel sure, that all those who have attended this conference, being honest in their hearts, and desiring the uplift of humanity, have been similarly impressed, and I have felt, during -this conference, as no doubt you have also, that it only requires time for this, our religion, to make its way. "Mormonism" is in the ascendency. I rejoice with all my heart to be identified with this work which I know is true. I know that there is in it the power of God unto salvation in this life and in the life to come. And though we have been in a minority, and are still, so far as members are concerned, the time will come when the truths which we represent, which we are trying to live, and which we have preached to the world for nearly a hundred years, will triumph and prevail over error. 

SIGNIFICANCE OF JOSEPH^ GREAT VISION. 

The importance of the Great Vision referred to, justifies, I think, directing my remarks particularly thereto, notwithstanding nearly all of the speakers in the conference have spoken upon that subject. I would call attention by reading again a verse from the sayings of Joseph himself, telling his own story, so that we may be refreshed in our minds. In regard to what the Son told Joseph, he says : "I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that 'they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof.' " 

I know not, my brethren and sisters, how offensive this statement is to the sectarian world, but we accept it as the words of God and not of men, and we think that they are defensible. For instance, the saying that Joseph was to join with none of them, for they were all wrong, that means to us that there had been a departure from the truth, and from the Church that was instituted' in the days of the Savior. Now then, let us reason upon this for a moment. I might call your attention, in connection with this matter, to a saying of the Lord through his servant Isaiah, in regard to his knowledge of things which are to be, recorded in the 46th chapter of Isaiah: "I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times all things that are not. yet done." The Prophet Amos says : "Surely the Lord God doeth nothing but he revealeth his secrets to his servants, the prophets." Whether or not we might call the apostasy a secret, it certainly was known to the Lord in advance and we might reason thus : If there was to be a universal GENERAL CONFERENCE.  from the Church, then the Lord would reveal that important fact to his servants, the prophets. 

Joseph Smith, a boy fourteen years of age, however, had not studied this proposition out in this way, to reach the deductions that we have reached, but by a study of the scriptures, we do find that the Lord, through his prophets, did predict the apostate conditions which were to be. And reasoning a little further we conclude that if there had been a universal apostasy such a thing would be of record. So we consult the histories by men who have written upon ecclesiastical subjects, and we find the apostasy given in minute detail, step by step, until it had become universal. "The earth had become defiled under the inhabitants thereof," for they had transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances, and broken the everlasting covenant. Men would wander from sea to sea, and from the north even unto the south, seeking the words of the Lord and could not find them. So far, therefore, as this declaration is concerned, there is sufficient evidence before us to prove that the statement is true that- they were all wrong. 

. Now in regard to that other statement : All their creeds were an  abomination in his sight; that seems a serious arraignment of churches, and their creeds. Let us consider that a moment. What constitutes or may constitute an abomination in the sight of God? It does seem to me that the belief in and advocacy of that which is not true and the making of it a part of religious creeds must be abominable in the sight of him who is the God of truth. If the Savior had not told Joseph this great fact, the evidence of it was before him, and he would no doubt have discovered it in later years as his judgment developed, for he knew that in the creeds everywhere it was taught that God is a personage having no body, no parts, nor passions. Joseph now saw before him the Father, not such as was represented by the creeds, but an immortal, glorified being, and with him his Son. Of this there could be no mistake, for the one, introducing the other to Joseph, said : "This is my beloved Son, hear him." There Joseph saw the Father and the Son, the Son indeed in the very likeness and image of his father. 

An examination of the creeds will reveal other principles there set forth which are man-made and are in conflict with the truth of heaven as it has been revealed and is recorded in the scriptures of the Holy Bible, as well as in the other standard works of this Church. It was a necessary thing that Joseph, whom the Lord had raised up to be his mouthpiece for the ushering in of this great gospel dispensation, preparing the way for the great and glorious coming of our Lord, should have a perfect knowledge of the Father and of the Son, that he might be able to stand and to be secure in his position and to accomplish his work which the Lord had for him to do, and a wonderful work it has been. 

When our first parents were shut out from the Garden of Eden, they were told to worship the Lord their God all the days of their lives, and as they prayed, we are told that the voice of the Lord came 135  toward the Garden of Eden, for they were shut out from his presence, and the Apostle Paul declares to the Corinthians that we are required to live by faith and not by sight, but, notwithstanding this fact, the Lord has left abundant evidences of his existence, of his power, and of his love. We have the argument of the Apostle Paul upon this point, which I consider is very forceful. He says : "For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse." 

THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS OP JOSEPH AN EVIDENCE OF THE DIVINITY 

OF HIS CALLING. 

As the things which God has done are evidences of his existence, power, and love, so the things that were accomplished by Joseph Smith are an evidence of the divinity of his calling and that he was supported and sustained by his Father in heaven. Not only did he have a visitation from the Father and the Son, but the Father also spoke to him by the mouth of the angel Moroni, who delivered to Joseph the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, which book contains a fulness of the gospel as delivered by Christ, our Savior himself to the ancient inhabitants of this American continent, and this in fulfilment of the predictions that there should be a restoration of the gospel by an angel, which thing could not have been, had there not first been a falling away. 

The organizing of the Church, ninety years ago today, was the beginning of the establishment of the Church and Kingdom of God that was to be set up, according to the predictions of the prophets, never to be thrown down nor given to another people. It is to fill the whole world. The perfection and efficiency of the Church organization prove that Joseph was divinely inspired. By the mouth of John the Baptist the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood were conferred upon Joseph and Oliver which enabled them to baptize, a power and authority that was not known and that did not exist in the sectarian churches. 

The keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood also were conferred by Peter, James and John, enabling the Prophet, with those who should assist him, to accomplish all the work pertaining to this great latterday dispensation. 

Moses committed unto him the keys of the gathering of scattered Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north. Zion is being gathered in fulfilment of the predictions of the prophets under this spirit of gathering that came through Moses. 

Elias conferred the keys of the Abrahamic dispensation in which he lived, and Elijah the keys of the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. That spirit, too, is abroad in the world. Temples are built, and the work is being accomplished for the dead as well as for the living, and all these things, with the thouGENERAL CONFERENCE.  of other great accomplishments under the direction and organization of the Prophet Joseph, prove him to be a true prophet of God. 

In view of the importance of this, the dispensation of the fulness of times, it is only reasonable to believe that our Father would reserve one of the greatest of those noble spirits who were faithful in their previous state of existence, to come forth and lead the people of this dispensation as his mouthpiece and prophet. This we believe was done, and that Joseph Smith was one of the greatest prophets that ever lived, and that his life's work was one of the greatest that ever a prophet accomplished. 

There is another evidence which is more convincing to me, even than all these, and that is the witness of the Spirit of God that comes through the Holy Ghost, bearing testimony to my soul. I am convinced in every fiber of my being that Joseph Smith was indeed a divinely inspired prophet of God, and that his story of the vision is true, and I bear this testimony to you today in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning," was sung by J. R. Boshard and Florence Meldrum. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

The opening remarks of the President at this conference were very inspiring and gave promise of a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord upon the people. It has been so — a time of peace, a time of instruction, of thanksgiving and praise and of pure joy. 

ETERNAL AND TEMPORAL VALUES. 

I would like to say a few words this morning, my brethren and sisters, upon the subject of investments, and I will take for my text the saying of a noted writer to this effect: "Always distinguish between what is of eternal value, and of what is a mere temporal ease." This is a significant remark. It is worthy of the profoundest consideration. There are many things with which we come in contact, many things of importance, but there are some things that are more important than others. 

This is the land of Zion in which we dwell. It is a blessed land, it is a fruitful land. The soil readily responds to the industry of the farmer, and by his toil means come into his possession. The wages of the laboring man today are very good. He gets a splendid reward for his efforts and thereby means come into his hands. It is true, that we are confronted with high cost of living, but notwithstanding this, with many of our people, perhaps hundreds and hundreds of them, there is a surplus, and, I believe, as remarked by Brother Stephen L. Richards, that with this surplus there comes the responsibility of trusteeship. The means that come into our hands are a 137  blessing from the Lord and he expects us to expend them wisely and well and to be very careful in our management of affairs. I think that the Lord particularly expects us as a people to avoid debt. A man who is weighed down by a burden of debt might just as well be in prison, because it is to him a constant worry and anxiety. 

One of the first considerations that devolves upon us is to get out of debt. The Latter-day Saints should heed this counsel, for it is counsel that comes to us from time to time from the leaders of the Church. 

The mercantile world, the oil business, the mining fields, offer opportunity for investment of our surplus; but, brethren and sisters, the very greatest wisdom and judgment should be exercised in the matter of investment. And when it comes to mining stocks it needs only to be said that this is a very risky business, and so the Latterday Saints should be wise and prudent and not rush hastily into enterprises that spring up on every side. There is danger in it. Sometimes offerings come to us from a distance, some great undertaking that reads well on paper, the prospectus of which is very fine. It is inspiring, it is enticing. Wonderful things, it is announced, will be accomplished if we will only put our money into it, and yet possibly we do not know a mortal thing about the people who are connected with the enterprise. Who is the president? Oh, well, we don't know. We have never seen him. Who are the directors in the company? Oh, well, we don't know, but just look at the prospectus, see what it says. Isn't that sufficient? No, I say it is not. It is not sufficient at all. People ought not to go into those things without knowing something of the character of the people who are behind them. Now this is true also of enterprises abroad in the world that come to us. It is true, likewise, of enterprises at home, even right here in Zion. When investments are offered they should be subjected to the greatest scrutiny and careful investigation. We want to know, should know who is behind them. What is the character of the man who stands at the head? What is the character of the men who make up the board of directors, and who administer the affairs of the company? Are they safe men, are they strong men, reliable people of the community? Well, if they are, then the risk is not so great, of course, and so, I think that it would be much safer for the Latter-day Saints generally to invest their means at home in enterprises that have originated among us, in enterprises that have been and are successful in which the stock is paying good returns. It is the results that we want. And that reminds me of a story. 

One man said to another : "What is Professor Jones doing now ?" 

"Oh, well, he is trying to decipher a Babylonian tablet." 

"Are there any results?" 

"Yes, his wife is down with nervous prostration, and he has sent his children to relatives." 

Very definite results. And so, when we come to invest our means, we want results, we want good results. A successful man from a worldly standpoint is a man who makes' good investments. An unGENERAL CONFERENCE.  man is a man who makes unsuccessful investments and the results are poor and bring trouble and anxiety to him. Now, these things are very important. We have to deal with them. We must accumulate means for we have certain obligations that rest upon us, the support of our families, the education of our children, the maintainence of our homes. The man who will not provide for his family, the Apostle said, is worse than an infidel, and so these obligations devolve upon us. 

AN INVESTMENT OF ETERNAL VALUE. 

But the thing that I have been emphasizing might be regarded as something pertaining to a mere temporal ease. Let us pause for a moment, let us reflect upon some investments that have an eternal value. What think you of tithing as an investment? "Why, Brother Clawson," says someone in surprise, "you don't pretend to say that the paying of tithing into the Church is an investment. When a man puts his money into the hands of the Lord's bishop, or into the bishop's storehouse, and he doesn't get any apparent dividend from it, why, you don't call that an investment?" 

Yes, that is an investment of an eternal nature. 

"Oh, I think you are mistaken, Brother Clawson, about that. You know tithing pertains to temporal things and is a temporal law and there is nothing eternal connected with it." 

Oh, yes, I think there is a spiritual value connected with tithing and it is made very apparent, in the revelation upon that subject. The question arises, what is tithing for? We speak of it, we emphasize it in our conferences, we urge the people to remember the law and to honor it. Now what is it for? We are not left in the dark regarding this matter. The Lord has made it clear. He gave the law. No man is responsible for it. The prophet of the Church, the president, is not responsible for this word from the Lord. "Tithing is for the building of mine house," says the Lord, "and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood and for the debts of the presidency of my Church." That is what it is for, and that has an eternal significance and fixed value, and I look upon it as a splendid investment. Is it not a privilege, is it not an opportunity to assist in the laying of the foundation of Zion? That is what we have been doing for ninety years. Nearly a hundred years we have been laying the foundation of Zion. Is it laid yet, is it fully laid, thoroughly laid ? I would not say it. I do not know, I think it will require all of a hundred years and more to lay the foundation, because upon it we are building the Church and Kingdom of God, which is never to be thrown down, and the work will never be given to other people. That is the kind of a foundation we must lay. You have had a hand in it, I have had part in it; that is, if we have observed this law and other duties and obligations. Oh, it is a blessed thing. I think it will pay a good dividend. 

"And for the building of mine house" — here on this block is one house of the Lord and other temples are being erected in which great spiritual blessings will come to the Latter-day Saints, largely through the paying of their tithing and obligations. 

Now, I will tell you, we could not build a house of God without means and yet, when it is accomplished, the building itself is of least importance, all the means that went into it is of the least importance. It is the ordinances of the house that are of eternal value. And then again the law of tithing speaks of the Priesthood. There is an investment for you of real worth, of most vital significance, the authority and power of the Priesthood. Could any man make a better investment than to secure the Priesthood? "Yes, but Brother Clawson, can he buy this blessing?" No, no, he can not. "Well, how can he invest if he has no money to put into it ?" You can't get in that way. It is an investment that comes in a different form entirely. Well, what is required? Only faithfulness, a faithful life, devotion to the cause of God, obedience to his word, honoring his servants, and doing your duty, and that will entitle you to have a share in this great investment that is open to all the men of the Church from the least to the greatest. 

"And the debts of the Presidency of my Church." I do not take that to mean that the tithing is to be used for the personal obligations and debts of the leading men of the Church or the Presidency. You notice how this reads : "Of the debts of the Presidency of my Church." It means the obligations entered into for the Church by the Presidency. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM AS AN ETERNAL INVESTMENT. 

What think you, brethren and sisters, of the Word of Wisdom as an investment ? "Surely it is not an investment, is it ?" Oh, yes; one of the brethren at this conference has emphasized the Word of Wisdom by saying that it might be regarded as the law of health, the great law of health. Well, is not that an investment worthy of our consideration? If we can go into anything, brethren and sisters, that will bring good health, that is the very best kind of a dividend there is. And what could we do? I submit to you, what could this people do, how much could they accomplish of this mighty work without good health? Well, now, as a people we are healthy. There may be exceptions to the rule, but we are entitled to the special blessings of the Lord in this respect if we observe his great law. "Yes," but someone says, "you are emphasizing, my brother, investments of an eternal character. The Word of Wisdom, remember, is a temporal law and does not have anything particularly to do with eternal things." Well, I think, my brother, that you are slightly mistaken in that view. I grant you that the Word of Wisdom has a temporal side to it. It pertains largely to temporal things, to our physical health, the condition of our bodies and so on. But there is also a spiritual side to the Word of Wisdom which possibly is more important than the temporal, for the Lord said that all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings of the Word of Wisdom, walking in obedience to the commandments, "shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones." There is the temporal blessing and it is important and vital. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures." And there is the spiritual side to the Word of Wisdom. And these great treasures of knowledge will help us in this world and will follow us into the world to come and are of an eternal nature. We also have the promise that the destroying angel shall pass us by and not slay us. That does not mean, that no one among the Saints shall die and pass away. We are under the great edict of life, that is, sooner or later, we must lay down our bodies and pass into the spirit world, and the change will come to all of us; but the promise is made, nevertheless, and the Lord will have respect for his people. He will bless them and he will preserve them and carry them along until they shall have fulfilled the measure of their creation and accomplished their work, if they will observe to keep and do these sayings and render obedience to his law. 

MARRIAGE AN ETERNAL INVESTMENT. 

What think you, brethren and sisters, of marriage as an investment? One of the most important steps that a man or woman can take in the world. There are two kinds of marriage. One is rather a poor investment, that is, it is not as good as the other. There is marriage for time; there is marriage for time and all eternity. Here is the choice of two investments to every young man and to every young woman in the Church. Which will you have? That which is of eternal value or the thing that is of mere temporal ease? So I repeat, always distinguish between what is of eternal value and what is of a mere temporal ease." 

The Lord bless us and help us to make the proper choice and to do the right thing; always to give ear to the voice of counsel, and walk in the way of life, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) The strong testimonies given by the brethren during this conference, of the great vision, and developments connected therewith, and the unexpressed testimonies represented by those in attendance here, — are partly due to the gracious wisdom and foresight of our heavenly Father in carefully providing direct evidences sufficient to satisfy reasonable minds of the truths of these important events. There is no exact standard of the amount of evidence which should be sufficient to convince each reasonable mind. 

HOW EVIDENCE IS MEASURED. 

You cannot measure evidence or testimony by the ounce or by the pound, nor even by the number of witnesses, although the number may be of importance. I am persuaded that the Lord does not place a premium upon undue credulity. While he leaves a wise margin for faith, hope and confiding belief, he also provides proper evidence. We are told in the scriptures that, "The simple believeth every word, but the prudent man looketh well to his going." This is a good pro141  for the brethren to bear in mind when some oily-tongued agent comes to them with a beautifully lithographed certificate of stock in some "wild-cat" corporation, concerning which Brother Clawson has just told us. If they are in the frame of mind to believe every word and are not like the prudent man who "looketh well to his going," they will have time afterwards to repent of their over-confidence. 

In the coming forth of "Mormonism," the Lord provided ample testimony, — a goodly number of witnesses. As I said before, the number does not count for everything, because there is a more delicate test for reaching the truth than in the mere weight of numbers, although some importance is properly placed upon the number of witnesses. It was foreordained thtit there should be three special witnesses, besides Joseph, to the coming of the Book of Mormon. In the Constitution of the United States, two witnesses are necessary to convict for treason, and there must be two witnesses to the same overt act. Under the law of Moses, two or three witnesses were required to establish guilt punishable by death. (17 Deut. 6.) This rule was later perverted by the Jews, as the Talmud informs us that a witness though truthful might be punished if he were unfortunate enough not to have another witness to corroborate his story. 

I think the American frame of mind is somewhat illustrated in an event which occurred some years ago, wherein one of the large dailies of New York represented that it had performed a certain experiment in order to prove the incompetency of the editors of the magazines of the day, and asserted that the paper had sent out copies of good stories from Kipling, without disclosing the authorship, and that those stories had been rejected by magazines of supposed good judgment and literary skill. The statement went unchallenged for some time, until Mr. Edward Bok, editor of the Ladies' Home Journal, came forward and said : "We would like proof of that; we would like to be shown." 

In connection with the coming forth of "Mormonism," for a long while the burden rested upon the testimony of Joseph alone, and it was a tremendous' weight that he carried, and how relieved he felt when there were others who were to share the responsibility with him! Yet I take it that his uncorroborated statements, so far as having other witnesses to support him, would carry conviction to the earnest seeker of truth. What are jurors instructed to do when they are considering the weight to be attached to testimony which will result, perhaps, in the conviction for a high crime or misdemeanor? They are charged that they may consider the demeanor of the witness, his means of information, the opportunities which he has had for knowing the truth of which he testifies; the interest, if any, which he has in the case, his intelligence, or lack of intelligence; and from all the circumstances appearing upon the trial, determine what credence should be given to his testimony, and to give weight accordingly; that in case of a conflict in evidence they may believe one witness as against many, and that they are to search for the truth, believing that which carries conviction to them. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

THE TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET. 

We have before us the printed record. We do not have the advantage of hearing the oral word. Perhaps only a few present ever heard the oral testimony of those concerned. But we can read the printed word; and that is the means which the great courts of our land have, because our supreme courts are courts of appellate jurisdiction, and most of the cases considered by them come to them by appeal, and they do not see nor hear the witnesses but tbey read the printed record, and determine from that, the weight that should be attached to the testimony. You may read the testimony of Joseph, and the testimony of Oliver, and with no other testimony supporting it, it will carry conviction to your soul. 

To illustrate what I mean, my brethren and sisters, may I read a few words from the testimony of Joseph. He is comparing his responsibility and knowledge with that of Paul of old, and he goes on to say: 

So it was with me, I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak to me, and though I was hated and persecuted for saying I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision, and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it; neither dared I do it, at least, I knew that bv so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation. (Pearl of Great Price.) 

There is printed here as a note to the Pearl of Great Price, a letter from Oliver Cowdery, that rings with that same spirit of sincerity. It should carry conviction to the heart, it seems to me, of all who read it in sincerity, and with a desire to know the truth. 

IMPROBABILITY OF SUPERNATURAL EVENTS. 

Some will say : "What of the improbability of these supernatural events which were testified to by Joseph, and particularly by the three witnesses?" Well, the fact that an occurrence is improbable does not interfere with its being established. In fact, it is proverbial that "the unexpected happens." It is one of the established rules of evidence that the improbable may be established where the testimony is sufficient. The term improbable simply means what appears unreasonable to the individual to whom the testimony is given, in the light of his knowledge and experience. As an illustration, a scriptural illustration of what I mean by establishing the improbable, — when Jacob was informed that Joseph was alive and was a ruler in Egypt, we are told in the scriptures that "Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not;" but, of course, sufficient testimony was brought to prove what seemed to Jacob at first to be an improbability. So, if some of these matters seem to be improbable, it does not, under the rules of evidence, prevent the establishment of them. Besides, the 143  is based on man's experience, but the things which are impossible with man are possible with God. 

I think Brother Joseph Fielding Smith reached the correct conclusion that there is no middle ground between accepting Joseph as a sincere prophet of the Lord, or a conscious deceiver: for you cannot conceive of Joseph being deceived in the experiences of which he testifies; that he could be baptized under the direction of a heavenly being, have other heavenly personages appear to him, laying their hands upon his head and conferring the holy Priesthood upon him, and he be deceived in all that, — deceived in a messenger appearing and showing the records and the precious relics contained in the stone box to which he was directed. It is out of the question to believe that he could be deceived, or that the three witnesses or the eight witnesses could be, in what they testify to. I grant that one man, or perhaps several, may sometimes be deceived in the sense of sight. You brethren and sisters perhaps have seen the phenomenon of the mirage of the desert. You have looked across a body of water and seen horses and cows that looked like poplar trees, or a train coming at a distance, which in the particular refraction of the light appeared many times as tall as it really was. But to suppose that these men could be deceived in what they said would be to assume the improbable, I was going to say the impossible, that a large group of men would be deceived, not only in the sense of sight, but in the sense of hearing, and in the physical sense of touch as well; because all these senses were appealed to. 

FUTILITY OF ACCOUNTING FOR "MORMONISM" ON THE GROUND OF WILFUL IMPOSTURE. 

Then if you take the other alternative and try to account for "Mormonism" on the ground of wilful imposture, there are many difficulties that you encounter. Did you ever consider just what would be involved in looking at the case from that viewpoint? A great jurist, says : 

Where several persons conspire to commit perjury, there must # be concert, they must first be persons so depraved that they are willing to join in the commission of high crime and so lost to all sense of shame as to be willing to confess their infamy one to another; they must likewise agree not only upon the main body of their story, but upon its details and upon the order in which they occurred, and if, while they are undergoing the ordeal of cross-examination, defects in their story are exposed they will not dare to change it, for if they do, they will run the risk of being contradicted by their associates, and if they adhere to it, they know they will incur the hazard of detection together with all of its dangerous consequences. I.; i il jSI-sJ.£J 

And in connection with the number of witnesses testifying, if the Prophet Joseph had been an impostor, he would have appreciated the danger of having more people in league with him. Increasing the number of witnesses would tend to increase the probability of his being exposed. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Another authority on evidence, the author of a great text book, reminds us of this: 

Increasing the number of false witnesses increases the probability of detection in a very high proportion: for it multiplies the number of points upon which their statements may be compared with each other and also the number of points where their testimony comes in contact with the truth, and therefore multiplies the danger of inconsistency and variance in the same proportion. 

Again, the burden of proof is on the party who alleges fraud. It is never presumed, because fraud is a crime. Men are presumed to do right. One of the strongest and most far reaching presumptions of evidence is the presumption of innocence, — the presumption of right acting. It is easier for a person to tell the truth than to tell a falsehood, because in telling the truth it is an act of memory, simply recalling the actual experience; while falsehood involves invention, skill in invention, to make the story appear plausible. 

Who could read Joseph's utterances throughout his life, who could read, for instance, that little diary, yet unprinted so far as I know, written in his own handwriting, at the time he took his mission to Canada, disclosing the prayerful nature of his heart day by day, and say that such a person could possibly be a deceiver? Or who could imagine one offering the highest test of fidelity that mortal man can give, going chee'rfully and knowingly to his death, as a Socrates or* as a Christ, and so offering his life for his testimony, sealing his testimony with his life's precious blood, and not be sincere? Every act, every utterance of the Prophet, is in accordance with this rightful position as the great prophet of latter days, and every word of it is directly inconsistent with any assumption that he was not sincere, that he was not what he professed to be. 

For some years it was a matter of regret, serious regret upon my part as a boy, to think that some of the witnesses were weak enough to side-step from the straight and narrow path. But I think that even in that, there was a providence of the Lord in strengthening this case, because it is out of all question, in considering the attitude of Joseph toward those witnesses, both the three and the eight, and in considering their attitude, to suppose that any such a thing as a conspiracy was involved. The case in support of the restoration of the gospel is very greatly strengthened by the witnesses, being disciplined and yet remaining true to their testimonies. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to realize in every deed, day by day, not only while we are in this presence or in the congregations of the Saints, but every day, and all the time, that these great facts are indeed truths, and that a great responsibility rests upon each one of us to act in accordance with these convictions, and in accordance with the responsibility placed upon us to bear this testimony to the world. May the Lord bless us, and help us to perform that high mission to the world, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 145 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have with us this morning Patriarch Harrison Sperry, who came here in 1847, in my father's company, and we will be very pleased indeed to hear from him. He has more hair on his head, and less gray hair, than I have, although I think he is about eighty-nine years of age. He will tell us when he gets up here. 

PATRIARCH HARRISON SPERRY 

(Of the Granite Stake of Zion) 

Brother Ileber tells me that there are ten or twelve minutes foi me to speak. Yes, T came here in the c mpany of Brother Heber's father, in 1847 : and r think that I couid almost preach a sermon that I heard him preach over seventy-two years ago. I have been in the Church a long time. I was baptized about seventy-nine years ago. I have seen the Prophet Joseph Smith. I heard him talk. He was one of the most noble men that ever lived upon the face of this earth. I think he brought more knowledge to the human family than any prophet who ever lived upon the face of the earth. He brought more knowledge in regard to the living and the dead than all of the prophets that ever lived, even Moses himself, who talked with God, and so did that Prophet Joseph. He talked with the angel Moroni nine or ten times. Moroni told him some of the most wonderful truths that were ever told upon the face of the earth. When Joseph received the principles in regard to baptism for the dead, he entered the Mississippi river and commenced to baptize all that had come to him. The Lord cautioned him, and said : "Joseph, this must be done in the temple of the Lord, and a record must be kept." Then Joseph went to work and rushed the temple in Nauvoo with all of his might. I have been around that temple many a time, and what a noble edifice it was that was built there in Nauvoo. There is a long story that I could tell, but there isn't time. I have been here in these valleys now for almost seventy-three years. Brigham Young — I have been acquainted with him; President John Taylor, — I was well acquainted with him : Brother Woodruff, — I was well acquainted with him : our farms joined together; and Brother Snow, that noble man of God, well acquainted with him; Joseph F. Smith— well acquainted with him. When his mother had a little farm down here upon the country road. I went there and helped them to harvest their little grain. Joseph F. .was a little boy then, about nine or ten years old. I ate dinner with him and his noble mother, and Joseph told me: 

"Brother Sperry, I was born away up there in Missouri during that great trouble, and my mother laid me down upon a bed and spread some quilts over me, and when they came to me, Brother Sperry, my face was almost as black as your coat; I was almost dead." 

Oh, Joseph, the Lord works in mysterious ways, doesn't he ? Oh, surely, surely. 

There was poor Mary with that little child when twelve thousand people were driven out of Missouri. Oh, that noble woman! I ate dinner with her away down here, a noble woman; and when Joseph was called to go to the Islands, just a boy, just a little boy, only fifteen years old, I said : 

"Oh, Joseph, you are going away over there across that mighty ocean, to a people that you don't know anything about." 

"Yes," said he, "and President Young gave me $10 in all." 

When he returned he said : "I went over there and I paid my own way; came back again, and then they sent me to England." 

"Why, Joseph, I can't keep track of you. You are here, and there and everywhere." 

God bless you, my people. God bless you noble ones, you brethren and sisters, and those who preside over the various quorums, and over the various missions of our land. May the peace of heaven rest upon you. I have been here in Utah a' long time. I have been in the bishopric here for forty-six years,labored and toiled with all of my might, and yet I feel sometimes I am just about forty years old; but only eighty-eight years. I have had a wonderful experience in the earth. I am giving patriarchal blessings almost all the time. I don't know, I can't remember how many, but over a thousand, probably twelve hundred that I have given; and yet giving blessings all the time; but I want to do all that I possibly can. I wish I had the voice of the trumpet of the Almighty. I want to sound it to the nations of the earth: This is God's work! This is God's work! The great work of our Lord is going forth amongst the nations of the earth. It is wonderful, it is wonderful to me. When we look abroad and see what the Father has done for his Saints who came to this land, and when we look abroad and see where the gospel has gone all over the land everywhere, and see the blessings of our Father upon us — the beautiful homes, our children far and near by the thousands, oh, God's work is with us. Brethren and sisters, be faithful and true. Work, work on, for this is God's work; and may the peace of heaven rest upon you, Heber. I think that is all. God bless you. Amen. 

Choir and congregation sang "Praise God from Whom all blessings flow." 

The conference was adjourned until 2 o'clock. Prayer by Elder Alma Merrill. 


