Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOAD
 SIGN UP | LOG IN
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Conference reports of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints"
See other formats
> '> * > . , SEVENTY-SECOND ft • -M * , : 

Iemi -Annual Conference i 

^ OF THE 

& w 

KCHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OFi 

^ LATTER-DAY SAINTS, jig 

* w 

> w 

} Held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, October 4th, w 

5th and 6th, 1901; 



AND A 



SPECIAL CONFERENCE, 

Held November 10th, 1901, with Full Reports 
of the Discourses; 



ALSO AN ACCOUNT OF THE FUNERAL OF 
THE LATE PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 



^ THE DESERET NEWS. W 

I .90.. w 



Profusely Illustrated 


A Magazine and a 


with Etchings and 


Daily Newspaper 


Half Tones. 


Combined. 



The 
Saturday 
News 

24 PAGES. 



Sent to any address 


To regular subscribers 


for $2.00 a Year. 


of the Semi- Weekly 


jfc 


News, $1.50 a Year. 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST 
OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 



FIRST DAY. 



The seventy-second semi-annual con- 
ference of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints convened in the 
Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, at 10 a. m., 
October 4, 1901. President Snow being 
absent, on account of sickness, Presi- 
dent Joseph F. Smith presided. 

There were present, of the general 
authorities: of the First Presidency, 
Joseph F. Smith; (President Snow was 
absent on account of sickness.) Of the 
quorum of the Twelve Apostles, theie 
were: Brigham Young, John Henry 
Smith, George Teasdale, John W. Tay- 
lor, Marriner W. Merrill, Anthon H. 
Lund, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham 
O. Woodruff, Rudger Clawson and Reed 
Smoot; Patriarch John Smith; of the 
First Seven Presidents of Seventies: 
Seymour B. Young, George Reynolds, 
Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells 
and Joseph W. McMurrin; of the Pre- 
siding Bishopric: William B. Preston, 
Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder. 

The choir and congregation sang the 
hymn which begins: 

vjome, let us anew our journey pursue. 

The opening prayer was offered by 
Elder Seymour B. Young. 

Singing by the choir and congrega- 
tion: 

"Redeemer of Israel, 
Our only delight, 

On whom for a blessing we call. 
PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 



OPENING ADDRESS. 

Evils to be corrected— Desecration of the Sabbath 
— dee of profane and other improper language 
—Tobacco and strong drink habit— Disregard 
of the Priesthood— In relation to colonization. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, we 
greet you this morning, at the opening 
of this Seventy-second Semi-Annual 



Conference, with a hearty welcome. We 
are glad to see so many present, and 
we sincerely hope that we all may have 
a season of rejoicing and of awakening 
and strengthening of our faith and good 
determinations. 

I regret to have to say that President 
Snow is suffering with a severe cold, 
and on account of the inclement weath- 
er this morning he deems it prudent not 
to venture out; but when the weather 
is more pleasant— possibly this after- 
noon—we will all rejoice to see him 
present with us. There is nothing seri- 
ous the matter with him so far as we 
know; but we all desire that he shall 
be careful of himself, to preserve hits 
life as long as it is possible and pleas- 
ing in the sight of the Lord for him to 
remain with us. 

There are many subjects of import- 
ance which may be dwelt upon during 
our conference, and we hope that the 
Spirit of the Lord will lead the Apos- 
tles and others who may speak .to us., 
that f hey may speak words that shall 
be meat in due season, and that wt 
may all receive such instruction, en 
couragement, counsel and admonition 
as will be proper and necessary. 

We notice that there are some evils 
which seem to be increasing somewhat 
in the land, and we desire to make an 
effort, as far as it lies in our power 
with the assistance of the Lord, against 
the existence and the increase of evils 
among the Latter-day Saints. One of 
these evils is a growing tendency, espe- 
cially on the part of our youth, to pay 
but little attention to, if not to ignore, 
the observance of the Sabbath day. 
The Sabbath is a day of rest and of 
worship, designated and set apart by 
special commandment of the Lord to 



2 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- 
day Saints, and we should honor and 
keep it holy. We should also teach 
our children this principle. 

Another evil we hear of too frequent- 
ly is the tendency, not only among the 
youth of Zion, but also among those of 
more mature years, to use the name 
of the Lord in vain and to indulge in 
profane expressions and epithets that 
are contrary to the law of God, and 
that are wholly inconsistent and in- 
compatible with the profession of mem- 
bers of the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints. Behold, the Lord's 
name is holy, and God will not hold 
him guiltless who taketh His name 
in vain. We should stamp out pro- 
fanity and vulgarity, and everything of 
that character that exists among us; 
for all such things are incompatible 
with the Gospel and inconsistent in 
the people of God. 

The use of tobacco in its various 
forms and of strong drink to some ex- 
tent is also to be lamented and de- 
plored, especially among the youth, and 
this evil should be stamped out. 

The people of God should set their 
faces like flint against these practices, 
and they should see to it that their 
children are taught better, and that 
a better example is set before them 
by the parents, in order that the chil- 
dren may grow up without sin in 
these things. 

There is also a tendency among the 
youth, and, I am sorry to say, among 
some of the older ones, to show but 
little regard for the sacredness of the 
Holy Priesthood. What I mean by 
the Holy Priesthood is that authority 
which God has delegated to man, by 
which he may speak the will of God 
as though the angels were here to speak 
it themselves; by which men are em- 
powered to bind on earth and it shall 
be bound in heaven, and to loose on 
earth and it shall be loosed in heaven; 
by which the words of men, spoken in 
the exercise of that power, become the 
word of the Lord, the law of 
God unto the people, scripture, and 
divine commands. It is therefore not 
good that the Latter-day Saints and 
the children of the Latter-day Saints 
should treat lightly this sacred prin- 



ciple of authority which has been re- 
vealed from the heavens in the dispen- 
sation in which we live. It is the au- 
thority by which the Lord Almighty 
governs His people, and by which, in 
time to come, He will govern the na- 
tions of the world. It is sacred, and 
it must be held sacred by the people. 
It should be honored and respected by 
them, in whomsoever it is held, and 
upon whomsoever responsibility is 
placed in the Church. The young men 
and young women and the people gen- 
erally should honor this principle and 
recognize it as something that is sa- 
cred, and that cannot be trifled with 
nor spoken lightly of with impunity. 
Disregard of this authority leads to 
darkness and to apostasy, and sever- 
ance from all the rights and privileges 
of the house of God; for it is by virtue 
of this authority that the ordinances 
of the Gospel are performed throughout 
the world and in every sacred place^ 
and without it they cannot be per- 
formed. Those also who hold this au- 
thority should honor it in themselves. 
They should live so as to be worthy 
of the authority vested in them, and 
worthy of the gifts that have been be- 
stowed upon them. 

Again, we do not desire to encourage 
the scattering of our people to distant 
places, separating and drawing them- 
selves apart from the Saints and from 
the organizations of the Church. w e 
notice a tendency on the part of some, 
who are restless and discontented, to 
sell out their homes to anybody who 
will purchase them and to move off 
into California or into some distant 
country, where they will perhaps buy 
a ranch or locate upon public lands, 
and thus cut themselves off from all 
the benefits of the organizations of the 
Church — from the Sabbath meetings, 
the Sunday schools, the quorum meet- 
ings, the Improvement associations, 
the Primary associations, etc. When 
people become dissatisfied with their 
homes and desire to move, we would 
suggest' that they counsel and advise 
with some of the authorities of the 
Church. Let the leading brethren help 
the young people who are seeking new 
homes, and direct their course so that 
they may be located as much as pos- 



ELDER REED SMOOT. 



3 



sible in wards or branches where they 
can enjoy the benefits and blessings of 
the Gospel, and that their child- 
ren may not grow up aliens 
thereto and be estranged from 
the cause of Zion. We are in a posi- 
tion where we can see beyond, in some 
respects, and are able to advise and 
counsel our brethren for their best 
good. We do not want the feeling to 
prevail among our people that every 
man is independent and free to move 
and go when and where he pleases, 
without consultation, because that 
would be calculated to disintegrate, to 
pull asunder, to destroy membership, 
and to scatter abroad. The Gospel that 
we have received teaches gathering. 
This is a gathering dispensation, and 
we are not here to scatter abroad, only 
so far as God may direct through His 
servants. When the Lord moves upon 
us to found a colony or to establish a 
settlement in some distant place, then 
it will be right for such of the people 
as can do so to gather there, under the 
counsel and direction of the Priesthood, 
and form settlements or colonies, strict- 
ly in accordance with the plan revealed 
in this dispensation for the establish- 
ment of Zion and for the spread of this 
work in the land. We do not design 
to make any general call upon the peo- 
ple to move here or there, or to break 
up their communities; but rather that 
they should concentrate together and 
strengthen one another's hands, that we 
may become strong in the land. As 
we pull asunder and scatter abroad we 
weaken ourselves, we destroy our in- 
fluence, and we become like the rest 
of the world. This will not do. It 
is contrary to the principle of 
gathering that the Lord has revealed 
through His servant Joseph, the Proph- 
et. Yet I see clearly manifest the nana 
of God in the formation of our colonies 
to the south and to the north, in the 
east and in the west. Wherever this 
colonization has been directed and 
counseled by the authority of the Hol> 
Priesthood, it has been strictly in ac- 
cordance with the mind and will of the 
Loru and in fulfillment of the predic- 
tions of the Prophets. If we emigrate 
to some distant part of the country we 
should do so with proper discipline, un- 



der direction, with concert of action, 
and with a perfect understanding 
among ourselves — not every man be- 
come a law unto himself. 

Brethren and sisters, I do not desire 
to prolong my remarks, but these are 
a few matters that may be dwelt upon 
by the brethren of the Priesthood dur- 
ing the conference, if they are led by 
the Spirit of the Lord to do so. These, 
together with the continuance of faith- 
fulness in observing the Word of Wis- 
dom, in obeying the law of tithing, the 
law of chastity, promoting purity of 
life, and every other good thing that 
pertains to our progress, development 
and permanency in the land, are sub- 
jects that are worthy to be dwelt upon 
by those who hold the authority of the 
Piiesthood and are called upon to speak 
to the people who come to attend this 
conference. God bless the speakers, and 
all the people; and let peace abide in 
your souls, and the Spirit of God ac- 
company you in all the labors of your 
lives, is my prayer, in the name of 
Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

The future of Zion— The spirits of good ; <nd evil — 
Importance of implicit obedience— Results of 
conforming to the law of tithing— The princi- 
ples and conditions of the world. 

I am truly thankful for the privilege 
of speaking here this morning to so 
many Latter-day Saints, convened in 
this semi-annual conference of the 
Church; and while I realize my weak- 
ness I also realize that I can claim the 
blessings of our Heavenly Father, 
through the divine Spirit that may be 
present at this conference. I ask that 
you invoke the blessings of our Father 
upon me for the few moments that I 
stand before you; also that the same 
blessing may be given to all the speak- 
ers during this conference. I ask, too, 
that you offer a silent prayer to our 
Father this morning in behalf of our 
beloved President, who is ill, that he 
may be blessed and restored, and that 
he may have the strength to come here 
and speak to the people. 

I have been thinking this morning 
what subject to speak upon that would 
be of benefit to the people who have 
gathered here to receive the word of 
the Lord. What subject could I touch 



4 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



upon that would make us better Lat- 
ter-day Saints, better fathers and 
mothers, and better citizens of this 
great government? My mind reverted 
to a revelation that was given to the 
Prophet Joseph Smith, as found in sec- 
tion 64 of the Book of Doctrine and 
Covenants, a portion of which I will 
read : - 

"Behold, the Lord requireth the heart 
and a willing mind; and the willing 
and the obedient shall eat the good of 
the land of Zion in these last days; 

"And the rebellious shall be cut off 
out of the land of Zion, and shall be 
sent away, and shall not inherit the 
land: 

"For, verily, I say that the rebellious 
are not of the blood of Ephraim, where- 
fore they shall be plucked out. 

"Behold, I, the Lord, have made my 
Church in these last days like unto a 
judge sitting on a hill, or in a high 
place, to judge the nations; 

"For it shall come to pass that the 
inhabitants of Zion shall judge all 
things pertaining to Zion; 

"And liars and hypocrites shall be 
proved by them, and they who are not 
Apostles and Prophets shall be known. 

"And even the bishop, who is a 
judge, and his counselors, if they are 
not faithful in their stewardships, shall 
be condemned, and others shall be 
planted in their stead; 

"For, behold, I say unto you that 
Zion shall flourish, and the glory' of the 
Lord shall be upon her, 

"And she shall be an ensign unto the 
people, and there sha'l come unto her 
out of every nation under heaven. 

"And the day shall come when the 
nations of the earth shall tremble be- 
cause of her terrible ones. The Lord 
hath spoken it. Amen." 

We learn from the "Pearl of Great 
Price" that when the subject was dis- 
cussed in the Heavens of forming this 
earth, there was even then light and 
darkness, good and evil, obedience and 
disobedience, a willing heart and a sel- 
fish nature. These conditions and prin- 
ciples are in the hearts of the people 
of the world today. The mission that 
was given to Jesus Christ, to come up- 
on "the earth, was given on account of 
His obedience to the will and plan laid 
down by our Father. On the other 
hand, Satan desired to become a law 
jnto himself, and whatever sacrifice he 
made, he wished it to be credited unto 
himself, and not unto the Father. Lu- 
cifer desired to introduce a plan con- 
trary to the will of the Father, and 



then wanted His honor and said, "I 
r, rill sa ,T e every suul of man, wherefore 
give me thine honor." He wanted to 
go contrary to the will of his Father, 
and sought to deprive man of his free 
agency, and thus make him a mere ma- 
chine. The offer of Jesus to act as 
media! or ami redeemer, according to 
the plan decided upon in the council of 
tha Gods, was accepted, and the plans 
and services of Lucifer were rejected, 
in his anger Lucifer rebelled against 
God and Jesus, using the very agency 
cf which he had just attempted to rob 
&H of God's children. When this earth 
vvas formed and our first parents had 
children thai: sarro spirit of obedience 
and disobedience, of good and evil, of 
a willing heart and a selfish nature.was 
manifested n their sons Abel and Cain. 
In reading the history of God's people 
in all dispensations I can see that that 
great law of obedience to the require- 
ments of the Father has been one of 
the foundation stones of the Church. 
It always will be so. One of the greatest 
examples of obedience for us to study 
is that of father Abraham. The Lord 
had promised him that through him 
and his seed all the earth should b- 
blessed, and yet He desired to know if 
Abraham was willing to give Him his 
lieart, and be true to him even unto 
death and fulfill all His com-- 
c-iandments, even if it looked 
to be an utter impossibilit} 
for him to carry out the command and 
at the same time receive the promise of 
the Lord. The Lord told him that he 
was to offer up his only son Isaac as a 
sacrifice. Did he hesitate, or stop to 
enquire of the Lord how He could ful- 
fill the promise made him if Isaac, were 
sacrificed? Not so. Abraham, in his 
obedience to the Father, prepared the 
sticks, placed them upon the back of 
the boy, started for the hill Moriah to 
carry out the .command of God; and 
while upon the way the boy said unto 
his Father, "Behold the fire and the 
wood: but where is the lamb for a 
burnt offering?" Abraham replied, 
"My son, God will provide Himself a 
lamb for a burnt offering." They built 
the altar, and Isaac was placed upon 
it; and as Abraham drew forth his 
hand to execute the command of God, 



ELDER REED SMOOT. 



5 



the angel of the Lord stayed him. Then 
his answer to his son was verified, for 
God provided a ram for the offering. 
In this Abraham proved to God that 
his heart was right before Him, and 
he was willing to do whatever was re- 
quired of him. 

All blessings that are promised by 
the Master are predicated upon obedi- 
ence to the laws. It is right that it 
should be so; it is nothing but what an 
honest soul should expect. If we live 
to the principle of charity, we can ex- 
pect the benefits that are derived from 
so living. If we live to the law of con- 
secration, we can claim of the Lord the 
blessings attached to this great prin- 
ciple. If we live to the law of tithing, 
we have a right to claim the blessings 
that were promised through Malachi to 
those who would observe it. I do not 
feel that it is necessary to speak long 
upon the subject of tithing, and per- 
haps some who do not practice the 
same may hope that we will not men- 
tion it; but the man or the woman who 
practices this principle never gets tired 
of hearing testimonies of the Elders in 
regard to this law. In passing I want 
to leave my testimony that God has 
given us the law of tithing, and He 
blesses the person that lives strictly in 
accordance with it. The blessings of 
the Lord are upon those who pay their 
tithing, no matter what the amount 
may be. I testify to you 
that people who live to this 
law have more comfort and peace in 
their homes, are more contented in their 
souls, have more faith that the Lord 
will answer their prayers, have more 
pleasure in fulfilling the requirements 
of the Church, and more confidence in 
the promises of God, than those who do 
mot live this law. It is but natural that 
this should be so. I thank the Lord 
that my parents believed in the law of 
tithing. I thank the Lord that the 
first means which God ever placed in- 
to my hands, I had a mother who 
watched over me so carefully that she 
taught and guided me to pay my tith- 
ing on the same. I received this prin- 
ciple from my parents not only by pre- 
cept, but by example as well, for they 
lived the law, because they had implicit 
faith in the God they worshiped. 



We hear the Apostles, the Pa- 
triarchs, the High Priests, the Seven- 
ties and Elders pray time and time 
again for the Lord to hasten the day 
for the redemption of Zion, when we 
can build a temple to the Most High 
God in that land, from whence the law 
of the Lord shall go forth, and where 
we shall be privileged to live accord- 
ing to the revealed will of God in very 
deed. I want to promise the people her t 
that that day never will come until we 
have at least learned to keep the lesser 
law, of tithing; and I believe that be- 
fore Jackson county shall be given to 
us as a Zion, those at least who shall 
be called to establish the same will 
have to learn obedience to that great 
principle which was revealed through 
the Prophet Joseph Smith; also the 
principle of consecration. Are we doing 
anything, my brethren and sisters, to 
fit us to fulfill these prayers which are 
offered to God? Are we qualifying our- 
selves, that when the time comes for it 
we will be prepared to go and obey 
that command? The law of consecra- 
tion was revealed to this Church, but 
in its practice the people were found 
wanting, and God in His mercy had 
compassion on us when He saw 
we could not live it, and revealed 
the law of tithing to take its 
place temporarily. I hope to live 
to see the day when the law of con- 
secration will be the law of this 
Church, and when men who hold the 
Priesthood will think more of the prin- 
ciple, and enter into it when called by 
the mounthpiece of God, than they do 
of all their earthly possessions. We 
have got to improve. President Jo- 
seph F. Smith this morning called our 
attention to the fact that some of the 
people are using tobacco, profaning the 
name of the Lord, and showing disre- 
spect to the Priesthood of God, as well 
as other evils that are creeping in 
i-'mong us. Cannot you see, my breth- 
ren and sisters, that so long as these 
evils exist to any great extent among 
the members of our Church it will be 
'mpossible to keep the higher law of 
the Lord? My prayer always is, "O 
Father, fit and prepare me and Thy 
people to live not only the law of tithes 
and offerings, but the law of consecra- 



6 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



tion, also when it shall come. May 
the selfishness that is in my nature be 
removed, so that when this great law 
shall come I will be prepared to say, 
Thy will, O God, not mine, be done." 
The Lord has not left us without an 
example of this great law. In the early 
history of this world Enoch and his 
people became perfect by living the 
law of consecration and sanctification. 
They were wiling to give their hearts 
to God, and through obedience to Him 
fulfilled that law. "We are told that the 
people were .so perfect that the city of 
Knoch was taken from this earth. I 
know as well as I know that I live, that 
this great principle which God has re- 
vealed is the only one whereby the poor 
of this earth can be redeemed as a 
Avhole from their present condition. If 
you will take the Doctrine and Cove- 
nants and read carefully the revela- 
tions that were given to the Prophet 
Joseph Smith, you will notice that one 
of the great principles taught in them 
is the redemption of the poor and the 
bringing of mankind on an equality, 
temporally and spiritually. There are 
millions of people today groaning un- 
der oppression and tyranny, many of 
them unjustly, through the lack of a 
proper distribution of the blessings of 
God. He ha^ not oeen unmindful of his 
children. We see on all sides an abun- 
dance, plenty for all, but the world has 
lost sight of the teachings of the Mas- 
ter. 

This condition has excited the best 
thought of philosophers. Many philan- 
thropic men have tried, through very 
liberal donations, to establish plans for 
the temporal betterment of the class of 
people in whom they were interested; 
but it was simply like throwing a stone 
in the brook — you see the ripple for a 
few moments, and then all is gone. No 
man-made laws will ever accomplish 
the object sought. God has revealed 
this great law of consecration and sanc- 
tification to us, that there may be no 
poor among us; for under it every man 
and woman will have a stewardship 
and be provided for. I never expect to 
see the day when we shall all have just 
the same— the same number of horses 
and carriages, or the same kind of a 
house: but I do expect to see the time 



come when this great law will equalize 
those who believe and practice it, until 
there shall be as near a perfect people 
upon this earth as it is possible to make 
us with our selfish natures. If ever 
this law becomes universal I look for 
a reign of peace upon the earth. If 
this law had been lived up to by this 
people in the beginning, I think the re- 
demption of Zion would have been ac- 
complished by this time, or at least a 
great deal nearer than it is today. 
When this law is an accomplished fact 
in the world, the means spent by na- 
tions today in wars will not have to be 
employed that way, and then the time 
will be at hand when the swords shall 
be turned into plowshares and spears 
into pruning-hooks. 

I truf=t t*r* the Spirit of the Lord will 
be with the people, so that they will 
know that by obedience to the com- 
mandments of the Lord the blessings 
He has promised will come to them, 
and that they will have faith, even as 
our father Abraham had faith, and also 
the Apostles and Prophets of old. We 
have the examples of our fathers and 
mothers, the example of the Prophet 
Joseph, and those who have presided 
over this Church from his time to the 
present, and we should try to follow in 
their footsteps. I know that there are 
many people in this Church who today 
are willing to sacrifice even their 
lives for trie Gospel's sake. There 
are many who have such im- 
plicit faith and confidence in God that 
if they were required to sacrifice all 
they had upon earth, and life itsell, 
they would willingly do it. They have 
the faith that Father Abraham had. I 
hope that the people as a whole will 
listen to the pleadings that have been 
made by the Prophet of the Lord, and 
at least live to the law of tithing, that 
by doing so we may learn to place our- 
selves in a position to accept the high- 
er law when it is given again. I be- 
lieve that the "Mormon" people, as a 
whcle, look after their poor better than 
any other people upon the earth; and 
yet we are far from living to the re- 
quirements that are made of us as a 
people. But I 'also want to say that 
there are many Latter-day Saints, ana 
they are numbered by the thousands, 



ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 



7 



who are living- strictly to the law and 
paying an honest tithing unto the Lord. 

1 thought of the song that is record- 
ed in the 84th section of the Doctrine 
and Covenants, and I felt that when we 
as a people are willing, and not only 
willing but anxious, to live the law 
of consecration, this new song will be 
a good thing for every soul to sing. It 
says: 

"The Lord hath brought again Zion. 
The Lord hath redeemed His people, 
Israel. 

According to the election of grace, 
Which was brought to pass by the 
faith 

And covenant of their fathers. 

The Lord hath redeemed His people, 
And Satan is bound, and time is no 
longer 

The Lord hath gathered all things in 

one; 

The Lord hath brought down Zion from 
above, 

The Lord hath brought up Zion from 
beneath. 

The earth hath travailed and brought 

forth her strength; 
And truth is established in her bowels; 
And the heavens have smiled upon her; 
And she is clothed with the glory of 

her God; 

For He stands in the midst of His 
people. 

Glory, and honor, and power, and 
might, 

Be ascribed to our God? for He is full 

of mercy, 
Justice, grace and truth, and peace, 
For ever and ever. Amen." t 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

A marvelous work of the Lord — Its wonderful 
growth — Greatness of the responsibility rest- 
ing upon the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, it is very 
impressive to look down upon this vast 
congregation of people, and I realize 
that if my voice shall be heard by you 
it will be necessary for me to speak 
straight ahead, without turning to the 
right or to the left, because of the im- 
mensity of this Tabernacle. We have 
present with us this morning authori- 
ties of the Church and Saints from all 
parts of Zion — from Canada, from Mex- 
ico, from the adjoining states and ter- 
ritories, and from some of the missions. 
We have come together to wait upon 
the Lord, to receive a blessing at His 
hands, and to see what He has in store 



for us. I believe that the Lord will 
meet with us during the conference. I 
believe that His Spirit will be upon 
the Presidency of the Church, and upon 
the Elders who may be called upon to 
speak from this stand. I believe that 
we shall be fed upon the bread of life 
and I greatly rejoice in this belief. 

I have wondered sometimes, while 
traveling in the midst of this people, 
whether we really understand what the 
Lord is doing, whether we comprehend 
His great purposes, and can recognize 
His hand. I am sure of one thing — that 
there are many who are numbered with 
the Church, particularly among the 
young, who are passing through life 
without a serious thought. I have seen 
it in families, in wards and in stakes, 
that their minds seemed to rest more 
particularly upon the pleasures of life 
and the things of the world. And yet 
the Lord said in the very beginning of 
this dispensation that He was about 
to commence a marvelous work and 
a wonder; that it should be comething 
out of the ordinary; that it should be of 
such a character as to attract atten- 
tion in the world, so much 
so that men would be led to 
exclaim "Truly it is a marvelous 
work." I am reminded now of a revela- 
tion that was given to the Prophet 
Joseph Smith upon the very day that 
the Church was organized — the 6th day 
of April, 1830— at Fayette, New York, 
and I will read the words of the Lord 
to Joseph Smith upon that occasion: 

"Behold there shall be a record kept 
among you, and in it thou shalt be 
called a seer, a translator, a prophet, 
an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of 
the church through the will of God the 
Father, and the grace of your Lord 
Jesus Christ, 

Being inspired of - the Holy Ghost to 
lay the foundation thereof, and to build 
it up unto the most holy faith, 

Which church was organized and es- 
tablished in the year of your Lord eigh- 
teen hundred and thirty, in the fourth 
month, and on the sixth day of the 
month, which is called April. 

Wherefore, meaning the church, thou 
shalt ffive heed unto all his words and 
commandments which he shall give un- 
to you as he receiveth them, walking 
in all holiness before me; 

For his word ye shall receive, as if 
from mine own mouth, in all patience 
and faith; 

For by doing these things the gates 



8 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



of hell shall not prevail against you; 
yea, and the Lord God will disperse the 
powers of darkness from before you, 
and cause the heavens to shake for 
your good, and his name's glory. 

For thus saith the Lord God, him 
have I inspired to move the cause of 
Zion in mighty power for good, and his 
diligence I know, and his prayers I have 
heard. 

Yea his weeping for Zion I have seen 
and I will cause that he shall mourn 
for her no longer, for his days of re- 
joicing are come unto the remission of 
his sins, and *he manifestations of my 
blessings upon his works. 

For, behold, I will bless all those who 
labor in my. vinevard with a mighty 
blessing, and th<j/ shall believe on h's 
words, which are given him through me 
by the Comforter, which manifesteth 
that Jesus was crucified by sinful men 
for the sins of the world, yea, for the 
remission of sins unto the contrite 
heart. 

Wherefore it behoveth me that he 
should be ordained by you. Oliver Cow- 
dery, mine apostle; 

This being an ordinance unto you, 
that you are an elder under his hand, 
he being the first unto you, that you 
might be an elder unto this church of 
Christ, bearing my name, j 

And the first preacher of this churcn 
unto the church, and before the world. | 
yea, before the Gentiles; yea, and thus 
saith the Lord God, lo, lo! to the Jews 
also. Amen." 

These words, brethren and sisters and g 
friends, were the words of Jehovah, ' 
delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith 
upon the day that the Church was or- 
ganized. The Church was very weak 
in numbers then, but strong in spirit. 
In this revelation the Lord intimates 
that He was about to move the cause 
of Zion in mighty power, and talked to 
the Prophet as if it were an accom- 
plished fact. He desired, it seems, that 
His people, though few in number, 
should be impressed with the fact that 
a Prophet, Seer, and Revelator stood at 
the head; for He instructed that a rec- 
ord to this effect should be kept. He 
also desired to impress the people with 
the great truth that this Church should 
be built up, not by the power of man, 
but by the power of the Holy Ghost; 
that no man, though he might be a 
Prophet or an Apostle, should take the 
honor unto himself of building up the 
Church of Christ, but that the honor 
and the glory must be given to God. 
Did not the Lord say to the Prophet 



Daniel that in the latter days the God 
of heaven would set up His kingdom, 
and it should be as a stone cut out of 
the mountain without hands, which 
should roll until it filled the whole 
earth. The God of heaven was to do 
this, but He would use men as His in- 
struments. 

After the Church was organized it 
spread in all the regions, round about 
and finally the Gospel was taken over 
into Great Britain. Satan was 
angered, and persecution raged. He 
moved the very powers of earth and 
air (for the scriptures declare that he is 
the prince and power of the air) in his 
determination to overthrow this work. 
But the Church grew and multiplied in 
numbers, and was greatly strengthened 
by the accessions that came from Great 
Britain. It increased in power and in- 
fluence, and cities of the Saints were 
established in the land. The city of 
Kirtland was built, the city of Nauvoo 
was founded. The Saints spread over 
the land. They Went into Missouri and 
located the city of Zion, ■ of 
which we heard this morning, where the 
great temple of the Lord is to be built 
in this generation. However, persecu- 
tion stiil raged. The Saints were driven 
from one place to another until we be- 
hold a very remarkable thing — that 
which has not occurred in the history 
of the world, =o far as I am aware, since 
the days when Moses led the children 
of Israel out of Egypt. In these latter 
times, we behold a whole people migrat- 
ing to the West, leaving their homes 
and their substance, and everything 
that God had prospered them with, and 
launching forth into the wilderness. The 
mighty plains were dotted with wagons 
and with people moving to the West. 
After a time they disappeared from 
view, as if the earth had opened up and 
swallowed them, and their fate excited 
but little interest in the country where 
they had lately resided. It was hoped 
by many of their enemies that "Mcr- 
mcnism" had ceased to be a factor in 
the world, and that the Church pf 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had 
disapptared forever. 

If it be proper to draw a comparison, 
let us suppose that one of the enemies 
of this people at that time had been 



ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 



9 



permitted to look upon this great west- 
ward movement. "We will take, for in- 
stance, Governor Boggs, of Missouri, 
■w ho was one of the chief persecutors of 
the Church, who was bitter against 
the truth, who was determined to 
overthrow this people, and who used 
the authority of his high office to per- 
secute and vex the Latter-day Saints. 
Let us suppose that he had been stand- 
ing there when the exiles disappeared 
from view in 1847; then as by a mira- 
cle a deep sleep had come upon him, 
and he had continued, like Rip Van 
Winkle, in that condition for fifty- four 
years. Let him be awakened suddenly, 
and what would meet his gaze? His 
astonished eyes would behold a great 
and mighty people established in the 
Rocky Mountains, and doubtless he 
would be led to ask, "What great com- 
monwealth is this?" After having been 
asleep fifty-four years, he might well 
ask such a question. Who are these 
that have established themselves so 
firmly in the chambers of the moun- 
tains? If he should look a little closer, 
he would find that this great people had 
sprung from that band of pilgrims who 
were driven out from the nation, partly 
by his influence. From the small be- 
ginning of six members at its organ- 
ization in 1830, he would find that the 
Church had increased until there were 
fifty Stakes — one in Canada, one in 
Oregon, three in Wyoming, eight in 
Idaho, one in Colorado, four in Arizona, 
one in Mexico, and thirty-one in Utah. 
Then if he turned his eyes from the 
mountains and looked abroad, he would 
discover fourteen great missions of the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints — one in the Eastern States, one 
in the Northern States, one in the 
Southern States, one in the Northwest- 
ern States, one in the Southwestern 
States, one in Colorado, one in Cali- 
fornia, one in Australia, one in New 
Zealand, one in the Hawaiian Islands, 
one in the Samoan Islands, one in the 
Society Islands, and one great mission 
in Europe, comprehending several 
missions and a mission just now opened 
up in Japan. Then, if he had any de- 
sire to know the numerical strength of 
the people whom he had sought to de- 
stroy, (and in saying this I do not 



malign or misrepresent, for it 
is so recorded in the annals of 
the nation) he would find that the 
membership of the Church amounted 
to 260,000 souls in the Stakes of Zion, 
and 50,000 souls in the Missions, mak- 
ing in all 310,000 souls. These figures 
that I am giving you come well within 
the facts. They were taken from last 
year's statistical reports. Of course, 
by this time there would necessarily be 
some changes, but nevertheless they 
are conservative and probably do not 
reach the actual number at the pres- 
ent time. Included in the total of 
three hundred and ten thousand there 
are eighty-five thousand children under 
eight years of age— a mighty host that 
will soon become members of the 
Church of Christ. Then, if he desired 
to know the strength of that great 
body of men alluded to by President 
Smith this morning— the Priesthood- 
he would find that there are two of the 
First Presidency, 12 Apostles, 200 Patri- 
archs, 6,800 High Priests, 9,730 Seven- 
ties, 20,000 Elders, making a total of 
those who bear the higher Priesthood, 
36,744; 4,800 Priests, 4,900 Teachers, 
16,000 Deacons, making 25,700 as con- 
stituting the lesser Priesthood, and a 
grand total of 62,444 bearing the Priest- 
hood of God. He would find also, con- 
nected with the auxiliary associations 
of the Church, 30,150 members of the 
Relief Society; 10,000 officers and teach- 
ers and 115,000 members of the Sunday 
schools; 28,000 members of the Young 
Men's Mutual Improvement Associa- 
tion; 25,0000 members of the Young La- 
dies' Mutual Mutual Improvement As- 
sociation; 4,066 officers and 31,988 
members of the Primary association; 
and about 20,000 belonging to 
the Religion Classes— making a grand 
total of 264,204 belonging to these aux- 
iliary associations. Then if he cared 
to go any farther, he would find that 
there were about 20,000 farms owned 
by the Latter-day Saints, and that 
18,000 of these farms are actually free 
from all incumbrance. Still further, he 
would find that ninety per cent of the 
Latter-day Saints own and occupy 
their own homes, while # the average 
throughout the United States is some- 
thing like 5 per cent. Then he would 



10 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



find, if he cared to know, that in the 
year 1897, when the Presbyterians, Me- 
thodists and Congregationalists num- 
bered four millions in the United 
States, and their total increase for one 
year was fifty thousand souls, the Lat- 
ter-day Saints numbered in the same 
years a little over a quarter of a mil- 
lion, and their increase for the year was 
twenty thousand souls. Twenty thou- 
sand increase with a total of a quar- 
ter of a million as against fifty thou- 
sand increase for four millious! 

After obtaining all this information, 
would not he be compelled to acknow- 
ledge that surely this is a marvelous 
work and a wonder? The Lord said to 
Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, on 
one ocasion that "there is no weapon 
that is formed against you shall pros- 
per; and if any man lift his voice 
against you, he shall be confounded in 
mine own due time." I fancy that 
this man, if he had received a change 
of heart, would be led to exclaim, Sure- 
ly the prediction of God has been ful- 
filled at least in reference to myself. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let me call 
your attention to the fact that whereas 
the Lord placed a Prophet, Seer, and 
Revelator at the head of His Church 
when it was organized in 1830, with six 
souls. He still has a Prophet, Seer and 
Revelator standing at the head of His 
people at the present time, who is en- 
dowed with the keys of power and au- 
thority to bind on earth and it is 
bound in heaven, to loose on earth and 
it is loosed in heaven. That wonder- 
ful power and authority is in the 
Church today, and those impressive 
words that were delivered to the Pro- 
phet Joseph Smith, which I will read 
again, are binding upon the Church to- 
day: 

"Wherefore, (meaning the Church), 
thou shalt give heed unto all his words 
and commandments which he shall 
give unto you as he receiveth them, 
walking in all holiness before me; 

"For his word ye shall receive, as if 
from mine own mouth, in all patience 
and faith." 

Oh! how great the responsibility that 
comes to us with these words. How 
great is the responsibility resting down 
upon the presidents of these fifty Stakes 



of Zion, for they have been called with 
a solemn calling and a great appoint- 
ment to preside over all the general in- 
terests of the Saints. What manner of 
men ought they to be? Quick to mani- 
fest the spirit of obedience that was so 
beautifully alluded to by Apostle 
Smoot. They should be humble, 
prayerful men, quick to hear the word 
of counsel, and to impart that word to 
their people. And Oh, how great is the 
responsibility upon the Bishops in the 
wards of Zion! There are 562 wards 
in the Church, and each ward is pre- 
sided over by a Bishop and two coun- 
selors. Five hundred and sixty-two 
Bishops, with counselors, who have 
been called to look after the precious 
souls in their wards, to watch over 
them, to give counsel, to direct their 
labors, and to be interested in every- 
thing that interests the people; that no 
evil shall grow up in these wards, but 
the Bishop shall be first to see it and 
shall be swift against the wrongdoer, 
albeit in the spirit of the Gospel, that 
evil may be rooted out from among 
the Saints; that not one of these 562 
Bishops shall be asleep at his post for 
a moment, but that all shall be watch- 
ful day and night, that they may know 
what is transpiring in their wards. 
Then, think of the great army of la- 
borers in the Priesthood throughout the 
Church— 62,000; and 264,000 belonging to 
these auxiliary associations, to be on 
hand to assist in laboring for the sal- 
vation of souls! 

I will conclude, brethren and sisters, 
by saying that we heard this morning 
the voice of the Presidency of the 
Church — that voice which the Lord 
says we must listen to as though it 
proceeded from Jehovah Himself. We 
have received counsel. Certain evils> 
exist among us. As presidents of 
Stakes, as Bishops of wards, as coun- 
selors, as High Councilors, as men of 
the Priesthood, we must give our atten- 
tion to these evils. That is the word of 
the Lord to us. We know our duty; 
we know that the evils referred to must 
be reached and must be corrected and 
driven from among the Latter-day 
Saints, else God will be angry with us. 
Amen. 



ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 



11 



The choir and congregation sang: 

Our God, we raise to Thee, 
Thanks for Thy blessings free, 
We here enjoy. 

Benediction by Elder William H. 
Smart. 

AFTERNOON SESSION. 

2 p. m. 

The hymn which begins, 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salva- 
tion, 

No longer as strangers on earth need 
we roam, 

was sung by the choir and congrega- 
tion. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Piatt D. 
Lyman. 

The choir sang: 
Lord, Thou will hear me when I pray. 

ELDER A. O. WOODRUFF. 

Good results of opposition of the world — The 
favor of God with the Saints— Notable effects 
of faith, fasting and prayer — Importance of 
Godlinese in the household. 

In my attempt to address you and to 
edify you this afternoon, my brethren 
and sisters, I feel very dependent upon 
the aid of our Heavenly Father to in- 
spire me with words that will be for 
your good. I greatly rejoiced in our 
forenoon session, listening to the words 
of life and light which were delivered 
to us, and to the excellent report which 
was rendered by Brother Clawson. It 
occurred to me that a report of that 
kind, showing the progress of "Mor- 
monism," must be exceedingly discour- 
aging to the enemies of God, and they 
must feel very much dissatisfied with 
the efforts which they have put forth 
to thwart the work of our Father. I do 
not refer to people who simply differ 
with us in their religious views, but to 
those who are enemies of God and of 
righteousness, and those who, belonging 
to any religious organization, are not 
earnest in their worship of the Master. 
An encouraging feature about the work 
of the Lord is that from its infancy it 
has never grown less, but has become 
a greater power in the earth from year 
to year. I wish to read to you a few 
verses from Section 3 of the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants: 

"The works, and the designs, and the 
purposes of God cannot be frustrated, 
neither can they come to naught; 



"For God doth not walk in crooked 
paths, neither doth he turn to the 
right hand nor to the left, neither doth 
he vary from that which He hath said; 
therefore His paths are straight, and 
His course is one eternal round. 

"Remember, remember, that it is not 
the work of God that is frustrated, but 
the work of man." 

The Apostle Paul, in his day, said: 
"For we can do nothing against the 
truth, but for the truth." 

Are we not witnesses this day that 
this prediction has been ful- 
filled in the history of the Lat- 
ter-day Saints? No weapon that has 
ever been formed against Zion has 
prospered. The efforts of the evil one 
to destroy the work of the Lord have 
only tended to spread it abroad. The 
persecutions which have been heaped 
upon this people have been the means 
of cementing us together, drawing us 
more closely to God, and making us 
more united and powerful. It is the 
heritage of the Saints of God to be mis- 
represented and persecuted by the in- 
sincere and the wicked; but their ef- 
forts have never blocked the progress 
of the work of our Eternal Father. On 
the contrary, the labors of our most 
bitter enemies have been among the 
main factors in spreading the work 
abroad. The Lord has turned the wrath 
of the wicked to His own glory. Had 
it not been for the persecution of the 
Latter-day Saints, the mustard seed 
would not have been cast abroad; but 
in the attempt to destroy the mustard 
stalk, to which the Savior compared 
the Gospel, they have scattered the 
seed, and it has taken root wherever 
it has fallen. Some of our brethren, on 
account of the practice of a principle 
were driven into exile and had to seek 
a place of refuge in other parts of the 
country. Had it not been for that per- 
secution, I doubt if there would be to- 
day a Stake of Zion in Mexico, or in 
Canada, or in some other places. These 
brethren, driven from their homes, 
formed the nucleus of new flourishing 
Stakes of Zion. I thank God that it 
is not His purposes which have failed, 
but the purposes of man. This should 
be an encouragement to every Latter- 
day Saint, and a strong testimony that 
this is the work of God. It ought to 
be a testimony also to those who have 



12 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



sought to bring to naught the purposes 
of God. But some people appear to get 
into such gross darkness after oppos- 
ing the truth that the spirit of repen- 
tance seems to withdraw itself from 
them, and they will not acknowledge 
the truth when it is demonstrated be- 
fore them. 

The Lord Almighty never favored an- 
cient Israel more than He has the Lat- 
ter-day Saints in the establishment of 
Zion. In the building up of Stakes and 
settlements. He has operated in a most 
marvelous manner for the benefit of the 
Saints. The faithful and obedient are 
reaping the reward of their obedience. 
We exercise our own agency in becom- 
ing Latter-day Saints, but if we would 
be Latter-day Saints, indeed, it is ex- 
pected of us that we will be obedient 
and take counsel. The man who stands 
at the head of this people enjoys the 
revelations of the mind and will of God, 
and it is our duty to heed his counsel. 
The past history of our people proves 
to every reasonable man that God has 
been with us; and although at times 
perhaps the people have been unable to 
see the wisdom of God manifested 
through His mouthpiece, yet by oa- 
tienee and obedience they have finally 
seen the course taken by the leader of 
the Church vindicated by our Eternal 
Father. We have an abundance of tes- 
timony that this is the work of God; 
in fact, I sometimes think it becomes 
so common that we do not appreciate 
it. When we find ourselves in trouble 
we go to the Lord, the way is opened 
up before us, and we are able to ac- 
complish the righteous desires of our 
hearts. But these things come so nat- 
urally that we are apt to forget that 
they are the direct gift of God. When 
the Saints came to these western val- 
leys, and when their crops were abouv 
to be destroyed by crickets, do we not 
remember how, in answer to prayer, 
God sent the gulls to devour the 
crickets and to save the people from 
starvation? In numerous ways He has 
opened up the way before the Latter- 
day Saints, to enable them to accom- 
plish every purpose which He has indi- 
cated through His mouthpiece. I have 
faith to believe that no work will fail 
that is undertaken by the direction of 



the Prophet of the Lord. There is no 
such thing as the Latter-day Saints 
failing to carry out the mind and will 
of God regarding the establishment of 
His work, provided they will live so as 
to enjoy the favor of God. It matters 
not what odds we may have to contend 
against, nor how impossible the task 
may appear, if we have faith we can 
carry out the designs of our Heavenly 
Father. 

During the past year I have labored 
under the direction of President Snow 
and my brethren, in the establishment 
of a Stake of Zion in Wyoming. We 
had a large number of people there 
who were practically without means, 
and we did not know how we were go- 
ing to get through with the task before 
us, only we knew that we had been 
sent there with the sanction and under 
the direction of the Prophet of God. 
After the people had got to the end 
of their means (and we did not receive 
a dollar from the Church to help in this 
enterprise which we were sent to ac- 
complish), we asked the Lord to open 
up the way before us, that the brethren 
might get employment and earn suffi- 
cient money to sustain themselves and 
their families while they accomplished 
that for which they had been sent. The 
Lord opened up the way. We got a 
small contract from the Burlington 
railroad that amounted to about $5,000. 
But after a while that was gone, and 
we scarcely knew what to do. So all 
the brethren and sisters came together 
in a special fast meeting, and we asked 
the Lord to open up the way, that we 
might receive remunerative employ- 
ment which would bring in money suffi- 
cient to sustain the people through the 
coming winter. The way in which the 
Lord answered us was most marvelous. 
In the afternoon of that day we went 
out to locate a townsite, and just after 
we had attended to this labor and were 
about to return to our camp, the chief 
engineer of the Burlington system met 
us and said he would like to contract 
more with our people. He told us we 
could have the option on a very large 
piece of work on the road. We felt 
that the Lord had sent him 
there to furnish the people em- 
ployment, and after conferring with 



ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 



13 



the brethren we accepted the proposi- 
tion, and during the next ten months 
our people earned something over $96,- 
000. In numerous ways, not only in 
Wyoming, but in Canada and Mexico 
and other places, the Lord has evi- 
denced to us that He is willing to help 
us if we will be humble, seek. Him in 
time of need, and consecrate our labors 
to the building up of His kingdom. I 
remember that on the day we broke 
ground for the canal which is being 
constructed in that country, and which 
will cost in the neighborhood of one 
hundred thousand dollars, men, women 
and children all knelt down upon the 
ground before it was broken and they 
petitioned the blessings of Almighty 
God upon their enterprise, and cove- 
nanted with Him upon that spot that if 
He would make them successful they 
would by the payment of their tithes 
and their offerings and their obedience 
to the Gospel strive to sanctify that 
place as a gathering place for the Saints 
of God. The Lord always blesses us 
when we manifest a living faith in Him, 
and are not afraid that we cannot ac- 
complish some task that He requires at 
our hands because it looks so large and 
hard to perform. When we are sent 
out to preach the Gospel, if we could 
only remember all the time that we are 
upon the Lord's errand and that His 
purposes are not frustrated, how much 
more strength would the Elders have 
than they do have now in some cases. 
If they would only remember that the 
Lord commands His people to do noth- 
ing save He prepares a way whereby 
they can accomplish it, what hope and 
courage it would afford them in their 
labors! We ought to be a hopeful, 
prayerful, humble people. We ought to 
remember the Lord in all things. We 
should not forget Him when we are 
prospered. If we are blessed because of 
our humility and faithfulness, we ought 
not to imagine in our hearts that we 
have been able to accomplishd some 
great thing independent of the Lord. 
On the contrary, the more the Lord 
blesses us, the more responsibil- 
ity He places upon us. the 
more humble we ought to 
be. I know that the Lord has raised 
up honorable men who are not mem- 



bers of this Church, to be instruments 
in His hands in assisting to establish 
the work of God. We have friends in 
this nation and in the world, who have 
done us a great deal of good. The 
Lord has raised them up to befriend 
His people and to do a part for them 
which they perchance could not do if 
they were members of the Church; and 
although they have not accepted the 
Gospel, they are the sons of God, and 
the Lord has sent them on earth to 
perform a certain mission. I say, God 
bless them. God bless all who favor 
Zion, and all who wish her well. 

I pray that the Latter-day Saints 
may be faithful in their homes, and 
that they may set their own houses in 
order. President Smith mentioned this 
morning the evil practice of tobacco- 
using. This is a serious evil to which 
some of the Elders of Israel, especially 
in our outlying settlements, are ad- 
dicted to; and it would appear from 
their actions as if they think more of 
ther cigarette, or their chew of tobac- 
co, than they do of their families and 
their association with the people of 
God, not to speak of the Priesthood 
which has been conferred upon them. 
This is disgraceful. They certainly 
cannot understand the value of the 
Priesthood. If they did, they would 
try to set an example in their own 
homes, that they might have the love 
and confidence of their families and 
.'ead them in keeping the command- 
ments of God. We are such a busy 
lot of people that we do not appear to 
have time to serve the Lord. Especi- 
ally is this the case in our cities. At 
least, we do not take time to serve the 
j_iord. A short time ago I went into 
the home of Brother Wm. H. Seegmil- 
ler, president of the Sevier Stake of 
Zion, and I was very much impressed 
with the beautif'.l practice he has in 
his home at their devotional exercises. 
When we got up in the morning we 
were invited into his parlor, and there 
one of his daughters played the organ, 
and we all sang a hymn; then one of 
the members of the family read a chap- 
ter from the Book of Mormon, at the 
close of which we engaged in prayer. 
Altogether it took us about twenty 
minutes or half an hour, and there was 



14 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



a beautiful spirit in that home by rea- 
son of this practice. I thought to my- 
self, what a glorious thing it would be 
if all the Saints of God would take half 
an hour every morning to serve Him 
in this way, and thus assist in setting 
their own houses in order. In this way 
we would be able to gain a little knowl- 
edge of the Gospel every day. The 
chapter read from the Book of Mor- 
mon, or from the Doctrine and Cove- 
nants, or from the Bible, would be 
with us during the day, and our reflec- 
tions would be upon that which it con- 
tained. I believe that the men and wo- 
men in Israel who take time to do this 
will succeed in saving their sons and 
daughters; for such a practice cannot 
help but have a remarkably good in- 
fluence upon the children. But we 
say we have not time, or we cannot 
get our families together. Where that 
is the case, we ought to begin to edu- 
cate ourselves to carry out this plan, 
in order to fit and qualify ourselves for 
something better and greater. If we go 
back to Jackson County, we will have 
to take time to serve the Lord. There- 
fore, I say, what a glorious thing it 
would be if we could carry out this sim- 
ple practice in our homes! I will tell 
you, brethren and sisters, sons and 
daughters from a home like that do 
not disgrace their parents; they do 
not bring shame upon that house. 
Those who go astray, in the majority 
of cases, are from homes where these 
things are unknown. I thank the Lord 
that this practice was not simply for 
my benefit in visiting that home; it is 
a daily practice there, and I wish it 
were the daily practice in every home 
of the Saints of God. If it were, we 
would be a much more faithful people 
than we are today. There would be no 
.ieed of sending out special missionaries 
to regulate families, or wards, because 
there would be a missionary work done 
right in the home which would cause 
the members of the family to live lives 
of consistency, in keeping with the 
Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

God help you, my brethren and sis- 
ters, to reflect upon these things, and 
see whether they are worth our atten- 
tion or not. May His peace and bless- 
ings be in the homes of all the Saints 



of God, and may we improve year after 
year. When we come together in our 
semi-annual conference, with the Spirit 
of God resting upon us, may we take 
a retrospective view of the preceding 
six months, and be able to discover 
that we have made some advancement, 
that we have benefitted some one, and 
that we are keeping pace with the work 
of God. I am grateful for a testimony 
that every principle which the Lord has 
revealed through the Prophet Joseph 
is of God, and that the work in which 
we are engaged is God's work, and not 
the work of man; that Joseph Smith 
was sent of our Eternal Father to es- 
tablish the work, which he did estab- 
lish, and which is gradually filling the 
whole earth, as it is designed to do, 
bearing the message of peace on earth 
and good will towards all men. May 
the Lord help us that we may keep the 
spirit of this great and grand work, 
and prize our standing as members of 
this Church and Kingdom. I ask it in 
the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 

Why many generations have been left without the 
Gospel— Growth of the work of the Lord from 
its Inception — An Incomparable organization 
— Sacredness of the name of Deity— Loyalty to 
the Priesthood and country — Keliglonists 
should marry within their own faith. 

My brethren and sisters: I feel to ex- 
press my gratitude for the opportunity 
of enjoying this conference. I do not 
know what I shall say, but place my- 
self in the hands of the Lord. I have 
rejoiced in the many good things which 
have been spoken unto us, and I dare 
say that every Latter-day Saint who 
enjoys the spirit of his calling will hear 
something said at this conference that 
will be particularly adapted to his 
wants. This will always be the case if 
we come tog-ether with a desire to be 
renewed in our faith and encouraged 
in the performance of our duties. It is 
within our reach to know the mind and 
will of the Lord, not only concerning 
the Church as a whole through the 
mouthpiece of God, but also concerning 
our individual labors. Every Latter- 
day Saint is entitled to enjoy the 
promptings of the Holy Spirit to guide 
him in his particular field of labor. 

I was impressed while listening to the 



ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 



15 



testimony of Brother Woodruff con- 
cerning the manifestation which the 
Lord had given him and his brethren, 
when they sought Him in prayer, in 
the establishment of a colony of peo- 
ple in the state of Wyoming. It sound- 
ed very different to anything that is 
carried out in the sectarian world, 
where religious worship "consists sim- 
ply of a little preaching, praying and 
singing in their public assemblies. The 
work of God comprehends far more 
thar that. It seems to me that, out 
of the hundreds of millions of people 
in the world who profess to believe in a 
Supreme Being, there would be more 
understand the unchangeable character 
of God and that they are entitled to 
know His mind and will concerning 
them. We have often been asked 
why, if Joseph Smith was a Prophet 
of God, the Lord left the 
earth without the light of the Gos- 
pel for so many generations. The 
answer is very plain. They destroyed 
the men who bore the authority of God 
to officiate in His name. Then the Lord 
raised up such men as Luther and his 
associates of the Reformation to pave 
the way for the introduction of the 
truth; but even their lives were placed 
in jeopardy, though they did not claim 
to have received any new revelation 
from God, nor any light regarding the 
organization of the true Church; in 
fact, many of them laid down their lives 
in testimony of that for which they con- 
tended. I want to bear testimony that 
the Prophet Joseph Smith was raised 
up to introduce this Gospel just as soon 
as the world were prepared to receive 
it; and it was according to the pur- 
poses of the Almighty that it should 
be brought forth in the last days. 

The work of God, from its inception 
to the present, has been growing, so 
that it is those who fight against it, 
. not the Latter-day Saints, that ought 
to be discouraged. It would be well for 
them if, instead of persisting in fighting 
the work, they would esteem it as a 
joyful piece of news which the Lord 
has sent again to the earth— the Gos- 
pel restored in its ancient purity ana 
power, by heavenly messengers, for the 
salvation of the children of men. There 
have been some men that, whi'e not un- 



derstanding the real source of inspira- 
tion and strength which has sustained 
the work, have had sufficient light and 
understanding to know that it was not 
to be ti^ed with. I have often been 
impressed with the testimony borne by 
Josiah Quincy, who visited the Prophet 
Joseph Smith a few weeks before his 
martyrdom. In his book entitled, 
"Figures of the Past," he devotes two 
chapters to the Prophet, and makes the 
statement that at some future time it 
was not improbable that the question 
would be asked, What great American 
has done more to mould the minds and 
destiny of his countrymen than 
any other man upon this conti- 
nent? and he remarked, "Absurd as 
it may seem to some, it is not im- 
probable that the answer to this ques- 
tion will be, Joseph Smith, the 
Mormon prophet!" I want to say that 
he was guided by the spirit of prophecy 
when he wrote that statement, and it 
will come to pass. William H. Se- 
ward, who was secretary of state in the 
days of Abraham Lincoln, impressed 
with the character of President Brig- 
ham Young, made the statement that 
America had produced no greater 
statesman than the Mormon prophet, 
Brigham Young. 

What impresses me, my brethren and 
sisters, is not the idea of securing pop- 
ularity through the statements of sen- 
sible men who speak thus boldly and 
sincerely at times, but the fact that peo- 
ple ought to see, as we have been led 
to see, that this work has not been 
accomplished by the ingenuity of the 
men who have stood at the head of this 
Church. I remember a statement that 
was made many years ago to Brother 
John W. Taylor, when he was working 
in the county recorder's office in this 
city. A gentleman from the East called 
in, and in the course of conversation 
he said: "Mr. Taylor, I have examined 
the organizations of civil government 
in various nations of the earth; I am 
informed in regard to the Church in- 
stitutions as they exist in Christendom; 
but in all my travels and researches I 
have found nothing that is at all to be 
compared with the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
I appeal to you, my brethren and sis- 



6 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



ters, to consider these things. Not- 
withstanding the fact that numerically 
the Church has grown in a most re- 
markable manner, as shown by Brother 
Clawson, there exists a great neces- 
sity for us to grow in spirit. It is not 
the numerical strength that constitutes 
the power and strength of a people; 
it is their purity of life, and their pos- 
session of the Holy Spirit as a source 
of inspiration in all the walks of life. 
As an evidence of this I want to ci'e 
to you the fact that notwithstanding 
the Church now numbers 310,000, there 
are many who have fallen by the way 
side. The doctrine has been laid down 
in a most clear and distinct manner that 
it is not the professions we make; it 
is not the fact that we nave a standing 
in th> Church, or that we have some 
knowledge of the Gospel from the 
"dead" letter, that will give us per- 
fect fellowship with God. Something 
better than that is required. "We must 
stand in the light that Jesus told His 
disciples to occupy when He said unto 
them: 

"Ye are the salt of the earth: but if 
the salt hath lost his savor, wherewith 
shall it be salted? It is thenceforth 
good for nothing, but to be cast out, 
and to be trodden .under foot of men." 

What made them the "salt of the 
earth?" He had told them previously. 
It was not because He had come and 
spoken unto them; it was not because 
they had seen Him work mighty mira- 
cles; but it was because they applied in 
their lives the teachings He gave in 
that beautiful sermon on the mount. 

"Blessed are the poor in spirit; for 
theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 

"Blessed are the meek; for they shall 
inherit the earth. 

"Blessed are they which do hunger 
and thirst after righteousness; for 
they shall be filled. 

"Blessed are the pure in heart; for 
they shall see God. 

"Blessed are the peacemakers, for 
they shall be called the cnildren of 
God." 

These were some of the characteris- 
tics manifested by them in their lives. 
As Jesus said to them, "Except your 
righteousness shall exceed the righte- 
ousness of the scribes and Pharisees, 
ye shall in no case enter into the king- 
dom of heaven." 

President Smith alluded this morning 



to the habit of profanity among the 
young people. I heard Brother Mc- 
Murrin, who is one of the general au- 
thorities of the Church, state several 
times during our recent visit to Ari- 
zona and Mexico that there was more 
profanity on the streets of Salt Lake 
City in a short time than there was in 
the great cities of England in a long 
time.' I want to say that, so far as this 
concerns the Latter-day Saints, it is a 
disgrace in the sisht of God. Alto- 
gether I have spent nearly five years 
south of the Mason and Dixon line in 
the United States of America, and it 
was seldom that I heard the name of 
Deity profaned among the southern 
people. Co-operating with my brethren 
who stand here to teach the people, I 
enjoin upon the young men the absolute 
recessity of desisting from profaning 
the name of Deity. We ought to es- 
teem that name as exceedingly sacred. 
It is so sacred that the Lord has said, 
in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph 
Smith, recorded in Section 107 of the 
book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"There are in the church two Priest- 
hoods, namely, the Melchisedek and 
Aaronic, including the Levitical priest- 
hood. 

Why the first is called the Melchise- 
dek Priesthood is because Melchisedek 
was such a great High Priest. 

Before his day it was called the Holy 
Priesthood, after the order of the Son 
of God; 

But out of respect or reverence to the 
name of the Supreme Being, to avoid 
the too frequent repetition of his name, 
they, the church, in ancient days, called 
that Priesthood after Melchisedek, or 
the Melchisedek Priesthood." 

Let us stop and reflect upon that for 
a moment. It does not imply, when 
they called the Priesthood after the or- 
der of the Son of God, that they did it 
irreverently, or that they were profan- 
ing the name of Deity; but the change 
was made "to avoid the too frequent 
repetition of His name." This ought 
to impress us with the sacredness that 
the Almighty places upon His holy 
name. 

Allow me to teach a few simple ideas, 
that possibly ought to be taught to the 
Sunday school children; but we are all 
children, and need teaching and nurs- 
ing, so far as the work of the Lord is 
concerned. When a child speaks to his 



I 



ELDER MATTH] 

father he does not call him John Jones, 
nor Samuel Brown, nor Golden Kim- 
ball; he calls him father, or some name 
equivalent to that. Our Savior, in 
teaching His disciples how to pray, 
said, "After this manner there- 
fore pray ye: Our Father which 
art in heaven." He warned them 
against praying as the hypocrites did, 
who loved to stand in the synagogue^ 
and on the street corners, to be seen of 
men; and He advised them tp enter in- 
to their closets and pray to their Fath- 
er in secret. The Spirit says to me 
that the Latter-day Saints do not enter 
into their closets and pray in secret as 
much as they ought to do. We do not, 
as we should, test the words of the 
beautiful hymn that has been sung this 
afternoon, "Lord, thou wilt hear me 
when I pray." The Savior also told His 
disciples not to use vain repetitions, 
and in His prayer Hie did not repeat 
the name of the Father. He simply 
said in the beginning, "Our Father 
which art in heaven." What could be 
more simple, more gentle, or a more 
humble acknowledgment of our rela- 
tionship to God, than this expression 
of the Messiah? We are the children 
of our heavenly Father. We were 
created in His image, physically, as 
well as spiritually. Therefore, in our 
prayers we should address Him as our 
Father. By so doing it will surround 
the sacred name of Deity with due rev- 
erence. We should teach our children to 
approach the Father in this way, in the 
name of the Son; and then the name 01 
Deity will not be so familiar to them 
that when they are on the street, ana 
perhaps become irritated, that sacred 
name will come to their minds and find 
profane expression on their lips. We 
ought to be governed by the Savior's 
example in all our prayers, private and 
public, as well as in our discourses be- 
fore the public, and not repeat too fre- 
quently the name of Deity. 

I allude to this because it has been 
suggested by those who stand in au- 
thority over us that we shall take up, 
as it were, a crusade against profanity. 
You know the effect of the spirit 01 
revelation through President Snow on 
the subject of tithing, and how it has 
been attended by the blessings of the 
Almighty. As was stated by Brother 



AS F. COWLEY. 17 

Reed Smoot in regard to the law of 
consecration, we have been brought 
nearer to that law by the preaching 
and, labors of the brethren on the 
question of tithing. Now, let us take 
up a crusade against these evils that 
exist among the young people, and in 
some instances among the older peo- 
ple. And this ought not to be confined 
to those who are working in the Mu- 
tual Improvement cause. It ought to 
be taken up by the Bisfiops of the 
wards, by the Teachers in the wards, 
by the Presidents of Stakes, and by 
the local missionaries. Wherever we 
find a man who, either in moments of 
excitement or through carelessness, 
profanes the name of Deity, we ought 
to take up a labor with him. The same 
may be said with regard to those who 
do not observe the Word of Wisdom; 
for the Word of Wisdom is not so ex- 
tensively practiced as it ought to be. 

Brethren and sisters, reverence for 
the name of Deity, the observance of 
the Sabbath day, the attendance upon 
our prayers, the payment of our tith- 
ing, the performance of these simple 
duties that the Gospel enjoins upon us, 
constitute the key for *our safety in 
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- 
day Saints. We may talk about the 
mysteries of the kingdom of heaven; 
we may talk about becoming as the 
Father is now (which is within the 
possibility of the Gospel) ; but it is al- 
most absolute folly to talk about such 
glorious things unless we have faith to 
quit smoking a cigarette or an old pipe, 
and to cease breaking the Sabbath day 
or profaning the name of Deity. There 
ought to be consistency in all the 
practices of the Latter-day Saints. The 
good, substantial Latter-day Saint is 
the one, whether old or young, who 
is willing to take hold readily of any 
labor that may be assigned unto him 
or her. Whenever a young man goes on 
a mission, and is exceedingly success- 
ful, and enjoys the Spirit of the Lord, 
he ought not to be imbued with a de- 
sire to do missionary work abroad all 
the time, and feel that he wants to 
be distinguished in that re- 
spect. He should possess such 
a feeling that if the Bishop wants him 
to act as a Deacon and look after the 
house of the Lord, he will be a Deacon. 



18 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



He should be willing to adapt himself 
to the duties of the Priest or the Teach- 
er, though he may be a High Priest 
or a Seventy. Those who are thus hum- 
ble and willing are the kind of people 
that make good Latter-day Saints and 
turn neither to the right nor to the 
left. I remember hearing President 
Snow say on more than one occasion 
how determined Lyman E. Johnson 
was to see an angel from the Lord. He 
plead with and teased the Lord to send 
an angel to him, until he saw an an- 
gel; but President Snow said that the 
trouble with him was that he saw an 
angel one day and saw the devil the 
next day, and finally the devil got 
away with him. My brethren and sis- 
ters, it is the angel of good works 
that we want around us all the time. 
The Lord will send angels whenever 
there is a necessity for it; He will 
speak to us by the gift of tongues or 
in some other way when occasion re- 
quires; but the great thing — that which 
goes to make us the salt of the earth 
— is that we shall do our duty and live 
according to the principles of eternal 
righteousness which the Almighty has 
revealed unto us. 

The work of the Lord is extending 
in the earth in a most remarkable man- 
ner. People have asked the question 
whether or not Brother Grant would 
be successful in Japan, and whether 
the Gospel would gather people from 
other nations. Such a question need 
not be asked, for it was answered this 
morning in the revelation read by 
Apostle Smoot, where it says in rela- 
tion to Zion, "And there shall come 
unto her out of every nation under the 
heaven." We need, therefore, have no 
concern whatever about that. We need 
not trouble about the prosperity and 
the destiny of the work of God, and 
we must not think that we can devise 
some plan that will benefit the 
people of God better than the 
suggestions which come from the 
Prophet of the Lord who stands 
at the head of this Church 
Let me say to you, brethren and sisters, 
sustain your local priesthood. Do not 
jump over the President of your Stake 
and go to the Prophet when it is not 
necessary. The presidents of Stakes 
have been appointed to preside over 



you, and they are men of God. This is 
the work of the Lord, not the work of 
man. It is not the work of Lorenzo 
Snow, nor of Brigham Young, nor of 
Joseph Smith; it is the work of the Al- 
mighty, and though men are fallible 
and imperfect, He will never allow the 
work to be stopped. Another thing, 
He will never allow any man or wo- 
man to be crowded out of the Church. 
The man that lives his religion will en- 
joy the Spirit of God, and no power 
can crowd him out of this Church ay 
long as he is in the discharge of his 
duty. When a man leaves this Church 
it is because he has apostatized or de- 
parted from the order of the Holy 
Priesthood. There is an order in the 
work of the Lord, which must be res- 
pected. Even the angels of heaven res- 
pect the Priesthood of God upon the 
earth. When the angel appeared to 
Cornelius did he baptize Cornelius? No; 
he sent him to that humble fisherman 
of Galilee, Peter. When the Messiah 
appeared to Paul on his way to Da- 
mascus, did he baptize Paul? No; he 
sent him to Ananias, a humble servant 
of the Lord, who baptized him. The 
Nephite Apostles and John the Revela- 
tor, who are laboring among the peo- 
ple, at times perhaps in this land, and 
possibly among the tribes of Israel, will 
not baptize and lay hands upon people 
for the gift of the Holy Ghost who are 
within the purview of this Church. If 
they should do such a thing, it would 
be understood by the Prophet who 
stands at the head of this Church. Jos- 
eph Smith received all the keys that 
pertain to this dispensation; and al- 
though the Bible says that John the 
Revelator has a mission to gather the 
ten tribes of Israel, I desire to say 
that it will be done under the order of 
the Priesthood established in this 
Church and by the keys that were giv- 
en to the Prophet Joseph Smith; for it 
belongs to this dispensation, and it will 
be done under the direction of whoever 
stands at the head of the Church at 
the time. , 

Another thing: Sometimes the Lat- 
ter-day Saints get a false idea abouv 
prophecy. Some of the brethren have 
said that the temple in Jackson County, 
Missouri, must be built in a very short 
time, because the Lord has said that 



ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 



19 



it shall be built in this generation; but 
we should not forget that the Almighty 
can prolong the years of this genera- 
tion, if necessary. Did not Jesus say to 
the Twelve in Palestine, "There be 
some standing here, which shall not 
taste of death, till they see the Son 
of Man coming in His kingdom?" And 
some of the generation of Jesus, ac- 
cording to the flesh, are upon the earth 
today. Therefore, if the Latter-day 
Saints are not prepared, and the Lora 
does not feel disposed to raise up an- 
other people to redeem Zion and to 
build the great temple in Jackson 
County, He may prolong that genera- 
tion just as long as He sees fit. I do 
not know that He will, but I mention it 
that you may not entertain a mistaken 
idea. I have heard President Smith ana 
Brother John Henry Smith say at vari- 
ous times that when the people were 
sent to settle Provo and build up Zion 
in Utah County, they would not plant 
out shade and fruit trees, because, the> 
said, the day was near at hand when 
they would go back to redeem Zion, and 
trees would not be needed there. But 
they are in Provo yet, unless they are 
dead and gone to a better place. When 
I was in Arizona with Brother McMur- 
rin, we found in some places — not 
many, thank the Lord — and among a 
few people a little discontent. They said 
the land was too good for them, ana 
they could not hold it down; so they 
wanted to get up and leave. I felt so 
impressed with the remarks of Brother 
McMurrin down there, encouraging the 
spirit of patriotism to the Terri- 
tory of Arizona and to the Republic of 
Mexico, that I wanted to say to the 
Latter-day Saints, "Wherever you 
live be patriotic to the country in 
which you live; not only to the soil 
and to the elements, by which God shall 
sustain your lives while you promote 
His work in that land, but be patriotic 
to the institutions of the country, under 
whose flag you receive your rights and 
have the opportunity to life, liberty and 
the pursuit of happiness." If you are 
in Canada, be true to the flag of Cana- 
da. If you are in Mexico, be true to 
Mexico. If you are in these glorious 
United States of America, whose Con- 
stitution was framed under the inspir- 



ation of the Almighty, be thou true to 
thy country in general, and specially 
true to Arizona, or to Utah, or to Idaho, 
or to Wyoming, or wherever the Lord 
has planted your feet and said, Here 
shall be established a Stake of Zion. 
It is not within the spirit and genius of 
this work to destroy the Stakes of 
Zion. They will not be destroyed. The 
Lord has said through Isaiah, "Not one 
of the stakes thereof shall ever be re- 
moved, neither shall any, of the cords 
thereof be broken." In another pla.:e 
Isaiah says, "Enlarge the place of thy 
tent, and let them stretch forth the cur- 
tains of thine habitations; spare not, 
lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy 
stakes." The word of the Lord is to 
build up the Stakes of Zion, and the 
day will come when the Latter-day 
Saints will cover the American conti- 
nent; when the seed of Lehi shall em- 
brace the Gospel, come to the standard 
of Zion and be mighty in the redemp- 
tion of Zion upon this land; when the 
Jews will build up Jerusalem, and the 
tribes of Israel will come from the 
north country. 

We ought to have all these things in 
remembrance, and in order that we may 
do so we must not forget to teach our 
children that Joseph Smith was a 
Prophet of the Almighty; that every 
principle revealed to him is just as true 
today as it was the day he sealed his 
testimony with his innocent blood in 
Carthage jail; that this is the dispensa- 
tion of the fulness of times; that with- 
out the principles which the Lord re- 
vealed to Joseph Smith this dispensa- 
tion is not complete; and that the work 
of God will never be destroyed, either 
in part or as a whole, for so hath the 
Lord spoken. So, my brethren and sis- 
ters, be not discouraged, but be faith- 
ful. Let me say to the young people: 
Keep good company. Do not go out 
with those who profane the name of 
Deity. Do not cast your lot with those 
who have no faith in the Almighty. Do 
not mingle with those who smoke or 
chew tobacco, who dabble with liquor, 
and who desecrate the Sabbath day. 
Do not risk going into company where 
there is danger that your affections 
will be established in an object that is 
not a saint of the Most High. Young 



20 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



women, seek the Lord in prayer, to 
guide you in the selection of a man to 
stand at your head for time and all 
eternity. I give the same counsel to 
the young men. Taking the opposite 
course has never resulted in good. Evil 
always arises from union with those 
outside the Church. If it were my 
right, I would say to the Methodists, 
marry within your own church. I 
would say to the Baptists the same. I 
would say to the Methodist, the Cath- 
olic, the Baptist young man: Do not 
marry a Latter-day Saint girl; she will 
make you trouble just as sure as you 
are born. You know, the preachers 
said a few weeks ago that when they 
got a "Mormon" into their net he was a 
source of trouble to them, because his 
old "Mormon" theories would crop out. 
If a Gentile marries a "Mormon" girl, 
when she has a baby she will want that 
baby blessed at a "Mormon" fast 
meeting, and when it is eight years 
old she will want it baptized; and there 
will be trouble and discord in the fam- 
ily. I lift my voice against such mar- 
riages. I want to protect the Baptists, 
the Methodists and the Catholics 
against you "Mormon" girls. I want 
to protect the Catholic girls against 
you "Mormon" boys. I say to girls not 
of our faith, Do not marry a "Mormon" 
boy: for if you do he will make you 
trouble. ["Unless they repent," 
President Smith remarked.] Yes; 
but they are not very apt to 
repent. When you marry a man to 
save him, you are engaging in a very 
risky thing. I remember reading many 
years ago a piece of poetry in the 
"Woman's Exponent," which said, "Do 
not marry a man to save him." And 
it is better not to marry a woman to 
save her. If you cannot convert her 
beforehand, you will have a sorry job 
on your hands afterwards. I say fur- 
ther, I would not advise a young lady 
to marry a young man, unless he be- 
lieved in the Gospel and every prin- 
ciple of it. Though we cannot carry 
out the law of consecration today, the 
day will come when we- can, and if 
anybody is opposed to it they will find 
themselves in a disagreeable predica- 
ment. So in regard to everything else 
in the Gospel. 
God has established this work, my 



brethren and sisters. I know it is true. 
I know that Joseph Smith was a proph- 
et of the Almighty; that Brigham 
Young was inspired of the Almighty; 
that he led this people into these 
chambers of the mountains. So was 
John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff, 
and so is Lorenzo Snow. The founda- 
tion of this work was laid by the Al- 
mighty .through the Prophet Joseph 
Smith. Brigham Young never gave 
a new doctrine unto this people. All 
the ordinances and blessings were giv- 
en to the Prophet Joseph, and his suc- 
cessors have built upon that founda- 
tion. God established through him the 
dispensation of the fulness of times, 
which comprehends every key, every 
blessing, every authority and every 
principle that is essential for the salva- 
tion of the human family in this life, 
not only spiritually, but socially, po- 
litically, financially, and in every sense 
of the word. Then what is the good 
of going outside and joining Christian 
Science or anything else, when you can 
get everything in the Gospel, and ten 
thousand times more than they dare 
to offer you? What is the good of 
joining any of these sectarian institu- 
tions, which have not been founded by 
the Almighty, where the authority of 
God to administer the ordinances of 
eternal life do not exist? What is the 
good of dropping the meat to grasp a 
miserable shadow? 

May God bless you, my brethren and 
sisters. May the Lord inspire you and 
our young people to hold sacred the 
name of Deity, to observe the Sabbath, 
to honor the law of tithine-. to live 
lives of virtue, honor and chastity. 
May our Eternal Father bless Presi- 
dent Lorenzo Snow. May He heal his 
body, that he may come and speak un- 
to us and give us the word of the 
Lord. May He bless his counselor, 
President Smith. May He bless the 
Twelve Apostles. May He bless these 
men who sit before me, and who are 
the general authorities of the Church; 
for the Almighty has appointed them, 
and through them will His will be 
manifest to the children of men; and 
those who receive and act upon it He 
will bless and establish in the faith, 
while those who fight against it He 



ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 



21 



will withdraw His fellowship from, 
and they will go into darkness. Hea- 
ven bless you, my brethren and sisters, 
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang. 



How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the 
Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent 
word! 

Benediction by Elder Angus M. Can- 
non. 



SECOND DAY. 



Oct. 5, 10 a. m. 
The choir and congregation sang the 
hymn which commences: 

Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor la- 
bor fear, 
But with joy wend j'our way. 

Prayer was offered b Elder Lewis 
W. Shurtliff. 
The choir sang: 

Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell, 
By faith and love, in every breast. 

ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 

Conferences a blessing to the Saints — The people 
shouid be true to their obligations — Advan- 
tages of a progressive course — Importance of 
keeping records. 

I earnestly ask an interest in your 
faith and prayers, that the few mo- 
ments I shall occupy this stand I may 
be heard by you and be able to say 
something that will be for our mutual 
benefit. I was very much interested 
yesterday in the proceedings of our 
conference. I enjoyed the remarks 
made by our brethren, and felt that 
they were dictated by the Spirit of 
God. It is pleasant to come together 
upon these occasions to receive instruc- 
tion and to be strengthened in our holy 
faith. 

The Lord instituted these gatherings 
of the Saints, and they have proved 
a great blessing to the people. The Is- 
raelites of old were commanded once 
a year to go up to Jerusalem, to wor- 
ship at the temple; and this was a po- 
tent means to keep the people united. 
It cemented them together, and they 
renewed old acquaintances. "When Jero- 
boam rebelled, and the ten tribes separ- 
ated from the government of Reho- 
boam, he saw the danger in having 
the people come together at Jerusalem, 
and so he forbade this, and raised 



strange altars for his people at Bethel 
and other places. He did not want the 
people to go to Jerusalem to worship 
there, because he felt that his govern- 
ment would not be so stable. The 
Lord, in ordering these gatherings and 
likewise the quarterly conferences in 
the Stakes, has done it for the good of 
His people. The people come together, 
mellowed in their feelings, listen to 
the servants of God, renew old ac- 
quaintances, and are strengthened in 
the brotherhood to which they belong. 
I know many who make it a point to 
attend these conferences, and they feel 
well paid for doing so. They would feel 
bad if they were not able to come here 
and drink in the spirit of the confer- 
ence. 

President Smith yesterday gave us 
warning against many dangers that 
surround us, and the brethren 
have alluded to these. They are 
seasonable topics. We should study 
ourselves and the high position that 
we occupy. We profess to be Latter- 
day Saints, and to be a Latter-day 
Saint in spirit and in truth means to 
walk uprightly before the Lord, and 
to shape our course here below so that 
we may obtain eternal life. The world 
knows what is meant by being a Lat- 
ter-day Saint, and if they see that we 
act in a way different from what a 
Latter-day Saint should act, they put 
us down as hypocrites; and justly so. 
Professing to be Latter-day Saints does 
not make us Latter-day Saints. It 
takes watching and praying, a contin- 
ual examination of ourselves, to live 
the lives of Saints. We have hoisted 
the flag of Zion; we are sailing under 
it. Let us be true to it. Let us be true 
to the professions we are making, and 
show the world that not only in word 



22 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



and profession are we such, but in 
our works also. Let us study the word 
of God, and give heed unto it, whether 
it be written or given orally through 
His servants. How thankful we are 
that the Lord has spoken unto men in 
our day; that we are not dependent on 
the written word alone, but that we 
have the living oracles with us. We are 
thankful that the word of God has come 
down through the many centuries as 
pure as it has. Of all people upon the 
earth, we have the strongest reason to 
believe in the scriptures. We have not 
only the evidences of their truth which 
we obtain from the scriptures them- 
selves — and their internal evidences, 
such as prophecies and historical truths, 
appeal strongly to us, but we have also 
other evidences that the world rejects. 
We have the Book of Mormon, in which 
are many extracts from the prophe- 
cies that are contained in the Bible. 
With but little change many of the pro- 
phecies of Isaiah, together with those 
of other prophets, have come down to 
us in the Book of Mormon and 
this fact gives us additional 
evidence of the truth of the Bible. We 
want to make ourselves familiar with 
the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and 
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, 
and prepare ourselves to receive more 
of the word of God. Whenever the 
Lord has had a dispensation upon the 
earth, He has always favored His peo- 
ple with His word and win. He has 
not let His people wander in the dark, 
but has revealed himself unto them. 
Whenever revelation has not been giv- 
en, men have perished spiritually. The 
wise man of old said: "Where there Is 
no vision the people perish." 

Revelation is necessary for the guid- 
ance of the people of God. President 
Woodruff used to say that we could 
not exist as a Church one day without 
revelation from God. We are depend- 
ent upon it, and we cannot do without 
it. Our adversary wants us to believe 
that it is not needed, and I have often 
thought how strange it was that he 
could make the people who believe in 
Christ and the scriptures satisfied with 
a condition of things wherein the hea- 
vens were closed unto men. Professed 
followers of Christ have been willing 



to defend that idea, and to declare that 
those who believed in the necessity of 
revelation were mistaken and in ac- 
cepting more revelation from God we 
are subject to the curse pronounced by 
John upon all who should add unto his 
book. I believe as firmly now as he 
did then that any man who should of 
himself add to the word of God would 
be subjected to the curse, that he pro- 
nounces, for no man has a right to do 
that; but John never meant to convey 
the idea that the Lord had not the 
right to give further revelation. He 
showed by his own course that he did 
not mean that; for after he had writ- 
ten these words which are so often 
quoted against new revelation, he wrote 
that beautiful gospel which goes by his 
name, and which contains so many 
precious things. The Lord is not limit- 
ed in any such way. 

From the days of Moses until the days 
of the Apostles, He gave revelations, 
and inspired His servants to write 
them. How thankful we are that these 
records have been kept! Moses has 
been called God's first pen. The earli- 
est authentic writings we have come 
from him, and, studying them, we see 
how consistent is the word of God from 
beginning to end. Moses gave the same 
warning unto men as John did, and yet 
after him there were many writers of 
scripture. We have many books written 
since then, which we know were writ- 
ten under the inspiration of the Holy 
Spirit. Many books have been lost, and 
many books will be brought to light 
yet by the power of God. The Lord has 
carefully guarded His word, so that it 
has come down to us, through its many 
translations, nearly perfect. We would 
like our young men and our young wo- 
men to study these works, and make 
themselves familiar with the gems of 
truth that are found on their pages. 
Winter is coming on, and we would like 
our people to use the winter evenings 
in sf lf-improvement. Especially does 
this apply to the young. We would like 
t hem to abstain from too much danc- 
ing. Dancing is a pleasant amusement, 
where it is carried on in a right way; 
but too much of it makes the mind friv- 
olous, and incapacitates those for study 
who thus indulge in it. Of course, 



ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 



23 



there are times when it is good to un- 
bend. Relaxation is necessary, but it 
should not be the chief object in pass- 
ing our winter evenings. Those belong- 
ing to the Mutual Improvement associ- 
ations, we hope, will learn their les- 
sons and not miss one session. When 
you take up your Manual to study it, 
try to take up other books on similar 
topics. Go to the fountain where things 
are taken from, and study all you can 
about the subject, so that you may be 
fully posted. Then your evenings will 
be pleasant to you while meeting with 
your friends belonging to the same so- 
ciety. 

Speaking about the Lord hav- 
ing inspired His servants to keep 
records, I am reminded that we as a 
people are making history, and this his- 
tory should also be kept. On the very 
day that the Church was organized the 
Prophet received a revelation which 
said that there should be a record kept 
in the Church. Afterwards, on several 
occasions, the Lord instructed Joseph 
in this matter, telling him to appoint a 
general historian, who should keep a 
record of all the events in the Church. 
A year and a half afterward he is told 
to keep a record of the Saints and their 
condition in the Church. This is a mat- 
ter on which the Prophet laid great 
stress, but record-keeping has been neg- 
lected to quite an extent in our midst. 
Even before the revelation read by 
Brother Clawson, where it said that a 
record should be kept, a revelation had 
been received commanding the keeping 
of a genealogical record — the names ot 
those baptized, and of all ordinations, 
etc., made in the Church. The Lord 
instructed His servants that everyth' — 
should be done in order. Of late, I 
am pleased to observe, there is a grow- 
ing tendency in the different Stakes and 
wards to take care of the records. We 
hope that this will be uniform through- 
out the Church, and that in every Stake 
and ward records will be kept which 
will give a concise history of the Stake 
or ward. In every ward there should 
be two records kept. One, a genealogi- 
cal record of the births, blessings, bap- 
tisms, ordinations, etc. At the Deseret 
News office can be obtained records all 
ready printed, with headings that will 
suggest what should be noted down. 



Then there should be a record kept of 
everything important that happens in 
the ward. The clerk of the ward can 
take his record to the meetings, and 
while the meeting is going on can jot 
down a few items of what is being said, 
and who are present, etc. It is not 
necessary that you write down the ser- 
mons or the arguments of the brethren; 
for no doubt these things can be 
found in more fulness in other 
books; but keep a record of events 
as they happen, of the changes in 
the ward, in the Bishopric in the 
Teachers, in the different associa- 
tions and institutions of the ward. It 
is true that the different societies keep 
records, but the ward clerk should at 
least note the changes that take place, 
so that his ward records may be a 
true history of the ward. Today, when 
you go into some wards and ask who 
was the first Bishop of the ward, and 
who the next, there is not a scratch of 
a pen to show it; and when we send 
Brother Andrew Jenson, as one of the 
assistants of the Historian's office, to 
find out about the histories of the 
wards, he is often referred to the older 
members of the ward to get the infor- 
mation he wants. This should not be 
the case. Our ward records should 
contain a history of the ward from its 
organization and the changes that have 
taken place in the ward, as well as the 
important events that have happened. 
In the Stakes there should be two rec- 
ords also. There is no genealogical 
record needed, but there is a record of 
the High Council and a record of the 
history of the Stake required. These 
records do not call for much writing; 
a little, written at the time, will keep 
the history going. If this be attended 
to, when the history of the different 
Stakes and wards comes to be written 
we will have the material with which 
to do it. 

I felt to say this concerning record- 
keeping. When ward conferences are 
held and the Stake presidency visit 
them, it ought to be understood that 
that day should also be record day in 
that ward. Let the Bishop have ail 
his records brought where the presi- 
dency of the Stake can inspect them; 
and the presidency can point out where 
anything is lacking or commend them 



24 



GENERAL, CONFERENCE. 



where good records are being kept. We 
have found it necessary to appoint one. 
day each year for this purpose, and we 
think that the day on which the ward 
conference is held is the best time 
for the presidency of the Stake to 
inspect the records. It is neces- 
sary that these things be kept. 
The genealogical record is very 
important. How pleased we are when 
we go out into the world and find how 
conscientiously they have kept a rec- 
ord of births, so that we are able to 
trace our ancestry in some countries 
for several hundred years. This could 
not be done if genealogical records 
were kept in a slovenly manner. Some- 
times here they are taken on slips of 
paper, put away in a drawer, and oc- 
casionally lost. This must not be. 
When we undertake to do a thing, let 
us do it well. Do not trust to the 
clerk alone, but let the Bishop feel that 
it is his business to look after the rec- 
ords in his ward. Statistical records 
cannot be kept corectly if the records 
are not correct. Certificates of mem- 
bership should also be looked after. 
Bishops should see to it that those 
who move away receive their certi- 
ficates to take to the wards where they 
move to; and the wards that they go 
to should try to find out their standing, 
so that they can be received there. 
There are many that are dropping out 
because they move away without cer- 
tificates, and do not join the wards or 
branches to which they move, while if 
they were looked after and warmed up, 
they might be lively members in the 
Church. 

I am pleased, brethren and sisters, 
with the condtion of the people. When 
Brother Cowley referred yesterday to 
a time when so many apostatized from 
the Church, I thought how good it is 
that today this is not the case, and 
that excommunications are very rare. 
In fact, I believe that the discipline of 
the Church could be stricter and be a 
blessing unto the people. But it is a 
healthy sign to see that there are not 
so many apostatizing as in years past. 
I believe the people understand the 
principles of the Gospel better and live 
the Gospel more perfectly. They have 
shown during the last two years how 
they have received the word of the 



Prophet in regard to tithing, and I be- 
lieve the Lord will bless them, both 
temporally and spiritually, for meet- 
ing this requirement. They will be 
strengthened in their faith and there 
will not be so much danger of apos- 
tasy as when they refused to keep the 
commandments of God. May the Lord 
bless you all, in the name of Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 

Spiritual manifestations— Necessity for reforma- 
tion — Those who should bring It about— Pro- 
per procedure In colonization — How to be in- 
fluential with the honoiableof the earth — In- 
fluence of Godliness in the home — Importance 
of Temple work. 

I am pleased to be associated with 
this conference. I have evidence in my 
heart that this is the work of the Lord, 
having had many testimonies to this 
effect; and it is a grand thing that the 
Lord is so merciful as to manifest to 
individuals with regard to the plan ot 
life and salvation. It is not known to 
me whether all the Latter-day Saints 
have enjoyed manifestations from the 
Lord to the satisfying of their souls. 
Apostle Lund has just said to us that 
there are not so many people turning 
from the truth now as formerly. That, 
no doubt, is true, because in these 
times there are means provided where- 
by all the people, from the little child 
to the aged, may learn the Gospel. 
With these auxiliary organizations that 
are established in the Church, there are 
now more opportunities for people to 
understand the Gospel than we had in 
former years. 

We are gathered together at this 
general conference, not with the expec- 
tation that any new revelation will be 
given or any new doctrine set forth, 
but to be reminded of the truth and to 
have our minds stirred up in remem- 
brance of those things which we hav<_ 
heard or read, and thus be renewed in 
our spirits and in the prosecution of 
our labors. There are, no doubt, many 
things among us that might be im- 
proved upon. President Smith, in his 
opening remarks, alluded to some of 
them. We all know that he spoke the 
truth, and there needs to be through- 
out the Church an effort made towards 
improvement in those things. He re- 
ferred to the fact that there was pro- 



ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 



25 



fanity among the Latter-day Saints. 
Now, who among the Elders of Israel, 
with the light and understanding we 
have and with the teachings that are 
given to us from time to time, would 
feel at liberty to indulge in pro- 
fanity? In other words, what Elder 
would dare profane the name of Deity? 
Yet it is done, and those who 
do it know that it is wrong. Is it not 
possible for us, organized as we are, 
to institute reforms in regard to this 
and other evils that exist? Cannot we 
call our councils together in the vari- 
ous localities and take to heart the 
words of President Smith, and see if 
we cannot devise some measure to les- 
sen these evils, and if possible to do 
away with them altogether. You 
brethren and sisters know, as I do, that 
this ought to be done. We ought to 
be a chaste and God-fearing people, and 
not allow ourselves to indulge in the 
vices and evils that bring sorrow to the 
heart and condemnation to the soul. I 
believe, when we return home, that we 
should assemble together in our or- 
ganizations and see if sometning can- 
not be done so that one of the Presi- 
dency of the Church will not be under 
the necessity of again referring to these 
things. We ought not to countenance 
these evils in any degree. If we could 
only have the right kind of men in our 
city and town councils, to assist in 
this good work, a great deal might be 
done toward subduing these evils. As 
a people, we should be an example to 
the world, a light that is set upon a 
hill, which cannot be hid. Of course, 
there are many good things that we 
might talk of; we have, in many re- 
spects, an excellent name among our 
outside friends; yet there is room for 
improvement. Sometimes boys think it 
is manly to profane and to frequent 
saloons. It seems to me that their 
teaching must have been sadly neglect- 
ed. Mothers and fathers can do a great 
deal towards the uplifting- of their 
children, though they may not be able 
to do it all. They need some help from 
the Teachers and the Priests. 

I think I am quite safe in saying that 
throughout the whole Church there is 
a great neglect on the part of the les- 
ser Priesthood in the performance of 
their duties as ministers of Christ and 



as the guardians of the people, whose 
duty it is to see that there is no 
iniquity in the Church. While there 
may be many who do their full 
duty, there are many who do 
not. I speak from an experience 
of over fifty years, and I know where- 
of I speak in regard to these matters. 
I acted for years in the capacity of a 
Teacher, under the direction of Jede- 
diah M. Grant, our former President, 
and I know how strict his instructions 
were to the Teachers. 

It is not only the young people that 
are culpable, but you will find that the 
older ones sometimes require attention. 
They need to have somebody to instruct 
them and to see if they are walking 
day by day in the line of duty. The 
Presidents of Stakes and counselors, 
the High Councilors, the Bishops and 
the sisters also, ought to have this la- 
bor at heart; and let us see if we can 
not bring about a reformation in these 
evils which lead down to death. In 
this connection, we ought to hold our- 
selves under the advice and counsel 
of the Priesthood. In early days here 
we did not think of doing anything or 
going anywhere without first counsel- 
ing with our brethren; and we usually 
went to President Young. When I first 
came to this country, I did not know 
any better than to go to President 
Young, to ask his counsel and to re- 
ceive his blessing. From that day to 
this I have always felt that it is good 
for the people of the Church to seek 
counsel from their brethren. Let us 
work in harmony, whether it be to col- 
onize some new country or to build up 
our own homes. 

I do not think it a proper thing for 
any of the Elders of the Church to go 
off somewhere on their own respon- 
sibility, without saying a word to any- 
body. It shows that they are following 
their own inclinations, and are not di- 
rected by the Spirit of the Lord. In 
the colonizing of this country you know 
the course President Young adopted, 
and we can see that it was attended 
with success all along the line. Suc- 
cess has always attended the obser- 
vance of the counsel of the President 
of the Church. And are we going to 
depart from it now? Are we going to 
go off on our own responsibility? We 



26 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



might as well break off and try to es- 
tablish a church of our own. I want 
to tell you that we will learn by and 
by, if we have not already, that we 
will never, in this life or in the life to 
come, get from under the authority of 
the Priesthood. Hence it is not advis- 
able for Latter-day Saints to run to 
and fro in the land without counsel and 
without discipline. The Church of God 
is a Church of order. We who bear the 
Holy Priesthood and are called to re- 
sponsible positions should seek the 
counsel of our brethren; we should 
counsel together; for in the midst of 
counsel there is safety. Many people 
unfortunately have a restless disposi- 
tion, and they want to be moving all 
the time. You can see them going north 
at almost any time of the year, and I 
suppose it is the same south. Now, it 
is a good thing to colonize under the di- 
rection of the proper authority; but 
when we go off by ourselves we lose 
the spirit of this work; and when we 
lose that we are in a miserable condi- 
tion. Let us be in harmony with the 
work and with the Spirit of God, and 
consistent in our movings to and fro. 

The Lord designs to make us a power 
in the land, and if we will be goo 1 Lat- 
ter-day Saints we will be good citizens 
of the country in which we live, and 
we can be depended upon as being hon- 
est ?nd upright. Many of our outside 
friends trust us now, and they say we 
are a good people. A few days ago I 
met some of the officers of the Burling- 
ton railroad, and they gave us an excel- 
lent character for enterprise and sterl- 
ing worth in developing and building 
up 1hf> country. I repeat, if we will be 
true Latter-day Saints and observe the 
compels of the lord, we will be good in 
the eyes of all honorable men. Bu'. we 
have- got to educate ourselves and our 
fam'lies in ..his direction. We must 
teach our children, as one of oli safd. 
to "remember now thy Creator in the 
days of thy youth, while the evil days 
come not, nor the years draw nigh, 
T'hen thou shalt say. I have no pleasure 
in them." Our brethren are appointed 
to be watchmen on the walls of Zion, 
to be fathers to the people, and to 
counsel with them for thefr best inter- 
est. When the president of your Stake 



does not know what to say to you, he 
will find out in a very short time. It 
is not necessary for every man to run 
to the President of the Church for ad- 
vice; you can get it right at home. We 
must be in harmony with the counsels 
of the Priesthood. The Bible, the Book 
of Mormon, and the Book of Doctrine 
and Covenants are excellent books; but 
take away the counsels of the Priest- 
hood and how long would these good 
books lead us in the path of life? We 
must have the living oracles. Their 
counsels will harmonize with these 
precious books, and with both together 
we will go on from grace to grace, from 
knowledge to knowledge, until we come 
to a perfect understanding of the truth. 
We do not know it all yet; in fact, I 
sometimes think we know but very lit- 
tle; but we are learning, and if I can 
only persuade my brethren and sisters 
to seek the counsel of the Lord I may 
get the credit of doing some good in 
my time. 

My brethren and sisters in all the 
Stakes of Zion, let us see to it that we 
will lend our energies to make righte- 
ousness prevail among the people and 
to do away with wickedness. Saloons 
ought to be done away with. I do not 
know whether this city, with its mixed 
population, could do without them or 
not; but in a great many of our towns 
and cities we have no more use for 
them than a wagon has for a fifth 
wheel. Yet there are Elders and Sev- 
enties, and in some instances High 
Councilors, who are not willing to as- 
sist the presidents of Stakes and Bish- 
ops of wards to abolish saloons. Pres- 
ident Young once said that an Elder of 
Israel who would put the deadly cup 
to his brother's lip would go to hell, 
if he did not repent. It is a pretty 
broad saying, but, in my opinion, 
it is a true one. Now, we have 
good men everywhere to assist us 
in this improvement that is neces- 
sary, but we want to infuse into 
them energy and zeal for the salvation 
of souls. We want to save our chil- 
dren. Oh, how we would grieve if we 
thought our sons would be lost to us! 
We are anxious to save them. There- 
fore, let us labor to the end that the 
Spirit of the Lord may be in all the 
home circles of the Saints. I was 



ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 



27 



pleased to hear one of the brethren re- 
lating about a President of a Stake 
having devotional exercises in his fam- 
ily. The brother that myself and 
brethren stayed with in the north a 
while ago did the same thing. He 
called his family together, one of the 
girls played the organ, they sang, they 
read a chapter, and they prayed. How 
beautiful was the spirit that prevailed 
in that family circle! ^ow, there is no 
law prohibiting us all from engaging 
in morning and evening exercises before 
the Lord. What a grand thing it would 
be if we could only educate ourselvese 
to take the time to do this! Gather 
around us the family circle, and en 
courage the family to observe the com- 
mandments of the Lord during the day! 
What a grand spectacle it would be to 
see this carried out in all the families 
of the Saints! 

There is another subject that I would 
like to touch upon before sitting down, 
and that is with regard to temple work. 
A great deal of temple work has been 
done, but a great deal more remains to 
be done. There are many people in the 
Church who have not yet given atten- 
tion to their ordinance work in the 
house of the Lord. They have not 
thought of their dead kindred. So many 
of the cares and anxieties of life seem 
to be pressing upon them that they 
neglect to remember their dead friendb. 
The Lord has directed the building ot 
temples, and I heard a brother prophesy 
once that some day there would be tem- 
ples all over the land of North and 
South America, with people administer- 
ing in them for their kindred dead. Just 
think of the hundreds of millions of 
people who have passed away without a 
knowledge of the Gospel; and while we 
have been privileged to commence the 
great vicarious work of redemption 
how little we have done up to date! We 
have four temples in operation, and 
work has been performed to a limited 
extent; but not so much has been done 
as ought to have been. It seems to me 
that our minds ought to be stirred up 
in regard to this work. There are many 
people who are getting along in life, who 
have been faithful all the day long, and 
it looks to me as if they ought to be 
thinking of their kindred who have 



passed behind the veil; for just as sure 
as we are here we will meet these 
friends by and by, and they may ask 
us what we have done for them in life, 
while we were within convenient reach 
of the temple. I am afraid many will 
have to say they have not done any- 
thing, and they will have remorse of 
conscience because of it. 

Brethren and sisters, let us think a 
little of these as well as other things. 
Our kindred behind the veil are looking 
for us to do a vicarious work for them 
in ihe temple of the Lord. Let us see if 
we cannot prosecute this labor a little 
more vigorously than we have done 
thus far. May the blessings of the Lord 
be upon the people. I feel that many of 
you are doing the best you can; you ari 
paying your tithes and offerings and 
sustaining the work of the Lord to the 
best of your ability; but some are lack- 
ing in these things. The Latter-day 
Saints as a whole are not yet up to the 
standard with regard to tithes and of- 
ferings; but if we will labor diligently 
tmoughout the various Stakes, the time 
may come when it can be said that the 
Latter -day Saints do pay their 
tithes and their offerings in full; 
and when we do so, God will 
bless us, and sanctify the land, and it 
will bring forth in its strength in the 
times and seasons allotted. God bless 
you. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

The principle of revelation — Authority of the 
Priesthood — How to obtain a knowledge of 
God — A prophecy — The Gospel to be carried 
to all the world as a witness. 

I feel grateful to our Heavenly Fa- 
ther that my life has been spared to 
meet with you again in one of our 
semi-annual conferences. I have great- 
ly rejoiced in my spirit at listening 
to the testimonies of the brethren who 
have preceded me, and I humbly pray 
that the Lord will bless me also with 
a portion of His Holy Spirit, that 
what I may say may be in accordance 
with His mind and will. 

To the Latter-day Saints the remarks 
of Brother Merrill may be somewhat 
ordinary, because we believe in the liv- 
ing oracles and in revelation; but to 
those who do not belong to this Church 



•26 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



they may appear strange. This Church 
is founded upon revelation. There is, 
however, a medium through which rev- 
elation is given to the Church. The 
Prophet, Seer and Revelator receives 
all revelation for the benefit and guid- 
ance of the Church. At the same time, 
every individual member of the Church 
is entitled to Revelation to guide his 
own household; and whatever in- 
spiration he may receive from the Lord 
will be in conformity with the revela- 
tions that are given through the Proph- 
et, Seer and Revelator. When I hear 
people discussing certain doctrines and 
tenets, there is always one satisfaction 
in my mind, and that is, that whatever 
may be erroneous in the opinions of 
men, these questions can always be 
settled by revelation from God. 

There is another idea that I want to 
speak of, for the benefit of any stran- 
gers that may be present, and that is 
that the Lord has established His au- 
thority upon the earth. That authority 
is termed Priesthood, and it is in this 
Church. It is one of the greatest bless- 
ings that can be given to the chil- 
dren of men if it be exercised in 
righteousness; for it will bring salva- 
tion unto them and to thousands of 
others. No spiritual blessings can 
come to the Church of Christ, except 
through the Priesthood; and I wish to 
read a little about this authority. 1 
read from the 84th section of the Book 
of Doctrine and Covenants: 

! 

"Abraham received the Priesthood 
from Melchisedek, who received it 
through the lineage of his fathers, even 
till Noah; 

"And from Noah till Enoch, through 
the lineage of their fathers; 

"And from Enoch to Abel, who was 
slain by the conspiracy of his brother, 
who received the Priesthood by the 
commandments of God. by the hand of 
his father Adam, who was the first 
man; 

"Which Priesthood continueth in the 
Church of God in all generations, and 
is without beginning of days or ena 
of years. 

"And the Lord confirmed a Priesthood 
also upon Aaron and his seed, through- 
out all their generations — which 
Priesthood also continueth and abideth 
forever with the Priesthood which is 
after the holiest order of God. 

"And this greater Priesthood admin- 
istered the Gospel and h^ldeth the key 



of the mysteries of the kingdom, even 
the key of the knowledge of God." 

How many millions of people there 
are today upon the earth who woula 
walk across this earth for the privi- 
lege of knowing that God lives; Well, 
we heard yesterday from Apostle Claw- 
son that there are thousands of men 
here who hold the key to a knowledge 
of God. 

"Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, 
the power of godliness is manifest; 

"And without the ordinances thereof, 
and the authority of the Priesthood, 
the power of godliness is not manifest 
unto men in the flesh." 

Now, my young brethren and sisters, 
when you see men gathered together 
who are termed "divines," and the> 
plainly state that the gifts and bless 
ings of the Holy Spirit are not in their 
churches; when they ridicule the prin- 
ciple of prophets, apostles, seers and 
revelators; when they will scorn the 
idea that God is a personal Being, you 
may understand why they do not enjoy 
these blessings. It is explained in that 
which I have read to you: "Without 
the ordinances thereof, and the au- 
thority of the Priesthood, the power of 
godliness is not manifest in the flesh." 

"For without this no man can see the 
face of God, even the Father, and live. 

Now this Moses plainly taught to the 
children of Israel in the wilderness, 
and sought diligently to sanctify his 
people, that they might behold the face 
of God; 

But they hardened their hearts and 
could not endure his presence; there- 
fore the Lord in his wrath (for his an- 
ger was kindled against them) swore 
that they should not enter into his rest 
while in the wilderness, which rest is 
the fulness of his glory. 

Therefore he took Moses out of their 
midst, and the Holy Priesthood also: 

And the lesser priesthood continued, 
which priesthood holdeth the key of the 
ministering of angels and the prepara- 
tory gospel; 

Which gospel is the gospel of repen- 
tance and of baptism, and the remis- 
sion of sins, and the law of carnal com- 
mandments, which the Lord in his 
wrath caused to continue with the 
house of Aaron among the children of 
Israel until John, whom God raised up, 
being filled with the Holy Ghost from 
his mother's womb; 

For he was baptized while he was yet 
in his childhood, and was ordained by 
the angel of God at the time he was 
eight days old unto this power, to over- 
throw the kingdom of the Jews, and to 



ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 



29 



make straight the way of the Lord be- 
fore the face of his people, to prepare 
them for the coming of the Lord, into 
whose hand is given all power. 
********* 

Therefore, as I said concerning the 
sons of Moses — for the sons of Moses, 
and also the sons of Aaron, shall offer 
an acceptable offering and sacrifice in 
the house of the Lord, which house 
shall be built unto the Lord in this gen- 
eration, upon the consecrated spot, as 
I have appointed; 

And the sons of Moses and of Aaron 
shall ■ be filled with the glory of the 
Lord, upon Mount Zion, in the Lord's 
house, whose sons are ye; and also 
many whom I have called and sent 
forth to build up my church; 

For whoso is faithful unto the obtain- 
ing these two Priesthoods of whicn I 
have spoken, and the magnifying their 
calling, are sanctified by the Spirit un- 
to the renewing of their bodies; 

They become the sons of Moses and 
of Aaron, and the seed of Abraham, and 
the church and kingdom and the elect 
of Gcd, 

And also all they who receive this 
Priesthood receiveth me, saith the 
Lord: 

For he that receiveth my servants r°- 
^eiveth me; 

And he that receiveth me receiveth 
my Father; 

And he that receiveth my Father, re- 
ceiveth my Father's kingdom; there- 
fore all that my Father hath shall be 
given unto him; 

And this according to the oath and 
covenant which belongeth to the Priest- 
hood. 

Therefore, all those who receive the 
Priesthood, receive this oath and cove- 
nant of my Father, which he cannot 
break, neither can it be moved; 

But whoso breaketh this covenant, af- 
ter he hath received it, and altogether 
turneth therefrom, shall "not have for- 
giveness of sins in this world, nor in the 
world to come. 

And all those who come not unto this 
Priesthood which ye have received, 
which I now confirm upon you who are 
present this day, by mine own voice out 
of the heavens, and even I have given 
the heavenly hosts and mine angels 
charge concerning you." 

I have read to you what God ac- 
knowledges as His authority upon the 
earth. Nov, there is not a soul upon 
the face of this earth, whether he be 
black or white, rich or poor, but is en- 
titled to know that God lives, if he 
will keep His commandments. I tes- 
tify unto you that I have received this 
knowledge. I know that Jesus Christ 
is the Son of the true and living God; 
that He lives, moves, and has a being; 



and that He is the light and life of 
the world. I testify that Joseph Smith 
was a prophet of the Most High God. 
who was ordained to come forth in the 
dispensation of the fulness of times to 
establish His Church upon the earth, 
preparatory to the coming of our Lord 
and Savior Jesus Christ. I testify that 
there are tens of thousands of people 
in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains 
that have received the gift of the Holy 
Ghost; and this gift fills them with a 
knowledge of God. I testify that Israel 
is being gathered from abroad, ac- 
cording to the prophecies of the holy 
prophets, and they are being establish- 
ed in the tops of the mountains. God 
the Eternal Father is conducting this 
work, and it is not of man. I testify 
also that the curse of God will rest up- 
on any man who puts his trust in the 
arm of flesh; for the Lord has said, 
"Cursed be the man that trusteth in 
man, and maketh flesh his arm." The 
Lord has prepared the means whereby 
we may know that He lives, and that 
He is our Father and God. He has also 
prepared the means whereby we can 
receive of His Spirit and power, to 
guide and direct us in the ways of all 
truth. When Jesus was upon the earth 
He said: "I came down from heaven, 
not to do mine own will, but the will 
of Him that sent me." Again,: "If 
any man will do his will, he shall know 
of the doctrine, whether it be of God, 
or whether I speak of myself." I have 
sought after this information by do- 
ing the will of my Father. With a'l 
my weaknesses and imperfections, our 
Eternal Father has had mercy upon 
me and has given me a testimony 
that He lives, and that He 
has- a being. My testimony unto all 
who are under the sound of my voice 
is that I know that God lives, and that 
He will give this same testimony unto 
all who will serve Him and keep His 
commandments. He has wrought out a 
plan of life and salvation, and if we 
will yield obedience to that we can be 
brought back into His presence and be 
crowned heirs of glory, immortality and 
eternal life. We can partake of all the 
attributes of our Father, and ultimate- 
ly get to that position which He occu 
pies today. As Jesus says, "Be ye per- 



30 



'tENERAL conference. 



feet, even as your Father in heaven is 
perfect." 

I prophesy unto you, in the name of 
the Lord Jesus Christ, that while to- 
day all the sectarian world oppose the 
idea of the personality of God, the time 
will come when the majority of the de- 
nominations will acknowledge that our 
Father and God is a personal being, 
even as they have adopted other prin- 
ciples, one by one, that have been re- 
vealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
When you see these things come to 
pass, you may know the spirit by 
which they have been spoken. 

Inasmuch as I have this testimony, i 
never spend a day in Zion, but I feel 
that I should be somewhere lifting up 
my voice and declaring this testimony 
unto the children of men; for behold, 
the Lord our God has said that the har- 
vest is great and the reapers are few. 
He has given commandment unto this 
people to go into all the world and 
preach the Gospel to every creature; 
"He that believeth and is baptized shall 
be saved, and he that believeth not 
shall be damned." I want to add my 
testimony to that of Elder Cowley yes- 
terday, wherein he said that there 
should come unto Zion people from all 
nations. The time will come when we 
will penetrate the very center of the 
great empire of China. We will go into 
India, and into South America, and in- 
to every nation under heaven. The 
Lord our God will prepare the way. and 
there will be enough come out of these 
nations to redeem their dead through- 
out all the generations that are 
past and gone. The day will come 
when we will go into Turkey, into 
Africa, and into every part of the 
earth. I never look upon one of these 
maps in our Sunday schools, whereon 
is shown the trail of the Apostle Paul 
in his ministry, from city to city, with- 
out having a desire in my heart to per- 
form a similar work, that some day 
a red line on the map might show my 
labors in the ministry; for I know that 
this Gospel must go into all the world 
for a witness, unto every creature. The 
Redeemer predicted that this Gospel 
should go into all the world for a wit- 
ness; then should the end come. And 
the day will come — I feel it with all 



my heart— when Apostles, especially the 
younger ones in the quorum, will be- 
very scarce in the land of Zion; for I 
have been taught it by my father, and 
I have heard it time and time again 
from the Presidency of the Church, that 
the duty of the Apostles is to be abroad 
among the nations of the earth, carry- 
ing the glad tidings of great joy to the 
children of men, unlocking the doors of 
salvation to the nations, and bringing 
peace and good will to them. These 
men upon this stand are willing at any 
hour to go forth to perform their duty. 
They are witnesses of our Lord and 
Savior Jesus Christ, and they know that 
He lives, and moves, and has a being. 
He is calling unto the children of men 
to repent and come to the light to gath- 
er up to the land of Zion and to pre- 
pare for His coming. 

I feel to rejoice, my brethren and sis- 
ters, in being in your presence today, 
and I say unto you, if you will serve 
God and keep His commandments, you 
will be crowned with glory, immortal- 
ity and everlasting life in the kingdom 
of our God; which may He grant, is 
my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 
"We thank Thee.O God, for a Prophet." 

Benediction by Elder William Budge. 



AFTERNOON SESSION. 

2 p. m. 

Singing by, the choir and congrega- 
tion: 

Guide us, O Though great Jehovah, 
Safe unto the promised land. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Joseph 
W. McMurrin. 

The choir sang the hymn which be- 
gins: 

Lo! the mighty God appearing, 
From on high Jehovah speaks. 



ELDER J. G. KIMBALL. 

One course of safety for the young — A great mis- 
sionary fip)d at home — Prophetic declarations 
— Subordinalion of auxiliary organizations. 

Inasmuch, my brethren and sisters, 
as I have been called upon to occupy 
a short time, I do so trusting that the 
Lord will bless me richly with His 



ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 



31 



Spirit; for I have only one object in 
view in standing before you, and that 
is to perform the duty that now de- 
volves upon me. 

I realize that there is a very great 
work for us to perform, not only 
among the nations of the earth preach- 
ing the Gospel to every kindred, tongue 
and people, but also among the young 
people of this Church. Only the other 
day, as I was walking down the street, 
I came to an old gentleman, who was 
tottering toward the grave, and, after 
I had shaken hands with him, he said, 
"Brother Kimball, I wish you would 
send a missionary to my home; I have 
three sons and several daughters that 
need to be labored with." A day or 
two after that, an aged gentleman 
came and introduced himself to me, and 
said he was a member of the Church 
of Jesus Christ. He paid his tithing, 
he said, and tried to do his duty. He 
had four sons and several daughters, 
and I believe he said there was not one 
of them that had very much faith in 
the Church, and he wanted me to ex- 
plain to him why it was. I rather 
evaded answering him, as I was not 
acquainted with him, with his environ- 
ments, or with his home circle. In as- 
sociating with the young people I dis- 
cover that this is not general; but 
there are many of our young people, 
for some reason, bewildered and daz- 
zled with the things of the world that 
are being introduced so rapidly among 
us. I can see only one course of safety 
for the young people of this Church, 
and that is, to teach them until they 
have an abiding faith in God the 
Father, in His Son Jesus Christ, and in 
the Holy Ghost. After this brother 
talked to me, I thought of your sons 
that are sent out to the nations of the 
earth. Some of them mere beard- 
less boys, and yet when the 
call came for them to go to 
the nations of the earth, mother may 
have had some doubts, but they were 
soon removed, and the boys came to 
the city, were set apart and received 
a blessing; the stenographer took the 
blessing and sent it to their home 
address; they received perhaps twenty 
minutes' instruction and were then 
sent forth to the world. I have seen 



a few of such boys go to Australia late- 
ly; and if my memory serves me, there 
have been over five hundred of your 
sons ordained Seventies since the last 
October conference. We do not fear 
nor tremble for these boys. We tell 
them to be careful about some things; 
we advise them to see everything that 
is good in the world, and try to under- 
stand it; but to avoid wine and women 
as they would the gates of hell. It is 
very seldom that any of them fall by 
the wayside. Only once in a great 
while do we hear of an Elder going 
astray. I a m more familiar with the 
Southern States Mission than any oth- 
er, and though hundreds and hundreds 
of the Elders have labored in the south, 
very few have fallen, that I know of. 

Why cannot we get our young people 
to have that same spirit at home? 
Even though the things of the world 
are introduced among us, why is it that 
we cannot stand on the same ground 
that our Elders do in the nations of the 
earth? If we have faith and the Spirit 
of the Lord, the things of the world do 
not dazzle or tempt us. Of course, 
some things have transpired which 
have brought trouble and difficulty 
upon us. Whenever we transgress the 
laws of God we have to suffer the pen- 
alty. I remember very accurately 
what my father told this people in the 
old Bowery. Said he, "You men and 
you women that lift up your voices 
against that holy principle that has 
been introduced among this people, the 
time will come when your daughters 
will run these streets as common har- 
lots, and you can't help yourselves." I 
think some have been guilty of lifting 
up their voices, and if there is 
any one thing that some people are glad 
and happy it is done away with, it is 
that principle. I remember hearing an- 
other statement my father made: 
"When you stand on the street corners 
of this great city and you cannot tell a 
Mormon from a Gentile, then look out 
for trouble." Well, it has come. The 
trouble has not come to us in the way 
of tornadoes, or cyclones; but it has 
come to us and to our sons and daugh- 
ters in the way of temptations. Thert 
is a very grtat missionary work to be 
done right here, and I am in favor, 



32 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



while we sre not abroad, of doing a 
missionary work at home. The Gen- 
eral Board of the Young Men's Mutual 
Improvement association have intro- 
duced a local missionary work. All the 
officers in the Ave hundred and odd as- 
sociations in the Church are to be local 
missionaries and it every officer will 
start out with the spirit of his office 
and calling thfre will be over three 
thousand officers o* tht association act- 
ing as missionaries among the young 
people of this Chuich. A wonderful 
work can be perfciiued in this way. 

I believe in prophecy, but I do not 
believe in piophets that prophesy after 
a thing haiJ happened. The testimony 
of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy, and 
I have that testimony. I believe in the 
spirit of prophecy, and I do know, as 
I know this is the Church of Jesus 
Christ, that we have apostles and proph- 
ets, and have had ever since the Church 
was organized. There are prophets, sit- 
ting behind me. I call to mind one 
Apostle who prophesied in Canada, 
when the people were somewhat dis- 
satisfied about building up a new set- 
tlement. He said that in less than two 
years there would be a railroad right 
through that settlement, and the predic- 
tion was fulfilled before the two years 
expired. I think of the Southern people, 
and I want to prophesy that the 
time will come in the great South when 
thousands of those people would be as 
glad to see a Mormon Elder walk up 
their streets as an angel from heaven. 
The Lord has been kind to the South- 
ern people. I realize why He has 
blessed them. It is because they have 
fed five hundred of our Elders every 
year for a number of years, and He 
has kept from the South the tornadoes, 
the cyclones, and the sea heaving itself 
beyond its bounds, to any great extent. 
They have had some little of it, but the 
end is not yet! I tell you that the peo- 
ple of the South, and also of the nations 
of the earth, will yet learn, though we 
are a despised people, that after the 
testimony of the Elders come the 
judgments of God. I realize that I 
sometimes look on the dark side of the 
picture, but I tell the Latter-day 
Saints, in the name of the Lord, if re- 



pentance does not set in among this 
people, and there is a great awakening 
among the Priesthood of God, the judg- 
ments of God will commence at the 
house of Israel. We are not trifling 
with the things of man; we are not 
trifling with the systems organized by 
man. This is the Churcn of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, that 
you may go to your homes and breathe 
the spirit of this conference into the 
hearts of the children of men with 
whom you associate, that there may 
be an awakening among the Priesthood 
of God. I desire to say to this great 
congregation that the Lord never in- 
tended His organized Priesthood to 
fall in behind the auxiliary organiza- 
tions of the Church. There should be 
a greater effort on the part of those 
who look after the Priesthood quorums 
to see that they stand foremost and 
ahead of all the auxiliary organiza- 
tions of the Church. I comprehend the 
great work that is being done by the 
Sunday school, by the Improvement as- 
sociation, and by other associations, 
and I regret that it has to be said 
that some of our Priesthood quorums 
are not doing their duty. I do not wish 
to occupy more of your time, but I de- 
sire to say to you that a spirit has 
found its way into the hearts of this 
people that they are afraid men may 
prophesy, and they commence to crawl 
off their seats as soon as a man opens 
his mouth and begins to say anything 
that is not along the same old lines. I 
pray the Lord to move upon us to 
prophesy, and if we will prophesy, the 
Lord will fulfill it. One day I met a 
little fellow on the train who was work- 
ing for the "Era" in one of the Stakes,, 
and he asked me if I thought he would 
get the full quota of the "Eras." I 
said, "Of course, you will." He went 
to this settlement and said, "Brother 
Kimball prophesied that we would get 
the full number of "Eras;" now we 
want you to fulfil it" — and they did. 
If you had a little of that spirit, that 
when a man prophesied you would 'ry 
to fulfil it, after a while you would not 
be so afraid of prophecy. I am a little 
afraid of you myself. May the Lord 
bless you. Amen. 



ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 



33 



ELDER BRIGHAM H." ROBERTS. 

A Book of Mormon prophecy— Its striking fulfil- 
ment — Periods of rest from persecution ad- 
vantageous — Future opposition predicted — 
People should be fed with the bread of life. 

Brethren and sisters, I have opened 
the Book of Mormon, with the intention 
of reading- to you a prophecy contained 
in that book, which the statement of 
the numerical strength of the Church 
brought to my recollection. The Proph- 
et Nephi, having been blessed with a 
vision as to what should transpire in 
the earth when this record of the 
Nephites should come forth, said: 

"And now, I would prophesy some- 
what more concerning the Jews and the 
Gentiles. For after the book of which 
I have spoken [having reference to this 
Nephite record] shall come forth, and 
be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed 
up again unto the Lord, there shall be 
many which shall believe the words 
which are written; and they shall car- 
ry them forth unto the remnant of our 
seed." 

It occurred to me, since one of the 
features of this conference has been a 
contemplation of our growth as shown 
b»y our numerical strength, that it 
might be well to call the attention of 
the Saints, and especially of our young 
people, to the fact that these figures 
that now may be quoted as showing 
the largeness of this people who be- 
lieved the Book of Mormon — constitute 
a fact which proves the inspiration of 
the prophecy that is contained upon 
the pages of this Book of Mormon. 
Even if the theory of the world con- 
cerning the origin of the Book of 
Mormon be allowed for a moment — viz, 
that it had its origin either with Jo- 
seph Smith or with Sidney Rigdon 
here, at least, is a pre- 
diction made and recorded 
and in existence when the Prophet 
Joseph Smith stood practically alone, 
hunted and persecuted, compelled to 
leave his father's house and go almost 
among strangers, where he might in a 
little peace prosecute the work of trans- 
lating the Book of Mormon — alone and 
unfriended, he dared record this predic- 
tion that many would yet believe the 
words of this book. The fact that in 
the missions of the Church, and in the 
Stakes of Zion we can say there are 
now 310,000 persons living who believe 



this record, is a fulfillment of that 
prophecy that must be exceedingly per- 
plexing to those who refuse to accept 
the Book of Mormon as a divine record, 
and have to account for the fulfillment 
of this prediction on other grounds. 

But this number of 310,000 does not 
begin to tell the story. You must add 
to this number now living all the faith- 
ful who have died. I know not how 
many that may be, but certainly tens 
of thousands have died in absolute 
faith of the divinity of the Book of 
Mormon and the work of God that has 
grown out of it. You must add, too, the 
number of those who have accepted it 
and have turned away from the 
Church; and to them you must add 
those who believe the Book of Mormon, 
but who, in consequence of a fear that 
they would lose their good name and 
standing among men did they receive 
the message it bears, have not had the 
courage to voice the belief that is in 
them of the divinity of the Book of 
Mormon. And now, if to the present 
membership of the Church, ,r ou add the 
number of those that are dead; and 
those that have walked with us for a 
season and then turned back to the 
beggarly elements of the world; and 
those who believe the work, but are 
afraid of men and would not make the 
sacrifice necessary to become members 
of the Church; if you add all these to- 
gether truly this prophecy that "many" 
would believe this record, the Book of 
Mormon, is abundantly fulfilled before 
you this day. But it is scarcely proper 
to say that all those who have at dif- 
ferent times turned away from the 
Church have become absolutely apos- 
tate in their spirits. You must make 
some allowance for the weakness of 
men. All men are not able to endure to 
the end, and yet belief in the divinity 
of this work has not altogether left 
them. I remember certain facts which 
came under my own observation that 
led me to feel somewhat charitable to- 
wards those who were not always 
strong enough to endure the particular 
trials that came to them. Some years 
ago we emigrated a great many people 
from the Southern States. We brought 
them out of those warm climates and 
lowlands, and put them into an ex- 
ceeding high valley, where everything 



34 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



was contrary to their customs, and 
where they were unable to adapt them- 
selves to the conditions into which they 
were plunged. Their faith was not 
quite equal to the task of enduring the 
change of climate and of industrial 
methods, and the result of it was that 
many of them returned to the South; 
but all who thus fell by the wayside, 
because they were not able to endure 
those conditions, still kept something of 
the spark of faith in their hearts, and 
by a little care, and nourishing, and pa- 
tience, in some instances we were able 
to lead them back again into the fold 
of Christ. And as it was in their case 
so, I take it, it has been in other cases. 
When the Saints were expelled from 
Jackson county, Missouri, some of them 
did not go with the body of the Saints, 
but scattered out among the people. 
They were not equal to that trial. 
"When the exodus from the state of 
Missouri was enforced upon the Church, 
all were not equal to the sacrifices 
then required, and they lingered be- 
hind. When the exodus from Nauvoo 
took place, there were some hundreds, 
perhaps thousands, that were not able 
to face the wilderness march and take 
their chances with the people of God. 
They were weak in the faith — you have 
to say that of them; and doubtless they 
will not be numbered among those who 
will be accounted valiant for the testi- 
mony of Jesus. But the spirit of wick- 
ed apostasy did not enter into the 
hearts of all those who thus, in these 
various trials, lacked the strength to 
keep up with the vanguard of the 
Church in all its movements. Prom 
time to time weakness has taken hold 
of those who have put their hand to 
the plow, and some have looked back; 
but I think it hardly accurate to count 
all those who have thus fall- 
en by the wayside as 
apostates to the Church of God; 
because you will find some of the light 
of the Spirit of God still burning in 
their hearts, some love for the work, 
and we should have a word of kindness 
and encouragement for those who may 
be in these circumstances. 

There is another idea that came to 
my mind while listening to the brethren 
that I thought I would express if call- 
ed upon in this conference to make any 



remarks at all, and that is this: The 
Lord gives unto His people periods of 
rest from outside pressure. I believe 
that these periods of rest from perse- 
cution, while they are full of danger,, 
may also be made very profitable unto 
the people. It gives us an opportunity 
to drive the roots of our faith still deep- 
er into the soil of the soul, so that 
when the storms shall again assail us 
we shall be more firmly rooted and less 
liable to be shaken than before our 
faith took its deeper rooting. And the 
outside storms will come. We have 
not passed through all the winds that 
will beat upon our house, nor through 
all the floods that will assail us. Pre- 
texts will be found by our enemies for 
assaulting the Church of Christ. The 
Church, though having grown to the 
proportions named in this conference, is 
still the Church militant, and not yet 
the Church triumphant. Nor can we 
expect it to be altogether triumphant 
until our King shall come and the 
Kingdom of our God shall be estab- 
lished in the earth, and He reigns whose 
right it is to reign. Not until the law 
shall go forth from Zion and the word 
of the Lord from Jerusalem, can we 
hope to have that rest which is prom- 
ised unto the people of God. So, how- 
ever peaceful things are with us now, 
I take you to witness this day that 
there will be renewal of storms, and 
the adversary of this work will not 
lack pretexts for assailing the people 
of God. But just now we are at rest, 
and have an abounding prosperity. Let 
us, therefore, take advantage of this 
period of rest, and see to it that we 
strengthen the faith of the youth grow- 
ing up in our midst; so that when the 
storms that they must meet shall come, 
they will be rooted and grounded 
in the faith and be able to follow in 
the footsteps of their faithful fathers 
and mothers in Israel. That is what I 
desire to see done. I thought perhaps 
a word might be said to some advant- 
age to the home ministry — to the Ei- 
ders in Israel who are called upon to 
address the Saints and teach them 
from sabbath to Sabbath. And I will 
say a word to the Seventies, at least,, 
who, in many of the Stakes of Zion, are 
called upon by the Presidency of the 
.-lake to do very much of the home 



ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 



3> 



missionary labor. To the Seventies 
then, who are thus called to labor il. 
the Church, and to whom I think in 
connection with my fellow Presidents, 
I have a special right to direct a word 
of counsel and advice — to them I say 
Call to mind the admonition that the 
Lord Jesus Christ gave unto His seiv- 
ant Peter. "When about to leave the 
Twelve, and having rolled the respon- 
sibility upon their shoulders, of extend- 
ing a knowledge of the Gospel to the 
.lations of the earth, He said to Peter: 

"Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me 
more than these? He saith unto him, 
Yea, Lord: thou knovrest that I love 
thee. He saith unto him, Feed ray 
lambs. 

"He saith unto him again . the sec- 
ond time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest 
thou me? He saith unto Him, Yea, 
Lord, thou knowest that I love Thee. 
He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 

"He saith unto him the third time, 
Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? 
Peter was grievc-d because He said 
unto him the third time, Lovest thou 
me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou 
knowest all things; thou knowest that 
I love Thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed 
my sheep." 

So say I unto the Seventies engaged 
as home missionaries. If you love the 
work, if you love the Lord Jesus Christ, 
then feed those to whom you are called 
to minister. Feed them the bread of 
life. I rather rejoice in the thought 
of being somewhat in close touch with 
the young people of the Church, and I 
want to tell you one of the complaints 
that they make against us — one of the 
things they find fault with when they 
are urged to attend Sabbath 
meetings — they plead the dryness, 
the huskiness, the unfruitfulness, the 
lack of spiritual or intellectual food 
that they receive when they go to the 
house of the Lord. And if It is neces- 
sary to admonish the people to attend 
upon the service of the Lord, it is also 
necessary to admonish the ministry of 
the Church that when the people do 
come together they should be fed with 
the bread of life. It is a good thing to 
take a little time from worldly affairs 
and consider the things of God, and 
have food in His house when His people 
shall assemble together. 

Now, having said so much to the 
Seventies, and not taking it upon my- 
self to address that council to anybody 



else, let me give a word of advice also 
to the people of God; for there are two 
sides to this subject. No matter how 
dull or dry the speaking from the pul- 
pit may be, there are still purposes to 
be subserved in the assembling of the 
people together that should call the 
faithful Latter-day Saints to worship. 
It is true we attend divine service to re- 
ceive admonition; it is true that we go 
to receive instruction, and to be built 
up by the word that shall be preached; 
but we go also for other and even high- 
er purposes than these. It should be 
remembered in our hearts that we go 
to the house of the Lord for the pur- 
pose, primarily, of honoring and wor- 
shiping the Lord, whether men can 
preach intellectual sermons or deliver 
soul-stirring admonitions or not. We 
go to worship the Lord, to honor Him, 
and to obtain spiritual life by partak- 
ing of the emblems of the body and 
blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then 
if admonition and instruction come, so 
much the better. But even if there 
should be an entire absence of appro- 
priate instruction, (which, of course, 
there it not,) it should nevertheless be 
regarded as our part to assemble to- 
gether and honor the Lord. Remember 
this, too, that all preachers have some- 
thing good; and if it should chance to 
be that some now and then lack sense, 
then God takes a text and preaches 
patience to you. And now if there can 
be a drawing together here; if on the 
one hand the ministry can be more 
fruitful, can furnish the people a rich- 
er supply of spiritual food; and on the 
other hand if the Saints will remember 
that the primary purpose of going to 
the house of the Lord is pure and holy 
worship— there will be as a result more 
satisfaction in our public religious 
meetings. The Lord bless you. Amera 
The choir sang: 

Hail to the Brightness of Zion's glad 
morning; 

Joy to the lands that in darkness have 
lain. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

How Church membership is obtained — The Gospel 
to the dead — Ohu ch organization — Restora- 
tion of the Gospel — About profanity-- -Redemp- 
tion the result of keeping God's command- 
ments. 

I am deeply grateful to have the- 
privilege of attending this conference 



36 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



and enjoyed the spirit of it. I think 
we are to be congratulated that we 
have the privilege of being members of 
the Church of Christ. Our standing de- 
pends a great deal upon ourselves. It i» 
impossible for us to go to the house ot 
the Lord, legitimately, unless we have 
a certificate from the Bishop that we 
are members of his ward in full fel- 
lowship, to present to those who offi- 
ciate in that sacred house. That con- 
stitutes our passport to the Temple of 
God. We are supposed to be among 
those who love righteousness and hate 
iniquity, and that our conduct, in tht 
ward where we live, will justify the 
Bishop in giving unto us a recommend 
to show that we are worthy of the 
blessings of the house of the Lord. 

The principles that we have sub- 
scribed to are eternal. We cannot do 
without them. The world cannot do 
without them; and whenever they turn 
their attention to the necessity of re- 
demption, they will have to yield to the 
same conditions that we have, because 
they are the only way by which re- 
demption can be obtained. The Gospel 
of Christ is composed of eternal prin- 
ciples, and all have to subscribe to the 
same conditions in order to become 
members of His Church, to be born 
again, and to be adopted into His 
royal family. These principles are 
without beginning of days or end 01 
years. They were taught in the be- 
ginning, they were taught by the Lord 
Jesus Christ in the meridian of time, 
and they are taught today; for when 
the Lord restored to the earth the 
Apostleship. and the powers and keys 
of endless lives, it made it possible for 
all mankind who would subscribe to tht 
doctrine of the Father as taught b> 
the Son to obtain redemption from sin 
and a membership in the Church of 
Christ. Then their standing in tht 
Church would depend upon their faith 
fulness in keeping the commandments 
of God and seeking to estab- 
lish His Zion on earth. In the 
days of Noah this Gospel was preached 
to the inhabitants of the earth, but they 
rejected it. Consequently they were 
overtaken by a flood, and made their 
bed in a place where there was no ne- 
cessity for them to have gone if they 
had obeyed the message of God t 



them. Then, to show that it is impos- 
sible to obtain redemption without sub- 
scribing to the conditions required, we 
are told that the Savior went into the 
spirit world and preached to that peo- 
ple the same principles that had been 
taught by Noah. "For this cause was 
the Gospel preached also to them that 
are dead, that they might be judged ac- 
cording to men in the flesh, but live ac- 
cording to God in the spirit," so the 
scriptures inform' us. 

It has pleased our Father in heaven to 
reveal a great deal in these last days, 
for the consideration and education of 
His Church. 

"Now ye are the body of Christ, and 
members in particular. 

And God hath set some in the church, 
first apostles, secondarily prophets, 
thirdly teachers, after that miracles, 
then gifts of healing, helps, govern- 
ments, diversities of tongues." — I Cor. 
12: 27, 28. 

"Wherefore he saith, when he 
ascended up on high, he led captivity 
captive, and gave gifts unto men. 

And he gave some, apostles; and 
some, prophets; and some, evangelists; 
and some, pastors and teachers." — Eph. 
4: 8, 11. 

What for? 

"For the perfecting of the saints, for 
the work of the ministry, for the edify- 
ing of the body of Christ: 

Till we all come in the unity of the 
faith, and of the knowledge of the Son 
of God, unto a perfect man, unto the 
measure of the stature of the fulnpss 
of Christ."— Eph. 4: 12. 13. 

This organization has been restored, 
and the principles of the Gospel come 
to us all individually, because we are 
all the children of God, and He hath 
given unto us His doctrine as taught 
by His Son. We are taught the straight 
and narrow way that leads to eternal 
life. This marvelous work and a won- 
der, that has been alluded to, is indi- 
vidual effort. We all have our dis- 
tinct missions. I would like, in this con- 
nection, to refer to the writings 
of Moses as revealed to Joseph 
the Seer in December, 1830, and 
published in the Pearl of Great 
Price in relation to the eternal con- 
ditions of the Gospel: 

"And He [our Father in heaven] 
called upon our father Adam by His 
own voice, saying, I am God: I made 



ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 



the world, and men before they were 
in the flesh. And he also said unto 
him, If thou wilt turn unto me, and 
hearken unto my voice, and believe, 
and repent of all thy transgressions, 
and be baptized, even in water, in the 
name of mine Only Begotten Son, who 
is full of grace and truth, which is 
Jesus Christ, the only name which shall 
be given under heaven, whereby sal- 
vation shall come unto the children of 
men, ye shall receive the gift of the 
Holy Ghost, asking all things in his 
name, and whatsoever ye shall ask, it 
shall be given you. 

"And our father Adam spake unto 
the Lord, and said, Why is it that men 
must repent and be baptized in water? 
And the Lord said unto Adam, Behold 
I have forgiven thee thy transgression 
in the Garden of Eden. Hence came 
the saying abroad among the people, 
That the Son of God hath atoned for 
original guilt, wherein the sins of the 
parents cannot be answered upon the 
heads of the children, for they are 
whole from the foundation of the 
world. 

"And the Lord spake upon Adam, 
saying, Inasmuch as thy children are 
conceived in sin, even so when they be- 
gin to grow up, sin conceivelh in their 
hearts, and they taste the bitter, that 
they may know to prize the good. And 
it is given unto them to know good 
from evil; wherefore they are agents 
unto themselves, and I have given un- 
to you another law and commandment. 
"Wherefore teach it unto your children, 
that all men, everywhere, must repent, 
or they can in no wise inherit the king- 
dom of God, for no unclean thing can 
dwell there, or dwell in his presence; 
for, in the language of Adam, Man of 
Holiness is his name; and the name of 
his Only Begotten is, the Son of Man, 
even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge 
who shall come in the meridian of 
time." 

When the Lord Jesus Christ was up- 
on the earth He taught these same 
principles. He told Nicodemus, who 
came to him by night: 

"Verily, verily, I say unto thee, ex- 
cept a man be born again, he cannot 

see the kingdom of God." — John iii, 3. 

Again: 

"Verily, verily I say unto thee, ex- 
cept a man be born of water and of 
the Spirit, he cannot enter into the 
kingdom of God." — John iii, 5. 

These eternal principles have been 
restored to the earth, together with the 
Priesthood, the authority to proclaim 
these principles upon the earth and to 
call men to repentance. Two men — 
Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery — 



commenced this wonderful work. They 
were ordained to the Holy Priesthood 
by the authority of God, to preach His 
Gospel. And the Gospel is being 
preached. This immense assembly, 
gathered in solemn conference, is a re- 
sult of the restoration of the everlasting 
Gospel. We have been favored so 
much that our eyes have been opened 
to see the grandeur and the necessity 
of these eternal principles. 

Now. there have been some com- 
plaints made concerning profanity; not, 
however, against the Church of Christ, 
because it is impossible for the Church 
to profane. A man that profanes 
under the bondage of sin, his standing 
in the Church is only nominal, and he 
has need to repent. It is not possible 
for him to be in full fellowship ana 
good standing in the Church, for he 
does not keep the commandments; and 
as members of the Church in good 
standing we are required to keep the 
commandments and to seek to estab- 
lish the Zion of God upon the earth. 
Who can say that there is no need foi 
me to obey these principles? Who- 
ever told you so must have been some- 
body that was under the influence of 
him who said, "In the day that thou 
eatest, thou shalt not surely die." Thert- 
are two influences in the world, and we 
receive our impressions from them. The 
people generally are under the influence 
and dominion of the adversary, the 
prince and power of the air; for if they 
had the spirit of truth they would know 
most assuredly that these principlea 
are the only means of salvation, be- 
cause they were taught by the Father 
and by the Son. The Son declared that 
His doctrine was not His, but the Fath- 
er's, who had sent Him. We declare 
that' our doctrine is not ours, but His 
who has sent us. The glad tidinsrs of 
great joy are for all mankind; for we 
are all the children of God, whether 
rich or poor. The Gospel is preached 
to the poor and the illiterate, and they 
have the promise that if they will re- 
pent and obey it, they shall know that 
it is true. 

I thought this afternoon, while look- 
ing upon this immense assembly, that 
it would require a great deal of moral 
courage to stand here and advocate any 
doctrine. But our trust is in the Lord, to 



38 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



bring to our remembrance such things 
as should be said on this occasion. I 
have been very much impressed lately 
with the necessity of being a member 
of the Church of Christ In good stand- 
ing. That is an individual work. No 
matter what position we may hold in 
the Church, we live in a ward, and we 
are under the dominion of the Bishop 
of that ward, and subject to the Teach- 
ers of that ward. It is the duty of 
the Teachers to find out what our 
standing is — whether we are in har- 
mony with the eternal principles that 
lead to everlasting life; whether we are 
honest and chaste, and whether we 
practise holiness before the Lord — so 
that we may be properly represented. 
It is impossible for those who commit 
wickedness to be members of the 
Church in full fellowship. They must 
cease to do evil and learn to do well. 
There is a doctrine taught in the world 
that there is no need for us to do any- 
thing; we are justified by faith, and 
saved by grace. If I were to ask the 
question, Who told you so? I would 
very likely be referred to Paul's epistle 
to the Romans, wherein he declared 
that men were justified by faith and 
saved by grace. Then I would ask, To 
whom did he say that? I see that it 
was Paul's epistle "To all that be in 
Rome, beloved of God, called to be 
Saints." Now, please tell me how they 
came to be Saints. Why, by subscrib- 
ing to these very conditions of faith, 
repentance, baptism, and the laying on 
of hands for the reception of the Holy 
Ghost. Consequently, they had mani- 
fested their faith by their works, and 
they were saved by the grace of God 
and justified by faith, because they 
loved Him and kept His command- 
ments. It is very easy to understand 
the principles of eternal life if we want 
to know them, because the Lord has 
said, "Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, 
and it shall be opened unto you; seek, 
and ye shall find." Who are these men 
on my right? They are Presidents Of 
Stakes and their counselors. On my 
left, they are Bishops and their coun- 
selors. Have they received this testi- 
mony and witness? Yes. How did they 
attain to the positions which they hold? 
They were members of the Church in 
good standing, in full fellowship, 
and the Lord called them 



to these presiding positions 
in His Church, to fill the requirement 
of preaching the Gospel and edifying 
the body of Christ. And they have the 
spirit and power of their mission. They 
watch over the heritage of God in their 
districts. It is all in the work of the 
ministry. It is the organization of the 
members that compose the Church of 
Christ into wards and stakes, presided 
over by Presidents of Stakes and 
Bishops. 

I know that these principles are true. 
I know that the Lord has restored to 
the earth the powers and keys of end- 
less lives, the new and everlasting cov- 
enant, and that He has given all man- 
kind, who desire it, the opportunity of 
a membership in the Church of Christ, 
to take upon them the name of Chri?t, 
to love Him and to keep His com- 
mandments, and thus manifest Him in 
their lives. We cannot, however, mani- 
fest Him if we are profane. He was 
a gentleman — the only true gentleman 
that ever lived. His enemies will ad- 
mit that. And we are exhorted to have 
that mind in us which was in Christ 
Jesus. "Learn of me, for I am meek 
and lowly," was His declaration. Be- 
fore this Church was organized the 
Lord gave instructions concerning those 
who should assist in this work, and 
what should qualify them for the work. 
Said He, "And faith, hope, charity and 
love, with an eye single to the glory 
of God," qualify him for the work. Re- 
member faith, virtue, knowledge, tem- 
perance, patience, brotherly kindness, 
godliness, charity, humility, diligence." 
We have understood the necessity of 
all these things from the beginning. We 
have been patient in affliction. When 
we have been smitten and driven, we 
have not retaliated; but we have 
prayed for our enemies, and have taken 
the Gospel to them, simply because we 
have learned to love God and our 
neighbor, according to His command- 
ment. 

Let me say to my brethren and sis- 
ters, consider this proposition in your 
own mind, what constitutes a member 
of the Church of Christ in good stand- 
ing? Then let us each ask ourselves, 
Have I that character? We can do 
that better than anyone else. Our 
neighbor has to work out his own sal- 



ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 



39 



vation, as we have. "Save your- 
selves from this untoward generation." 
So far as I understand salvation, it is 
to be in harmony with the eternal prin- 
ciples of the everlasting Gospel, to 
endeavor to be kind to ourselves, and to 
make our calling and election sure, re- 
gardless of what others do. We are 
making individual records. We should 
teach our children Hhe value of the 
record of a well spent life. In the 
restoration of the Priesthood, it has 
become possible for all mankind to ob- 
tain eternal life. If they reject it, they 
are very unkind to themselves, because 



it is the pearl of great price. There is 
nothing that is more to be desired than 
the fellowship of the Holy Ghost. I 
pray God our Eternal Father that we 
may go from this conference deter- 
mined that, by His help, we will live 
so as to be members of His Church in 
full fellowship, in good standing, to the 
glory of the Father 1 , through Jesus 
Christ. Amen. 
The choir and congregation sang: 

Praise God from whom all blessings 
flow. 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith. 



THIRD DAY. 



Sunday, October 6, 10 a. m. The 
'•hoir sang: 

Praise ye the Lord! my heart shall join 
In work so pleasant, so divine. 

Prayer by Elder Moses W. Taylor. 
Singing by the choir: 

How are Thy servants blest, O Lord, 

How sure is their defense! 
Eternal wisdom is their guide, 

Their help, Omnipotence. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

Comfort for the sick and afflicted — The Gospel to 
the nations — Temptation should be avoided — 
Bright future prospect? for the Saints. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I feel 
very much honored this morning in hav- 
ing the privilege of standing before you 
I pray that the spirit which has ac- 
tuated the brethren in speaking to 
you during this conference may rest 
upon me, and that you, through your 
faith and prayers may continue to draw 
out from the speakers those very words 
and sentiments which shall bless and 
comfort you and increase your faith 
in the service of the Lord. From the 
beginning of this conference I have 
been impressed with the spirit that 
has characterized the labors of the 
brethren throughout the Stakes of Zion 
in preparing for this great gathering; 
for their labors have tended to prepare 
the minds of the people for greater light, 
greater intelligence, and greater mani- 
festations of the power of the Lord in 
blessing His children. 



I remember a little incident that oc- 
curred last Sunday in a fast meeting 
that I attended. Some very sick chil- 
dren and people were prayed for in 
that meeting, and the Lord manifested 
His power in blessing many of them, 
and as a rule they began to amend 
from that very hour. We know, breth- 
ren and sisters, that the issue -of life 
and death and the welfare of the hu- 
man family are in the hands of our 
Great Creator; and that it should be so 
we realize as fully as any people that 
live upon the earth. The wisdom of 
the Almighty we begin to comprehend 
to such a degree that we feel to leave 
all things in His hands after we have 
done our whole duty, after we have 
prayed and fasted and worked for the 
restoration of the sick. We feel that 
the Father is over all, and that by His 
power are the sick raised from their 
beds of affliction; and without His good 
pleasure we cannot realize the blessings 
that we in our finite wisdom think we 
ought to possess. It is proper that 
our Heavenly Father should hold with- 
in His grasp the welfare of His 
children in life and death; and He com- 
mands us, in cases of sickness, to call 
upon the Elders of His Church, that 
they may anoint with oil, and by the 
prayer of faith draw down His bless- 
ings. We receive the blessings always, 
whether in life or death; for He knows 
what is best for His children, and so we 



4 J 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



bow in humility before Him and ac- 
knowledge His hand in all things. 

I make these remarks this morning 
because my heart is filled with joy and 
satisfaction, where I see the power of 
the Lord manifested in raising up the 
sick. And when the power of the de- 
stroyer, by permission of the Lord., 
takes away a sick one, then my heart 
goes out in sympathy for tne afflicted 
family, and I mourn with them in their 
deep sorrow. Nevertheless I know that 
the Lord has His hand over His pe*o- 
ple in mercy, and He will heal the 
broken-hearted and comfort those who 
mourn. Those who are raised up by 
His power, if they honor the blessing' 
they receive, will live to do a mighty 
work, while those who die will pass 
into the presence of the Father, there 
to meet with Him and with those they 
have loved in life, and they will not 
lose any blessing that they would have 
gained had they lived longer upon the 
earth. 

I rejoice in the principles of the Gos- 
pel, because they are saving in their 
nature. I am rejoiced at the condition 
of the Stakes and wards of Zion and 
the organizations of the Holy Priest- 
hood. I am rejoiced above measure at 
the glad response given to the words of 
our Prophet Lorenzo Snow in relation 
to the law of tithing; still, there is yet 
room for improvement. I rejoice at 
the numerous missions that have been 
opened, where the Elders are permitted 
to go forth and proclaim the word of 
the Lord and the divine mission 
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
I rejoice that a new mission ia 
being opened in Japan, and I 
feel assured that there will be no fail- 
ure in it. Whatever trials these breth- 
ren may have to meet will only tend 
to make them live nearer to the Lord 
and to feel after Him for their own 
sustenance. They will prosper in that 
mission, and the door will be opened 
wide for the Elders to proclaim the 
Gospel among those teeming millions 
of brown men. So will it be in other 
lands. President George Q. Cannon, in 
the conference prior to his death, said 
that the doors of the Gospel must be 
opened to other lands; and in saying 
that he 6 -jhoed the very sentiments of 
President Snow and President Smith. 



This mission to Japan is the begin- 
ning of this great opening to nations 
where yet the Gospel has not been 
preached by the Elders. I rejoice also 
in the condition of the Stakes of Zion. 
I observe in the hearts of the people a 
desire to improve, a desire to advance, 
a desire to live nearer to the Lord, to 
keep His holy commandments, and to 
be worthy of the blessings that He has 
in store for the faithful. 

There are some things, however, that 
I regret. I am sorry that this favored 
city of ours is so full of temptations 
for the youth of Zion. I regret the 
introduction of fads and fashions into 
the midst of the Latter-day Saints. I 
regret the number of whisky saloons 
that are in the streets of Salt Lake 
City. But I do not know of any means 
of preventing these temptations from 
coming to our boys and girls — and we 
are all boys and girls when it comes to 
temptation. Probably these things 
must be, or the Lord would not permit 
them. We must be a tried people; we 
must overcome temptation, and prove 
to the Lord whether through evil and 
through good report we will be faithful 
to His cause. We must be taught to 
shun the very appearance of evil, and 
we must teach our children to do the 
same. Our words and our actions must 
tend to the welfare of our fellow men, 
to the redemption of Zion, to the spread 
of the Gospel and the upbuilding of His 
kingdom in the earth, that a rule and 
reign of righteousness and purity may 
come to the earth — not through the ab- 
sence of temptation, but through the 
power of His children to overcome 
and trample under foot all temptation. 

I testify to you of the divine mission 
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was 
divinely inspired. He was filled with 
the power of his mission to such an ex- ■ 
tent that he came as near being a per- 
fect man as ever stood upon the earth, 
excepting our Lord and Savior Jesus 
Christ. In the fulfilment of his mis- 
sion upon the earth, he exemplified the 
teachings and actions of his Master. 
So have the brethren who have fol- 
lowed in his footsteps as propnets, seers 
and revelators to Israel. President 
Young, President Kimball, and others 
of the Apostles saw with prophetic eye 
the temptations and allurements that 



ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 



4 



would be spread 'neath the feet of the 
Latter-day Saints in the future, and 
they lifted up their voices and warned 
the people of those trials that were to 
come — not those trials wnich would 
make them more shining in the faith, 
their armor brighter and their lances 
keener in defense of the truth, but the 
trials of temptation and sin that would 
creep right into the very homes of the 
Saints, especially in the cities, and 
bring- ruin and sadness to the family 
circle. The Apostles and Prophets 
have warned us always to shun tempta- 
tion; to expect that allurements would 
come into our midst, but to so shape 
our lives that we could overcome them. 
For this purpose we have our Improve- 
ment associations, our Sunday schools, 
our Primaries, and all the other auxil- 
iary associations belonging to the 
Church. They were instituted for the 
education of the youth of Zion. But I 
consider that the training of the par- 
ents is the stepping-tone to the training 
of the boys and girls. I am in full 
accord with that master mind who, 
when asked how soon the training 
of children should begin, replied, 
"Two hundred years before they are 
born." The training of the parents un- 
der the influence of the Gospel of the 
Lord Jesus Christ is going to produce 
a wonderful result in the character 
of coming generations. I see the phy- 
sical benefits that will come through 
the observance of the Word of Wisdom. 
I see the mental and spiritual blessings 
that will come through the observance 
of the laws of chastity and purity of 
life. The study of the revelations of 
the Lord will educate the parents, and 
the result upon the children will be very 
great. If we can keep in the line of 
right and truth, and so train our chil- 
dren after us, the harvest will be won- 
derful. The kingdom of God must 
come upon the earth. Peace must 
reign supreme. But before the king- 
dom of God can come, before peace can 
prevail, the people must be trained to 
love peace and union, to love the Lord, 
to love each other. They must love 
their neighbors as themselves, and 
their God above all. They must keep 
His laws, in order that this spirit of 
peace and brotherly love may be dis- 
seminated abroad from the rivers to 



the ends of the earth, and the way be 
prepared for Jesus to come and reign 
as Kings of kings and Lord of lords. 
The Gospel must be preached to every 
creature, for a witness, before the end 
of unrighteousness can come. 

I rejoice over the prospects which are 
before you as a people. I rejoice in 
the spirit of truth that has brought 
you together today. I pray with all 
my heart that the Spirit of the Lord 
may fill President Snow, that his body 
may be renovated, that he may be 
freed from cold, and be able to mingle 
with us before the conference closes. I 
pray that the spirit of peace, joy and 
health may enter his heart and his 
whole body, from this very moment, 
and I hope that my brethren will pray 
with me to this end. I trust that the 
spirit of this conference may increase 
in power and goodness for the benefit 
of the Saints everywhere — that it may 
go out into every land and clime, espe- 
cially where there is a Latter-day Saint 
Elder humbly toiling for the spread of 
the truth, and rest upon him, as well 
as upon all the families of the Saints 
that have been able to gather here, that 
all may rejoice together because of this 
glorious conference. And the honor 
and the glory be to God our Heavenly 
Father, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

Churoh built on rock of revelation— Souroe of 
divine testimony — True prophets known by 
their works — They bear the Impress of divin- 
ity. 

I feel very keenly my dependence 
upon the Lord in standing before you 
this morning, and humbly I crave an 
interest in your faith and prayers, that 
I may have the Spirit of the Lord to- 
direct me in what I shall say; for I 
feel a heavy responsibility resting up- 
on me when I behold the many thou- 
sands who are assembled here to re- 
ceive the word of God. Never in my life 
has it been my privilege to stand be- 
fore so vast a congregation to instruct 
them in the principles of life and sal- 
vation, and I rejoice in having this 
great privilege. I sincerely hope that 
the Lord will direct me in all that shall 
be said, that I may not be the cause 
of misleading any who are here. 

I rejoice exceedingly in the instruc- 



42 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



tions that we have received during this 
conference. The statistical information 
and the items of history in connection 
with the colonization of this people 
have been intensely interesting to me, 
and the beautiful lessons that have 
been drawn from them have increased 
my testimony, and I doubt not that my 
brethren and sisters have been 
strengthened in their faith and have 
felt to rejoice to know that they are 
identified with this 'wonderful work 
that our heavenly Father has set His 
hand to do in the age in which we 
live. I am proud to be identified with 
the people of God, and to have a stand- 
ing in His holy Church. I feel to re- 
joice for the testimony that the Lord 
has blessed me with; for I do know that 
this is in very deed His work. 

The Church of Christ has been 
builded upon the rock of revelation; and 
those who have received a ^stimony 
that this is the work of the Lord — and 
we often hear it proclaimed from this 
stand — and that Joseph Smith was 
divinely inspired of God in 
ushering in this the dispensation of 
the fulness of times, have received 
it through the inspiration of the Al- 
mighty. "We ought to be grateful that 
->ur Heavenly Father has blessed us 
with a knowledge of the truth, and that 
we are not compelled to rely upon oth- 
ers, but that we know it for ourselves, 
because we have received it through 
revelation from our Father. We can 
read in the scriptures that wonderful 
conversation that took place between 
the Savior and His Apostles, when He 
asked them whom men said that He 
was. 

"Whom do men say that I the Son 
of man am? 

And they said. Some say that thou 
art John the Baptist: some. Elias; and 
others, Jeremiah, or one of the Pro- 
phets. 

He saith unto them, But whom say ye 
that I am? 

And Simon Peter answered and said, 
Thou art the Christ, the Son of the 
living God. 

And Jesus answered and said unto 
him, Blessed are thou, Simon Barjona: 
for flesh and blood hath not revealed 
it unto thee, but my Father which is in 
heaven. 

And I say unto thee, That thou art 
Peter, and upon this rock I will build 
my Church; and the gates of hell shall 
not prevail against it." 



From this we learn concerning the 
solid foundation of the Church of 
Christ, of which we are members. It 
has been built upon the broad princi- 
ple of revelation, by which we can 
know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son 
of the living. God. I rejoice to know 
that there is a means of coming to a 
knowledge of God. Without revelation 
it would be impossible to obtain a per- 
fect testimony. It is true, there are 
many external evidences of the divinity 
of this work and of the mission of 
Joseph Smith. I have sometimes been 
asked the question, How do you know 
that Joseph Smith was divinely in- 
spired? and my first answer has al- 
ways been that the Lord had manifest- 
ed it to me through His Holy Spirit; 
but in addition to that there are many 
outward evidences that have appealed 
strongly to me. During the meetings 
of this conference we have heard some 
of these evidences. The question might 
be asked, How do you know that Moses 
was a prophet of God? We who have 
not had the privilege of associating with 
that great prophet, and have not felt the 
impress of the Spirit in listening to his 
voice, can we judge by the work he 
acomplished. We find that he was given 
a mission by the Lord to deliver the 
children of Israel from bondage in 
Egypt. Looking back at the marvelous 
work accomplished through his in- 
strumentality — how the children of Is- 
rael were in very deed delivered from 
bondage, how they were planted in the 
land of promise, and how they grew to 
be a mighty people — it seems to bear 
the very impress of divinity, and we 
know from such evidence that he was a 
prophet sent of God. The Lord has never 
accomplished any great purpose in the 
earth, except he has raised up a 
prophet and given him a mission to 
perform. Neither has the Lord ever 
given revelations to man that did not 
have some importance attached to 
them. The Lord has not been engaged 
as many so-called miracle-workers are 
in this day and age of the world, in 
manifesting Himself unto His children 
unless there has been something wor- 
thy of the dignity of the Supreme Be- 
ing connected with that revelation. 
When the great work of atonement 
had to be accomplished, He raised up 



ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 



43 



His only Begotten Son, who performed 
a work the effects of which are felt to- 
•day throughout the whole world. Par- 
ticularly do we find the result of His 
work and that of His Apostles among 
the so-called civilized nations of the 
earth. The impress of divinity is upon 
the work of Christ. He was the great- 
est Prophet that ever trod the earth. 
Judging from the same standpoint, 
whenever the Lord has raised up any 
prophet the impress of divinity has 
been upon the work that he was 
called to accomplish. It has always 
been something important, and it has 
had for its primary object the salva- 
tion and betterment of the children of 
God. When the Lord raised up the 
Prophet Joseph, he ushered in this 
.great gathering dispensation. It was 
not an idle purpose; it was not merely 
for the amusement of mankind; but there 
was something grand to be accomplished 
namely, the gathering of the house of 
Israel from all the nations of the earth, 
in fulfilment of those wonderful pre- 
dictions uttered by many prophets who 
lived hundreds and even thousands of 
years ago. Today those who are fa- 
miliar with the development of this 
work; those who have visited the vari- 
ous. Stakes of Zion, from one end of 
this intermountain region to the other, 
and have seen people from all nations 
with their feet planted in these fast- 
nesses of the Rocky Mountains, have 
not failed to see that there was a vital 
force that seemed to possess the people 
— something beyond the power of man — 
that was accomplishing a wonderful 
work in the earth. I recollect a cer- 
tain valley here in the southern part of 
Idaho. A number of people not of our 
faith first went and settled in that val- 
ley, and called the place Gentile Valley, 
and they made the boast that never 
should "Mormons" come into that 
valley and take possession of it. A 
short time ago I had the privilege of 
visiting the Bannock Stake conference. 
It was held in Gentile Valley, and there 
I saw a congregation of Latter-day 
Saints, who had gathered there from 
the nations of the earth, in fulfillment 
of these mighty predictions. They were 
planted in that valley, tilling the soil, 
and their cattle were grazing upon the 
hills; and I was informed that you 



could count the Gentiles, as they 
termed themselves, upon the fingers of 
one hand. Even that is an object les- 
son to me illustrating that this is the 
land of Zion, appointed and dedicated 
for the gathering of Israel in the latter 
days. The impress of divinity is upon 
this work, the Lord is with His people, 
and we see it manifest on every hand. 

I bear testimony to the fact that I 
know Joseph Smith is a prophet sent 
of God. The Lord has manifested it to 
me as an individual. I have felt the 
impress of the Spirit of the Lord. When 
I have been in the missionary field and 
have borne this testimony, I have felt 
tingling in all my being, the Spirit of 
the Lord, bearing witness within me 
that the words which I spoke were true. 
My young brethren and sisters, who 
have not yet had experience in the mis- 
sionary field, let me tell you that this 
is the work of God, that the Lord is 
at our helm and will bear us on tri- 
umphantly, and that the thing called 
Mormonism, despised though it be in 
the world, is the greatest thing on the 
earth. It is the Church of God estab- 
lished upon the earth, never again to 
be thrown down. It is the little stone 
that was hewn out of the mountains 
without hands, and it has begun to roll, 
and will continue to roll until it shall fill 
the whole earth. Through its operations 
"in and iniquity will be banished from 
the face of the earth, and righteous- 
ness shall predominate and cover the 
earth, even as the waters cover the 
mighty deep. This is my testimony, 
and I bear it in the name of Jesus 
Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

A God of miracles— Saints should not scatter 
abroad — Priesthood should be consulted — 
Work of auxiliary organizations. 

While Elder Seymour B. Young has 
been speaking to us this morning many 
thoughts on the topics to which he has 
referred have passed through my mind. 
He first spoke of the Lord answering 
the prayers of His people in behalf of 
the sick, and I believe that at the pres- 
ent time the Lord is very markedly do- 
ing this. I have heard some of my 
brethren and sisters speak as though 
there was a time in the Church when 
these manifestations of God's power 



44 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



were more frequent than they are to- 
day. In this I do not agree. My ex- 
perience tells me that there never was 
a time in the history of the Church 
when God was more willing to answer 
the prayers of His people than He is 
now. A discussion has been going on 
recently among our friends, on the 
question of the healing of the sick 
through faith and prayer, and whether 
God is a God of miracles today or not. 
From my standpoint, this discussion is 
absurd, almost grotesque; for my tes- 
timony is that God continues to hear 
the prayers of His people, and that we 
are living ill a period of daily miracles 
amongst this people. It is simply those 
who will not see who are blind to these 
circumstances. The Prophet Mormon 
has told us in his record that God : s 
ways are one eternal round; that He 
is the same yesterday, today and for- 
ever; that He was, He is, and He evei 
will be a God of miracles, or He would 
cease to be God. The God who an- 
swers prayer today as He did an- 
ciently; the God who listens to the 
pleadings of His children and loves 
them with the same all-powerful love 
as He did those of former dispensa- 
tions, is the God in whom I believe, 
and whom I worship. I believe in Him 
among other things by reason of the 
manifestations of His power that I 
know are taking place in the midst of 
the Saints, not only in the healing of 
Ihe sick, but in their enjoyment of the 
gifts of the Spirit which He has prom- 
ised to the believers; and I have good 
reason to worship Him. 

There is another thing that has im- 
pressed me in the remarks of the 
brethren before this conference. I re- 
fer to the warning they have given to 
some of our restless brethren, and pos- 
sibly sisters, who seem to be always in- 
clined to 2:0 further and further from 
the headquarters of the Church and 
take up their residence in far-off lands. 
I have lately had the privilege of visit- 
ing some of the more remote settle- 
ments of the Saints. Within the last 
few weeks I have been to Alberta, to 
Grande Ronde valley in Oregon, and to 
the Big Horn Basin in Wyoming; and I 
have been full of gratitude to God to 
see the vast extent of good country — al- 
most measureless— that still remains for 



the Saints to occupy, with soil as good 
and rivers as large as any yet settled 
upon and brought out by our people. 
Yet there are some people who would go 
still further afield. ' We are told that 
there are some of our brethren who 
have wandered off to the north of Al- 
berta, far on the Edmonton road, which 
lies 300 miles to the northward of our 
settlements. Others have wandered off 
in different directions, apparently to get 
from under the influence, direction and 
counsel of the servants of God. To do 
this is a suicidal policy on the part of 
those who attempt it. In the kingdom 
of God the path of obedience is not only 
the path of safety, but it is the path of 
salvation. All our strength, all our 
power with God, comes from our union 
with the Priesthood, with the living or- 
acles, who have the right and the au- 
thority from God to direct us in things 
both great and small, if we may use 
that expression, for all things are but 
relatively large or small; but every- 
thing that it pleases God to reveal to 
us is important, because on it hinges 
our salvation. It is by neglect of the 
small things that we too often wreck 
our faith. As the scriptures tell us, it 
is the little foxes that spoil the vines. 
I have greatly marveled and been 
pleased 'with the prospects of our peo- 
ple in their new settlements and colo- 
nies; and I can perceive that there is 
vast room for Israel to grow, and grow 
legitimately, without spreading beyond 
the borders that the servants of God 
recognize as proper places for homes 
for Latter-day Saints. 

As one interested in the youth of 
Israel, I have felt great satisfaction in. 
the remarks of the brethren. Many of 
you know me more as a Sunday school 
man than in any other position in the 
Church, and the instructions which 
have been given at this conference with 
regard to the training of our youth find 
an echo in my heart. I know the ne- 
cessity of this training and develop- 
ment in righteousness, and in fighting 
that which God has said is not good for 
us. Surely it is inconsistent in the 
highest degree for those who claim to- 
be Latter-day Saints to take the name- 
of God in vain, to disregard the teach- 
ings of the Church with regard to the 
Sabbath, and to treat with disrespect 



ELDER J. W. McMURRIN. 



45 



those whom God has called to be His 
servants. We need encouragement to 
do right, warning to avoid wrong. We 
need a reformation in some of these 
matters, that we may live nearer unto 
God. I feel that our Sunday schools, 
our Improvement associations and oth- 
er auxiliary organizations have a great 
work before them, to lead the youth of 
Israel in the path in which they should 
walk, first by us who claim to be teach- 
ers setting the example, and then by 
good instruction persuading our chil- 
dren to follow in our footsteps. May 
God bless you, and bless this confer- 
ence. I ask it through Jesus, our Re- 
deemer. Amen. 

ELDER J. W. McMURRIN. 

Manifestations of divine favor — Educational 
foundation laid by the Saints — Disposition to 
build up and beautify the land— Excellence of 
public school system — Paramount importance 
of Church schools— Tribute to those who";have 
aided their establishment. 

I certainly feel, my brethren and sis- 
ters, that to stand up in the presence of 
this vast congregation of people is a 
very serious responsibility, and I could 
appreciate the words whispered to me a 
few moments ago by Brother Golden 
Kimball. I suppose he felt that I would 
be called upon to occupy a portion of 
the time of this meeting, and he whis- 
pered in my ear, "Brother Joseph, 
brace up; you have my sympathy." I 
feel that I need the sympathy, the faith 
and the prayers of this vast multitude, 
If I am to say anything that will be of 
advantage to you who have assembled 
together in this conference to worship 
the Lord. 

There is a responsive feeling in my 
■soul fo the words that have been ut- 
tered by the brethren who have occu- 
pied this position during the conference. 
My heart has been made glad, and I 
"have felt that my spirit was in harmony 
with the Spirit that actuated the breth- 
ren in the instructions they were led 
to impart; and I hope that, through the 
kindness of my Father in heaven, I may 
be prompted by the same Spirit. 

In connection with the brethren, I 
marvel at the wonderful development of 
the work of the Lord and the manifes- 
tations of our Father's divine favor on 
every hand in the remarkable advance- 
ment being made by the Church of 



Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
While sitting here today I have won- 
dered what the feelings must be of 
strangers in our midst, who have been 
told all manner of falsehoods concern- 
ing the Latter-day Saints. I have had 
some experience as a missionary in the 
world, and among those who had not 
investigated the doctrines of the Gos- 
pel I found almost universally the feel- 
ing that the Latter-day Saints were a 
priest-ridden people, held in a condition 
of ignorance and of bondage, and that 
they had to be kept in such a state, 
lest they might break away from the 
priestly rule that dominated them. 
I have often wondered what the feel- 
ings of the people could be who visited 
us in our mountain home and discov- 
ered that this chief city of the Saints is 
a city of peaceful and happy homes, 
and splendid schools. 

Beautiful buildings have been erected 
here for the education of the rising gen- 
eration; and while it is true that they 
have been built by the united effort of 
all the citizens of this city, "Mormon" 
and non-"Mormon," it is nevertheless a 
fact that the desire to give education 
to the youth of the Latter-day Saints 
has always been a prominent feature in 
the building up of Zion. The founda- 
tion of "the education now so richly giv- 
en in this state of Utah was laid by 
the Latter-day Saint pioneers. The 
great University that stands upon the 
brow of the hill, overlooking this city, 
was founded by our people in the days 
of their poverty; and in establishing it 
they looked forward with the eye of 
faith to the future educational necessi- 
ties of the children and the development 
of the country. Traveling through the 
various Stakes of Zion, we find in al- 
most every settlement costly and beau- 
tiful buildings that have been erected 
for educational purposes. When we 
think of what has been accompb'sned in 
this direction, we should be exceedingly 
glad in our hearts. If we are judged 
by our works, it will be very difficult 
for honest, observing men and women 
to go away from this community with 
the feeling that the Latter-day Saints 
are opposed to education. 

I had the privilege recently of taking 
a visit with Apostle Cowley through 
some of the outlying Stakes of Zion — 



46 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



the Stakes in Arizona and Mexico — and 
I was greatly impressed with the eforts 
being made by our people in those 
Stakes in favor of education. In St. 
John, Ariz., where it has been almost 
impossible for the people to live, be- 
cause of the lack of water, the mineral 
in the soil, and the difficulty of con- 
trolling what little water they had, we 
found in spite of such obstacles, and 
other discouraging features, a Stake 
academy that would ornament any 
street in this city, erected principally 
by the free will offerings of the people, 
notwithstanding their poverty and 
their distressed condition. Similar 
conditions prevail in other Stakes. An 
Academy building is nearing comple- 
tion in the Snowflake Stake, which is 
a credit to the people of the Stake, an 
excellent and commodious building has 
been erected in Juarez and an Acad- 
emy in St. Joseph Stake, at Thatcher, 
which is said to be the largest school 
in the Teritory of Arizona. An ac- 
quaintance with the condition that 
prevails in Colonia Juarez relative to 
education led me to think that it was 
not an unmixed evil. .They are not 
blessed with the assistance of public 
taxation for the support of the schools, 
such as we have in the United States, 
but the people there have imposed up- 
on themselves an income tax of six 
per cent., that they might have in their 
midst a school for the education of 
their children. I may say here that 
we were very much gratified to learn 
that in the Juarez Stake there is an al- 
most entire absence of profanity among 
the jV»ung men, and that ninety per 
cent of all the people of the Stake ob- 
serve the Word of Wisdom. We were 
there in the interest of the Mutual Im- 
provement Associations; and during oui 
visit of several days in the town of 
Juarez I do not think we discovered 
one young man with a cigarette in his 
mouth, and we never heard one word of 
profanity. I feel that this may be at- 
tributed, at least in part, to the fact 
that, because they support their own 
educational interests, they are privi- 
leged to have God in the schools, and 
the teachers, being filled with the Spir- 
it of the Gospel, are as anxious con- 
cerning the moral and spiritual devel- 
opment of the students as they are for 



their mental development. It is a bless- 
ing to any community to have the 
privilege of inviting into the school- 
room the servants and handmaidens of 
the Almighty, to impress upon the- 
children the truths of the Gospel. I 
felt in my heart to bless the brethren 
who were engaged in this goodly work, 
and who had so great an interest in 
the proper education of their children 
that they were willing to impose a 
heavy tax upon themselves for that 
worthy purpose. 

I have sometimes thought that we 
have given greater attention to the 
mental development of our children 
than to their moral and spiritual devel- 
opment. Advancement is the spirit of 
the age. In the State Fair now being 
held in this city we can witness the 
improvements that have been made in 
our stock. There seems to be a strong 
desire on the part of our farmers and 
stockraisers to have the best kind of 
stock, which is very commendable. 
There is a growing tendency, also on 
the part of the people generally, to 
improve the architecture of the pub- 
lic buildings and houses of worship. 
Then in all the towns and villages of 
the Saints there is a disposition mani- 
fested on every hand to build beautiful 
homes. Away down in Mexico we 
found elegant homes that would adorn 
the most beautiful residence part of 
Salt Lake City. This feeling to ad- 
vance and to improve is abroad in the 
land. NoW, ought we not in our edu- 
cational matters to try and keep pace 
with this general improvement? We 
have great schools here. I would not 
desire to say aught that would detract 
from the importance of the public 
school system of Salt Lake City. We 
ought to be proud of it.and every citizen 
should rejoice that he has been priv- 
ileged to have a part in bringing the 
school system of this city to its pres- 
ent standard. I am thankful that the 
Latter-day Saints have always been 
willing to vote Tes on every reason- 
able proposition of taxation for the 
benefit of the schools. I am thankful 
that the Deseret News, the Church or- 
gan, published in this city, has always 
advocated the advancement of the 
schools and encouraged the people to 
vote in favor of everything that was- 



ELDER J. W. McMURRIN. 



47 



for the improvement of the system. 

There is one thing in connection with 
education that I desire to draw your 
attention to, and that is that we have 
, in our midst a Church school system, 
where the children of the Latter-day 
Saints are brought under the influence 
of men and women who have the love 
of the everlasting Gospel in 
their hearts and the spirit of the 
missionary in their educational labors; 
men and women who feel that mental 
advancement is not all that should be 
looked after in the education of the 
young, but that it is highly important, 
if not the most important feature of 
education, that young people should be 
impressed with the fact that there is 
a living and true God, and that He has 
established Upon the earth His Churon, 
in fulfillment of the prophecies that 
have been delivered by the ancient ser- 
vants of God concerning the dispensa- 
tion of the fulness of times. 

I think there should be a greater in- 
terest on the part of the Latter-day 
Saints in regard to the Church schools. 
We have found in some Stakes that the 
Stake academies are struggling for an 
existence, and that there has been a 
coldness manifested by some in regard 
to their support, perhaps for the reason 
That they could send their children to 
the public schools free of cost, or per- 
chance because the academy was not 
located in the place where they desired 
it. I feel, in connection with the im- 
provement of our public buildings, our 
homes, our farms, and our stock, that 
above all these things should be the 
spiiitual as well as mental improve- 
ment of the precious "sons and daugh- 
ters that our Father has committed to 
our care. It is written in the revela- 
tions that our Father will hold us re- 
sponsible for the education that we give 
to our children; and He has given us a 
commandment that we should not only 
i seek wisdom from good books, but also 
by faith. We must have faith in the 
requiring of information. But faith to 
a very large extent has been shut out 
from the public school system. The or- 
ganization of the earth, the creation 
of the inhabitants thereof, and all such 
things are accounted for by science so- 
.called independent of God; and the re- 



sult has been in many instances that 
young people have graduated from sem- 
inaries of learning without any faith 
in God and entertaining infidelic ideas. 
Brother Kimball told us yesterday of 
fathers who felt there was great 
need for missionary work in 
families. I would like to sug- 
gest to the fathers and 
mothers of Israel, if they desire mis- 
sionary work in their families, no bet- 
ter work of this character can be ac- 
complished than by placing their sons 
and daughters in the institutions that 
have been established for the education 
of the children of the Latter-day Saints. 
It will be a very rare thing for a son 
or a daughter to go to a Church school 
for two, three or four years, and come 
away from it without faith in God. 
Such a thing, I believe, is almost un 
heard of in our Church schools. Young 
men and young women of a skeptical 
turn of mind have oft times been sent 
to these schools, and faith has been es 
tablished in their hearts. There is no 
experience that I know of that equals 
the education given in our Church 
schools for establishing faith in the 
hearts of the rising generation,save only 
the experience that is gained abroad by 
the missionaries in preaching the ever- 
lasting Gospel. When I am brought in 
contact with a class of young men in 
one of these Church schools, I always 
feel as though I was in the company of 
a number of missionaries in some con- 
ference abroad. There is the sam c 
spirit in these instituions that accom- 
panies the missionary. That spirit can 
be felt when we come in contact with 
the professors who are engaged in 
teaching. Therefore, I say, if we love 
our children we will give them oppor- 
tunities in these educational institu- 
tions that have been established for the 
express purpose of planting faith in the 
hearts of the young. It is not suffi- 
cient that our children should go to thb 
Sabbath school for an hour or two once 
a week; it is not sufficient that they 
should go to the Improvement associa- 
tion or to the Primary association for 
an hour or two once a week, and all the 
rest of the week be brought in contact 
with influences that are opposed to the 
work of the Lord. They will be 



8 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



strong boys and girls and blessed 
indeed if they can devote eight or 
nine hours every day to the 
study of things wherein God is not 
mentioned, and one hour a week to 
the study of theology, and yet have 
their feet firmly established in the right 
path. "We should be anxious for them 
to have all the opportunities for gain- 
ing a knowledge of the Gospel that sur- 
round us; such advantages abound 
throughout Zion. There never should 
have to be a report made by any Stake 
Presidency that the Church Academy 
in their Stake is in a languishing con- 
dition. The story all the time should 
be, give us more room; the students 
are filling our halls, and we do not 
have sufficient accommodation. "With 
every Church academy it should be the 
story that they have the largest at- 
tendance of any school in the Stake. 
There should be greater interest in 
these Church schools, because better 
results flow from this education than 
from any other that is given in the 
land. It ought to be this way, be- 
cause God is in the movement, and 
the Spirit of the Lord rests upon the 
teachers. 

Across the road from here is an ele- 
gant building that has been erected as 
a part of the Latter-day . Saints' Uni- 
versity by the freewill offerings of a 
number of men in the community 
whom the Lord has blessed with means. 
I think I heard a report made when 
the building was dedicated, that the 
Presidency of this Stake and a number 
of other brethren met together and ap- 
pointed a committee to solicit sub- 
scriptions for the erection of the build- 
ing, the land having been donated by 
President Lorenzo Snow as the trustee- 
in-trust, and in a few days $30,000 was 
given for that purpose. I look upon 
that building as a monument to the 
men who contributed the means, and I 
would like to see a tablet placed in the 
Latter-day Saints' Business College 
with their names engraved upon it. The 
money that erected that building is a 
contribution to the youth of Zion— to 
my sons and daughters and to your 
sons and daughters, that they may 
have a place to go where they can be 
educated, not only in the learning of 
the world, but also in the learning of 



heaven. I feel grateful to the men who 
donated the means for the erection of 
that building, and their names will live 
in the history of this people. Recently 
there died in this city a young man, 
Brother Samuel Barratt, who had had it 
in his heart to assist this same institu- 
tion, but he was cut off before he ac- 
complished what he desired, and the 
heart of his mother went out to the 
son and to the educational interests of 
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- 
day Saints, with the result that she 
contributed something like $25,000 to er- 
ect a building to be known as Barratt 
hall, for the benefit and blessing of 
the youth of Israel, and in doing so 
she has reared a monument to her son 
and has made it possible for his name 
and her name to live for generations 
in the hearts of the people, though 
the perpetuation of anyi name is but 
a small thing in comparison with the 
blessing that will come to thousands 
of the youth of our community by 
reason of this liberality. Brother Ezra 
T. Clark, of Davis County, has also 
contributed $1,000 of his means toward 
the establishment of a library of Nat- 
ural Science in the Latter-day Saints' 
University. Other members of the 
Church have given freely for the sup- 
port and encouragement of our church 
school system. Their names will also 
be held in honorable remembrance 
among the people, and I believe they 
and their children after them will be 
blessed because of this liberality. 

I would like to say to all the rich 
men among the Latter-day Saints: If 
you desire to live in the hearts of the 
people, if you desire to have men and 
women stand up in the future and 
bless your names and your memories, 
let a portion of your substance which 
God has given you be consecrated to 
the blessing of the youth of Israel, that 
their feet may be established in the 
straight way. 

There are many examples of this 
character among those who are not of 
us. In the southeastern part of this 
city, is a magnificent structure — the 
Kearns' St. Ann's Orphanage — for the 
blessing and comfort of the orphans 
of the Catholic Church (and, for aught 
I know, the orphans of any church), 
to erect which Mrs. Kearns contributed 



ELDER J. W. 

$50,000; and the name' of Kearns will, 
by reason of that, live in the future 
history of Utah. Although the citizens 
of this State have honored Hon. Thom- 
as Kearns with the greatest political 
gift they had to give, and have sent 
him to represent them in the Senate 
of the United States, the name of 
Kearns will be remembered in 
connection with this orphanage long 
after the fact that he was Senator of 
the United States shall have been for 
gotten. "We hear of other men in this 
community who have contributed $10,- 
000 each toward the erection of the 
Catholic cathedral now being reared in 
this city; and I say that their examplt 
is worthy of imitation. 

We ought to be willing and anxious, 
if God has blessed us with an abund- 
ance of this world's goods, to give of 
that substance for the benefit and 
blessing of the people. President Young 
set the example. His name will live 
forever with every instructor and every 
student in the Church schools. Can 
they ever forget Brigham Young, the 
man who established the Brigham 
Young College and the Brigham Youn& 
Academy; the man who left a valuable 
block of land as a site for a Latter-da> 
Saint University, the proceeds from the 
sale of which are to be used to erect 
the Brigham Young Memorial Hall on 
,the ground of the Latter-day Saints' 
University? Men talk about his oppo- 
sition to education. Why, in giving his 
means so generously he demonstrated 
that he stood foremost in the midst of 
the people in favor of education. The 
Latter-day Saints have nothing to fear 
from proper education. God Almight} 
has commanded us to seek for wisdom 
by faith and by study. If we desire to 
honor God and keep His commandments, 
the more education we obtain, the 
greater will be the glory that we will 
bring to our Father in heaven. We 
ought to be an educated people. It is 
the decree of God that we shall be. 
There should be houses of learning, 
wherein the principles of the Gospel can 
be taught, springing up in every part 
of the land. This educational work wab 
commenced by the Prophet Joseph 
Smith. He got learned professors to 
teach the early Elders of the Church, 
that they might have understanding 



McMURRIN, 49 

concerning science, history, and lan- 
guages. This Church is and always will 
be opposed to ignorance. The uplifting 
of our sons and daughters should be 
above all else. I desire to impress upon 
you, my brethren and sisters, this fact, 
your children who attend Church 
schools can be advanced in every line 
of education. In science, art, literature, 
and in every other desirable branch of 
book learning. In addition to rhi° the^ 
are trained in a knowledge of God. To 
know the Lord, and to have faith in His 
work, is of the utmost importance. Let 
the children receive a part of their edu 
cation in institutions where these 
precious things are taught. 

I thank God for this conference and 
for the glorious instructions that have 
been imparted. I thank the Lord with 
all my heart for a testimony concern 
ing the truth of this work, and that I 
can join with these my beloved breth- 
ren in bearing record of its divinity, 
that Joseph Smith is a mighty Prophet 
of the Lord, that the authority of the 
Holy Priesthood has been restored to 
men upon the earth, and that it is the 
decree of our Father that we shall con- 
tinue to spread out, to colonize, to build 
up and to increase in strength and pow- 
er in this promised land, under a gov- 
ernment which has been established by 
the inspiration of the Spirit of God ana 
by His commandment, that all men 
might have liberty, and that His work 
might be accomplished. God help us to 
be true, faithful and steadfast to the 
covenants that we have made, and in 
our allegiance to our Father in heaven, 
and also in our allegiance to and sup- 
port of His Priesthood and servants 
who lead us in this dispensation, is my 
prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, 
Light and Truth. 

Benediction by Elder Charles O. Card. 

AT THE ASSEMBLY HALL. 

An overflow meeting was held in the 
Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m. Elder Anthon 
H. Lund presiding. 

The Temple choir and congregation 
sang: 

"Now let us rejoice in the day of sal- 
vation, 

No longer as strangers on earth need 
we roam." 



50 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



Prayer was offered by Elder Thomas 
E. Taylor. 
The Temple choir sang: 
"Our mountain home so dear." 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

I humbly ask for your faith ana 
prayers for the few moments I ma> 
stand before you. I make this request 
because I believe God answers the 
prayers of the Latter-day Saints. I be- 
lieve it is necessary for us to have His 
aid when we meet together upon occa- 
sions of this kind for the purpose of 
being instructed in the work of th* 
Lord and our duties towards Him. 

Tvhen Apostle Lund was speaking in 
the Tabernacle yesterday he referred 
to a portion of that revelation of the 
Apostle John, given while upon the Islt 
of Patmos, concerning the penalty at- 
tached to any one adding to the words* 
of that revelation, and also the con- 
struction placed upon it by the divines* 
of the age in their endeavors to con- 
vert mankind to the idea that it was> 
the intention of the Almighty to close 
the heavens against the earth and to 
give to His children no more revelation. 

I fully realize that among some of 
the divines of the day, especially those 
who have lived in these valleys of the 
mountains and who seem to be filled 
with a desire to lead the Latter-day 
Saints from what they consider the er- 
ror of their way, that they place this* 
construction upon that passage. 

Brother Lund very beautifully called 
attention to and quoted other passages 
of scripture which went to show that no 
intention of this kind was placed upon 
those words by the Lord who gave 
them, through the inspiration of His 
Holy Spirit, to the Apostle who was up- 
on that lonely and desolate island. 

I know there are those who have a 
desire, and have so expressed it to lead 
away the young from the faith of the 
Latter-day Saints, and they have gone 
so far as to make the assertion that 
with the older members of the Church 
there is no use bothering with them. 
And I thought it would be well if 1 
called their attention to something that 
does carry with it a responsibility, ana 
that does not merely refer to the ag<* 
in which they were written. 



Inasmuch as they profess to bw 
ministers of the Gospel of the 
Lord Jesus Christ; inasmuch as 
they pretend to be preaching 

the Gospel of Jesus Christ, 1 would like 
to call their attention to something 
that bears with it a great responsi- 
bility for them; and the words are 
found in the 1st portion of that letter 
written by the Apostle Paul to the 
Galatian Saints, some of whom, even in 
that early day were wandering from 
the truth. He says: 

) 

"I marvel that ye are so soon re- 
moved from him that call you into the 
grace of Christ unto another gospel, 
which is not another; but there be some 
that trouble you and would pervert the 
Gospel of Christ. But though we or 
an angel from heaven preach any other 
Gospel unto you than that which we 
have preached unto you, let him be ac- 
cursed." 

- J 

Even in that early day there were 
men found in the church who had be- 
come filled with the evil spirit and who 
were engaged in introducing errors or 
changes in the Gospel of Christ. That 
Gospel, which is the same yesterday, 
tomorrow, and for ever. It admits of 
no changes; and the Apostle Paul mar- 
vels that there were some even at that 
time beginning to be turned towards 
another gospel. He therefore makes 
that sweeping charge and statement 
which I have read, and then as if he 
desired to impress it more strongly 
upon their minds he repeats his words 
by saying: 'As we said before, so say 
I now again, if any man preach any 
other gospel unto you than that ye 
have received, let him be accursed." 

These words bear greater responsibil- 
ity than the construction placed upon 
them by many of the divines of the 
age; and there is no question that the 
responsibility mentioned in these words 
reach down to our day, and will reach 
to every age so long as mankind is* 
working out his salvation in the name 
of Jesus Christ. 

Every man who stands before a con- 
gregation of people for the purpose of 
teaching, professing to be preaching 
the Gospel of Jesus Christ; professing 
to be a minister of the Gospel, should 
always bear in mind the words of the 
Apostle Paul that if they preach any 
other Gospel; if they try to pervert 



ELDER BEN E. RICH. 



51 



the gospel; if they present to mankind 
something that is not the gospel and 
call it the gospel of Jesus Christ, that 
the curse of God will rest upon them; 
and inasmuch as they have a desire to 
lead away the young men and the 
young women from the faith of the 
Latter-day Saints, I trust that they 
will picture up in their minds what 
was the gospel 1800 years ago, what it 
should he today, what it must be to- 
morrow, the doctrines that are pleas- 
ing in the sight of God. That Gospel 
which was the power of God unto sal- 
vation while Christ was upon the earth. 
That Gospel which He left to His 
Apostles when He commanded them to 
go into all the world and preach the 
Gospel to every creature, with the 
statement that they who believed 
and were baptized should be saved and 
they who believed not should be 
damned. 

Now, for a few moments, as time 
will justify, let us touch upon a few 
of the principles which went to make 
xip the Gospel of Jesus Christ. First, 
faith in God, the God of Abraham, 
Isaac and Jacob. That is the founda- 
tion stone. And when these professed 
ministers attempt to lead away the 
young people of the Latter-day Saints, 
they must preach a belief in that being 
unto them, and in no other, for "Thou 
shalt serve the Lord thy God with all 
thy might, with all thy mind and with 
all thy strength." "We must not serve 
an unknown God, but worship the true 
and Living God; that being who made 
man in His image and placed him upon 
the earth. Not a supreme power be- 
lieved in by the infidel world, only 
called by another name; not a supreme 
power that you feel in the air or see in 
the leaves upon the trees which in- 
fidels call by the name of nature, and 
which modern christians call God — both 
the same thing, only called by different 
names. That Being in whose image 
man is made, of whom Christ was in 
the express image, and that Being 
whom Stephen saw as he gazed up 
steadfastly into heaven when they were 
stoning him to death, and when he 
bore testimony that he saw Jesus 
standing upon the right hand of God; 
that is the God of Abraham, Isaac and 
Jacob. 



Now, this is the foundation stone. 
This is the supreme being that they 
must believe in, because it is the foun- 
dation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ 
and or.e of His Holy Apobtles said 
the curse of God would rest upon any 
man, even though he be an angel from 
heaven, who pretended to preach any 
other Gospel. 

It is true, they call upon mankind to 
believe in something, but the starting 
point is to believe in that God who gave 
us life, whose children we are, and Him 
we expect to obey while we live upon 
the earth; and if they reject the founda- 
tion, then their whole structure must 
fall to the ground as worthless. Be- 
cause if the evil one may succeed in 
having you worship something that is 
not God, then he has gained a victory, 
for he has taken from the work of the 
Lord the very foundation upon which 
the structure stands. Therefore, it is 
important that the ministers first con- 
vert themselves to the idea of a per- 
sonal God before they pretend to be His 
servants and attempt to lead any one 
into the paths of righteousness. 

It is true, they may call upon man- 
kind to repent; it is true, some of them 
may call upon mankind to be bap- 
tized — some of them do not; and some 
of them say you must be baptized in 
one way, and some in another, and still 
some in a different manner, while the 
Gospel of Christ, as contained within 
the lids of this sacred book teaches that 
there is but one faith, one Lord and 
one baptism. This Gospel is the power 
of God unto salvation. So these divines 
should become converted among them- 
selves as to whether baptism is neces- 
sary, and if so, what kind of baptism is 
necessary, and they themselves dis- 
pense with all forms of baptism except 
the one sanctioned by God, before they 
can hope to have any force or weight 
in trying to lead the children of the 
Latter-day Saints unto them. The Gos- 
pel taught anciently was, that as many 
as were baptized were buried as in a 
watery grave, typical of Christ's death, 
and that they came forth from the 
watery grave as typifying the resur- 
rection of Christ from the tomb, and 
laid the old man of sin in the grave, 
coming forth with a pure and resur- 
rected body in newness of life. 



52 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ tells us 
what the organization was-that God 
had Placed in the Church ApoBtles, 
Prophets and other officers. That He 
placed them there for the work of the 
ministry. Those who profess to he 
ministers of Christ and desire to con- 
vert the Latter-day Saints will admit 
that there is a necessity for the work 
of the ministry, and if that be so, then 
there is also a necessity for those whom 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



to the people. And he seeks to lead 
them astray by influencing them to 
sing praises to the dead prophets, while 
he is leading them from the living ones. 
He did so in the days of Jesus, and 1 
want to tell you there were the same 
kind of people then who loved to offer 
long prayeis in their synagogues, who 
pretended to act as ministers of the 
Gospel message, who were leaders or 
men, who vote learned in the laws, who 



there is also a necessity for those , wnom ^ ^ ^ ^ 

Christ Placed in the Church to do hat i ^ ^ 



111 AO L ,f 

work The divine record teaches us that 
they were placed there for the perfect- 
ing of the Saints, for the work of the 
ministry and that they should remain 
there until we all come to a unity of 
the Faith. And they were to keep the 
Saints steadfast, to preserve them from 
being tossed about by every wind of 
doctrine taught by men. But what is 
the condition we find in Christendom to- 
day, after they have been preaching 
that the heavens are as brass over our 
heads, and that God gives no more rev- 
elations; that he has no more inspired 
men upon the earth today. No 
Prophets, no Apostles. Therefore, there 
is no wonder that they are tossed about 
by everv wind of doctrine taught by 
men, and instead of coming to a unity 
of the faith, they are fast becoming 
divided and subdivided more and more 
every year. God says, Except ye are 
one ye are not Mine. Are they one. 
They are one only in this— they are 
united in fighting against the one pure 
living faith, organized by God through 
the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was 
actuated by that eternal principle, rev- 
elation, the only principle that ever did 
save mankind. 

I believe I made the statement here 
one year ago that the devil never did 
care how many dead prophets the peo- 
ple believed in, and he does 
not care today; but he does care 
if they believe in the living prophets. 
Whenever the Lord has sent Hi$> 
prophets upon the earth to deliver His, 
message to the children of men, what 
did the devil care how much the people 
believed in dead prophets, so long as he 
could influence them to reject the liv- 
ing ones. That is his business. That it, 
what he dtsires to accomplish. He 
knows the living prophets upon the 
earth have a message of life or death 



ing 'crucify Him, crucify Him." And 
that same pretended divine power that 
fought Christ 1800 years ago, is the 
power that is fighting the Latter-da> 
Saints today. The devil does not care 
how many Christian ministers sing the 
praises of Peter James and John, how 
many times they go to the churches 
and offer long prayers, but he does cart 
when honest souls are turned to listen 
to the living, oracles. He knows that 
God has spoken from the heavens in tht 
age in v.h'ch we live. He knows there 
are prophets upon the earth today who 
have a message of life or death to the 
generation of the earth at the present 
time; and his business is to close the 
people's ears and to blind their eyes> 
against this message. 

I want to tell you young men and 
young girls belonging to the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, it is 
a duty you owe to yourselves and to 
your parents to pray for the faith oi 
this Go?pel and to gain a testimony 
concerning the truthfulness of the 
same. 

They say we have our little children 
singing the songs of Zion and singing 
the taith of the Gospel. That is good. 
That is what we should do. I have 
heard men nay they would not inter- 
fere with the faith of their children 
but let them grow up to manhood and 
choose for themselves, and whenever 
hear a person claiming to be a Latter 
day Saint making remarks of this kind) 
I feel in my heart that he is a hypocrite 
when he says he has a love for th< 
truth and has a testimony of the Gos 
pel. If God has given me a testlmon: 
that Joseph Smith was a Prophet o 
God, that the men standing at the hea< 
of this Church are prophets and apos 
ties, then, so long as I do not bear tha 
testimony, and commence and teach m 



ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 



53 



children in their infancy the great 
truths of the Gospel and try and instil 
i:i their mines and hearts these prin- 
ciples, then I am a hypocrite. 

I bear witness to the world that 
God has revealed these truths to the 
children of men in thig our day, that 
the Gospel as taught by this people 
came from God, and I want my children 
to sing it, I want them to get it in to 
the marrow of their bones so that these 
hypocritical agents of hell, who pretend 
to be ministers of the Gospel of Christ, 
cannot git it out. 

I pray God to bless you in the name 
of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Maggie Swan Hull and Brother 
Martin S. Lindsay sang a duet entitled: 
"The Better Land." 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF, 

of the quorum of the Twelve: My be- 
loved brethren and sisters: During the 
few moments that I will occupy this 
responsible position, I pray that I may 
enjoy the light and inspiration of our 
Maker, that I may address you under 
the same spirit that has actuated the 
other speakers of our conference. 

I rejoice in contemplating the Gospel 
of the Lord Jesus Christ, with its 
blessings and privileges. The works of 
God are eternal. That which was true 
a thousand years ago is just as true 
today. There is no necessity for the 
Elders of this Church to call a conven- 
tion of the Presidents of Stakes and 
other leading men in the different de- 
partments of the Church, to revise 
their creed or to counsel together for 
days or for weeks to ascertain whether 
or not God is a material being, or 
whether He is without body, parts or 
passions. 

There is no need of this people being 
called together to change the Articles 
of their Faith, or their creed, for that 
which they have received is not of 
man, but from God. It must be very 
humiliating indeed to a religionist 
when he thinks upon the fact that his 
religious sect is forced to call its rep- 
resentatives together from time to 
time for the purpose of revising its 
creed, for the reason that the age has 
outgrown it; that scientific and other 
discoveries have brought to light cer- 



tain truths that prove the creeds of 
fifty or a hundred years ago to be In- 
correct. 

I thank God that this is not the case 
with Mormonism, and that there has 
never been, nor will there ever be, any 
change in the creed or principles of 
the system upon which the faith of this 
people is founded. And this is a grand 
difference between the work of man 
and the work of God. That which is of 
man must be modified and changed to 
meet the demands of various ages in 
which mankind live, but that which is 
of God will endure, as the Gospel of 
Jesus Christ, as revealed through the 
Prophet Joseph Smith has endured the 
scrutiny of critics, the discoveries and 
the light of science in our day and time. 

If this work had not come from God, 
it would be necessary for the Book of 
Mormon to be revised in order to keep 
pace with the times; because the re- 
markable discoveries which have been 
made would have proven the record en- 
tirely false, had it been originated by 
man. But it has stood the test of 
time, of science, of investigation and 
discovery and stands today a monu- 
ment of revealed truth. It must be 
very humiliating, indeed, for people 
who have pinned their faith to a creed 
that requires constant modification and 
change to keep the foundation stones 
replaced with better ones they deem 
more safe, secure and substantial. With 
this people and their faith, there has 
never been one stone removed or re- 
placed in the foundation of the Gospel 
of Christ as revealed through the Pro- 
phet Joseph Smith. This can not be 
said of any other religion upon the face 
of the earth. Some of the greatest 
among them have many times changed 
and revised their creeds to suit the 
times and the conditions of the people. 
Every time they now change their 
creeds they incorporate some truth re- 
vealed through the Prophet Joseph 
Smith. This is because the gospel has 
gone forth, the people are becoming en- 
lightened, the honest see the beauties 
of the truth and are no longer satisfied 
with mere theories of men. 

We have great reason to rejoice in 
these things and in this record of the 
Nephite prophets, which has been hand- 
ed down to us. Notwithstanding the 



54 



GENERAL conference 



remarkable discoveries that have been 
made through researches of scientific 
men upon this continent, nothing has 
been brought to light that conflicts 
with the testimony and belief in that 
record, and all other great truths of 
the everlasting Gospel revealed through 
the Prophet Joseph Smith in our day 
and time. Thank the Lord for these 
things. Thank Him for the unchange- 
able Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, 
which, if it had been of man, would 
have been altered many times. 

Any Latter-day Saint who neglects 
his duty, finds fault with the authori- 
ties of this Church and speaks evil of 
them will, if he does not repent, apos- 
tatize, for we must be true to God. 
We cannot endure if we be half-heart- 
ed. We must receive the Gospel and 
make it the foundation of our lives 
here, or some day we will not have 
faith sufficient to carry us through 
this life. But when we attend confer- 
ences and partake of the light and in- 
spiration there administered, we think 
it would be impossible for anyone to 
be so foolish a s to become 
beclouded and turn away f rom 
the truth of the Gospel. But we are 
liable to go away from this gathering 
return to our homes and forget that 
which we have been taught. Doubt may 
creep in on the part of those who do 
not keep the commandments of the 
Lord, and they will be left by the way- 
side, while those who adhere steadfast- 
ly to the Gospel truths will have faith 
sufficient to carry them out, and will 
gain life eternal. 

We are willing that the Gospel of 
the Lord Jesus Christ, as we have re- 
ceived it, should be put to the test 
which Jesus laid down. He said we 
should know the tree by the fruit that 
it bears. One of the prominent princi- 
ples of our faith is our form of mar- 
riage to which I wish to direct your 
attention. He who receives a wife in 
this Church receives her, if faithful, 
for time and for all eternity; and 
through the blessing of God and 
through their faithfulness there will be 
no end to their posterity and to the 
kingdom over which they will be per- 
mitted some day to preside. 

On the contrary, the sectarian belief, 
according to the marital contract they 



enter into, is simply binding upon them 
until death does them part. That prin- 
ciple which produces light, life and 
knowledge must be of God, while that 
which destroys life, which takes away 
or prevents life is of the opposite pow- 
er. For everything good, is from the 
Lord, and that which is evil, comes 
from Satan. 

In the Eastern and New England 
States, in old New England families, 
from which many of us have sprung, 
on the old homesteads of our fathers 
and grandfathers many of the names 
of those who did not accept the Gos- 
pel have become almost extinct. This is 
because it is customary now not to 
have large families; therefore children 
in many places in the East are rare. 
But this is not the case with the Lat- 
ter-day Saints. It is contrary to their 
principles and practice. For instance. 
President Edward H. Snow, of the St. 
George Stake, recently called upon his 
uncle at the close of his mis- 
sion in the East, and he found 
him respected and loved by those 
who knew him in his neighborhood. 
He was, however, without posterity, 
while his brother, who had embraced 
the Gospel, when he passed away left 
about a score of children, grand chil- 
dren and great grandchildren upon the 
earth to bear his name. 

My own father, who embraced the 
Gospel, and his brother, who did not, 
furnish another example. Father's 
brother left but one or two lineal rep- 
resentatives when he passed away, 
while my father left something like 
twenty-three children, eighty-five 
grandchildren and fourteen to fifteen 
great grandchildren. I could call ex- 
amples of this kind to your attention 
by the score to show what the Gospel 
has done for this people in teaching 
them to build for eternity and not for 
time alone. This people do not believe 
i» the evil of destruction of life, which 
is eating at the root and sapping the 
vitality of this nation today and which 
is believed in by so many of the world 
outside of those who have accepted the 
Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This 
people believe in promoting and sus- 
taining life. This is what the Gospel 
tree produces. And we leave it to the 
judgment of all honorable men and 



ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 



55 



women upon the earth, to he their own 
judges as to whether this fruit is good 
or not. 

"We should thank God for the light of 
the Gospel restored through the Proph- 
et Joseph. It is of God, the Eternal 
Father. He did not speak of Himself; 
he only spoke as he was inspired and 
commanded of God. Every prophecy he 
ever uttered will he fulfilled; for he 
was a prophet of the true and living 
God, ordained from before the founda- 
tion of the world, to come forth in this 
day and time and be the Instrument 
in ushering in the greatest and last dis- 
pensation. 

May the Lord help us to be true to 
this Gospel which we have espoused, 
that we may be led by its light, dic- 
tated by its principles and influenced 
by its power, that we may gain eternal 
life. I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

It would not be in good taste for me 
to occupy more than a short time as 
there are a number of speak- 
ers present. As I catch a glimpse 
of the outside it appears gloomy, 
as the sun is not shining. 
Although it might appear that it wou'd 
not shine again, it will in due time. 
This idea came to me as I looked into 
your faces and I fancied you were tak- 
ing life too seriously. Do not, dear 
brethren and sisters, take life too seri- 
ously, for we are not altogether respon- 
sible for the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. I am very seri- 
ous and solemn at times and worry a 
great deal. I read somewhere that the 
man that worries is not well balanced. 
Let us cease fretting about the Lord's 
Church and become evenly balanced, 
so that we are not under the necessity 
of trusting to the "arm of flesh," but 
are fixed and fastened to the "rock of 
revelation." 

Some of us are very much exercised 
about certain things that are trans- 
piring in the Church, and in relation to 
the actions of others. This has always 
been the case since the organization of 
this work. While it may be true that 
many of this people have been tried 
over the actions of men, it will con- 
tinue to be the case as long as men pre 



side over us. I desire to inform you 
that men and women that are not keep- 
ing the commandments of the Lord, but 
are continually giving way to their 
weaknesses, justify themselves by 
pointing out what they consider mis- 
takes in the presiding officers of the 
Church. They worry very much more 
about something that does not come 
under their supervision than they do 
about their transgressions. 

I have noticed in associating among 
the Latter-day Saints, and it has been 
my happy privilege to come in close 
contact with very many of our young 
people, and older ones for that matter. 
They explain to me some of the things 
they are worried about, and quite fre- 
quently it is discovered that they are 
most concerned about matters that 
they have absolutely no faith in. For 
example: A person that pays no tith- 
ing is continually laying awake for fear 
it will not be properly used, and 
this kind of people finally wind up 
by apostatizing because of fancied and 
oftentimes imaginary wrongs their 
brethren have done them. The Lord has 
said, in the Doctrine & Covenants, page 
421, "But those who cry trangression 
do it because they are the servants of 
sin and are the children of disobedience 
themselves." 

The question always arises in my 
mind as to whether we joined the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints or joined ourselves to the presid- 
ing officers. I remember hearing re- 
lated a story of one of our brethren 
being very severely reproved by Presi- 
dent Brigham Young, and he after- 
wards said: " Now go and apostatize." 
The reply came back, "I will never do 
it, this is not your Church but the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints." 

We must each and every one of us 
have this lesson indelibly impressed 
upon us, and cease troubling ourselves 
outside of those things for which we 
are responsible. Try and be cheerful, 
realizing that the sun will shine and 
"by hearkening to observe all the 
words which I the Lord their God shall 
speak unto them, they shall never cease 
to prevail." There is every reason for 
us to believe that we will prevail over 
our enemies if we will sustain and sup- 



56 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



port the Priesthood and "mind our own 
business." 

One of the difficulties that comes to us 
in laboring among the Priesthood 
quorums and the young men, is the mis- 
take of reaching out for a season and 
then to all outward appearances ceas- 
ing to climb. It seems as if the Lord 
has breathed into everything to look up. 
I am speaking more particularly about 
intellectual progress, of knowledge 
gained. I am not converted to the 
theory of the mother that taught her 
child "to hang her clothes on a hickory 
limb and not go near the water," for 
we must be reaching, climbing, towell- 
ing and trying to prepare ourselves foi 
the great events of life. There is al- 
ways some chances to be taken and it 
is expected that mistakes will be made 
and that "we will change our opinions 
and correct our mistakes." 

I desire to illustrate the idea I wish 
to convey, by telling the following story, 
I once heard: One of our Bishops in 
early days was accustomed to float- 
ing logs down the Missisippi 
river. Occasionally one would break 
loose and find its way into a whirlpool, 
and it would go round and round until 
it was wasted away. The log was trav- 
eling all the time but was left behind 
and made no progress. 

So it is with some of our presiding 
officers and young men. We frequent- 
ly meet with men and women, boys 
and girls, that have a most promising 
future. These young people oftentimes 
graduate and through their talent and 
genius have prospects of becoming most 
useful men and women. At the ex- 
piration of a little time, inquiry is 
made about some of them and to our 
sorrow they have fallen into the whirl- 
pool and, like the log, are merely trav- 
eling in a circle and are not cultivating 
the talent which the Lord has given 
them. This does not apply to all, but 
is too frequently the case. We are 
surely aware that the course of the 
Latter-day Gospel is onward and up- 
ward, and if we young men get into 
ruts, or if we undertake to impede the 
progress of this work we will be 
ground to powder. 

There is another principle I very 
much desire to call your attention to, 
and that is, the eternal progression of 



the Gospel and what it requires to se- 
cure eternal life. 

When we Elders go among the chil- 
dren of men in the world, we teach them 
Faith, Repentance, Baptism and the 
Laying on of Hands for the Holy 
Ghost. To receive the Holy Ghost by 
the laying on of hands is to be greatly 
favored of the Lord. We readily ac- 
cept the fact that there's a "light that 
lighteth every man," that cometh into 
the world and, as Paul puts it, "But the 
manifestation of the spirit is given to 
every man to profit withal." Now, we 
claim greater light because the Holy 
Ghost will always remain with us, if 
we do not violate the commandments 
of the Lord, "as the Holy Ghost cannot 
be received by the laying on of hands 
through the medium of any other prin- 
ciple, than the principle of righteous- 
ness.' 

The Prophet Joseph Smith informs us 
that the first Comforter or Holy Ghost 
has no other effect than pure intelli- 
gence, and the Prophet continues by 
saying "The other Comforter spoken of 
is a subject of great interest and per- 
haps understood by few of this gen- 
eration. After receiving the first Com- 
forter then let him continue to hum- 
ble himself before God, hungering and 
thirsting after righteousness, and liv- 
ing by every word of God, and the 
Lord will say unto him, Son, thou shalt 
be exalted, etc. When the Lord has 
thoroughly proven him and finds that 
the man will serve Him at all hazards 
then the man will find his calling and 
election made sure. Then it will be 
his privilege to receive the other Com- 
forter which the Lord has promised 
the Saints as recorded in the testimony 
of St. John, 14: 12, 27. "Now what is 
this other Comforter?" says Joseph: 
"It is no more nor less than the Lord 
Jesus Christ, and this is the sum and 
substance of the matter, that when any 
man obtains this last Comforter he will 
have the personage of Jesus Christ to 
attend him, or appear unto him from 
time to time and even He will manifest 
the Father unto him." 

The above statement is sufficient 
proof of what is required to secure 
eternal life. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us 
be serious for a few moments. How 



I 



ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 



many are there amongst us that have 
advanced far enough to have gained 
this knowledge? We have had the 
Holy Ghost conferred upon us for many 
years. I was baptized and received 
the laying on of hands when eight 
years old. I have not made my elec- 
tion sure. I have not attained to that 
great desire as yet. Are we going to 
be satisfied and cease to hunger and 
thirst after righteousness, and the mo- 
ment we meet with adversity and trou- 
ble, lay down and cease our progression 
and advancement? I have seen new 
colonies of the Saints built up in some 
of our little settlements almost like 
magic. They reached a certain place 
with their improvements and like the 
Arkansas traveler became satisfied and 
made no further improvements. I am 
sometimes fearful that many of our 
people "climb their little hill" and then 
go down again. Young people get 
married, and oftentimes reach a place 
where all climbing, towering and reach- 
ing out after knowledge ceases and 
they merely eke out an existence. 
To see young men with such grand 
opportunities and prospects stop and 
wait for something to come to them 
is most deplorable. I ask you, to con- 
sider the changes, advancement and 
improvement your foreign missionary 
Elders undergo after a brief mission 
of two years. Their very being is 
changed, but note the frequency with 
which they cease progression and fall 
back to old habits, and become "men- 
tally lazy." 

The Lord is not well pleased with 
this evil, for it is found in our Priest- 
hood quorums. The Lord made plain 
to His servant Oliver Cowdery, "Be- 
hold, you have not understood; you 
have supposed that I would give it unto 
you, when you took no thought. But 
behold, I say unto you, that you must 
study it out in your mind; then you 
must ask me if it be right, and if it is 
right I will cause that your bosom shall 
burn within you; therefore you shall 
feel that it is right. But if it be not 
right you shall have no such feelings, 
but you shall have a stupor of thought 
that shall cause you to forget the thing 
which is wrong." 

The effects of idleness and mental 
laziness cause a stupor of thought and 



57 

will grieve the spirit of the Lord, and 
if persisted in will result in the with- 
drawal of the Spirit of the Lord. I am 
in favor of repenting of this evil and 
feel that we should dedicate a part at 
least of our time to attaining wisdom 
and in preparing ourselves for the great 
work that is before us. 

I am in no wise alarmed that Chris- 
tian ministers are coming among our 
people. I wish they would send 500 to 
visit among them. There is nothing 
better than opposition, to awaken and 
arouse us from our seeming security 
and lethargy. Every one should know 
that the Gospel is true and be able to 
vindicate his people. It amuses me to 
hear our Elders sometimes, almost 
boastingly, relate how they dumb- 
founded the Christian ministers. While 
this is true in many cases, it is also 
true that we do not always meet the 
learned, intelligent preachers of the 
world. These educated men treat our 
Elders indifferently and will not deign 
to meet them. They put me in mind of 
the Pharisees that wrapped their robes 
around them as they stood on the Tem- 
ple steps for fear the Apostles' clothing 
might touch them. We will yet meas- 
ure arms with the most learned and 
greatest men of the world, as our 
Seventies will find their way among the 
nations and peoples. As Paul stood be- 
fore King Agrippa so will the Elders 
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat- 
ter-day Saints stand before kings and 
queens and the great men of the world. 
You can put that down, for it is true. 

May the Lord bless and help you to 
remember these things and enable you 
to not take life too seriously, I ask it 
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 
The semi-annual conference for the 
year 1901, with this session, is draw- 
ing to its close. I have tried to re- 
capitulate in my thought the great 
things that have been taught us; and 
I have come to this conclusion with 
reference to all our conferences, that 
while a great variety of instruction is 
imparted, it is generally the case that 
one doctrine will rise up in prominence 
above every other, according, I pre- 
sume, as the development or circum- 



58 



GENERAL CONFERENCE. 



stances of the Saints require that now 
this and now that, and then another 
doctrine should be impressed upon their 
minds. 

I think when you return to your 
homes, the one thing- which above all 
others you will carry with you from 
this conference will be the emphasis 
that has been placed upon the doctrine 
of reverence for the name of Deity. 
The time had come in the history of 
our people when it became absolutely 
necessary that their attention be called 
particularly to this commandment; for 
it is a commandment, as much in force 
today as it was when first given amidst 
the thunders that were heard from the 
summit of that lonely mountain in the 
wilderness — Mount Sinai) — namely, 
"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God 
with all thy might, mind and strength;" 
and also, "Thou shalt not take the 
name of the Lord In Vain; for God will 
not hold him guiltless who taketh His 
name in vain." That law, I say, is in 
force today, and yet there has grown 
up among us a carelessness with refer- 
ence to this commandment. Blas- 
phemy has become Quite common 
among some of the youth of Zion and 
it is proper, therefore, that . this evil 
should be corrected, even if it requires 
the whole attention of a great con- 
ference of the Church such as that 
which is now drawing to a close. The 
time is opportune for calling the atten- 
tion of the youth to this subject. The 
junior classes of the Young Men's Im- 
provement Associations will be taking 
up the study of the life of Christ dur- 
ing the winter; while the senior classes 
are about to begin a rather advanced 
course of study on the First Principles 
of the Gospel. Some five lessons of 
their manual are devoted to the sub- 
ject of "God and the Godhead;" and 
since there will be such universal 
thought and study upon this great and 
fundamental doctrine of the Gospel of 
Jesus Christ among members of the 
Church, it is eminently fitting that Bide 
by side with this study on the being 
and character of God, there should be 
taught also a reverence for His holy 
name; and that reproof where ever 
necessary be properly administered to 
those who do not respect the name of 
Deity. 



It is not necessary, however, in the 
closing moments of this conference for 
me to attempt to add anything to what 
has already been said, and so well said, 
upon this important subject. 

During the few moments that remain 
for us to be assembled I want to call 
your attention to one or two things 
closely related to this main topic of the 
conference. There is another command- 
ment that might well be regarded al- 
most as a continuation of this com- 
mandment calling for respect for the 
name of deity; and that is respect for 
Father and Mother. He who command- 
ed man to honor God and reverence 
His name, also said, "Honor thy father 
and thy mother that thy days may be 
long in the land which the Lord Thy 
God giveth thee." It was also the law 
of God in ancient Israel that when dis- 
respect for father or for mother went 
so far as to lead the thoughtless or 
wicked son or daughter to curse father 
or mother, death was the penalty. (Exo- 
dus, xxi: 17). Of course, that would be 
regarded as a very extreme doctrine 
now; but extreme as you may think it, 
the Lord Jesus Christ Himself placed 
the seal of His approval upon it. You 
remember, perhaps, the circumstance 
of a number of the Pharisees coming to 
Jesus and complaining against His dis- 
ciples because, forsooth, they ate with 
unwashed hands, and thus violated the 
"tradition of the Elders." A wonderful 
thing, was it not? But Jesus replied 
with a counter charge against them, 
which I will read to you: "But He 
answered and said unto them: Why do 
ye also transgress the commandment of 
God by your tradition?" A more serioua 
thing, I take it, than transgressing the 
"tradition of the Elders" by eating with 
unwashed hands. "Why do ye trans- 
gress the commandment of God by your 
traditions?" For God commanded say- 
ing: "Honor thy father and thy moth- 
er, and he that curseth father or moth- 
er, let him die the death." But ye say: 
Whosoever shall say to his father or 
mother. It is a gift by whatsoever thou 
mightest be profited by me; and honor 
not his father or his mother, he shall 
be free. Thus have ye made the com- 
mandment of God of none effect b> 
your tradition. Ye hypocrites! Well 
did Esaias prophesy of you. saving: 



ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 



59 



This people draweth nigh unto me with 
their mouth and honoreth me with their 
lips, but their heart is far from me." 

So that however harsh you may think 
the law of God as given to Moses upon 
this matter of requiring that there 
shall be honor for father and for mo- 
ther among God's people, I answer your 
charge of harshness against the law of 
God with the statement that the Lord 
Jesus Christ approved of it, harsh as 
it may seem. And reproved sharply 
those who rendered of non-effect the 
commandment, by their tradition. Now 
all I desire to do on this occasion is to 
impress upon your minds the import- 
ance of this doctrine, of honoring fath- 
er and mother, as well as of honoring 
the name of Deity. These are kin- 
dred commandments, and there is al- 
most as much need to teach the youth 
of Israel respect for father and mother 
as there is to teach them reverence 
for the name of Deity. 

There is still another commandment 
closely related to these two, viz.: re- 
spect for the Priesthood of God. In 
addition to respect for father and for 
mother, and respect for the name of 
God, there should also be respect for 
the Priesthood of God. And when I 
speak of respecting the Priesthood, I 
do not mean merely the President of 
the Church nor for the Apostles of the 
Church, nor the general authorities of 
the Church. I mean them of course; 
but I also mean all those who hold the 
Priesthood. I bespeak respect for the 
.presidents of Stakes; for Bishops of 
wards; and also for the Priests, who 
teach the Gospel at the firesides of the 
people. I bespeak respect for the hum- 
blest of God's servants, as well as for 
the highest; for it is all one authority; 
it all comes from God. Priesthood is 
God's power delegated to man, and the 
humblest that holds that power has a 
claim upon the respect of both old and 
young in the midst of the Saints. 

I sometimes think that the Priesthood 
is a little too common in our thought, 
not too plentiful, for there is work 
enough for all to do. But in thinking 
upon it we take into account too much 
the weaknesses of men, and do not 
honor sufficiently the Priesthood they 
hold, and by which they teach the chil- 
dren of men and administer the or- 



dinances of the Gospel. Just one pas- 
sage from the words of Jesus regard- 
ing this power and authority, that I 
may show you how respect for the 
Priesthood of God is really but a piece 
of the commandment that men shall 
honor God. We can trace the doctrine 
of honoring the Priesthood of God 
right back to the first commandment 
to which I refer, namely reverence for 
Deity Himself. 

It is written here in the Scriptures, 
that when Jesus was sending out His 
disciples to evangelize the world, he 
said: "He that receiveth you receiv- 
eth me, and he that receiveth me re- 
ceiveth Him that sent me." And the 
converse of the proposition is of course 
equaly true; namely that he that re- 
jecteth those whom God sends also re- 
jects God. 

It is written in this same chapter 
from which I am quoting that the peo- 
ple who reject the apostles, reject God; 
and they are commanded to bear wit- 
ness of it in the most solemn manner, 
and the Lord promises His servants 
that it shall be more tolerable for the 
cities of Sodom and Gomorrah in the 
day of judgment, than for those who 
reject them. 

When the humble teacher comes into 
your homes, Latter-day Saints, or when 
the Priest seeks opportunity to sit by 
your fireside and teach the peaceable 
things of the Kingdom to your children, 
and build up their faith in God, let 
me say they are God's messengers to 
your household, and ought to be receiv- 
ed as coming from the Lord; and as 
being possessed — as indeed they are — 
with a portion of His authority; and 
it is just as binding upon us to receive 
these humble servants of God as it is 
to receive those who hold the highest 
authority in the Church. We make 
a mistake if we think we are fulfilling 
the law of God which commands that 
His servants shall be honored by hon- 
oring the more prominent officials in 
the church while we sneer at and laugh 
at and deride the efforts of the more 
humble servants of God who come 
among us to instruct us in the things 
of the Kingdom. Let this conference, 
then, O, Latter-day Saints, be remem- 
bered for teaching, first of all, rever- 
ence henceforth in Israel for the name 



60 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



of Deity; and as collateral parts of 
that same doctrine — honor for parents; 
and profound respect for the priesthood 
of God. 

The Lord bless you, Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Praise God, from whom all blessings 
flow. 

Benediction by Elder Joshua H. Paul. 
AT THE TABERNACLE. 

CLOSING SESSION. 

Closing session, Sunday, 2 p. m. 

President Lorenzo Snow was able to 
be present this afternoon, to the great 
gratification of the assemblage. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

"We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 
To guide us in these latter days." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Frank 
Y. Taylor. 
The choir sang the anthem: 
'The Mountain of the Lord's House." 

PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

Evidence of advancement — Responsibilities of stake 
and ward officers— They must not lay their 
duties upon the Twelve— Apostles to look after 
interests of the world — Selection of Second 
Counselor. 

My dear brethren and sisters, it i& 
rather a marvel to me that I venture to 
talk to you this afternoon; not but that 
I have something to say and would 
really like to have the time and the 
voice to say it, and perhaps by the ex- 
ercise of your faith and prayers I ma> 
have the voice to address you for a few 
minutes. I have been delighted to hear 
of the spirit that has attended the 
speakers since this conference opened. 
It shows to me one glorious fact — that 
during the last six months the Latter- 
day Saints have not been idle. When 
the Elders address this conference and 
the Spirit is upon them more than it 
was at the preceding conference, it 
shows most clearly that there has been 
an advance on the part of the Latter- 
day Saints in the performance of theii 
duties. The next conference we have, 
if the Saints will continue to improve as 
they have done during the last six 
months, our Elders will have more of 
the Spirit, and their addresses will be 
even more intelligent and more service- 
able to you than they have been during 
this conference. 



Brethren and sisters, God bless you. 
This is what I wanted to say to you. 
I have had a distressing cold the last 
eight or ten days, which has made me 
very hoarse, and I feared that I would 
not be able to appear at all during this 
conference. 

I want to say a few words in refer- 
ence to one particular subject, and I 
do not want what I shall say to be for- 
gotten. It is a matter that concerns 
all the Saints; you are all interested in 
it, and especially the Presidents of 
Stakes, their counselors, the High 
Councilors, the Bishops and their 
counselors, and all those who have been 
appointed to hold certain portions ot 
the Holy Priesthood and to bo 
actively engaged in the various 
Stakes of Zion. There are now fifty 
Stakes of Zion and these Stakes are 
composed of several wards. On an 
average there are probably seven or 
eight wards to each Stake. Over each 
Stake there are a president and two 
counselors and twelve High Councilors. 
Then there are Bishops and counselors 
over the respective wards. And now, 
what responsibilities rest upon the of- 
ficials of these fifty Stakes! The 
dominion of the Latter-day Saints, to 
a large extent, and the highest and 
most sacred responsibilities are de- 
pending upon these fifty presidents; 
and there is something to do for each 
of these authorities that I have men- 
tioned. The most extensive and im- 
portant responsibilities devolve upon 
these officials. And although, I doubt 
not, they have been pretty faithful in 
the past, they have not been so faith- 
ful in some respects, as they ought to 
have been; they have not realized their 
sacred responsibilities so much as they 
might have done. 

This Church is now nearly seventy 
two years of age, and we are not ex- 
pected to do the work of the days of 
our youth, but to do greater, larger and 
more extensive work. The Lord is 
coming one of these days, and He is 
interested in the work that you ought 
to be doing, and anxious to be doing. 
You ought to do all that you possibly 
can, and leave everything in your busi- 
ness affairs that you wisely can do 
and attend to these matters. The 
presidents of these fifty Stakes shoula 



ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 



61 



consider the people in their respective 
Stakes, in their various dominions. 
They should regard them as their own 
family, as their sons and daughters; 
and take as deep an interest in them 
as they ought to take in their own 
wives and children. It should be their 
thought by uay and by night, how and 
in what way they can be most service- 
able to their respective charges. Oh! 
brethren, do remember these things 
that I am now talking about; do not 
forget them. You presidents, when 
you retire to your rest, you probably 
can spend half an hour before 
you go to sleep, and let your thoughts 
run over your several jurisdictions. See 
wherein, either physically, financially 
or spiritually, you can help, and what 
can be done best in advancing the in- 
terests of your official family. These 
Bishops, however wise and energetic 
they may think themselves— and the 
most of them certainly are very wist- 
and energetic— need to be looked after. It 
is not the duty of the Apostles to look 
after them. 

The Apostles have a work that is in 
another direction altogether. I want 
the Presidents of Stakes hereafter to 
realize that it is their business, not the 
business of the Apostles; it is the busi- 
ness of the High Priests, the Elders, 
the Bishops, Priests, Teachers and Dea- 
cons to look after these things. Do not 
lay this duty upon the shoulders of the 
Apostles. It is not in their line, at least 
only occasionally. There is a certain 
channel by and through which the Lord 
intends to exalt His sons and daugh- 
ters, to remove wickedness from the 
earth and to establish righteousness, 
and that channel is the Priesthood, 
which God has established and shown 
clearly the nature and character of the 
various officers and duties thereof. The 
Apostles and the Seventies, it is their 
business by the appointment of the Al- 
mighty, to look after the interests of 
the world. The Seventies and the 
Twelve Apostles are special witnesses 
unto the nations of the earth. The 
.business of the High Priests, the Elders 
and the Bishops is to look after 
the interests of these various or- 
ganizations that I have mentioned. 
You presiding officers of the vari- 
ous Stakes of Zion, the time is 



coming when you will not have 
to call and depend so much upon the 
Twelve Apostles. They will be direct- 
ed in other channels, and I want you 
to distinctly understand it; and do not 
seek to throw responsibilities that be- 
long to you upon these Twelve Apostles 
and upon the Seventies. 

I wanted to say this, and to speak 
it with energy and in a way that you 
will not forget it, that you cannot for- 
get it. It is a wonderful responsibility, 
and the Lord expects it of you. You 
ought to know how the laws of God 
are observed in your respective locali- 
ties—how the Sabbath is kept; whether 
the young people are swearing, and off 
at midnight when they ought to be at 
home; how the parents govern and con- 
trol them; how far the people are pay- 
ing their tithing correctly; what they 
are doing in regard to their meeting 
houses, their school houses, and their 
houses of amusement; whether they 
are expending their time and means too 
much in these directions, or not 
enough; and what you can do in help- 
ing them along. Look at these things, 
and everything that pertains to the 
happiness of your children, the mem- 
bers of this family of yours, see what 
you can do about it. And the Lord 
God of Israel will help you in this, be- 
cause it is just what He wants you to 
do. It is the duty that He has placed 
upon you to discharge, and He certain- 
ly will help you. But when you take 
any other course— when you depend up- 
on the Apostles to reform your respec- 
tive Stakes— you are doing that which 
you have no business to do. Do it your- 
selves, you Presidents of Stakes and 
counselors, you High Councilors, and 
you Bishops. The High Council should 
visit all through the Stake which they 
have charge of in connection with the 
President and his counselors. It is not 
the business altogether of the High 
Council to just wait till some persons 
come before them and want some little 
trifle settled. They have got to do 
something else, more noble and grand 
than such little matters. Go where you 
can do good, and be lively in it. 

Now, God bless you Latter-day 
Saints. I am glad to see such a vast 
multitude as there is here, and that I 
understand has been throughout this 



62 



GENERAL. CONFERENCE. 



conference. I repeat, I am so delighted 
to hear that the Spirit of God has been 
on the Elders so bountifully as it has, 
and that they have spoken so well and 
so wisely to you as they have. I thank 
you for the faith you have exercised, 
because when I arose here I did not 
know that I could speak five words; 
but now I have said what I wanted to 
say. A great deal could be enlarged 
upon this, and the brethren will do so 
as opportunity serves. 

There is still one matter that I might 
speak of. I am going on pretty fast to- 
ward my eighty-eighth year; I will 
soon be eighty-eight years old; and I 
have been laboring now for some 
months with but one counselor— Presi- 
dent Joseph P. Smith. I feel as though 
I wanted a little more help — another 
counselor; and I have selected one, 
(through, I believe, the manifestations 
of the Lord), who, I think, will be ener- 
getic and strong, will serve the people, 
and help me and President Joseph F. 
Smith along in a proper way; and I 
hope you will sustain and support him. 
God bless you. Amen. 

THE GENERAL, AUTHORITIES 

were presented for the votes of the 
general assembly by President Joseph 
F. Smith, as follows: 

Lorenzo Snow, as Prophet, Seer and 
Revelator and President of the Church 
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Joseph F. Smith as first counselor in 
the First Presidency. 

Rudger Clawson as second counselor 
in the First Presidency. 

As members of the council of the 
Twelve Apostles: Brigham Young, 
Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, 
George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John 
W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, An- 
thon H. Lund, Matthias F. Cowley, 
Abraham O. Woodruff and Reed Smoot. 

The counselors in the First Presi- 
dency and the Twelve Apostles as 
Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

Patriarch to the Church, John Smith. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies, 
Seymour P». Young, Christian D. Fjeld- 
sted, Brigham Henry Roberts, George 
Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon 
S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston as presiding Bish- 



op, with Robert T. Burton and John 
R. Winder as his first and second coun- 
selors. 

Anthon H. Lund as Church Historian 
and general Church recorder. 

As Trustee-in-trust for the body of 
religious worshippers known as the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints, Lorenzo Snow. 

As members of the general Church 
ooard of education, Lorenzo Snow, 
Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, 
James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith, John 
Nicholson, Gorge H. Brimhall, Rudger 
Clawson and Joseph M. Tanner. 

As general superintendent of Church 
schools, Joseph M. Tanner. 

As secretary of the general Church 
board of education, George Reynolds. 

As members of the board of examin- 
ers, Joseph M. Tanner, George H. 
Brimhall, Joshua H. Paul, James H. 
Linford and John M. Mills. 

As secretary of the board of examin- 
ers, John M. Mills. 

Owing to the recent death of Sister 
Zina D. H. Young, late president of the 
Relief Society, and there therefore not 
being a full organization, the officers 
were not presented. 

General authorities of the Sunday 
schools: 

Lorenzo Snow, general superintend- 
ent; George Reynolds, first assistant 
general superintendent; Joseph M. Tan- 
ner, second assistant general superin- 
tendent. Members of the Deseret Sun- 
day School Union Board: Lorenzo 
Snow, George Reynolds, Joseph M. 
Tanner, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. 
Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, 
Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, 
George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, An- 
drew Kimball, Joseph F. Smith, John 
W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. 
Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, 
William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, 
George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, An- 
thon H. Lund, George D. Pyper, general 
secretary; George Reynolds, treasurer. 

General authorities of the Young 
Men's Mutual improvement associa- 
tions: 

Lorenzo Snow, general superintend- 
ent; Joseph F. Smith, Heber J. Grant, 
B. H. Roberts, assistants; Thomas 
Hull, secretary and treasurer; Evan 



ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 



63 



Stephens, music director; Horace S. 
Ensign, assistant music director. 

Board of Aids — Francis M. Lyman, 
John Henry Smith, Matthias F. Cowley, 
Abraham O. Woodruff, J. Golden Kim- 
hall, Junius F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy, 
Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, 
Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, 
Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Le Roi 
C. Snow, Frank T. Taylor, Rudger 
Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. 
McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Briant S. 
Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. 
Grant, Henry S. Tanner. 

General Authorities of the Young 
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associa- 
tions: 

Elmina S. Taylor, president; Maria Y. 
Dougall, first counselor; Martha H. 
Tingey, second counselor; Ann M. Can- 
non, secretary and treasurer; Joan 
Campbell, recording secretary. 

Board of Aids — Adella W. Eardley, 
Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, 
Lillie T. Freeze, Minnie J. Snow, May 
Booth Talmage, Rose W. Bennett, 
Emma Goddard, Alice K. Smith, Eliza- 
beth C. McCune, Ruth M. Fox, Julia M. 
Brixen, Helen W. Woodruff, Augusta 
W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Susa Y. 
Gates. 

General Authorities of the Primary 
associations: 

Louie B. Felt, president; Lillie T. 
Freeze, first counselor; Josephine R. 
West, second counselor; May Anderson, 
secretary and treasurer; Olive Der- 
bidge, assistant secretary; Euphemia 
I. Burnham, recording secretary. 

Board of Aids — Aurelia S. Rogers, 
Lulu L. Greene Richards, Camilla C. 
Cobb, Cornelia H. Clayton, Belle S. 
Ross, S. E. Hyde, Edna L. Smith. 

Officers of Religion Classes — Anthon 
H. Lund, general superintendent; Rud- 
ger Clawson, first assistant; Joseph M. 
Tanner, second assistant; L. John Nut- 
tall, general secretary and aid; John M. 
Mills, Henry Peterson, aids. 

Leader and Director of the Taber- 
nacle Choir— Evan Stephens, with Hor- 
ace S. Ensign as his assistant; John J. 
McClellan as organist, and all the mem- 
oers of the choir. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the gen- 
eral conference. 

All the voting was affirmative. 



The choir sang: 
'Arouse, O ye mortals." 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

The extension of Zion — Officers ehould utilize the 
talents of those under their watchcare — A 
testimony to the truth of the work. 

The spirit of this conference has been 
such that the saints, in returning to 
their homes in the various parts of the 
country, will carry with them, I be- 
lieve, a fixed determination to seek in 
every way the improvement of the peo- 
ple. President Smith, in the opening 
of our conference, laid upon the breth- 
ren the necessity of the Priesthood im- 
pressing fully and thoroughly upon tne 
minds of the brethren and sisters the 
room for improvement which exists 
among some of the members of the 
community in the character of the lan- 
guage they used. He also sought to 
impress upon the minds of the breth- 
ren and sisters that if we would make 
ourselves acceptable to our Heavenly 
Father, a more thoughtful observance 
of many of the primary principles of 
the Gospel and the moral rules and 
regulations of the law of God would be 
required on the part of the Saints, and 
the presiding officers would have to fol- 
low up any evidence of laxness in mor- 
ality, any tendency to profanity or to 
the use of intoxicating drinks, in the 
districts over which they were called 
to preside. Several of the brethren 
have spoken upon this subject, and the 
spirit of their instructions, I believe, 
has found lodgment in the hearts of 
those who were permitted to listen unto 
them. President Snow comes to us this 
afternoon, in the closing hours of this 
conference, and presents to us his sug- 
gestions looking to a more active labor 
upon the part of presiding officers in 
the wards and Stakes of Zion, and em- 
phasizes the suggestions presented in 
the remarks of President Smith that 
more care is requisite on the part of 
the Saints to hold themselves in closer 
communion with the Spirit of the Lord 
and to seek to avoid the possibility of 
profanity, coarseness of language, or 
the disobeying of any of the plain and 
simple requirements of the Gospel. 

In the time I may occupy I de- 
sire to say to the Latter-day 



64 



GENERAL CONFERENCE 



Saints that the work of the Lord 
is extending. Its growth cannot be 
questioned by those who administer in 
the various sections of the country and 
discover in their visits the constant on- 
ward movement on the part of the 
members of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints to seek to extend 
the borders of Zion. As President Snow 
remarked, the organization of fifty 
Stakes presents to the world a body of 
150 men as presidents, equipped by the 
possession of the High Priesthood, set 
apart and instructed in the doctrines of 
the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. Called to 
the aid of each of these presidencies, as 
a rule, in every Stake of Zion, are 
eighteen more High Priests in the form 
of High Council and alternates. These 
men are selected from among the most 
capable. God-fearing and earnest men 
that can be found in the organization. 
They are the chosen judges among the 
people; and, as has been explained by 
President Snow, they are not alone 
judges of doctrine, judges of 
the conditions of their breth- 
ren who may be in transgression, 
judges to adjust differences in mat- 
ters of finance, but they are men who 
by their experience in the world in 
teaching the principles of the Gospel 
and in seeking to extend the borders of 
Zion are presumed to be thoroughly 
prepared for the discharge of the sacred 
obligation of preaching the principles of 
righteousness and pointing the way of 
life to the people over whom they are 
called to preside in connection with the 
presidency of the Stake. Following in 
their wake, in every one of these 
Stakes are several wards, fully and 
thoroughly organized for the perform- 
ance of the duty of guarding the inter- 
ests, temporal and spiritual, of the 
people in their districts. Many of the 
Bishops of the wards selected to ad- 
minister under the direction of the pre- 
siding authority of the Church 
through the presidency of the 
Stake, have had an extended experi- 
ence in the practical things of life, 
and there are but few of them but 
what have had an extended experience 
in various lands and climes seeking to 
enlarge the borders of Zion in the pro- 
mulgation of the principles of the Gos- 
pel of the Lord Jesus. These men have 



won their spurs, if you please, from, 
the fact that their hearts have been 
given to the accomplishment or our 
Father's purposes. It is sometimes 
manifest, however, that in the fulfill- 
ment of the duties attaching to the 
Bishopric the same- skill and ability is 
not manifested by them as they exhibit- 
ed in heralding the truth among the 
children of men and calling the world to 
repentance. The suggestions couched in 
the instructions of President Snow, 
that he wished these Presidents of 
Stakes to be fathers of these families, 
to love them as their own wives and 
children, and to guard their interests 
and establish in their breasts a deter- 
mination to obey the commandments of 
God, are suggestions that I trust every 
presiding officer in the Stakes and 
wards of Zion will receive; and it is to 
be hoped that the same spirit and senti- 
ment shall be engendered in the breasts 
of the presidents of the High Priests' 
quorums, the Seventies' quorums and 
the Elders' quorums, that at any time 
and place where the Presidency of the 
Church may require capable and thor- 
ough men for the discharge of any duty 
in connection with the development of 
the work of God, they shall be enabled 
to supply such men fully equipped for 
the performance of the part that may 
be required at their hands. There does 
sometimes manifest itself in some of 
the presiding officers, as I have discov- 
ered in my experience among the Stakes 
and wards of Zion, a fear of the de- 
velopment of men. These conditions, it 
is true, are rare, but they have existed. 
"When young men have sought to equip 
themselves for the performance 
of theif part, their development 
seems to have given rise to a fear on 
the part of the presiding officer 
that they were ambitious and were 
seeking to secure an influence that 
would belittle him in the management 
and control of his district. It seems to 
me that the President of the Stake, or 
the Bishop of the ward, should have a 
body of men working under his watch- 
care whose talents he will utilize in 
Ithose directions where <(hey exhibit 
skill and ability. The man who fails 
to utilize and develop the men who are 
called to labor under him, is indeed 
lacking in the spirit of the work of 



PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON. 



65 



God, and is not himself equipped for 
the performance of his part looking to 
the preparation of the men under his 
watchcare for the mission and destiny 
that should be theirs. 

I recognize the fact, my brethren and 
sisters, that my time is now far spent. 
I desire, in connection with my associ- 
ates, to bear testimony to the truth 
of the Gospel of the Son of God. I know 
that it is true. I know that the organ- 
ization established through the minis- 
trations of the Savior of the world, un- 
der the direction of the Father, is 
among the children of men; that it has 
come to aid in the regeneration of the 
human family, and in the due time of 
the Lord to establish our Father's king- 
dom in majesty and power in the 
earth; that He has gathered the ele- 
ments from the corners of the earth 
which have thus far united themselves 
with the work, and while perchance 
they may not be all that they should 
be, they have been those elements that 
have drunk in of the Spirit of Almighty 
God and have been impressed with a 
determination that, so far as the Fa- 
ther shall give them the power, they 
will minister for the accomplishment 
of His purposes and call mankind to 
repentance. To this end, my brothers 
of the Presidencies of the Stakes, of 
the High Councils, of the Bishoprics; 
you High Priests, Seventies, and El- 
ders, upon whose heads have been be- 
stowed the Holy Priesthood, see to it 
that in the struggle for accomplish- 
ment of the purposes of Almighty God 
your hands shall not slacken, but with 
a determined purpose, with your face 
to the accomplishment of the divine 
will, you will crowd forward our Fa- 
ther's work and aid in the establish- 
ment of His kingdom, that the Re- 
deemer of the world shall come and 
reign in righteousness over a people 
equipped for the accomplishment of the 
destiny our Father has marked out for 
them. 

May our Father bless the organiza- 
tion of His Church. May the spirit of 
life rest upon this aged man who holds 
the sceptre in his hands. May the 
glory of God shine round about him, 
and may his days be lengthened as 
long as he may desire. May his asso- 
ciates be governed by the same spirit, 



and engaged in the self-same work, be 
found stalwart for the cause of truth 
and for the maintenance of righteous- 
ness in the world; and may all the 
Priesthood of the Son of God magnify 
their callings and stand for the truth, 
is my prayer in the name of Jesus. 
Amen. 
The choir sang: 

"Arouse, Oh Te Mortals." 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON. 

All should ba willing to labor according to as- 
signment — Eternal character of the Priesthood. 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to 
make myself heard, if possible, by this 
vast congregation of people, though I 
feel it will be a difficult matter. I want 
to say that this call has come to me as 
a great surprise— doubtless as great a 
surprise to me as to you who are as- 
sembled upon this occasion. I feel my 
weakness and my inefficiency, and that 
there is nothing that could make me 
equal to the acceptance of this ap- 
pointment, of this high responsibility, 
except a knowledge that this is the 
work of the Lord. I testify to you that 
it is the work of the Lord. I feel and 
realize that the Lord can make His ser- 
vants equal to every responsibility. I 
have this faith and this desire; I am 
willing to work and to labor wherever 
the Lord wants me to labor, under the 
direction of my brethren. I desire your 
faith and prayers, and your support; 
that you will sustain me in this high 
calling, as I desire te sustain and hope 
to be able to sustain my President, 
President Lorenzo Snow. I desire to be 
a help and a strength to him, and a 
counselor in very deed. It is the aim 
of my life that wherever I am called to- 
labor, in any position, to give my heart 
and soul to that labor. I want to say 
to this great congregation of people 
that I am willing to be used where the 
Lord wants me, as I feel that this 
should be the case with all the author- 
ities of the Church of Christ. There 
is no appointment in this Church, that 
I know of, that is absolutely permanent, 
excepting the Holy Priesthood, which 
we are called to hold. When we re- 
ceive that we hold it in this life, and 
we take it with us in the life to come. 
We exercise it in the world, and we ex- 



66 



GENERAL. CONFERENCE. 



ercise it out of the world, so long as 
we are faithful. I think that the Lat- 
ter-day Saints ought to be educated to 
the great truth that there are some of- 
fices in this Church that are permanent, 
and others that are not necessarily so. 
There are some offices conferred upon 
men that when they remove their resi- 
dence, or die, cease with them; but not 
so with the Priesthood. I rejoice in 
this Priesthood and in this testimony, 
and I pray God to give me His Spirit 
and to strengthen me, and I invoke your 
blessing, your assistance and your 
faith, in the name of Jesus Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

Future labors of the Twelve in the nations— The 
w jrkers at hornu— Prim ed revelations should 
be studied. 

I am glad that I have the privilege 
of speaking here, brethren and sisters, 
before the close of this conference. I 
thank God for the words that have 
been spoken, for the testimony of the 
Spirit that we have witnessed in the 
speakers, and for the good feeling that 
has pervaded all the congregations. 
Those who have been present are wit- 
nesses that the Lord has been with the 
speakers and with the hearers. I am 
pleased, indeed, that President Snow 
is able to visit us, and thankful to the 
Lord to hear his voice. I pray God 
that his voice may be heard in the con- 
gregations of the Saints for many 
years to come, that he may be pre- 
served to give us counsel and to guide 
us by the inspiration which rests upon 
him so powerfully in his declining 
years; for God has blessed him, and 
President Lorenzo Snow has been a 
blessing to this people. I acknowledge 
that he has been to me. God has sus- 
tained him, and long may he be sus- 
tained, that we may hear his counsels 
and behold his face, that he may flour- 
ish in the home of the Saints, and that 
lie may be spared to give counsel to us 
who are younger, and who feel inade- 
quate to walk alone, like children in 
swaddling clothes. If it were not for 
God, how could we sustain this vast 
work that is resting upon the shoulders, 
in many instances, of comparatively in- 
experienced men? But God is with the 
brethren, as He is with President Snow, 



as He has been with all our leaders. 
Thank God, it is His work, not ours; 
but it is our privilege to labor in it. 

The remarks of President Snow shad- 
owed forth a feeling which is found in 
the breasts of the Twelve Apostles — a 
desire to go forth to the nations of the 
earth, to open the Gospel door to 
those who sit in darkness. The eyes 
of the Twelve have been roaming 
over the habitable globe, and they have 
looked upon Turkey, Austria, Russia, 
and especially South America. Our 
minds have been led to the Spanish- 
speaking people of the Southern re- 
publics, and especiallv to the remnants 
of the land that are so numerous in 
South America. We have felt and do 
now feel that it is our duty to act 
under the guidance of the Spirit of God, 
and to go forth, as that Spirit may dic- 
tate and in accordance with the Presi- 
dent's views, to the nations of the 
earth to proclaim the Gospel. As 
Brother Heber J. Grant has gone, so 
others will go when the Spirit indi- 
cates the place and the time, which we 
hope will be in the near future. The 
President's remarks, followed by Broth- 
er John Henry Smith's, in relation to 
the Presidents of Stakes, High Coun- 
cils, and Bishops of Wards, were to the 
point. Here is a field of labor for the 
High Priests, for the home mission- 
aries, for the presiding officers in the 
Stakes, and for all whose labor is at 
home. The Twelve are relegated to the 
various parts of the earth, to establish 
the Gospel among the people. For there 
was one significant remark dropped by 
the President