Overflow 
06 10 1901




ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

I humbly ask for your faith ana prayers for the few moments I ma> stand before you. I make this request because I believe God answers the prayers of the Latter-day Saints. I believe it is necessary for us to have His aid when we meet together upon occasions of this kind for the purpose of being instructed in the work of th* Lord and our duties towards Him. 

Tvhen Apostle Lund was speaking in the Tabernacle yesterday he referred to a portion of that revelation of the Apostle John, given while upon the Islt of Patmos, concerning the penalty attached to any one adding to the words* of that revelation, and also the construction placed upon it by the divines* of the age in their endeavors to convert mankind to the idea that it was> the intention of the Almighty to close the heavens against the earth and to give to His children no more revelation. 

I fully realize that among some of the divines of the day, especially those who have lived in these valleys of the mountains and who seem to be filled with a desire to lead the Latter-day Saints from what they consider the error of their way, that they place this* construction upon that passage. 

Brother Lund very beautifully called attention to and quoted other passages of scripture which went to show that no intention of this kind was placed upon those words by the Lord who gave them, through the inspiration of His Holy Spirit, to the Apostle who was upon that lonely and desolate island. 

I know there are those who have a desire, and have so expressed it to lead away the young from the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and they have gone so far as to make the assertion that with the older members of the Church there is no use bothering with them. And I thought it would be well if 1 called their attention to something that does carry with it a responsibility, ana that does not merely refer to the ag<* in which they were written. 

Inasmuch as they profess to bw ministers of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; inasmuch as they pretend to be preaching 

the Gospel of Jesus Christ, 1 would like to call their attention to something that bears with it a great responsibility for them; and the words are found in the 1st portion of that letter written by the Apostle Paul to the Galatian Saints, some of whom, even in that early day were wandering from the truth. He says: "I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that call you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel, which is not another; but there be some that trouble you and would pervert the Gospel of Christ. But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other Gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." 

- J 

Even in that early day there were men found in the church who had become filled with the evil spirit and who were engaged in introducing errors or changes in the Gospel of Christ. That Gospel, which is the same yesterday, tomorrow, and for ever. It admits of no changes; and the Apostle Paul marvels that there were some even at that time beginning to be turned towards another gospel. He therefore makes that sweeping charge and statement which I have read, and then as if he desired to impress it more strongly upon their minds he repeats his words by saying: 'As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed." 

These words bear greater responsibility than the construction placed upon them by many of the divines of the age; and there is no question that the responsibility mentioned in these words reach down to our day, and will reach to every age so long as mankind is* working out his salvation in the name of Jesus Christ. 

Every man who stands before a congregation of people for the purpose of teaching, professing to be preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ; professing to be a minister of the Gospel, should always bear in mind the words of the Apostle Paul that if they preach any other Gospel; if they try to pervert  gospel; if they present to mankind something that is not the gospel and call it the gospel of Jesus Christ, that the curse of God will rest upon them; and inasmuch as they have a desire to lead away the young men and the young women from the faith of the Latter-day Saints, I trust that they will picture up in their minds what was the gospel 1800 years ago, what it should he today, what it must be tomorrow, the doctrines that are pleasing in the sight of God. That Gospel which was the power of God unto salvation while Christ was upon the earth. That Gospel which He left to His Apostles when He commanded them to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, with the statement that they who believed and were baptized should be saved and they who believed not should be damned. 

Now, for a few moments, as time will justify, let us touch upon a few of the principles which went to make xip the Gospel of Jesus Christ. First, faith in God, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. That is the foundation stone. And when these professed ministers attempt to lead away the young people of the Latter-day Saints, they must preach a belief in that being unto them, and in no other, for "Thou shalt serve the Lord thy God with all thy might, with all thy mind and with all thy strength." "We must not serve an unknown God, but worship the true and Living God; that being who made man in His image and placed him upon the earth. Not a supreme power believed in by the infidel world, only called by another name; not a supreme power that you feel in the air or see in the leaves upon the trees which infidels call by the name of nature, and which modern christians call God — both the same thing, only called by different names. That Being in whose image man is made, of whom Christ was in the express image, and that Being whom Stephen saw as he gazed up steadfastly into heaven when they were stoning him to death, and when he bore testimony that he saw Jesus standing upon the right hand of God; that is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. 

Now, this is the foundation stone. This is the supreme being that they must believe in, because it is the foundation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and or.e of His Holy Apobtles said the curse of God would rest upon any man, even though he be an angel from heaven, who pretended to preach any other Gospel. 

It is true, they call upon mankind to believe in something, but the starting point is to believe in that God who gave us life, whose children we are, and Him we expect to obey while we live upon the earth; and if they reject the foundation, then their whole structure must fall to the ground as worthless. Because if the evil one may succeed in having you worship something that is not God, then he has gained a victory, for he has taken from the work of the Lord the very foundation upon which the structure stands. Therefore, it is important that the ministers first convert themselves to the idea of a personal God before they pretend to be His servants and attempt to lead any one into the paths of righteousness. 

It is true, they may call upon mankind to repent; it is true, some of them may call upon mankind to be baptized — some of them do not; and some of them say you must be baptized in one way, and some in another, and still some in a different manner, while the Gospel of Christ, as contained within the lids of this sacred book teaches that there is but one faith, one Lord and one baptism. This Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. So these divines should become converted among themselves as to whether baptism is necessary, and if so, what kind of baptism is necessary, and they themselves dispense with all forms of baptism except the one sanctioned by God, before they can hope to have any force or weight in trying to lead the children of the Latter-day Saints unto them. The Gospel taught anciently was, that as many as were baptized were buried as in a watery grave, typical of Christ's death, and that they came forth from the watery grave as typifying the resurrection of Christ from the tomb, and laid the old man of sin in the grave, coming forth with a pure and resurrected body in newness of life. 



The Gospel of Jesus Christ tells us what the organization was-that God had Placed in the Church ApoBtles, Prophets and other officers. That He placed them there for the work of the ministry. Those who profess to he ministers of Christ and desire to convert the Latter-day Saints will admit that there is a necessity for the work of the ministry, and if that be so, then there is also a necessity for those whom to the people. And he seeks to lead them astray by influencing them to sing praises to the dead prophets, while he is leading them from the living ones. He did so in the days of Jesus, and 1 want to tell you there were the same kind of people then who loved to offer long prayeis in their synagogues, who pretended to act as ministers of the Gospel message, who were leaders or men, who vote learned in the laws, who  is also a necessity for those , wnom ^ ^ ^ ^ 

Christ Placed in the Church to do hat i ^ ^ 

111 AO L ,f 

work The divine record teaches us that they were placed there for the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry and that they should remain there until we all come to a unity of the Faith. And they were to keep the Saints steadfast, to preserve them from being tossed about by every wind of doctrine taught by men. But what is the condition we find in Christendom today, after they have been preaching that the heavens are as brass over our heads, and that God gives no more revelations; that he has no more inspired men upon the earth today. No Prophets, no Apostles. Therefore, there is no wonder that they are tossed about by everv wind of doctrine taught by men, and instead of coming to a unity of the faith, they are fast becoming divided and subdivided more and more every year. God says, Except ye are one ye are not Mine. Are they one. They are one only in this— they are united in fighting against the one pure living faith, organized by God through the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was actuated by that eternal principle, revelation, the only principle that ever did save mankind. 

I believe I made the statement here one year ago that the devil never did care how many dead prophets the people believed in, and he does not care today; but he does care if they believe in the living prophets. Whenever the Lord has sent Hi$> prophets upon the earth to deliver His, message to the children of men, what did the devil care how much the people believed in dead prophets, so long as he could influence them to reject the living ones. That is his business. That it, what he dtsires to accomplish. He knows the living prophets upon the earth have a message of life or death  'crucify Him, crucify Him." And that same pretended divine power that fought Christ 1800 years ago, is the power that is fighting the Latter-da> Saints today. The devil does not care how many Christian ministers sing the praises of Peter James and John, how many times they go to the churches and offer long prayers, but he does cart when honest souls are turned to listen to the living, oracles. He knows that God has spoken from the heavens in tht age in v.h'ch we live. He knows there are prophets upon the earth today who have a message of life or death to the generation of the earth at the present time; and his business is to close the people's ears and to blind their eyes> against this message. 

I want to tell you young men and young girls belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, it is a duty you owe to yourselves and to your parents to pray for the faith oi this Go?pel and to gain a testimony concerning the truthfulness of the same. 

They say we have our little children singing the songs of Zion and singing the taith of the Gospel. That is good. That is what we should do. I have heard men nay they would not interfere with the faith of their children but let them grow up to manhood and choose for themselves, and whenever hear a person claiming to be a Latter day Saint making remarks of this kind) I feel in my heart that he is a hypocrite when he says he has a love for th< truth and has a testimony of the Gos pel. If God has given me a testlmon: that Joseph Smith was a Prophet o God, that the men standing at the hea< of this Church are prophets and apos ties, then, so long as I do not bear tha testimony, and commence and teach m  in their infancy the great truths of the Gospel and try and instil i:i their mines and hearts these principles, then I am a hypocrite. 

I bear witness to the world that God has revealed these truths to the children of men in thig our day, that the Gospel as taught by this people came from God, and I want my children to sing it, I want them to get it in to the marrow of their bones so that these hypocritical agents of hell, who pretend to be ministers of the Gospel of Christ, cannot git it out. 

I pray God to bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Maggie Swan Hull and Brother Martin S. Lindsay sang a duet entitled: "The Better Land." 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF, 

of the quorum of the Twelve: My beloved brethren and sisters: During the few moments that I will occupy this responsible position, I pray that I may enjoy the light and inspiration of our Maker, that I may address you under the same spirit that has actuated the other speakers of our conference. 

I rejoice in contemplating the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, with its blessings and privileges. The works of God are eternal. That which was true a thousand years ago is just as true today. There is no necessity for the Elders of this Church to call a convention of the Presidents of Stakes and other leading men in the different departments of the Church, to revise their creed or to counsel together for days or for weeks to ascertain whether or not God is a material being, or whether He is without body, parts or passions. 

There is no need of this people being called together to change the Articles of their Faith, or their creed, for that which they have received is not of man, but from God. It must be very humiliating indeed to a religionist when he thinks upon the fact that his religious sect is forced to call its representatives together from time to time for the purpose of revising its creed, for the reason that the age has outgrown it; that scientific and other discoveries have brought to light cer truths that prove the creeds of fifty or a hundred years ago to be Incorrect. 

I thank God that this is not the case with Mormonism, and that there has never been, nor will there ever be, any change in the creed or principles of the system upon which the faith of this people is founded. And this is a grand difference between the work of man and the work of God. That which is of man must be modified and changed to meet the demands of various ages in which mankind live, but that which is of God will endure, as the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith has endured the scrutiny of critics, the discoveries and the light of science in our day and time. 

If this work had not come from God, it would be necessary for the Book of Mormon to be revised in order to keep pace with the times; because the remarkable discoveries which have been made would have proven the record entirely false, had it been originated by man. But it has stood the test of time, of science, of investigation and discovery and stands today a monument of revealed truth. It must be very humiliating, indeed, for people who have pinned their faith to a creed that requires constant modification and change to keep the foundation stones replaced with better ones they deem more safe, secure and substantial. With this people and their faith, there has never been one stone removed or replaced in the foundation of the Gospel of Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. This can not be said of any other religion upon the face of the earth. Some of the greatest among them have many times changed and revised their creeds to suit the times and the conditions of the people. Every time they now change their creeds they incorporate some truth revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. This is because the gospel has gone forth, the people are becoming enlightened, the honest see the beauties of the truth and are no longer satisfied with mere theories of men. 

We have great reason to rejoice in these things and in this record of the Nephite prophets, which has been handed down to us. Notwithstanding the remarkable discoveries that have been made through researches of scientific men upon this continent, nothing has been brought to light that conflicts with the testimony and belief in that record, and all other great truths of the everlasting Gospel revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith in our day and time. Thank the Lord for these things. Thank Him for the unchangeable Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which, if it had been of man, would have been altered many times. 

Any Latter-day Saint who neglects his duty, finds fault with the authorities of this Church and speaks evil of them will, if he does not repent, apostatize, for we must be true to God. We cannot endure if we be half-hearted. We must receive the Gospel and make it the foundation of our lives here, or some day we will not have faith sufficient to carry us through this life. But when we attend conferences and partake of the light and inspiration there administered, we think it would be impossible for anyone to be so foolish a s to become beclouded and turn away f rom the truth of the Gospel. But we are liable to go away from this gathering return to our homes and forget that which we have been taught. Doubt may creep in on the part of those who do not keep the commandments of the Lord, and they will be left by the wayside, while those who adhere steadfastly to the Gospel truths will have faith sufficient to carry them out, and will gain life eternal. 

We are willing that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we have received it, should be put to the test which Jesus laid down. He said we should know the tree by the fruit that it bears. One of the prominent principles of our faith is our form of marriage to which I wish to direct your attention. He who receives a wife in this Church receives her, if faithful, for time and for all eternity; and through the blessing of God and through their faithfulness there will be no end to their posterity and to the kingdom over which they will be permitted some day to preside. 

On the contrary, the sectarian belief, according to the marital contract they  into, is simply binding upon them until death does them part. That principle which produces light, life and knowledge must be of God, while that which destroys life, which takes away or prevents life is of the opposite power. For everything good, is from the Lord, and that which is evil, comes from Satan. 

In the Eastern and New England States, in old New England families, from which many of us have sprung, on the old homesteads of our fathers and grandfathers many of the names of those who did not accept the Gospel have become almost extinct. This is because it is customary now not to have large families; therefore children in many places in the East are rare. But this is not the case with the Latter-day Saints. It is contrary to their principles and practice. For instance. President Edward H. Snow, of the St. George Stake, recently called upon his uncle at the close of his mission in the East, and he found him respected and loved by those who knew him in his neighborhood. He was, however, without posterity, while his brother, who had embraced the Gospel, when he passed away left about a score of children, grand children and great grandchildren upon the earth to bear his name. 

My own father, who embraced the Gospel, and his brother, who did not, furnish another example. Father's brother left but one or two lineal representatives when he passed away, while my father left something like twenty-three children, eighty-five grandchildren and fourteen to fifteen great grandchildren. I could call examples of this kind to your attention by the score to show what the Gospel has done for this people in teaching them to build for eternity and not for time alone. This people do not believe i» the evil of destruction of life, which is eating at the root and sapping the vitality of this nation today and which is believed in by so many of the world outside of those who have accepted the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This people believe in promoting and sustaining life. This is what the Gospel tree produces. And we leave it to the judgment of all honorable men and  upon the earth, to he their own judges as to whether this fruit is good or not. 

"We should thank God for the light of the Gospel restored through the Prophet Joseph. It is of God, the Eternal Father. He did not speak of Himself; he only spoke as he was inspired and commanded of God. Every prophecy he ever uttered will he fulfilled; for he was a prophet of the true and living God, ordained from before the foundation of the world, to come forth in this day and time and be the Instrument in ushering in the greatest and last dispensation. 

May the Lord help us to be true to this Gospel which we have espoused, that we may be led by its light, dictated by its principles and influenced by its power, that we may gain eternal life. I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

It would not be in good taste for me to occupy more than a short time as there are a number of speakers present. As I catch a glimpse of the outside it appears gloomy, as the sun is not shining. Although it might appear that it wou'd not shine again, it will in due time. This idea came to me as I looked into your faces and I fancied you were taking life too seriously. Do not, dear brethren and sisters, take life too seriously, for we are not altogether responsible for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am very serious and solemn at times and worry a great deal. I read somewhere that the man that worries is not well balanced. Let us cease fretting about the Lord's Church and become evenly balanced, so that we are not under the necessity of trusting to the "arm of flesh," but are fixed and fastened to the "rock of revelation." 

Some of us are very much exercised about certain things that are transpiring in the Church, and in relation to the actions of others. This has always been the case since the organization of this work. While it may be true that many of this people have been tried over the actions of men, it will continue to be the case as long as men pre  over us. I desire to inform you that men and women that are not keeping the commandments of the Lord, but are continually giving way to their weaknesses, justify themselves by pointing out what they consider mistakes in the presiding officers of the Church. They worry very much more about something that does not come under their supervision than they do about their transgressions. 

I have noticed in associating among the Latter-day Saints, and it has been my happy privilege to come in close contact with very many of our young people, and older ones for that matter. They explain to me some of the things they are worried about, and quite frequently it is discovered that they are most concerned about matters that they have absolutely no faith in. For example: A person that pays no tithing is continually laying awake for fear it will not be properly used, and this kind of people finally wind up by apostatizing because of fancied and oftentimes imaginary wrongs their brethren have done them. The Lord has said, in the Doctrine & Covenants, page 421, "But those who cry trangression do it because they are the servants of sin and are the children of disobedience themselves." 

The question always arises in my mind as to whether we joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or joined ourselves to the presiding officers. I remember hearing related a story of one of our brethren being very severely reproved by President Brigham Young, and he afterwards said: " Now go and apostatize." The reply came back, "I will never do it, this is not your Church but the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

We must each and every one of us have this lesson indelibly impressed upon us, and cease troubling ourselves outside of those things for which we are responsible. Try and be cheerful, realizing that the sun will shine and "by hearkening to observe all the words which I the Lord their God shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail." There is every reason for us to believe that we will prevail over our enemies if we will sustain and support the Priesthood and "mind our own business." 

One of the difficulties that comes to us in laboring among the Priesthood quorums and the young men, is the mistake of reaching out for a season and then to all outward appearances ceasing to climb. It seems as if the Lord has breathed into everything to look up. I am speaking more particularly about intellectual progress, of knowledge gained. I am not converted to the theory of the mother that taught her child "to hang her clothes on a hickory limb and not go near the water," for we must be reaching, climbing, towelling and trying to prepare ourselves foi the great events of life. There is always some chances to be taken and it is expected that mistakes will be made and that "we will change our opinions and correct our mistakes." 

I desire to illustrate the idea I wish to convey, by telling the following story, I once heard: One of our Bishops in early days was accustomed to floating logs down the Missisippi river. Occasionally one would break loose and find its way into a whirlpool, and it would go round and round until it was wasted away. The log was traveling all the time but was left behind and made no progress. 

So it is with some of our presiding officers and young men. We frequently meet with men and women, boys and girls, that have a most promising future. These young people oftentimes graduate and through their talent and genius have prospects of becoming most useful men and women. At the expiration of a little time, inquiry is made about some of them and to our sorrow they have fallen into the whirlpool and, like the log, are merely traveling in a circle and are not cultivating the talent which the Lord has given them. This does not apply to all, but is too frequently the case. We are surely aware that the course of the Latter-day Gospel is onward and upward, and if we young men get into ruts, or if we undertake to impede the progress of this work we will be ground to powder. 

There is another principle I very much desire to call your attention to, and that is, the eternal progression of  Gospel and what it requires to secure eternal life. 

When we Elders go among the children of men in the world, we teach them Faith, Repentance, Baptism and the Laying on of Hands for the Holy Ghost. To receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands is to be greatly favored of the Lord. We readily accept the fact that there's a "light that lighteth every man," that cometh into the world and, as Paul puts it, "But the manifestation of the spirit is given to every man to profit withal." Now, we claim greater light because the Holy Ghost will always remain with us, if we do not violate the commandments of the Lord, "as the Holy Ghost cannot be received by the laying on of hands through the medium of any other principle, than the principle of righteousness.' 

The Prophet Joseph Smith informs us that the first Comforter or Holy Ghost has no other effect than pure intelligence, and the Prophet continues by saying "The other Comforter spoken of is a subject of great interest and perhaps understood by few of this generation. After receiving the first Comforter then let him continue to humble himself before God, hungering and thirsting after righteousness, and living by every word of God, and the Lord will say unto him, Son, thou shalt be exalted, etc. When the Lord has thoroughly proven him and finds that the man will serve Him at all hazards then the man will find his calling and election made sure. Then it will be his privilege to receive the other Comforter which the Lord has promised the Saints as recorded in the testimony of St. John, 14: 12, 27. "Now what is this other Comforter?" says Joseph: "It is no more nor less than the Lord Jesus Christ, and this is the sum and substance of the matter, that when any man obtains this last Comforter he will have the personage of Jesus Christ to attend him, or appear unto him from time to time and even He will manifest the Father unto him." 

The above statement is sufficient proof of what is required to secure eternal life. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us be serious for a few moments. How many are there amongst us that have advanced far enough to have gained this knowledge? We have had the Holy Ghost conferred upon us for many years. I was baptized and received the laying on of hands when eight years old. I have not made my election sure. I have not attained to that great desire as yet. Are we going to be satisfied and cease to hunger and thirst after righteousness, and the moment we meet with adversity and trouble, lay down and cease our progression and advancement? I have seen new colonies of the Saints built up in some of our little settlements almost like magic. They reached a certain place with their improvements and like the Arkansas traveler became satisfied and made no further improvements. I am sometimes fearful that many of our people "climb their little hill" and then go down again. Young people get married, and oftentimes reach a place where all climbing, towering and reaching out after knowledge ceases and they merely eke out an existence. To see young men with such grand opportunities and prospects stop and wait for something to come to them is most deplorable. I ask you, to consider the changes, advancement and improvement your foreign missionary Elders undergo after a brief mission of two years. Their very being is changed, but note the frequency with which they cease progression and fall back to old habits, and become "mentally lazy." 

The Lord is not well pleased with this evil, for it is found in our Priesthood quorums. The Lord made plain to His servant Oliver Cowdery, "Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought. But behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore you shall feel that it is right. But if it be not right you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong." 

The effects of idleness and mental laziness cause a stupor of thought and 

 grieve the spirit of the Lord, and if persisted in will result in the withdrawal of the Spirit of the Lord. I am in favor of repenting of this evil and feel that we should dedicate a part at least of our time to attaining wisdom and in preparing ourselves for the great work that is before us. 

I am in no wise alarmed that Christian ministers are coming among our people. I wish they would send 500 to visit among them. There is nothing better than opposition, to awaken and arouse us from our seeming security and lethargy. Every one should know that the Gospel is true and be able to vindicate his people. It amuses me to hear our Elders sometimes, almost boastingly, relate how they dumbfounded the Christian ministers. While this is true in many cases, it is also true that we do not always meet the learned, intelligent preachers of the world. These educated men treat our Elders indifferently and will not deign to meet them. They put me in mind of the Pharisees that wrapped their robes around them as they stood on the Temple steps for fear the Apostles' clothing might touch them. We will yet measure arms with the most learned and greatest men of the world, as our Seventies will find their way among the nations and peoples. As Paul stood before King Agrippa so will the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stand before kings and queens and the great men of the world. You can put that down, for it is true. 

May the Lord bless and help you to remember these things and enable you to not take life too seriously, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. The semi-annual conference for the year 1901, with this session, is drawing to its close. I have tried to recapitulate in my thought the great things that have been taught us; and I have come to this conclusion with reference to all our conferences, that while a great variety of instruction is imparted, it is generally the case that one doctrine will rise up in prominence above every other, according, I presume, as the development or circumstances of the Saints require that now this and now that, and then another doctrine should be impressed upon their minds. 

I think when you return to your homes, the one thing- which above all others you will carry with you from this conference will be the emphasis that has been placed upon the doctrine of reverence for the name of Deity. The time had come in the history of our people when it became absolutely necessary that their attention be called particularly to this commandment; for it is a commandment, as much in force today as it was when first given amidst the thunders that were heard from the summit of that lonely mountain in the wilderness — Mount Sinai) — namely, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength;" and also, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord In Vain; for God will not hold him guiltless who taketh His name in vain." That law, I say, is in force today, and yet there has grown up among us a carelessness with reference to this commandment. Blasphemy has become Quite common among some of the youth of Zion and it is proper, therefore, that . this evil should be corrected, even if it requires the whole attention of a great conference of the Church such as that which is now drawing to a close. The time is opportune for calling the attention of the youth to this subject. The junior classes of the Young Men's Improvement Associations will be taking up the study of the life of Christ during the winter; while the senior classes are about to begin a rather advanced course of study on the First Principles of the Gospel. Some five lessons of their manual are devoted to the subject of "God and the Godhead;" and since there will be such universal thought and study upon this great and fundamental doctrine of the Gospel of Jesus Christ among members of the Church, it is eminently fitting that Bide by side with this study on the being and character of God, there should be taught also a reverence for His holy name; and that reproof where ever necessary be properly administered to those who do not respect the name of Deity. 

It is not necessary, however, in the closing moments of this conference for me to attempt to add anything to what has already been said, and so well said, upon this important subject. 

During the few moments that remain for us to be assembled I want to call your attention to one or two things closely related to this main topic of the conference. There is another commandment that might well be regarded almost as a continuation of this commandment calling for respect for the name of deity; and that is respect for Father and Mother. He who commanded man to honor God and reverence His name, also said, "Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord Thy God giveth thee." It was also the law of God in ancient Israel that when disrespect for father or for mother went so far as to lead the thoughtless or wicked son or daughter to curse father or mother, death was the penalty. (Exodus, xxi: 17). Of course, that would be regarded as a very extreme doctrine now; but extreme as you may think it, the Lord Jesus Christ Himself placed the seal of His approval upon it. You remember, perhaps, the circumstance of a number of the Pharisees coming to Jesus and complaining against His disciples because, forsooth, they ate with unwashed hands, and thus violated the "tradition of the Elders." A wonderful thing, was it not? But Jesus replied with a counter charge against them, which I will read to you: "But He answered and said unto them: Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?" A more serioua thing, I take it, than transgressing the "tradition of the Elders" by eating with unwashed hands. "Why do ye transgress the commandment of God by your traditions?" For God commanded saying: "Honor thy father and thy mother, and he that curseth father or mother, let him die the death." But ye say: Whosoever shall say to his father or mother. It is a gift by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; and honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect b> your tradition. Ye hypocrites! Well did Esaias prophesy of you. saving: 

This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me." 

So that however harsh you may think the law of God as given to Moses upon this matter of requiring that there shall be honor for father and for mother among God's people, I answer your charge of harshness against the law of God with the statement that the Lord Jesus Christ approved of it, harsh as it may seem. And reproved sharply those who rendered of non-effect the commandment, by their tradition. Now all I desire to do on this occasion is to impress upon your minds the importance of this doctrine, of honoring father and mother, as well as of honoring the name of Deity. These are kindred commandments, and there is almost as much need to teach the youth of Israel respect for father and mother as there is to teach them reverence for the name of Deity. 

There is still another commandment closely related to these two, viz.: respect for the Priesthood of God. In addition to respect for father and for mother, and respect for the name of God, there should also be respect for the Priesthood of God. And when I speak of respecting the Priesthood, I do not mean merely the President of the Church nor for the Apostles of the Church, nor the general authorities of the Church. I mean them of course; but I also mean all those who hold the Priesthood. I bespeak respect for the .presidents of Stakes; for Bishops of wards; and also for the Priests, who teach the Gospel at the firesides of the people. I bespeak respect for the humblest of God's servants, as well as for the highest; for it is all one authority; it all comes from God. Priesthood is God's power delegated to man, and the humblest that holds that power has a claim upon the respect of both old and young in the midst of the Saints. 

I sometimes think that the Priesthood is a little too common in our thought, not too plentiful, for there is work enough for all to do. But in thinking upon it we take into account too much the weaknesses of men, and do not honor sufficiently the Priesthood they hold, and by which they teach the children of men and administer the or of the Gospel. Just one passage from the words of Jesus regarding this power and authority, that I may show you how respect for the Priesthood of God is really but a piece of the commandment that men shall honor God. We can trace the doctrine of honoring the Priesthood of God right back to the first commandment to which I refer, namely reverence for Deity Himself. 

It is written here in the Scriptures, that when Jesus was sending out His disciples to evangelize the world, he said: "He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth Him that sent me." And the converse of the proposition is of course equaly true; namely that he that rejecteth those whom God sends also rejects God. 

It is written in this same chapter from which I am quoting that the people who reject the apostles, reject God; and they are commanded to bear witness of it in the most solemn manner, and the Lord promises His servants that it shall be more tolerable for the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for those who reject them. 

When the humble teacher comes into your homes, Latter-day Saints, or when the Priest seeks opportunity to sit by your fireside and teach the peaceable things of the Kingdom to your children, and build up their faith in God, let me say they are God's messengers to your household, and ought to be received as coming from the Lord; and as being possessed — as indeed they are — with a portion of His authority; and it is just as binding upon us to receive these humble servants of God as it is to receive those who hold the highest authority in the Church. We make a mistake if we think we are fulfilling the law of God which commands that His servants shall be honored by honoring the more prominent officials in the church while we sneer at and laugh at and deride the efforts of the more humble servants of God who come among us to instruct us in the things of the Kingdom. Let this conference, then, O, Latter-day Saints, be remembered for teaching, first of all, reverence henceforth in Israel for the name of Deity; and as collateral parts of that same doctrine — honor for parents; and profound respect for the priesthood of God. 

The Lord bless you, Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Praise God, from whom all blessings flow. 

Benediction by Elder Joshua H. Paul. AT THE TABERNACLE. 


