Afternoon 
06 10 1901




PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

Evidence of advancement — Responsibilities of stake and ward officers— They must not lay their duties upon the Twelve— Apostles to look after interests of the world — Selection of Second Counselor. 

My dear brethren and sisters, it i& rather a marvel to me that I venture to talk to you this afternoon; not but that I have something to say and would really like to have the time and the voice to say it, and perhaps by the exercise of your faith and prayers I ma> have the voice to address you for a few minutes. I have been delighted to hear of the spirit that has attended the speakers since this conference opened. It shows to me one glorious fact — that during the last six months the Latterday Saints have not been idle. When the Elders address this conference and the Spirit is upon them more than it was at the preceding conference, it shows most clearly that there has been an advance on the part of the Latterday Saints in the performance of theii duties. The next conference we have, if the Saints will continue to improve as they have done during the last six months, our Elders will have more of the Spirit, and their addresses will be even more intelligent and more serviceable to you than they have been during this conference. 

Brethren and sisters, God bless you. This is what I wanted to say to you. I have had a distressing cold the last eight or ten days, which has made me very hoarse, and I feared that I would not be able to appear at all during this conference. 

I want to say a few words in reference to one particular subject, and I do not want what I shall say to be forgotten. It is a matter that concerns all the Saints; you are all interested in it, and especially the Presidents of Stakes, their counselors, the High Councilors, the Bishops and their counselors, and all those who have been appointed to hold certain portions ot the Holy Priesthood and to bo actively engaged in the various Stakes of Zion. There are now fifty Stakes of Zion and these Stakes are composed of several wards. On an average there are probably seven or eight wards to each Stake. Over each Stake there are a president and two counselors and twelve High Councilors. Then there are Bishops and counselors over the respective wards. And now, what responsibilities rest upon the officials of these fifty Stakes! The dominion of the Latter-day Saints, to a large extent, and the highest and most sacred responsibilities are depending upon these fifty presidents; and there is something to do for each of these authorities that I have mentioned. The most extensive and important responsibilities devolve upon these officials. And although, I doubt not, they have been pretty faithful in the past, they have not been so faithful in some respects, as they ought to have been; they have not realized their sacred responsibilities so much as they might have done. 

This Church is now nearly seventy two years of age, and we are not expected to do the work of the days of our youth, but to do greater, larger and more extensive work. The Lord is coming one of these days, and He is interested in the work that you ought to be doing, and anxious to be doing. You ought to do all that you possibly can, and leave everything in your business affairs that you wisely can do and attend to these matters. The presidents of these fifty Stakes shoula  the people in their respective Stakes, in their various dominions. They should regard them as their own family, as their sons and daughters; and take as deep an interest in them as they ought to take in their own wives and children. It should be their thought by uay and by night, how and in what way they can be most serviceable to their respective charges. Oh! brethren, do remember these things that I am now talking about; do not forget them. You presidents, when you retire to your rest, you probably can spend half an hour before you go to sleep, and let your thoughts run over your several jurisdictions. See wherein, either physically, financially or spiritually, you can help, and what can be done best in advancing the interests of your official family. These Bishops, however wise and energetic they may think themselves— and the most of them certainly are very wistand energetic— need to be looked after. It is not the duty of the Apostles to look after them. 

The Apostles have a work that is in another direction altogether. I want the Presidents of Stakes hereafter to realize that it is their business, not the business of the Apostles; it is the business of the High Priests, the Elders, the Bishops, Priests, Teachers and Deacons to look after these things. Do not lay this duty upon the shoulders of the Apostles. It is not in their line, at least only occasionally. There is a certain channel by and through which the Lord intends to exalt His sons and daughters, to remove wickedness from the earth and to establish righteousness, and that channel is the Priesthood, which God has established and shown clearly the nature and character of the various officers and duties thereof. The Apostles and the Seventies, it is their business by the appointment of the Almighty, to look after the interests of the world. The Seventies and the Twelve Apostles are special witnesses unto the nations of the earth. The .business of the High Priests, the Elders and the Bishops is to look after the interests of these various organizations that I have mentioned. You presiding officers of the various Stakes of Zion, the time is  when you will not have to call and depend so much upon the Twelve Apostles. They will be directed in other channels, and I want you to distinctly understand it; and do not seek to throw responsibilities that belong to you upon these Twelve Apostles and upon the Seventies. 

I wanted to say this, and to speak it with energy and in a way that you will not forget it, that you cannot forget it. It is a wonderful responsibility, and the Lord expects it of you. You ought to know how the laws of God are observed in your respective localities—how the Sabbath is kept; whether the young people are swearing, and off at midnight when they ought to be at home; how the parents govern and control them; how far the people are paying their tithing correctly; what they are doing in regard to their meeting houses, their school houses, and their houses of amusement; whether they are expending their time and means too much in these directions, or not enough; and what you can do in helping them along. Look at these things, and everything that pertains to the happiness of your children, the members of this family of yours, see what you can do about it. And the Lord God of Israel will help you in this, because it is just what He wants you to do. It is the duty that He has placed upon you to discharge, and He certainly will help you. But when you take any other course— when you depend upon the Apostles to reform your respective Stakes— you are doing that which you have no business to do. Do it yourselves, you Presidents of Stakes and counselors, you High Councilors, and you Bishops. The High Council should visit all through the Stake which they have charge of in connection with the President and his counselors. It is not the business altogether of the High Council to just wait till some persons come before them and want some little trifle settled. They have got to do something else, more noble and grand than such little matters. Go where you can do good, and be lively in it. 

Now, God bless you Latter-day Saints. I am glad to see such a vast multitude as there is here, and that I understand has been throughout this conference. I repeat, I am so delighted to hear that the Spirit of God has been on the Elders so bountifully as it has, and that they have spoken so well and so wisely to you as they have. I thank you for the faith you have exercised, because when I arose here I did not know that I could speak five words; but now I have said what I wanted to say. A great deal could be enlarged upon this, and the brethren will do so as opportunity serves. 

There is still one matter that I might speak of. I am going on pretty fast toward my eighty-eighth year; I will soon be eighty-eight years old; and I have been laboring now for some months with but one counselor— President Joseph P. Smith. I feel as though I wanted a little more help — another counselor; and I have selected one, (through, I believe, the manifestations of the Lord), who, I think, will be energetic and strong, will serve the people, and help me and President Joseph F. Smith along in a proper way; and I hope you will sustain and support him. God bless you. Amen. 

THE GENERAL, AUTHORITIES 

were presented for the votes of the general assembly by President Joseph F. Smith, as follows: 

Lorenzo Snow, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Joseph F. Smith as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Rudger Clawson as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

As members of the council of the Twelve Apostles: Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff and Reed Smoot. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

Patriarch to the Church, John Smith. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies, Seymour P». Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham Henry Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston as presiding Bish, with Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder as his first and second counselors. 

Anthon H. Lund as Church Historian and general Church recorder. 

As Trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshippers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Lorenzo Snow. 

As members of the general Church ooard of education, Lorenzo Snow, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith, John Nicholson, Gorge H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson and Joseph M. Tanner. 

As general superintendent of Church schools, Joseph M. Tanner. 

As secretary of the general Church board of education, George Reynolds. 

As members of the board of examiners, Joseph M. Tanner, George H. Brimhall, Joshua H. Paul, James H. Linford and John M. Mills. 

As secretary of the board of examiners, John M. Mills. 

Owing to the recent death of Sister Zina D. H. Young, late president of the Relief Society, and there therefore not being a full organization, the officers were not presented. 

General authorities of the Sunday schools: 

Lorenzo Snow, general superintendent; George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. Members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board: Lorenzo Snow, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, Joseph F. Smith, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, treasurer. 

General authorities of the Young Men's Mutual improvement associations: 

Lorenzo Snow, general superintendent; Joseph F. Smith, Heber J. Grant, B. H. Roberts, assistants; Thomas Hull, secretary and treasurer; Evan 

Stephens, music director; Horace S. Ensign, assistant music director. 

Board of Aids — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, J. Golden Kimhall, Junius F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Le Roi C. Snow, Frank T. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Briant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner. 

General Authorities of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations: 

Elmina S. Taylor, president; Maria Y. Dougall, first counselor; Martha H. Tingey, second counselor; Ann M. Cannon, secretary and treasurer; Joan Campbell, recording secretary. 

Board of Aids — Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Lillie T. Freeze, Minnie J. Snow, May Booth Talmage, Rose W. Bennett, Emma Goddard, Alice K. Smith, Elizabeth C. McCune, Ruth M. Fox, Julia M. Brixen, Helen W. Woodruff, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Susa Y. Gates. 

General Authorities of the Primary associations: 

Louie B. Felt, president; Lillie T. Freeze, first counselor; Josephine R. West, second counselor; May Anderson, secretary and treasurer; Olive Derbidge, assistant secretary; Euphemia I. Burnham, recording secretary. 

Board of Aids — Aurelia S. Rogers, Lulu L. Greene Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Cornelia H. Clayton, Belle S. Ross, S. E. Hyde, Edna L. Smith. 

Officers of Religion Classes — Anthon H. Lund, general superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant; L. John Nuttall, general secretary and aid; John M. Mills, Henry Peterson, aids. 

Leader and Director of the Tabernacle Choir— Evan Stephens, with Horace S. Ensign as his assistant; John J. McClellan as organist, and all the memoers of the choir. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the general conference. 

All the voting was affirmative. 

The choir sang: 'Arouse, O ye mortals." 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

The extension of Zion — Officers ehould utilize the talents of those under their watchcare — A testimony to the truth of the work. 

The spirit of this conference has been such that the saints, in returning to their homes in the various parts of the country, will carry with them, I believe, a fixed determination to seek in every way the improvement of the people. President Smith, in the opening of our conference, laid upon the brethren the necessity of the Priesthood impressing fully and thoroughly upon tne minds of the brethren and sisters the room for improvement which exists among some of the members of the community in the character of the language they used. He also sought to impress upon the minds of the brethren and sisters that if we would make ourselves acceptable to our Heavenly Father, a more thoughtful observance of many of the primary principles of the Gospel and the moral rules and regulations of the law of God would be required on the part of the Saints, and the presiding officers would have to follow up any evidence of laxness in morality, any tendency to profanity or to the use of intoxicating drinks, in the districts over which they were called to preside. Several of the brethren have spoken upon this subject, and the spirit of their instructions, I believe, has found lodgment in the hearts of those who were permitted to listen unto them. President Snow comes to us this afternoon, in the closing hours of this conference, and presents to us his suggestions looking to a more active labor upon the part of presiding officers in the wards and Stakes of Zion, and emphasizes the suggestions presented in the remarks of President Smith that more care is requisite on the part of the Saints to hold themselves in closer communion with the Spirit of the Lord and to seek to avoid the possibility of profanity, coarseness of language, or the disobeying of any of the plain and simple requirements of the Gospel. 

In the time I may occupy I desire to say to the Latter-day Saints that the work of the Lord is extending. Its growth cannot be questioned by those who administer in the various sections of the country and discover in their visits the constant onward movement on the part of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to seek to extend the borders of Zion. As President Snow remarked, the organization of fifty Stakes presents to the world a body of 150 men as presidents, equipped by the possession of the High Priesthood, set apart and instructed in the doctrines of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. Called to the aid of each of these presidencies, as a rule, in every Stake of Zion, are eighteen more High Priests in the form of High Council and alternates. These men are selected from among the most capable. God-fearing and earnest men that can be found in the organization. They are the chosen judges among the people; and, as has been explained by President Snow, they are not alone judges of doctrine, judges of the conditions of their brethren who may be in transgression, judges to adjust differences in matters of finance, but they are men who by their experience in the world in teaching the principles of the Gospel and in seeking to extend the borders of Zion are presumed to be thoroughly prepared for the discharge of the sacred obligation of preaching the principles of righteousness and pointing the way of life to the people over whom they are called to preside in connection with the presidency of the Stake. Following in their wake, in every one of these Stakes are several wards, fully and thoroughly organized for the performance of the duty of guarding the interests, temporal and spiritual, of the people in their districts. Many of the Bishops of the wards selected to administer under the direction of the presiding authority of the Church through the presidency of the Stake, have had an extended experience in the practical things of life, and there are but few of them but what have had an extended experience in various lands and climes seeking to enlarge the borders of Zion in the promulgation of the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. These men have  their spurs, if you please, from, the fact that their hearts have been given to the accomplishment or our Father's purposes. It is sometimes manifest, however, that in the fulfillment of the duties attaching to the Bishopric the same- skill and ability is not manifested by them as they exhibited in heralding the truth among the children of men and calling the world to repentance. The suggestions couched in the instructions of President Snow, that he wished these Presidents of Stakes to be fathers of these families, to love them as their own wives and children, and to guard their interests and establish in their breasts a determination to obey the commandments of God, are suggestions that I trust every presiding officer in the Stakes and wards of Zion will receive; and it is to be hoped that the same spirit and sentiment shall be engendered in the breasts of the presidents of the High Priests' quorums, the Seventies' quorums and the Elders' quorums, that at any time and place where the Presidency of the Church may require capable and thorough men for the discharge of any duty in connection with the development of the work of God, they shall be enabled to supply such men fully equipped for the performance of the part that may be required at their hands. There does sometimes manifest itself in some of the presiding officers, as I have discovered in my experience among the Stakes and wards of Zion, a fear of the development of men. These conditions, it is true, are rare, but they have existed. "When young men have sought to equip themselves for the performance of theif part, their development seems to have given rise to a fear on the part of the presiding officer that they were ambitious and were seeking to secure an influence that would belittle him in the management and control of his district. It seems to me that the President of the Stake, or the Bishop of the ward, should have a body of men working under his watchcare whose talents he will utilize in Ithose directions where <(hey exhibit skill and ability. The man who fails to utilize and develop the men who are called to labor under him, is indeed lacking in the spirit of the work of 

God, and is not himself equipped for the performance of his part looking to the preparation of the men under his watchcare for the mission and destiny that should be theirs. 

I recognize the fact, my brethren and sisters, that my time is now far spent. I desire, in connection with my associates, to bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel of the Son of God. I know that it is true. I know that the organization established through the ministrations of the Savior of the world, under the direction of the Father, is among the children of men; that it has come to aid in the regeneration of the human family, and in the due time of the Lord to establish our Father's kingdom in majesty and power in the earth; that He has gathered the elements from the corners of the earth which have thus far united themselves with the work, and while perchance they may not be all that they should be, they have been those elements that have drunk in of the Spirit of Almighty God and have been impressed with a determination that, so far as the Father shall give them the power, they will minister for the accomplishment of His purposes and call mankind to repentance. To this end, my brothers of the Presidencies of the Stakes, of the High Councils, of the Bishoprics; you High Priests, Seventies, and Elders, upon whose heads have been bestowed the Holy Priesthood, see to it that in the struggle for accomplishment of the purposes of Almighty God your hands shall not slacken, but with a determined purpose, with your face to the accomplishment of the divine will, you will crowd forward our Father's work and aid in the establishment of His kingdom, that the Redeemer of the world shall come and reign in righteousness over a people equipped for the accomplishment of the destiny our Father has marked out for them. 

May our Father bless the organization of His Church. May the spirit of life rest upon this aged man who holds the sceptre in his hands. May the glory of God shine round about him, and may his days be lengthened as long as he may desire. May his associates be governed by the same spirit,  engaged in the self-same work, be found stalwart for the cause of truth and for the maintenance of righteousness in the world; and may all the Priesthood of the Son of God magnify their callings and stand for the truth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. The choir sang: 

"Arouse, Oh Te Mortals." 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON. 

All should ba willing to labor according to assignment — Eternal character of the Priesthood. 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to make myself heard, if possible, by this vast congregation of people, though I feel it will be a difficult matter. I want to say that this call has come to me as a great surprise— doubtless as great a surprise to me as to you who are assembled upon this occasion. I feel my weakness and my inefficiency, and that there is nothing that could make me equal to the acceptance of this appointment, of this high responsibility, except a knowledge that this is the work of the Lord. I testify to you that it is the work of the Lord. I feel and realize that the Lord can make His servants equal to every responsibility. I have this faith and this desire; I am willing to work and to labor wherever the Lord wants me to labor, under the direction of my brethren. I desire your faith and prayers, and your support; that you will sustain me in this high calling, as I desire te sustain and hope to be able to sustain my President, President Lorenzo Snow. I desire to be a help and a strength to him, and a counselor in very deed. It is the aim of my life that wherever I am called tolabor, in any position, to give my heart and soul to that labor. I want to say to this great congregation of people that I am willing to be used where the Lord wants me, as I feel that this should be the case with all the authorities of the Church of Christ. There is no appointment in this Church, that I know of, that is absolutely permanent, excepting the Holy Priesthood, which we are called to hold. When we receive that we hold it in this life, and we take it with us in the life to come. We exercise it in the world, and we exercise it out of the world, so long as we are faithful. I think that the Latter-day Saints ought to be educated to the great truth that there are some offices in this Church that are permanent, and others that are not necessarily so. There are some offices conferred upon men that when they remove their residence, or die, cease with them; but not so with the Priesthood. I rejoice in this Priesthood and in this testimony, and I pray God to give me His Spirit and to strengthen me, and I invoke your blessing, your assistance and your faith, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

Future labors of the Twelve in the nations— The w jrkers at hornu— Prim ed revelations should be studied. 

I am glad that I have the privilege of speaking here, brethren and sisters, before the close of this conference. I thank God for the words that have been spoken, for the testimony of the Spirit that we have witnessed in the speakers, and for the good feeling that has pervaded all the congregations. Those who have been present are witnesses that the Lord has been with the speakers and with the hearers. I am pleased, indeed, that President Snow is able to visit us, and thankful to the Lord to hear his voice. I pray God that his voice may be heard in the congregations of the Saints for many years to come, that he may be preserved to give us counsel and to guide us by the inspiration which rests upon him so powerfully in his declining years; for God has blessed him, and President Lorenzo Snow has been a blessing to this people. I acknowledge that he has been to me. God has sustained him, and long may he be sustained, that we may hear his counsels and behold his face, that he may flourish in the home of the Saints, and that lie may be spared to give counsel to us who are younger, and who feel inadequate to walk alone, like children in swaddling clothes. If it were not for God, how could we sustain this vast work that is resting upon the shoulders, in many instances, of comparatively inexperienced men? But God is with the brethren, as He is with President Snow,  He has been with all our leaders. Thank God, it is His work, not ours; but it is our privilege to labor in it. 

The remarks of President Snow shadowed forth a feeling which is found in the breasts of the Twelve Apostles — a desire to go forth to the nations of the earth, to open the Gospel door to those who sit in darkness. The eyes of the Twelve have been roaming over the habitable globe, and they have looked upon Turkey, Austria, Russia, and especially South America. Our minds have been led to the Spanishspeaking people of the Southern republics, and especiallv to the remnants of the land that are so numerous in South America. We have felt and do now feel that it is our duty to act under the guidance of the Spirit of God, and to go forth, as that Spirit may dictate and in accordance with the President's views, to the nations of the earth to proclaim the Gospel. As Brother Heber J. Grant has gone, so others will go when the Spirit indicates the place and the time, which we hope will be in the near future. The President's remarks, followed by Brother John Henry Smith's, in relation to the Presidents of Stakes, High Councils, and Bishops of Wards, were to the point. Here is a field of labor for the High Priests, for the home missionaries, for the presiding officers in the Stakes, and for all whose labor is at home. The Twelve are relegated to the various parts of the earth, to establish the Gospel among the people. For there was one significant remark dropped by the President



