Morning
05 10 1901



ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 

Conferences a blessing to the Saints — The people shouid be true to their obligations — Advantages of a progressive course — Importance of keeping records. 

I earnestly ask an interest in your faith and prayers, that the few moments I shall occupy this stand I may be heard by you and be able to say something that will be for our mutual benefit. I was very much interested yesterday in the proceedings of our conference. I enjoyed the remarks made by our brethren, and felt that they were dictated by the Spirit of God. It is pleasant to come together upon these occasions to receive instruction and to be strengthened in our holy faith. 

The Lord instituted these gatherings of the Saints, and they have proved a great blessing to the people. The Israelites of old were commanded once a year to go up to Jerusalem, to worship at the temple; and this was a potent means to keep the people united. It cemented them together, and they renewed old acquaintances. "When Jeroboam rebelled, and the ten tribes separated from the government of Rehoboam, he saw the danger in having the people come together at Jerusalem, and so he forbade this, and raised  altars for his people at Bethel and other places. He did not want the people to go to Jerusalem to worship there, because he felt that his government would not be so stable. The Lord, in ordering these gatherings and likewise the quarterly conferences in the Stakes, has done it for the good of His people. The people come together, mellowed in their feelings, listen to the servants of God, renew old acquaintances, and are strengthened in the brotherhood to which they belong. I know many who make it a point to attend these conferences, and they feel well paid for doing so. They would feel bad if they were not able to come here and drink in the spirit of the conference. 

President Smith yesterday gave us warning against many dangers that surround us, and the brethren have alluded to these. They are seasonable topics. We should study ourselves and the high position that we occupy. We profess to be Latterday Saints, and to be a Latter-day Saint in spirit and in truth means to walk uprightly before the Lord, and to shape our course here below so that we may obtain eternal life. The world knows what is meant by being a Latter-day Saint, and if they see that we act in a way different from what a Latter-day Saint should act, they put us down as hypocrites; and justly so. Professing to be Latter-day Saints does not make us Latter-day Saints. It takes watching and praying, a continual examination of ourselves, to live the lives of Saints. We have hoisted the flag of Zion; we are sailing under it. Let us be true to it. Let us be true to the professions we are making, and show the world that not only in word and profession are we such, but in our works also. Let us study the word of God, and give heed unto it, whether it be written or given orally through His servants. How thankful we are that the Lord has spoken unto men in our day; that we are not dependent on the written word alone, but that we have the living oracles with us. We are thankful that the word of God has come down through the many centuries as pure as it has. Of all people upon the earth, we have the strongest reason to believe in the scriptures. We have not only the evidences of their truth which we obtain from the scriptures themselves — and their internal evidences, such as prophecies and historical truths, appeal strongly to us, but we have also other evidences that the world rejects. We have the Book of Mormon, in which are many extracts from the prophecies that are contained in the Bible. With but little change many of the prophecies of Isaiah, together with those of other prophets, have come down to us in the Book of Mormon and this fact gives us additional evidence of the truth of the Bible. We want to make ourselves familiar with the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and prepare ourselves to receive more of the word of God. Whenever the Lord has had a dispensation upon the earth, He has always favored His people with His word and win. He has not let His people wander in the dark, but has revealed himself unto them. Whenever revelation has not been given, men have perished spiritually. The wise man of old said: "Where there Is no vision the people perish." 

Revelation is necessary for the guidance of the people of God. President Woodruff used to say that we could not exist as a Church one day without revelation from God. We are dependent upon it, and we cannot do without it. Our adversary wants us to believe that it is not needed, and I have often thought how strange it was that he could make the people who believe in Christ and the scriptures satisfied with a condition of things wherein the heavens were closed unto men. Professed followers of Christ have been willing  defend that idea, and to declare that those who believed in the necessity of revelation were mistaken and in accepting more revelation from God we are subject to the curse pronounced by John upon all who should add unto his book. I believe as firmly now as he did then that any man who should of himself add to the word of God would be subjected to the curse, that he pronounces, for no man has a right to do that; but John never meant to convey the idea that the Lord had not the right to give further revelation. He showed by his own course that he did not mean that; for after he had written these words which are so often quoted against new revelation, he wrote that beautiful gospel which goes by his name, and which contains so many precious things. The Lord is not limited in any such way. 

From the days of Moses until the days of the Apostles, He gave revelations, and inspired His servants to write them. How thankful we are that these records have been kept! Moses has been called God's first pen. The earliest authentic writings we have come from him, and, studying them, we see how consistent is the word of God from beginning to end. Moses gave the same warning unto men as John did, and yet after him there were many writers of scripture. We have many books written since then, which we know were written under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Many books have been lost, and many books will be brought to light yet by the power of God. The Lord has carefully guarded His word, so that it has come down to us, through its many translations, nearly perfect. We would like our young men and our young women to study these works, and make themselves familiar with the gems of truth that are found on their pages. Winter is coming on, and we would like our people to use the winter evenings in sf lf-improvement. Especially does this apply to the young. We would like t hem to abstain from too much dancing. Dancing is a pleasant amusement, where it is carried on in a right way; but too much of it makes the mind frivolous, and incapacitates those for study who thus indulge in it. Of course,  are times when it is good to unbend. Relaxation is necessary, but it should not be the chief object in passing our winter evenings. Those belonging to the Mutual Improvement associations, we hope, will learn their lessons and not miss one session. When you take up your Manual to study it, try to take up other books on similar topics. Go to the fountain where things are taken from, and study all you can about the subject, so that you may be fully posted. Then your evenings will be pleasant to you while meeting with your friends belonging to the same society. 

Speaking about the Lord having inspired His servants to keep records, I am reminded that we as a people are making history, and this history should also be kept. On the very day that the Church was organized the Prophet received a revelation which said that there should be a record kept in the Church. Afterwards, on several occasions, the Lord instructed Joseph in this matter, telling him to appoint a general historian, who should keep a record of all the events in the Church. A year and a half afterward he is told to keep a record of the Saints and their condition in the Church. This is a matter on which the Prophet laid great stress, but record-keeping has been neglected to quite an extent in our midst. Even before the revelation read by Brother Clawson, where it said that a record should be kept, a revelation had been received commanding the keeping of a genealogical record — the names ot those baptized, and of all ordinations, etc., made in the Church. The Lord instructed His servants that everyth' — should be done in order. Of late, I am pleased to observe, there is a growing tendency in the different Stakes and wards to take care of the records. We hope that this will be uniform throughout the Church, and that in every Stake and ward records will be kept which will give a concise history of the Stake or ward. In every ward there should be two records kept. One, a genealogical record of the births, blessings, baptisms, ordinations, etc. At the Deseret News office can be obtained records all ready printed, with headings that will suggest what should be noted down. 

Then there should be a record kept of everything important that happens in the ward. The clerk of the ward can take his record to the meetings, and while the meeting is going on can jot down a few items of what is being said, and who are present, etc. It is not necessary that you write down the sermons or the arguments of the brethren; for no doubt these things can be found in more fulness in other books; but keep a record of events as they happen, of the changes in the ward, in the Bishopric in the Teachers, in the different associations and institutions of the ward. It is true that the different societies keep records, but the ward clerk should at least note the changes that take place, so that his ward records may be a true history of the ward. Today, when you go into some wards and ask who was the first Bishop of the ward, and who the next, there is not a scratch of a pen to show it; and when we send Brother Andrew Jenson, as one of the assistants of the Historian's office, to find out about the histories of the wards, he is often referred to the older members of the ward to get the information he wants. This should not be the case. Our ward records should contain a history of the ward from its organization and the changes that have taken place in the ward, as well as the important events that have happened. In the Stakes there should be two records also. There is no genealogical record needed, but there is a record of the High Council and a record of the history of the Stake required. These records do not call for much writing; a little, written at the time, will keep the history going. If this be attended to, when the history of the different Stakes and wards comes to be written we will have the material with which to do it. 

I felt to say this concerning recordkeeping. When ward conferences are held and the Stake presidency visit them, it ought to be understood that that day should also be record day in that ward. Let the Bishop have ail his records brought where the presidency of the Stake can inspect them; and the presidency can point out where anything is lacking or commend them where good records are being kept. We have found it necessary to appoint one. day each year for this purpose, and we think that the day on which the ward conference is held is the best time for the presidency of the Stake to inspect the records. It is necessary that these things be kept. The genealogical record is very important. How pleased we are when we go out into the world and find how conscientiously they have kept a record of births, so that we are able to trace our ancestry in some countries for several hundred years. This could not be done if genealogical records were kept in a slovenly manner. Sometimes here they are taken on slips of paper, put away in a drawer, and occasionally lost. This must not be. When we undertake to do a thing, let us do it well. Do not trust to the clerk alone, but let the Bishop feel that it is his business to look after the records in his ward. Statistical records cannot be kept corectly if the records are not correct. Certificates of membership should also be looked after. Bishops should see to it that those who move away receive their certificates to take to the wards where they move to; and the wards that they go to should try to find out their standing, so that they can be received there. There are many that are dropping out because they move away without certificates, and do not join the wards or branches to which they move, while if they were looked after and warmed up, they might be lively members in the Church. 

I am pleased, brethren and sisters, with the condtion of the people. When Brother Cowley referred yesterday to a time when so many apostatized from the Church, I thought how good it is that today this is not the case, and that excommunications are very rare. In fact, I believe that the discipline of the Church could be stricter and be a blessing unto the people. But it is a healthy sign to see that there are not so many apostatizing as in years past. I believe the people understand the principles of the Gospel better and live the Gospel more perfectly. They have shown during the last two years how they have received the word of the 

Prophet in regard to tithing, and I believe the Lord will bless them, both temporally and spiritually, for meeting this requirement. They will be strengthened in their faith and there will not be so much danger of apostasy as when they refused to keep the commandments of God. May the Lord bless you all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 

Spiritual manifestations— Necessity for reformation — Those who should bring It about— Proper procedure In colonization — How to be influential with the honoiableof the earth — Influence of Godliness in the home — Importance of Temple work. 

I am pleased to be associated with this conference. I have evidence in my heart that this is the work of the Lord, having had many testimonies to this effect; and it is a grand thing that the Lord is so merciful as to manifest to individuals with regard to the plan ot life and salvation. It is not known to me whether all the Latter-day Saints have enjoyed manifestations from the Lord to the satisfying of their souls. Apostle Lund has just said to us that there are not so many people turning from the truth now as formerly. That, no doubt, is true, because in these times there are means provided whereby all the people, from the little child to the aged, may learn the Gospel. With these auxiliary organizations that are established in the Church, there are now more opportunities for people to understand the Gospel than we had in former years. 

We are gathered together at this general conference, not with the expectation that any new revelation will be given or any new doctrine set forth, but to be reminded of the truth and to have our minds stirred up in remembrance of those things which we hav<_ heard or read, and thus be renewed in our spirits and in the prosecution of our labors. There are, no doubt, many things among us that might be improved upon. President Smith, in his opening remarks, alluded to some of them. We all know that he spoke the truth, and there needs to be throughout the Church an effort made towards improvement in those things. He referred to the fact that there was pro among the Latter-day Saints. Now, who among the Elders of Israel, with the light and understanding we have and with the teachings that are given to us from time to time, would feel at liberty to indulge in profanity? In other words, what Elder would dare profane the name of Deity? Yet it is done, and those who do it know that it is wrong. Is it not possible for us, organized as we are, to institute reforms in regard to this and other evils that exist? Cannot we call our councils together in the various localities and take to heart the words of President Smith, and see if we cannot devise some measure to lessen these evils, and if possible to do away with them altogether. You brethren and sisters know, as I do, that this ought to be done. We ought to be a chaste and God-fearing people, and not allow ourselves to indulge in the vices and evils that bring sorrow to the heart and condemnation to the soul. I believe, when we return home, that we should assemble together in our organizations and see if sometning cannot be done so that one of the Presidency of the Church will not be under the necessity of again referring to these things. We ought not to countenance these evils in any degree. If we could only have the right kind of men in our city and town councils, to assist in this good work, a great deal might be done toward subduing these evils. As a people, we should be an example to the world, a light that is set upon a hill, which cannot be hid. Of course, there are many good things that we might talk of; we have, in many respects, an excellent name among our outside friends; yet there is room for improvement. Sometimes boys think it is manly to profane and to frequent saloons. It seems to me that their teaching must have been sadly neglected. Mothers and fathers can do a great deal towards the uplifting- of their children, though they may not be able to do it all. They need some help from the Teachers and the Priests. 

I think I am quite safe in saying that throughout the whole Church there is a great neglect on the part of the lesser Priesthood in the performance of their duties as ministers of Christ and  the guardians of the people, whose duty it is to see that there is no iniquity in the Church. While there may be many who do their full duty, there are many who do not. I speak from an experience of over fifty years, and I know whereof I speak in regard to these matters. I acted for years in the capacity of a Teacher, under the direction of Jedediah M. Grant, our former President, and I know how strict his instructions were to the Teachers. 

It is not only the young people that are culpable, but you will find that the older ones sometimes require attention. They need to have somebody to instruct them and to see if they are walking day by day in the line of duty. The Presidents of Stakes and counselors, the High Councilors, the Bishops and the sisters also, ought to have this labor at heart; and let us see if we can not bring about a reformation in these evils which lead down to death. In this connection, we ought to hold ourselves under the advice and counsel of the Priesthood. In early days here we did not think of doing anything or going anywhere without first counseling with our brethren; and we usually went to President Young. When I first came to this country, I did not know any better than to go to President Young, to ask his counsel and to receive his blessing. From that day to this I have always felt that it is good for the people of the Church to seek counsel from their brethren. Let us work in harmony, whether it be to colonize some new country or to build up our own homes. 

I do not think it a proper thing for any of the Elders of the Church to go off somewhere on their own responsibility, without saying a word to anybody. It shows that they are following their own inclinations, and are not directed by the Spirit of the Lord. In the colonizing of this country you know the course President Young adopted, and we can see that it was attended with success all along the line. Success has always attended the observance of the counsel of the President of the Church. And are we going to depart from it now? Are we going to go off on our own responsibility? We might as well break off and try to establish a church of our own. I want to tell you that we will learn by and by, if we have not already, that we will never, in this life or in the life to come, get from under the authority of the Priesthood. Hence it is not advisable for Latter-day Saints to run to and fro in the land without counsel and without discipline. The Church of God is a Church of order. We who bear the Holy Priesthood and are called to responsible positions should seek the counsel of our brethren; we should counsel together; for in the midst of counsel there is safety. Many people unfortunately have a restless disposition, and they want to be moving all the time. You can see them going north at almost any time of the year, and I suppose it is the same south. Now, it is a good thing to colonize under the direction of the proper authority; but when we go off by ourselves we lose the spirit of this work; and when we lose that we are in a miserable condition. Let us be in harmony with the work and with the Spirit of God, and consistent in our movings to and fro. 

The Lord designs to make us a power in the land, and if we will be goo 1 Latter-day Saints we will be good citizens of the country in which we live, and we can be depended upon as being honest ?nd upright. Many of our outside friends trust us now, and they say we are a good people. A few days ago I met some of the officers of the Burlington railroad, and they gave us an excellent character for enterprise and sterling worth in developing and building up 1hf> country. I repeat, if we will be true Latter-day Saints and observe the compels of the lord, we will be good in the eyes of all honorable men. Bu'. we have- got to educate ourselves and our fam'lies in ..his direction. We must teach our children, as one of oli safd. to "remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, T'hen thou shalt say. I have no pleasure in them." Our brethren are appointed to be watchmen on the walls of Zion, to be fathers to the people, and to counsel with them for thefr best interest. When the president of your Stake  not know what to say to you, he will find out in a very short time. It is not necessary for every man to run to the President of the Church for advice; you can get it right at home. We must be in harmony with the counsels of the Priesthood. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants are excellent books; but take away the counsels of the Priesthood and how long would these good books lead us in the path of life? We must have the living oracles. Their counsels will harmonize with these precious books, and with both together we will go on from grace to grace, from knowledge to knowledge, until we come to a perfect understanding of the truth. We do not know it all yet; in fact, I sometimes think we know but very little; but we are learning, and if I can only persuade my brethren and sisters to seek the counsel of the Lord I may get the credit of doing some good in my time. 

My brethren and sisters in all the Stakes of Zion, let us see to it that we will lend our energies to make righteousness prevail among the people and to do away with wickedness. Saloons ought to be done away with. I do not know whether this city, with its mixed population, could do without them or not; but in a great many of our towns and cities we have no more use for them than a wagon has for a fifth wheel. Yet there are Elders and Seventies, and in some instances High Councilors, who are not willing to assist the presidents of Stakes and Bishops of wards to abolish saloons. President Young once said that an Elder of Israel who would put the deadly cup to his brother's lip would go to hell, if he did not repent. It is a pretty broad saying, but, in my opinion, it is a true one. Now, we have good men everywhere to assist us in this improvement that is necessary, but we want to infuse into them energy and zeal for the salvation of souls. We want to save our children. Oh, how we would grieve if we thought our sons would be lost to us! We are anxious to save them. Therefore, let us labor to the end that the Spirit of the Lord may be in all the home circles of the Saints. I was  to hear one of the brethren relating about a President of a Stake having devotional exercises in his family. The brother that myself and brethren stayed with in the north a while ago did the same thing. He called his family together, one of the girls played the organ, they sang, they read a chapter, and they prayed. How beautiful was the spirit that prevailed in that family circle! ^ow, there is no law prohibiting us all from engaging in morning and evening exercises before the Lord. What a grand thing it would be if we could only educate ourselvese to take the time to do this! Gather around us the family circle, and en courage the family to observe the commandments of the Lord during the day! What a grand spectacle it would be to see this carried out in all the families of the Saints! 

There is another subject that I would like to touch upon before sitting down, and that is with regard to temple work. A great deal of temple work has been done, but a great deal more remains to be done. There are many people in the Church who have not yet given attention to their ordinance work in the house of the Lord. They have not thought of their dead kindred. So many of the cares and anxieties of life seem to be pressing upon them that they neglect to remember their dead friendb. The Lord has directed the building ot temples, and I heard a brother prophesy once that some day there would be temples all over the land of North and South America, with people administering in them for their kindred dead. Just think of the hundreds of millions of people who have passed away without a knowledge of the Gospel; and while we have been privileged to commence the great vicarious work of redemption how little we have done up to date! We have four temples in operation, and work has been performed to a limited extent; but not so much has been done as ought to have been. It seems to me that our minds ought to be stirred up in regard to this work. There are many people who are getting along in life, who have been faithful all the day long, and it looks to me as if they ought to be thinking of their kindred who have  behind the veil; for just as sure as we are here we will meet these friends by and by, and they may ask us what we have done for them in life, while we were within convenient reach of the temple. I am afraid many will have to say they have not done anything, and they will have remorse of conscience because of it. 

Brethren and sisters, let us think a little of these as well as other things. Our kindred behind the veil are looking for us to do a vicarious work for them in ihe temple of the Lord. Let us see if we cannot prosecute this labor a little more vigorously than we have done thus far. May the blessings of the Lord be upon the people. I feel that many of you are doing the best you can; you ari paying your tithes and offerings and sustaining the work of the Lord to the best of your ability; but some are lacking in these things. The Latter-day Saints as a whole are not yet up to the standard with regard to tithes and offerings; but if we will labor diligently tmoughout the various Stakes, the time may come when it can be said that the Latter -day Saints do pay their tithes and their offerings in full; and when we do so, God will bless us, and sanctify the land, and it will bring forth in its strength in the times and seasons allotted. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

The principle of revelation — Authority of the Priesthood — How to obtain a knowledge of God — A prophecy — The Gospel to be carried to all the world as a witness. 

I feel grateful to our Heavenly Father that my life has been spared to meet with you again in one of our semi-annual conferences. I have greatly rejoiced in my spirit at listening to the testimonies of the brethren who have preceded me, and I humbly pray that the Lord will bless me also with a portion of His Holy Spirit, that what I may say may be in accordance with His mind and will. 

To the Latter-day Saints the remarks of Brother Merrill may be somewhat ordinary, because we believe in the living oracles and in revelation; but to those who do not belong to this Church GENERAL CONFERENCE  may appear strange. This Church is founded upon revelation. There is, however, a medium through which revelation is given to the Church. The Prophet, Seer and Revelator receives all revelation for the benefit and guidance of the Church. At the same time, every individual member of the Church is entitled to Revelation to guide his own household; and whatever inspiration he may receive from the Lord will be in conformity with the revelations that are given through the Prophet, Seer and Revelator. When I hear people discussing certain doctrines and tenets, there is always one satisfaction in my mind, and that is, that whatever may be erroneous in the opinions of men, these questions can always be settled by revelation from God. 

There is another idea that I want to speak of, for the benefit of any strangers that may be present, and that is that the Lord has established His authority upon the earth. That authority is termed Priesthood, and it is in this Church. It is one of the greatest blessings that can be given to the children of men if it be exercised in righteousness; for it will bring salvation unto them and to thousands of others. No spiritual blessings can come to the Church of Christ, except through the Priesthood; and I wish to read a little about this authority. 1 read from the 84th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: "Abraham received the Priesthood from Melchisedek, who received it through the lineage of his fathers, even till Noah; 

"And from Noah till Enoch, through the lineage of their fathers; 

"And from Enoch to Abel, who was slain by the conspiracy of his brother, who received the Priesthood by the commandments of God. by the hand of his father Adam, who was the first man; 

"Which Priesthood continueth in the Church of God in all generations, and is without beginning of days or ena of years. 

"And the Lord confirmed a Priesthood also upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations — which Priesthood also continueth and abideth forever with the Priesthood which is after the holiest order of God. 

"And this greater Priesthood administered the Gospel and h^ldeth the key  the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God." 

How many millions of people there are today upon the earth who woula walk across this earth for the privilege of knowing that God lives; Well, we heard yesterday from Apostle Clawson that there are thousands of men here who hold the key to a knowledge of God. 

"Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest; 

"And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the Priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." 

Now, my young brethren and sisters, when you see men gathered together who are termed "divines," and the> plainly state that the gifts and bless ings of the Holy Spirit are not in their churches; when they ridicule the principle of prophets, apostles, seers and revelators; when they will scorn the idea that God is a personal Being, you may understand why they do not enjoy these blessings. It is explained in that which I have read to you: "Without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the Priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest in the flesh." 

"For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live. 

Now this Moses plainly taught to the children of Israel in the wilderness, and sought diligently to sanctify his people, that they might behold the face of God; 

But they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence; therefore the Lord in his wrath (for his anger was kindled against them) swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is the fulness of his glory. 

Therefore he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also: 

And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; 

Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John, whom God raised up, being filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb; 

For he was baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews, and to  straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, into whose hand is given all power. ********* 

Therefore, as I said concerning the sons of Moses — for the sons of Moses, and also the sons of Aaron, shall offer an acceptable offering and sacrifice in the house of the Lord, which house shall be built unto the Lord in this generation, upon the consecrated spot, as I have appointed; 

And the sons of Moses and of Aaron shall  be filled with the glory of the Lord, upon Mount Zion, in the Lord's house, whose sons are ye; and also many whom I have called and sent forth to build up my church; 

For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of whicn I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; 

They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron, and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom and the elect of Gcd, 

And also all they who receive this Priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord: 

For he that receiveth my servants r°^eiveth me; 

And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him; 

And this according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. 

Therefore, all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved; 

But whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall "not have forgiveness of sins in this world, nor in the world to come. 

And all those who come not unto this Priesthood which ye have received, which I now confirm upon you who are present this day, by mine own voice out of the heavens, and even I have given the heavenly hosts and mine angels charge concerning you." 

I have read to you what God acknowledges as His authority upon the earth. Nov, there is not a soul upon the face of this earth, whether he be black or white, rich or poor, but is entitled to know that God lives, if he will keep His commandments. I testify unto you that I have received this knowledge. I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of the true and living God; that He lives, moves, and has a being;  that He is the light and life of the world. I testify that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Most High God. who was ordained to come forth in the dispensation of the fulness of times to establish His Church upon the earth, preparatory to the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I testify that there are tens of thousands of people in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains that have received the gift of the Holy Ghost; and this gift fills them with a knowledge of God. I testify that Israel is being gathered from abroad, according to the prophecies of the holy prophets, and they are being established in the tops of the mountains. God the Eternal Father is conducting this work, and it is not of man. I testify also that the curse of God will rest upon any man who puts his trust in the arm of flesh; for the Lord has said, "Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arm." The Lord has prepared the means whereby we may know that He lives, and that He is our Father and God. He has also prepared the means whereby we can receive of His Spirit and power, to guide and direct us in the ways of all truth. When Jesus was upon the earth He said: "I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of Him that sent me." Again,: "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." I have sought after this information by doing the will of my Father. With a'l my weaknesses and imperfections, our Eternal Father has had mercy upon me and has given me a testimony that He lives, and that He has- a being. My testimony unto all who are under the sound of my voice is that I know that God lives, and that He will give this same testimony unto all who will serve Him and keep His commandments. He has wrought out a plan of life and salvation, and if we will yield obedience to that we can be brought back into His presence and be crowned heirs of glory, immortality and eternal life. We can partake of all the attributes of our Father, and ultimately get to that position which He occu pies today. As Jesus says, "Be ye perfeet, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." 

I prophesy unto you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that while today all the sectarian world oppose the idea of the personality of God, the time will come when the majority of the denominations will acknowledge that our Father and God is a personal being, even as they have adopted other principles, one by one, that have been revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. When you see these things come to pass, you may know the spirit by which they have been spoken. 

Inasmuch as I have this testimony, i never spend a day in Zion, but I feel that I should be somewhere lifting up my voice and declaring this testimony unto the children of men; for behold, the Lord our God has said that the harvest is great and the reapers are few. He has given commandment unto this people to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature; "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." I want to add my testimony to that of Elder Cowley yesterday, wherein he said that there should come unto Zion people from all nations. The time will come when we will penetrate the very center of the great empire of China. We will go into India, and into South America, and into every nation under heaven. The Lord our God will prepare the way. and there will be enough come out of these nations to redeem their dead throughout all the generations that are past and gone. The day will come when we will go into Turkey, into Africa, and into every part of the earth. I never look upon one of these maps in our Sunday schools, whereon is shown the trail of the Apostle Paul in his ministry, from city to city, without having a desire in my heart to perform a similar work, that some day a red line on the map might show my labors in the ministry; for I know that this Gospel must go into all the world for a witness, unto every creature. The Redeemer predicted that this Gospel should go into all the world for a witness; then should the end come. And the day will come — I feel it with all  heart— when Apostles, especially the younger ones in the quorum, will bevery scarce in the land of Zion; for I have been taught it by my father, and I have heard it time and time again from the Presidency of the Church, that the duty of the Apostles is to be abroad among the nations of the earth, carrying the glad tidings of great joy to the children of men, unlocking the doors of salvation to the nations, and bringing peace and good will to them. These men upon this stand are willing at any hour to go forth to perform their duty. They are witnesses of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and they know that He lives, and moves, and has a being. He is calling unto the children of men to repent and come to the light to gather up to the land of Zion and to prepare for His coming. 

I feel to rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being in your presence today, and I say unto you, if you will serve God and keep His commandments, you will be crowned with glory, immortality and everlasting life in the kingdom of our God; which may He grant, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: "We thank Thee.O God, for a Prophet." 

Benediction by Elder William Budge. 


