Second Overflow
04 10 1914


Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., presided. 

The Waterloo Ward choir, conducted by Arthur McFarlane, furnished the musical service, accompanied by a string quartette; Tracy Y. Cannon organist. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell, By faith and love, in every breast; 

Then shall we know, and taste, and feel The joys that cannot be expressed. 

Prayer was offered by Patriarch Nathan Hawkes.; 

The choir sang the anthem "Hark! hark my Soul!" 

ELDER JOSEPH B. KEELER. 

(President of Utah Stake.) 

I feel grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity of associating with the Latter-day Saints in this conference. I feel to appreciate the blessings which we all enjoy in listening to the servants of the Lord. I think that we do appreciate President Joseph F. Smith, and that we appreciate President Lund, and President Penrose. I think we all appreciate the Twelve, the general authorities of the Church, the organization to which we belong, and that Priesthood which many of us are favored to hold. I believe our appreciation goes out to our heavenly Father to the extent of our ability to appreciate; and T believe, as we work further in this Church, that we shall have greater capacity to understand and appreciate the Gospel of our Savior, and we shall have, in time, a fullness of joy. 

We belong to a wonderful organization. We do not know of a greater organization ever existing , the face of the earth than now exists. We know that the Gospel has been upon the earth in times past. But inasmuch as this is the fullness of times, when all things shall be brought together in one, we are constrained to believe that this organization, for the salvation of the human family, is the greatest that, ever existed upon the face of the earth. I know that we do appreciate the blessings of our heavenly Father in His appearing with His Son Jesus Christ to the boy Joseph, and giving authority to him to proceed with His work upon the earth. He said to Joseph: "This is My beloved Son, hear Him." And then the other told Joseph many wonderful things, and made known the mission that he, Toseph, was to perform upon the earth. My brethren and sisters, this organization, this Church of Jesus Christ, has the personal supervision of the Redeemer. It was begun by Kim, and was fostered by Him. The Prophet Joseph Smith received instruction from the Savior from time to time, as was necessary for the establishment of this Church. Furthermore, when ever it was necessary, angels came and instructed the Prophet Joseph, and those who were associated with him. Angels came and gave power and authority, as they were directed from on high, to the Prophet Joseph, that he might go forth and organize the Church of fesus Christ. 

When we think of it, it is wonderful to our minds. We say that the constitution of the United States on which our government is founded is a great and a glorious instrument, and so it is. But, in. the consideration, and in the bringing together of those principles which compose that instrument, it took the best  of many men and many minds. In fact, it was not the work wholly of those who were its framers, for they had the benefit of the experience and learning of others who were behind them, and we say this is a mighty instrument. It was by the will of the Father that it was given to the children of men, and especially to those who composed this nation. But here we have a young man, not learned in these things, not learned in the schemes of government, we behold him setting forth the principles of a government which not only gives liberty to men, liberty to develop as men among their fellow men, but it also holds out to all mankind salvation now and hereafter. Now we see that this could be done only by the guidance of the Holy Spirit and the instruction of heavenly beings : therefore we are fortunate indeed that we belong to such an organization.  

Christ did not organize this Church through His servants, and then go off and leave it, He is here today. His guiding hand is over all those delegated by His authority and inspired by Him, and He it is who is guiding this Church, as He also guides the nations. I say we are particularly blessed by having a membership in this Church. 1. for one, feel to appreciate these great blessings. Furthermore, we have the principles and ordinanceof the Gospel; sometimes we say the first principles, those things that are fundamental. Well now, men talked about faith and repentance and baptism and the Holy Ghost, a long time before Joseph Smith's day; but were these principles of power and authority to the human family, the principles of salvation ? Were these the principles that would lead men back into the presence of the Father ? They were; provided they had been coupled with authority and the power of the Holy Ghost. But, there were no men for ages, upon the face of the earth who had the authority to say to a man, If you will have faith in God, if you will believe that He is, if you will repent of your sins and will go down into the waters of baptism, you shall receive a remission of your sins and ultimately be saved in the kingdom of God. Men might say that, but how many had the authority to say it, and could assist in making it good? But now we have this authority among us, it having been delegated of God, and this boy Joseph Smith was called of God, authorized of our heavenly Father, to build up 

\ this Church and this kingdom. 

\ These first principles of the Gospel, some of which were mentioned in our hearing this morning by President Smith and President Lund, have now become alive to us. They become a source of power unto us. They are all necessary, just as necessary as the waters that spring from the earth, or the rain from the clouds or the dews of heaven are necessary for the nourishment of the plants, so are these principles necessary for the nourishment and development of man's soul And indeed they have connected with them a power. They take hold of the soul of man, and cause it to grow and to develop. Faith, this mighty principle of power that we talk of, is a living fountain of power within man, and man is so organized by his Maker that he may develop this power within him, so that in time he may say, as God said in times past to the world. Be ye in existence, be  framed, come into being. He can develop himself to the extent that he can have this power, as it is given unto him through God, the Eternal Father. 

We should take hold of these principles and strive to apply them in our lives. How can we increase our faith in God? How can we gain power by this principle? Why, simply by the exercise of the power of faith in our hearts. We must have a great desire in our hearts for these things.. We must put forth our hands whenever occasion arises in order to develop this power within us. Exercise faith? Yes. Do the sick need to be healed ? Yes. There has never been a promise annulled. If the sick exercise faith, and those who are called in of the Priesthood exercise faith, the sick shall be healed; if they are not appointed unto death they shall rise : if they die, they die unto the Lord, if they live they live unto the Lord. What a mighty opportunity there is for the blessing and also for the cultivation of this power within man, to exercise it whenever occasion requires. The sick will be healed; the sick are healed by this power. So it is in every direction in our lives Repentance also may become a live thing. When men exercise repentance, they cease to do those things which they know are against the law of God, or against the law of their being, against the laws of humanity. When they begin to exercise this principle of repentance, by turning away from those things which are wrong, then they become strong in repentance, they are more powerful, they have more power to overcome the next temptation that may confront them. But if a man never practices re, if he never repents of his sins, of course he will have hard work, because the power to overcome is very limited within him; but to the extent that he knows he has gone astray and has done that which he knows is not pleasing in the sight of God, and then turns away from sin, he becomes powerful in that he can quickly make amends for those things which he may happen to do which are wrong. 

Every child of God that enters into the kingdom must come in by the door of baptism. And why? Because God has instituted it. We may philosophize today, and say many things for and against this ordinance; but there is no denying the fact, no man will ever get into the kingdom of God without this ordinance being complied with. It is a principle of power, it is a principle of salvation, and there is no other way by which man can enter in at the door of the kingdom of God, except through the door of baptism. And so it is with the Holy Ghost. As I said before, men knew of this Holy Spirit. They have read about it, but they have only to a limited extent received of its power. None of them have had that particular and peculiar promise and endowment of the Holy Ghost, except it be through the laying on of hands by those having authority. Then, when they have received this Spirit, it becomes a spirit of power to them. Thenceforward men may know, women may know that which is good for them, and that which God requires at their hands. 

Now if we will go back on our lives and look over our experiences, right up to the present time, we will see, just as surely as we can see anything, that the power of the Holy Ghost has been with us, as made  to this people. Why are we here, why are we attending this conference? If we look for it, we will see that it is through the office work of the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God that has brought us here, and to this point in our lives. And although the Hand has been invisible, almost, and while it has been so gentle, still it has led our minds, and when we made a choice in anything it has been the right choice, especially, if it has been dictated by this Spirit, and so it has brought us up to this point. 

Now, I feel grateful, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has been so merciful to us. I am glad to know that our spirits have been hid with Christ to come forth in this day and age of the world. Inasmuch, as we are in this position, inasmuch as we have received these great blessings, We ought to show forth our appreciation of these things, we ought to assist in building up this Church and kingdom. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, this latter-day work is the greatest thing in our lives. There is not a thing on earth today that stands anywhere near its greatness, and magnitude and power as does this Church in this world. It is wonderful, it is powerful and it should not be accounted by us as dross, for the power of God is with it and it will succeed. By the way, this organization is the only thing that will succeed on the earth. All the organizations of the world will go into oblivion; they will pass away, but this organization will not pass away, if will go on forever; and we who a're connected with it, and will keep connected with it, will go on forever. 

Men and women look sometimes for the sure things in life. They want to be connected with the sure things, those things about which there is not a possibility of mistake or chance. I don't know of anything in this world that is more enduring than this Church, and the principles of the Gospel in our lives, and it will take us through to the end. This being the fact, how foolish it is for us to attach ourselves to anything else! There is always room for all our activities and powers right here in the Church assisting to build it up, and it seems wise that we should not associate with our fellowmen in other organizations which are inconsistent with it When it comes to attaching ourselves to organizations for safety, to that which will endure, there is nothing to compare with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and we will find it out. too, that in a temporal way it is the safest institution we can be connected with, temporally as well as spiritually. And so we ought not to fritter away time and talents in organizations that are ephemeral, that are only for a time, only for the moment. We ought not to pay very much attention to such, but should pay our attention to and bestow our talents and our powers on that which pertains to the kingdom, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Then if we do this, we shall be saved, we shall be happy. 

Are any of us feeling badly now because we belong to the. Church of Jesus Christ? I wonder if any of those good brethren and sisters who came from England, from France and from Germany, and from any of those countries where there is strife and turmoil, I wonder if any of them are feeling badly now that they listened to the Elders, and listened to the cry : "Come out of her, O ye  people?" I think not. As time goes on we shall find out that it is a splendid thing to be where the Priesthood is, and to be where the organization of Jesus Christ is, because it is a place of safety, it is a place of refuge in the time of storms and calamities which are sure to come upon the earth. It is my judgment that what we are seeing now is only as a drop in the bucket to what we shall yet see in the world, for God has given us forewarnings of trouble" and sorrow to come. We pray for peace and peace will come eventually. We pray for a time when there shall be a brotherhood, and all shall acknowledge the fatherhood of God. That is not yet, but it is developing. It is developing among all people, particularly Christian people, and it is proper to talk for peace, to pray for peace, because it is necessary when great events are to come upon the human family, which have been predicted are to come upon the earth, that the shadow of those things should be cast before. So it is necessary for us to talk of peace, that when the time comes, our hearts will be in a frame to accept peace. But there is a storm coming before there will be a cleatsky. And all we can say is, let us be encouraged to go on, and let us make this work the main thing of our lives, and if we want a greater testimony than we have, that this is the work of God, let us go to and perform the things that devolve upon us. Let us be honest, let us be truthful, let us be humble, let us stand ready to sustain this organization. , 

Let us not think that because this is an organization of spiritual character that it is not to be sustained also in a temporal way, by temporal . The Lord has given us temporal duties to practice that we may become strong in that direction. We assist His Church and. His kingdom by contributing to it in its temporalities. Why? So that we may know and feel and understand that this is really a Church that has power and salvation in it. Let us contribute in every way we can for its upbuilding and its perpetuation in the earth. 

That we may prove true and faithful to the trust we have received; that we may show forth our appreciation of these things in our lives; that we may eventually receive the benefit of a salvation in our Father's kingdom, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ROBERT D. YOUNG. 

(President of Sevier Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, [ can truly say that T never was more thankful to my Heavenly Father for the standing that I have at the present time in the Church of jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel that my fellowship with you is worth more to me than anything else that I can think of. I have enjoyed very much the remarks of President Keeler, and his timely instructions. 

In our meeting in the Tabernacle this morning, every soul seemed to breathe a hearty response to all that was said by our beloved Prophet and President, and the prayer that was uttered by President Penrose, and commented upon by President Lund, showing to us the great efficacy of prayer. I was called back for a moment to remembrance of my labors in the mission field, in 

Australia. The people had suffered in that country from a great drought, until it seemed as though it was threatening them with starvation. They called together all the ministers of that country, particularly in Oueensland,to a meeting in Brisbane, inviting all other ministers except the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The question was asked of some of them why they did not extend an invitation to the elders of the "Mormon" Church, and they said that they were praying for rain, and they were in hopes that they would secure it, and for fear that the Lord would be displeased they left the "Mormons" out. But they did not get rain, to amount to anything, for nearly a year after that, until the ground became parched, dusty and barren, hardly a spear of grass to be seen. I felt so glad, so thankful, that the President of our great country was more thoughtful of all the churches, and had faith in the efficacy of prayer, and required this day to be set apart as a day of prayer for peace. I think it is a very appropriate day; and I presume that the Latter-day Saints as a whole would agree with me in this matter. 

As I said, I feel grateful that I am identified with this Church, that I have a standing in this Church. I have never seen in all my travels or in all my associations with men, a place where I need be ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; but rather I have gained favor when I have, as Latter-day Saints should, borne testimony to the divinity ot the mission of Joseph Smith. It reminds me of some words of the poet that were quoted by one of our elders : "However the battle is ended, 

Though proudly the victories come, With fluttering flags and prancing steeds 

And the echoing roll of drum, Still truth proclaims the motto, 

In letters of living light, No question is ever settled 

Until it is settled right." 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, to commend such men as those who have contributed great sums, and their moral support, for the establishment of peace, and the gathering of peace conventions. But I feel — and I have felt it more today than perhaps ever before — that the Latter-day Saints should be thankful that they have settled the question right for themselves. Until the people of the whole world solves this problem, by accepting the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the question of peace will never be settled right. The Gospel and mission of Jesus Christ was peace on earth, good will to men. It was to banish from the hearts of men self-aggrandizement, and selfishness, the desire to covet that which belongs to our neighbors, and make us possess the spirit of long-suffering, gentleness, kindness, faith and patience, that we might be able, not only to shun the evils of war, but to shun, as Paul tells us, the very appearance of evil. 

I wish to read a little from the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning on page 250 : 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not' to understand the doctrines of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized; and  children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands, and they shall also teach their children to pray— [which we heard quoted in the splendid discourses, and which were so beautifully illustrated in the prayers that we had this morning, in the supplication of our Heavenly Father for peace]— and walk uprightly before the Lord. And the inhabitants of Zion shall, also, observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. And the inhabitants of Zion, also, shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. Now, I the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them. * * * * These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them: wherefore, let my servant, Oliver Cowdery carry these sayings unto tW land of Zion." 

Recently T clipped an item from a newspaper. Tt was a comment of the Daily Mail, after the speech of Lord "Roberts, appealing to the patriotism of the men of their country. Tn this comment they stated that the people were playing, as it were, on the deck of a ship with the compass and sails, believing they were selfgoverned, while down in the hull of the ship was a powder magazine of whose existence they knew not. It commented on the secret diplomacv of their country,, stating that it should have no part nor portion in any government; that the people should know and understand the things that are being carried on bv their nation. I was very much struck by this : that secret diplomacy should not and must not have any part, and that if Europe Avould be free from menace in the future they must follow the example of the United States. In reading this, my brethren and sisters, I have thought a great deal of the prophecy, where we are told that the law should go out from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Remembering that this whole land, our great country, is the land of Zion, here, in my opinion, was a suggestion in the right and proper direction. 

I wonder how many of us are preparing our homes, setting our homes in order, so that we will be able to have our children practice the principle of prayer, and observance of the Sabbath day, that they may grow up and be as a light upon a hill, or be as the leaven that is to leaven the whole lump. I believe that in some of the homes of the Latter-day Saints there is need for reformation, and more diligence should be manifest in teaching children the efficacy of prayer, how to pray and what to pray for properly, that they may grow up with the faith in the divinity of this great work, that they should have as Latter-day Saints. 

I trust and pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will bless us, that we may be able to more fully appreciate the wonderful blessings that are showered out upon us in this goodly land where we reside, where the Lord has brought us, and that we may be able to remember Him in the requirements that Lie has made of us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Beautiful Zion for me." 

ELDER SAMUEL E. WOOLLEY. 

(President of Hawaiian Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is indeed refreshing to me to meet with you in this conference, as I have been away for a number of years from the body of the Church, laboring in what was once a foreign land,  which today forms a part of Zion. It is indeed pleasing to meet so many who have taken upon themselves sacred covenants and obligations to serve the Lord with all our might, mind and strength, and rely upon His promises which will not fail. The Lord has said, through His prophet, in this day and dispensation in which we live, that "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do as I say; but when ye do not as I say, there is no promise." I feel that we, as Latter-day Saints, should take this to heart. We should remember these precious promises that have been made to each of us. Every soul in this room, and in the other vast congregations in conference assembled, have, if they are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, received such a promise, and that promise is sure if we do our part. Therefore, I rejoice, as the brethren who have spoken have expressed themselves, more today than ever before in my life that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ, that I have been called, by the servants of the Lord, to preach the words of life and salvation to a nation of people who have been hidden up by the power of God, the Eternal Father. Great promises have been made to that people, the Hawaiians, who have been despised because not properly known by but very few. They are a good people; they are of Israel, and a remnant of them will be saved in the kingdom of God, because the promises have been made. There are thousands who live in that far-off land who are true Latter-day Saints, true to their covenants, faithful in payment of tithes and offerings; and they are a prayerful people, and teach their children to pray. When the missionaries found that people in the year, 1820, (missionaries of the Protestant denominations), they 'found them believing in God, a truly prayerful people, for they pray in a child-like manner, they open their souls unto the Lord as little children do. I have often envied them in their devotion, in prayer, for it has seemed to me that they could get nearer to the Lord than I could. I bring greeting from that people to the members of the Church in conference assembled. They send their "Aloha nut ia onkou a pan." Many of them would love to gather to Zion, and I feel that many of them will. I hope that before the war is poured out upon all nations, many of them will be gathered to this land of safety, this land of peace, where the Lord has promised peace. 

My heart goes out to those that have joined the Church in foreign lands, in Europe. They must 'feel sorry, yea, very sad to think that they have not gathered to Zion. Perhaps there are many of them who could not, that is not for us to say, but no doubt they will feel in their hearts to wish they were in Zion, a land of peace. 

I feel that we should heed the admonitions that have been given us as a people by the President of the Church, that man whom we all love, that we should pray, that we should go into our closets, our secret places, and there offer up our devotion to God as He has directed. We should teach our children to pray, and to do what the authorities in the Church ask them, to honor and sustain those over them in authority. We who preside over missions realize the need for this, because we receive elders from different parts of this country, from  who have been brought up under different conditions, and we find that some of them need to be taught to pray. On one occasion an elder told me, when I asked him to pray in our family devotion at headquarters, that that was the first time in his life he had knelt down to pray with a family. He had faith enough in the Church and kingdom of God to leave his home to go and preach the gospel of peace to the world, but it would have been better for him had he been taught to pray at home. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that young men and young women who are called to the mission fields should not try to direct the Priesthood as to where they are to go, but let the Priesthood say. That has been my faith always. We ought to learn the little song the chorus of which runs something like this: 

"I will go where you want me to go, I will say what you want me to say, And will do what you want me to do. ' 

And sing it until its principle becomes part of us. If our young men and our young women learned this, and really realized it in their hearts and in their souls, they would say to the brethren who called them to go to the nations of the earth, wheresoever it might be, "I will go where you want me to go; I will do what you want me to do, and I will say what you want me to say, by the help of Him who rules on high. .We ought to do this, because we would then go feeling in our hearts that we were just where the Lord wants us to be. I have never known in my life an instance of the Lord making any mistakes, or of the brethren who were called to preside making mis when guided by the influence of the Holy Ghost. It is the right and privilege of all to be guided by that influence, because it has been conferred upon us for that especial purpose. I feel that we Latter-day Saints ought to be faithful, and appreciative of the goodness and blessings of our Father. 

I thought, while President Smith was saying this morning that none of us could make a blade of grass grow without the power of God, how true it is that "Paul may plant and Apollos may water, but God giveth the increase." Let us have complete faith in God who gives the increase, and that He is at the helm, guiding all things. 

This work will go on, brethren and sisters, I have no doubt of it; the only doubt I have is in my ability to prove faithful under all conditions. I want to be faithful; I want to be true; I want to be loyal to the Priesthood; I want to be loyal to the work of God in every particular, and I want to do my duty faithfully and well. 

Now I believe that we have, as I have said, a good people clown in Hawaii, there are not very many of us — a little over 8,000 souls that belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There are other thousands who have belonged to the Church and have passed to the other side, who will need to have ordinance work done 'for them in- the temples. I am trying to encourage those who are faithful to see to it that they gather their genealogies. It is going to be a difficult task, because those people do not take the name of the parent as we do; a man might be called John, and that would be the only name he would be known by, and his father's name Samuel, only; furnishing no  in names as to parenthood, except so far as their recollection goes. It appears to me that, after a while, the Lord will have to reveal many things pertaining to that good people, because of the promises that He has made through His prophets. 

You will remember reading,' in the Book of Mormon, of the promise made to Joseph, the son of Lehi, that a remnant of his seed should be preserved, and they would receive the Gospel. And then we read of one Hagaoth, a Nephite ship builder, who builded a large ship and took emigrants of the Nephites to the north, then he came back and builded other ships, and some of those were lost and driven away, and whether they sank in the mighty deep or were drifted to other lands, the writer says he knows not. But we believe, through tracing their genealogies, traditions and legends, that they are of that people who were lost, the Nephites that were migrating to the north, and that they drifted off to Hawaii-. The natural currents of the ocean teach us that. 

1 have a glass bottle in my office, at the mission headquarters, that was picked up on the shore of Laie, upon the island of Oahu. That bottle was thrown overboard from a vessel, north of San Francisco, and it contained documents giving the date, the latitude and longitude, the name of the vessel and the name of the captain of the ship from which it was thrown. How long this bottle had lain upon the sands of the sea shore we do not know, but we know that it was found, and we know that not so very long a time elapsed between the throwing of this bottle into the sea, containing the information that I have named sealed within it, until it was picked up on the shore at Laie a place familiar to all the elders and sisters who have labored in the islands of Hawaii. 

Laie used to be a city of refuge in the days of the old kings, and it is now a city of refuge for the Saints living in that land, a gatheringplace. The servants of the Lord, the committee chosen to select a gathering place for the Saints of that mission, one of whom was our beloved President Joseph F. Smith, had the land shown in vision to them, and they reported the same to President Young, who authorized the purchase of the land, and since then it has been owned by the Church. It is a beautiful place. We are trying to build it up, and make it a city of refuge indeed for that people, where they can be cared for. I feel that the time has come when we need to have them gather together more than heretofore. They are being oppressed, and their lands are being bought by other people, and many of them are left homeless, so to speak. * We need to teach them to cultivate the soil more than they have done before. The spirit to plant and to cultivate has come over them; and there will be a market for everything they can raise, because of the large number of United States troops located upon that island; and also that they may have something in time of famine to feed the needy. We are trying to teach them to' save foodstuffs, that they may be prepared for a time when they will need it, as we have been taught, not only to provide for our spiritual welfare but for our temporal wants also. 

Now I pray the Lord to bless this people, to bless all Israel, to bless al our missions in the earth, and all the elders and sisters who go out to preach peace and good will to  Israel and to bring them home to Zion, where they may escape the judgments that are to be poured out upon those who will not repent. 

May the Lord bless the people here in Zion, and help us to appreciate these beautiful valleys, and mountains of ours, and what the Lord has done and will do for us, if we are faithful; and that He will finally save us all in His kingdom, with the redeemed and sanctified, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DON B. COLTON. 

(President of Uintah Stake.) 

I think it is Winston Churchill, in his rather remarkable book "Inside of the Cup" that says: "The test of any doctrine is whether or not it can be translated into life, whether it will make those better who believe and obey it." This quotation and thought has come to me this day in listening to the remarks of my brethren. In the same book the same author puts it into the mouth of one of his characters to say, in speaking to a minister of the gospel: "O if you only knew the yearning that exists in this great city for a religion that will satisfy the soul!" These two quotations have come to me, I say, during the day. and I am so grateful that, so far as my soul is concerned, the religion of Jesus Christ, as I understand it, satisfies. And more than that, I am willing that this test, as to whether or not this doctrine may be translated into life, may be made in the case of the members of the Church. To me one of the greatest evidences that the doctrines of the Church are translated into life, yea indeed become life itself.  the fact that out of every land and clime have been gathered people with various thoughts of life, with various habits of life. 

From the southern parts of Europe, the Slavs have been gathered; from the Central, the Teutons; from the north, the Saxons and the Britons and various peoples from the islands of the sea, and they have become one homegenious whole, welded together by a power that is a marvel to many people who make a study of the Church. "Translated into life." These doctrines are life to the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They have brought our people from foreign lands, many from scenes of poverty. The elders have gone forth preaching this word among the poor, the poor have been gathered here to this goodly land. These people who have received the Gospel have made good homes, they have reared good families. They have sent their sons back to the land of their forefathers as missionaries; and what wonderful changes one generation has wrought in the lives of the people. 

Young men are called from various walks of life, from the farm, from the store, from the schoolroom, and from the various professions, that go out humbly, yet willing to receive the impressions and willing to work, and they have become valiant and courageous and able defenders of God's work. They become men who are not afraid to meet the learned of the earth and talk to them upon the principles of the Gospel. Have these doctrines been translated into life? Look again. See a man as' he is in his native place, often in wickedness, turn and in the face of the world embrace this Gospel with sincere , turn around and become a good, honest, God-fearing man. I have known of the influences of the Gospel to take hold of young men while riding upon the range, and have melted them to tears. Ther would get off their horses and ask God's forgjiveness. The light of the Gospel has come into their souls, and they have been .better, aye, a thousand times better, for the Spirit and power of God that has come to them when they have put their soul.^ in a condition to receive the Gospel and its benefit and light. It ha.^ impressed itself upon our boys to go to school, because they have learned that the glory of God is intelligence, and that a man cannot be saved in ignorance. Therefore, all over the land, and all over the Church, young men and young wo^ men are filled with a desire to learn, to know, to become better, to feel what there is in life itself. They have learned to feel life, to know what life is, by seeing and feeling the brighter life translated into their lives; it has become part of their very lives, through the Gospel. 

Does it satisfy the soul? Ask these men who have gathered from those lands and made homes among the happy people who are true to the Church. Ask them if they are satisfied, and they will answer. Yes, I am thankful to God that out in the world I heard this word; I heard and embraced it. Satisfied? They never knew happiness until this message came to them. Ask the boy who wants to study. Ask him who wants to g'et into the mysteries of life, are you satisfied? To him this life is not what Ingersoll said it was '"A narrow vale between two cold and barren peaks of eternity." No, it is not so with a man who comes in and studies this Gospel. Tt is an explanation to him of life before he came here, of life here and of life hereafter. No depth, no height, no width to which he may not go in the study of the problems of life. There are things revealed, light revealed sufficient to satisfy the most learned student, who with prayerful heart goes in and asks God to unlock to him the mysteries of the life hereafter, as well as life before coming here. 

Ask the man or the woman who is called to part with a loved one, with a child, for instance. I have seen it; you have seen it, my brethren. You have been called, and vou have gone to administer to the sick. We have seen the sick, in dozens of instances, praise God that His power is manifest in the Church. At times, it is true. God has called home our loved ones, and still are we satisfied. You and I have witnessed it. I have myself gone into the homes where death has come, and I have seen broken-hearted — may I say that — at least sorrowful fathers and mothers, weeping over the bier of their children, but they have looked up through their tears, and said : "I thank God, for I know my child still lives, and though God has taken him or her from me, they still live, and the Lord liveth and the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, and blessed be the name of the Lord." Where else can you find such satisfaction? Where else can you find such true happiness? Where else can you go to find the soul-satistion that you can find in the Gospel of Jesus Christ? And if this author's test is a true one, if this work is to be judged and measured by its power to be translated into the lives of its people, or if it is to be measured by its power to satisfy the soul.  say that the requirements are met. 

Now, in conclusion, one thought — the satisfaction that comes to me and to you, in this work to impart strength. The strength of the Gospel lies in this truth, that I have the right to know for myself whether this work is true or not. I have a right to have my soul satisfied along this line. So have you. And the strength of this work, I repeat, lies in the fact that all men may know God and know of this doctrine; that out in the Stakes of Zion, all over the world where the Gospel is preached, men and women rise up and declare, in words of soberness, that they know that this work is true, that God has revealed it to them. We sustain the authorities of the Church, not because we know them personally, but because God has called them to positions which they occupy, and we know it. We know this work is true, and therefore we sustain and uphold them. 

God bless us all, that the testimony of the 'truth may be with us and make our hearts rejoice. I feel sure in my knowledge of the glorious truths God has revealed, and may we all feel that into our lives are translated the glorious truths of the Gospel, that we shall show the effect of that translation by our conduct, in just and true and pure lives, and if we shall do it, the results will follow, and our souls will be satisfied. God bess us to this end, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

As the dew, from heaven distilling, Gently on the grass descends, 

And revives it, thus fulfilling What Thy providence intends. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

I bring you greetings, my brethren and sisters and 'friends, from the California mission, and am happy to tell you that everything is propitious there for the work of the Lord, your fathers and husbands, your sons and brothers are doing good service in the Master's cause. 

With the brethren who have preceded me, I appreciate, as I know every Latter-day Saint does, the fact .that they are members of the Church of Christ, and citizens of Zion. Our songs and most of the talk this day has been in praise of the fact, or stating the fact, that this is the land of Zion, the land of peace. You who are familiar with holy writ know that this land has been hidden away from the ken of man, a choice and a chosen land for Joseph and his seed, who was separated from his brethren; and that the Gentiles who should come to this land, and acknowledge Christ as king and Lord, should be great in the eyes of the Omnipotent One, and that He would care for them and provide for them. He would fight their battles. All who would come up against Zion, white or black, bond or free, should perish, and those who would seek to set up a kingdom here should have their schemes brought to naught, and should signally fail; even those who should strive from afar to set up kings upon this land should likewise perish. This land, if the testimony of the greatest of our scientists be true, was hoary with age when Egypt was in her swaddling bands : First of the continents to thrust its head above the waters, and first to pierce the sky with its mountains, was this glad land of America. 

Just now, almost within the confines of the City of the Angels, in California, is the greatest archaeololical find known to modern times. Bones are being disinterred there that, in the mind of the scientist and paleontologist, have determined the fact that here on this western hemisphere life began, both that of the beast of the field, the fowl of the air and of human kind. Elephants of huge and ponderous size, camels, horses, tigers, lions (greater than any known to modern times, and estimated to be 250,000 years old), the greatest bear known to history, the greatest wolf, the greatest bird of prey, have all been disinterred in the oil pits of Lake La Brea, on the western confines or city limits of Los Angeles. The skeleton of a woman head downward, also supposed to be at least ten thousand years old, was found there. Whether she was thrown headlong into the pit of tar by angry spouse or a disgruntled lover, or whether she fell in while plaiting her hair before the lake as a mirror, is not known. But these things have gone to determine in the minds of men that America was the home of the human race, and the home where God first set His creatures free. From this land, Maya tradition tells us, as told by Le Plongeon, in his "Queen Moo" civilization was taken to Egypt. This was possibly by Egyptus — as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, and the riddle is thus solved where Egypt and Egyptions obtained their civilization, and the wondrous knowledge of astronomy, of surveying, of agriculture, of medicine, etc., it came from America, the land from whence Noah sailed when he with his family embarked in the ark, when the waters of the great deep were broken up and the lands both of the old and the new world, so called, were inundated. This hidden land of Joseph, seen only in transient vision, perchance, sometimes, as by Isaiah, when he looked across the sands of Sahara, beyond the gates of the Mediterranean Sea, and cried out : ''Woe! to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia;" and beheld that there should be gathered the elect of God's people in the last days, that there should His house be set up, and here should men learn of His ways and walk in His paths, as has been stated today, that "the law should go forth of Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." If we needed evidence of the fulfillment of that part of this prophecy, we only need look at what is done today by the great nations striving for supremacy yet appealing to America for recognition, each one pleading to America to acknowledge the integrity and honor of their purpose in war, and to defend them through pubiic opinion. We find ag^ain a testimony in the Monroe doctrine, which determined the policy of the states of America, that there should be no intervention come from abroad, that this land in its autonomy and integrity should be preserved by the government of the United States, founded under God and His inspiration for the establishment of liberty and conserving the rights of men, "nobly defended by the blood of our fathers," and prayed for in the revelation prayer given to the Prophet Joseph Smith for the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, that "it should stand for ever." 

A vindication of the promise that T quoted from the Book of Mormon relative to kings is found in the his, most melancholy, indeed, of Maximilian, one time a prince of Austria, who sought to set himself up as Emperor of Mexico. You know his sad fate (executed at the hands of the native forces of Mexico) perchance better than you do the fate of his loving and charming wife, Carlotta, who after all her vicissitudes of fortune which vainly seeking to bolster up the kingdom of her husband by European powers, is still an inmate of an insane asylum. Louis Napoleon, who refused to withdraw his troops, when England and Spain did upon the protest of the United States. At that time this country was unable to use its forces against those armies for the reason that we were engaged in a 'fratricidal war, foretold by the Prophet Joseph Smith many years before it came about, and from which time war should be poured out upon all nations. 'Twas then our countrv received its baptism of fire. At that time those two nations withdrew their forces. France persisted against our protest. What became of Louis III who sought to establish a king here? He became an exile to England, where he died, and his only son, Prince Bonaparte enlisted in a British regiment was ambushed and killed by the Zulus in South Africa. 

Again in the house of Portugal. John VI, went to Rio Janeiro with his court and set up his son as emperor of Brazil, from which country he governed Portugal. In the early part of the 19th century, he returned to Portugal in a mad effort to overcome conditions there and establish his house firmly in that land but died broken-hearted. Dom Pedro, of Brazil, found his reign a tempestuous one, and abdicated in favor of his own son, who afterwards himself  glad to flee the land, when a republic was instituted. Portugal has seen, or we have seen, the fulfillment of God's promises relative to the fate of the house of John — the assassination of Don Carlos and his brother and the exile of his brother, Manuelo, who now is a refugee in England, without a country and without a home that he can claim as his own. The same condition obtained when Antone Creile would have set up a kingdom in Chile, and made his daughter the "richest woman of Europe." Put to death, in an uprising of the denizens of that state, he perished, and his daughter, broken-hearted, withdrew herself from the courts that she had graced with her smiles and her riches, and retired to Copenhagen, and three years ago, died in penury and was buried in the Potter's field. God has kept His promise relative to this land of Zion. And as I recognize that the Lord has kept the other promises He has made, we may read the signs of the times and know that the Lord will fight the battles of this land just so long as the people of this loved country of ours shall acknowledge Christ as Lord and He shall be their king. 

It was the note of John Hay, Secretary of State, that determined the outcome of the Russo-Japanese war before it was fought. He declared for the integrity of China and her autonomy, the withdrawal of the Russian forces and that the ports of that empire should be open to the commerce of the world. "It staggered the diplomats of the world for a brief instant, the Kaiser of Germany and the King of England, objected, but it was not long, three days at the farthest, I think, until they themselves repeated the Haynote, and declared it for their policy.  is again, an example of the "law going forth from Zion" and having a radical and vital force in the affairs of the nations of the earth. 

We have exercised a protectorate over some of the islands of the Pacific, as well as bringing Hawaii into Zion, as mentioned by Brother Woolley. We have exercised a protectorate over some of the West India islands, and the beneficient influence of this country, guaranteed by the constitution framed by our fathers, under the inspiration of God, must be recognized by the great nations of the earth. Verily, saith the Lord, as it written in the scriptures that shall be published by the people in this land of Joseph, the law they have of God shall find place in the hearts of men, they shall acknowledge the Christ as their king, they shall bow their knee and pay homage to Him, and His words shall go forth in power among the nations of men until all shall know the Lord, and "there shall be no need for one man to ask' another, Knowest thou the Lord ? but every man shall know Him from the greatest unto the least." Then men, having become sickened with war and bloodshed, and famine, and rapine and plunder, shall turn themselves away from it, and learn the arts of peace, of industry, and walk in the ways of righteousness, and the millennium shall have dawned, and Christ shall have begun His reign for ever with His Saints. God hasten the day, I ask it, in Christ's name. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Gospel Restoration." 


