Morning
04 10 1914

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

Precautions taken for safety of missionaries in Europe — General conditions of Church affairs reported — Missionary service neded at home — Active employment of all the Priesthood advised — Reminder of duty to pray, and give thanks always — Christendom would not war if true Christianity prevailed — God not responsible for war— Peace should be in hearts of Saints that they may disseminate it to the world. 

I suppose it is somewhat expected of me to make a few remarks at the opening of this, the first session of the Eighty-fifth semi-annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and, while I feel entirely inadequate to the task, I will try with the help of the Lord to say a few words as they may be given to me by the good Spirit. I feel truly grateful that my life has been spared to meet with you this morning under so favorable circumstances as those under which we have met. I am also grateful that my counselors have also been spared to be present with us, and also that the number of the Apostles has^ been unbroken since our last conference. And I am verv grateful indeed to behold so many of the Latter-day Saints as are assembled here this morning, apparently in the enjoyment of the many blessings and privileges of life which have been vouchsafed to the people of God and the Church up to the present. I sincerely hope during the sessions of this conference we may be fed with the bread of life, that the Spirit of the Lord may rest upon His servants, who may address the conference from time to time, .and that the same Spirit may rest abundantly upon all who assemble from day to day to listen to that which may be said. 

It may be proper for me to say a few words relative to our foreign missions. I need not spend much time upon that subject as about everything that we have learned of the conditions in Europe, with refence to our elders and the work of the ministry there, has been published from time to time in the Deseret News and in other papers. But I think it will be safe for me to say that every precaution has been taken that could be taken for the protection of our elders in those foreign missions where war exists. In Ger, France, Austria, and portions of other countries so dreadfully involved in war, our elders have all been invited to withdraw, to come away from those parts of the country, and so far as we know our German missionaries have largely and almost entirely withdrawn from that country, and also from France. Some of them are located temporarily in Holland and in Scandinavia, and a few of them, quite a number indeed, have come across the Atlantic and have been distributed to the various missions in the United States, while those who had practically completed their missions in Europe have been honorably released to return home. Reports that we receive from England, notwithstanding the conditions of war that exist there, are that our elders are in safety at present, and that the field is opening before them with somewhat better prospects than heretofore. A great many people arc beginning to feel the necessity of praying for deliverance and safety, and as the spirit of prayer rests upon their minds, they begin to feel after their spiritual as well as their temporal welfare. Reports which we have received from Holland are very encouraging, indeed, and while the Presidency of that mission and of the Scandinavian missions have been instructed to be very careful about the welfare of the Elders, and if necessity arises to see that they are promptly released to escape any difficulty that might come upon them, the reports from these missions are very encouraging. They do not apprehend, for the present, any difficulty; and those who are laboring there seem to be contented and are doing good work. Nevertheless, they are all under instructions that when the  arises, our Elders who are laboring there now, apparently successfully, will be promptly released and guarded against any danger or evil, so far as it is possible. The poor Saints who are practically left without guidance of the Elders are feeling sadly the want of their presence and regret very much that they have been under the necessity of withdrawing from among them. The best experienced men that could be obtained have been advised to take charge as far as possible of the local interests of the missions abroad, and possibly a few of our Elders will remain among them until the end of the war, provided they can do so without jeopardy to their lives. Now, I don't know that I need to say anything further in regard to these matters. Others who follow me, and who have more clearly in their minds other instances, can express themselves as they feel led. I believe that the best that could possibly be done has been done, and the wisest course that could have been pursued has been pursued with reference to our missions upon the European continent respecting their release and their deliverance from trouble. I feel to thank God for all His' mercies and loving kindness to His people. £1 have before me a few memoranda to which I will briefly refer. I am reminded that the winter season is coming and that it is advisable that all the Bishops should exercise fatherly and kind consideration to the needs of the worthy poor in their midst whether Latter-day Saints or not. The purpose of the Relief Societies is to assist the Bishops in relieving the necessities of the worthy poor; it is part of their first duty. ^ We should endeavor to take care, as far as possible, of the  who have been driven from their homes in Mexico, many of whom have established themselves in various parts of the country, and in various stakes of Zion. Some few have returned to their homes in Mexico, not without more or less risk of further trouble, and at present Bishohp Bentley is in charge of the colonies, or of the people who have returned to Mexico. How long they will be suffered to remain there in peace we cannot tell, but we sincerely hope and pray for peace throughout all the land., and in this hope we desire that the people will exercise all the faith they can in behalf of our associates our fellow members of the Church, in their endeavor to recover their homes and property from which they have been driven and very largely despoiled. 

In connection with the Presiding Bishop and one of his counselors I had the privilege of visiting, in August last, our settlements in Canada, and of holding conferences there in the two stakes. The walls of the temple, which is being erected at Cardston, are in process of building. We have decided to build them of granite, and have already expended a little over fifty thousand dollars toward the erection of that building. Had it not been for the great drought that has prevailed in that country for the last two or three years, and especially during this season, the temple, without doubt, would have been farther in progress than it is today. 

I am happy to announce, also, to the conference that we have completed a magnificent new wing to the Latter-day Saints hospital. It has seventy-three private bedrooms, splendid suites of operating rooms on the sixth floor, and an open-air ward, on the roof, with a capacity of about thirty beds. It has ample kitchens and storage plants, and sub-basements, etc. It is one of the most beautiful hospital buildings in the United States, and the Latter-day Saints should remember that we have a hospital of our own. 

We are also erecting what is called the General Church Office Building. It is progressing slowly but satisfactorily. It will provide offices for the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve, the Presiding Patriarch, the Historian's office the Genealogical Society, and other Church organizations. I might add possibly without inconsistency that the progress of this building might have been a little more rapid if we had seen clearly our way to supply the means necessary to force it along a little faster. But we can only provide means for the improvements that are being made, not only for this building, the very costly addition to the hospital, and that required for the building of the temple in Canada, but means also required for schools and the assistance of the various wards and stakes of Zion to build numerous meetinghouses, amusement halls, and other places that are necessary for the use of the people throughout the Church. We have been pretty closely run for means and can only supply the money for these improvements and necessities as we obtain it from the Church. As the people pay their tithings, we are able to direct the application of it toward the improvements necessary to be made, as well as toward the meeting of all the current and reasonable expenses of the Church, the accounts of which are correctly kept to the very cent in the Presiding 

Bishop's Office, and also in the office of the Trustee-in-Trust. 

Efforts to secure employment for immigrants, and for missionaries upon their return from their missions, have been put forth to the best of our ability; and it is requested of the bishops everywhere throughout the Church to look after those who come to them from foreign countries, who immigrate to Zion, that they may be assisted as far as possible, and put in position to acquire a livelihood, to build homes for themselves, and to feel at home amongst us. They come here strangers, meeting new conditions and depending much upon the fellowship of their brethren for their success in obtaining new homes. 

It is also a good thing for the bishops in all the wards to look after their returned missionaries. It is a pity that after so many of our boys who go abroad and fill good missions return home, they should be apparently dropped or ignored by the presiding authorities of the Church, and be permitted to drift away again into carelessness and indifference, and eventually, perhaps, to wander entirely away from their Church duties. They should be kept in the harness, they should be made active in the work of the ministry, in some way that they may the better keep the spirit of the Gospel in their minds and in their hearts and be useful at home as well as abroad. 

There is no question as to the fact that missionary service is required and is as necessary in Zion, or here at home, as it is abroad. Many people seem to be careless with reference to the proper training of thir children. We see too many boys that are falling into very ' careless, if not into pernicious, ways and habits. Every missionary boy who returns from his mission full of faith and good desire should take it upon himself to become a savior as far as possible of his young and less experienced associates at home. When a returned missionary sees a boy falling into bad ways and is becoming accustomed to bad habits, he should feel that it is his duty to take hold of him, in connection with the presiding authorities of the stake or of the ward in which he lives, and exercise all the power and influence he can for the salvation of that erring young man who has not the experience that our Elders abroad have had, and thus become a means of saving many and of establishing them more firmly in the truth. 

Efforts have been made by the Presiding Bishopric and others to locate the Saints, who gather from other lands, where they can get a livelihood. All are employed as far as the records show. Many bishops have taken fatherly interest in the Saints who have immigrated to Zion. Homes have been provided, employment secured as far as possible, and through the united efforts of the Saints, supplies and furniture have been .obtained and given them to help them to get started again in life. This should be the policy of all the organizations of the Church. 

Since the last April conference the Shelley stake of Zion has been organized from a part of the Blackfoot stake. Nine new wards, and seven new branches, have been organized. Thirty-four bishops have been ordained to replace those who have been released. The presidencies of the Jordan, Juab, Union and North Sanpete stakes have been reorganized. Three bishops have passed away since our last confer. There are now sixty-six stakes of Zion, and seven hundred and thirty-five bishops' wards. There have been entered on the records of the Church, by baptism, in the stakes and missions, six thousand one hundred and ninety-eight souls during the six months of the year. The presiding bishopric have issued quarterly bulletins which have kept presidencies of stakes in closer touch with the general conditions in all the stakes of Zion, than in the past. Ward teaching is being rapidly developed in many of the stakes of Zion. Some stakes are still indifferent to this important movement. There is a splendid opportunity in this work to use every ordained priest and teacher and man holding the priesthood, and it would seem rather strange that there should be any of the presidencies of the stakes, or any of the presiding officers in the Church, who would be indifferent to the subject of keeping in contact and in harmony with the progress of all the other stakes. It is good to be in possession of the knowledge of things as they are and as they are going along. 

We have inaugurated a movement to encourage the monthly payment of tithing. The stake and ward officers are complying with this request as far as they can. Really, the only practical method and proper way to pay our tithes it. when we receive that which we earn into our hands. It is quite proper to remember what we owe to the Lord before we epend our means otherwise. 

There are two companies each day passing through this Temple to perform the ordinances of the House of the Lord for the living and for the dead, and our genealogical work is bearing fruit as we see in the attendance upon the temples for the performance of these ordinances, and we hope that this good work will go on. The work of the bishopric is both temporal and spiritual. The average bishop gives . all his time and efforts for the betterment of the people over whom he presides. The bishop should not try to do all the work that is necessary to be done in his ward. His counselors are there to help him, and a due portion of the responsibility of the bishop of the ward should be placed upon his counselors. Neither is it wise that the bishopric of the ward should feel they are compelled to do all that is necessary to be done in their wards. They should exercise their right to call upon the priesthood to visit the people as teachers and preachers qf the Gospel of Jesus Christ that they may give to all as far as possible an opportunity to exercise their talents and to do good in their wards. It is sometimes advisable to give to each counselor special duties, and assign each of the counselors his proportion of the responsibilities which belong to the bishopric, each one doing some special work for which he is adapted, so that all may be active. 

Now, these are a few things I think worthy of note, and there are very many more. But I desire to call attention to one thing; it is this : I fear the Latter-day Saints, in the midst of the prosperity with which they are blessed, sometimes fail to observe that great commandment given of the Master, always to remember the Lord, to . pray in the morning, and in the evening, and always remember to thank Him for the blessings that they receive day by day. I fear that there is more neglect than there should be among the Latter-day Saaints in regard to  out this rule of the Church. It is the commandment of the Lord that we shall remember God morning and evening, and, as the Book of Mormon tells us, "at all times." We should carry with us the spirit of prayer throughout every duty that we have to perform in life. Why should we ? One of the simple reasons that appeals to my mind with great force is that man is so utterly dependent upon God! How helpless we are without Him; how little can we do without His merciful providence in our behalf! I have often been led to make the remark, that not one of us, not a human being in all the world can make even a single spear of grass grow without the help of God. We have to use His earth, we must avail ourselves of the benefit of His soil. His air and His sunshine, and the moisture that God provides and gives to the earth, to enable us to produce even a single blade of grass; and the same applies to ev erything that ministers to our existence in the world. You can't raise an ear of corn or wheat without God's help. You cannot produce a single thing essential to the existence of man or beast without the help of God. Then, why should we not feel dependent upon the Lord? Why should we not call upon His name ? Why should we not remember Him in our prayers? Why should we not love Him with all our heart and mind and strength, since He has given us life, since He has formed us in His own likeness and image, since He has placed us here that We may become like unto His only begotten Son and to inherit the glory, exaltation and reward provided for God's own children. 

My brethren and sisters, let us re and call upon God and implore His blessings and His favor upon us. Let us do it nevertheless in wisdom and in righteousness, and when we pray we should call upon Him in a consistent and reasonable way. We should not ask the Lord for that which is unnecessary or which would not be beneficial to us. We should ask for that which we need, and we should ask in faith, "nothing wavering, "for he that wavereth," as the Apostle said, "is like the wave of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord." But when we ask of God for blessings let us ask in the faith of the Gospel, in that faith that He has promised to give to them who believe in Him and obey His commandments. 

We want peace in the world. We want love and good-will to exist throughout the earth, and among all the peoples of the world; but there never can come to the world that spirit of peace and love that should exist until mankind will receive God's truth and God's message unto them and acknowledge His power and authority which is divine, and never found in the wisdom only of men. 

The condition of the world today presents a spectacle that is deplorable, so far as it relates to the religious convictions, faith and power of the inhabitants of the earth. Here we have nations arrayed against nations, and yet in every one of these nations are so-called Christian peoples professing to worship the same God, professing to possess belief in the same divine Redeemer, many oi them professing to be teachers of God's word, and ministers of life and salvation to the children of men, and yet these nations are divided  against the other, and each is praying to his God for wrath upon and victory over his enemies and for his own preservation. Would it be possible — could it be possible, for this conditions to exist if the people of the world possessed really the true knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? And if they really possessed the Spirit of the livingGod — could this condition exist? No; it could not exist, but war would cease, and contention and strife would be at an end. And not only the spirit of war would not exist, but the spirit of contention and strife that now exists among the nations of the earth, which is the primal element of war, would cease to be. We know that the spirit of strife and contention exists to an alarming extent among all the people of the world. Why does it exist? Because they are not one with God, nor with Christ. They have not entered into the true fold, and the result is they do not possess the spirit of the true Shepherd sufficiently to govern and control their acts in the ways of peace and righteousness. Thus they contend and strive one against another, and at last nation rises up against nation in fulfilment of the predictions ot the prophets of God that war should be poured out upon all nations. I don't want you to think I believe that God has designed or willed that war shohuld come among the people of the world, that the nations of the world should be divided against each other in war, and engaged- in the destruction of each other! God did not design or cause this. It is deplorable to the heavens that such a condition should exist among men, but the conditions do exist, and men precipitate war and destruction upon themselves because of their wickedness, and that because they will not abide in God's truth, walk in His love, and seek to establish and maintain peace instead of strife and contention in the world. 

Now, we wish this morning to remember the admonition of the President of the United States, to offer prayer for peace to come upon the distracted nations of the world, for peace to abide upon those who are at peace, and to abound more abundantly. I pray God that this spirit .may especially enter into the hearts -of this people, that they may strive for peace among themselves, that peace may dwell in their, own hearts and homes, that peace may exist between neighbors, that peace, goodwill, love and union may characterize the associations of members of the Church with their fellow members, and that there may be no contention among them, nor strife, nor bitterness, nor back-sliding, nor back-biting, nor complaint of any description, but that peace on earth and good will to men may pervade the hearts and minds of all the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and that from them this spirit of peace and love for God and for our fellow man may go out into the world, as far as we have power to send it forth through the elders of the Church and otherwise, that men may hear the good tidings and receive them in their hearts, obey the truth, and join the ranks of the peaceful, of the peace-loving, of the peace-makers, of the God-fearing, and of the God-loving people that all Latter-day Saints should be, in every part of the world. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I humbly pray; and now we will call upon President Charles W. 

Penrose to offer to the Lord a prayer in behalf of this assembly and in behalf of all the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints that God will move upon the hearts of the people of the world to accept the spirit of peace in their souls, that peace may come to the distracted world, apd that life and union may prevail instead of bloodshed, death and destruction. When Brother Penrose shall pray, he will pray unto the Father of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, in whose image and likeness we are made, or were born into the world, and in whose likeness and image we are, for we are God's children and therefore must resemble His Son in person, and also spiritually, so far as we will obey the principles of the gospel of eternal truth. For we were fore-ordained and predestined to become conformed to His likeness through the wise and proper use of our free agency. So that we may enjoy the blessings of the kingdom of God where He dwells, and inherit His glory and the salvation, the reward, and dominion that has been promised unto the faithful of His children, which may God grant is my prayer. Amen. 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

A PRAYER FOR PEACE, 

O God, our . Eternal Father Father of the spirits of all men, we come unto Thee in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, and worship Thee and render thanks unto Thee for all things that we haye received, both spiritual and temporal, for our sustenance, for our guidance, for our enlightenment, for our understanding and knowledge, that we may be prepared to come into Thy presence, eventn and be crowned with eternal lives. Wilt Thou accept of our thanksgiving this morning for all Thy favors and look in mercy upon us and unite our hearts together under the influence of Thy Divine Spirit, that we may be one in very deed and that our supplications may come up unto Thee acceptable. Forgive us of all our sins, our follies, our imperfections, our unworthiness, our lack of obedience unto Thy commandments and Thy counsels, and wherein we have in any way offended Thee, we crave Thy pardon and forgiveness. We ask Thee, our Eternal Father, to look in mercy upon the nations of the earth. They are Thy children, even though they may have gone astray, and have been stirred up in bitterness and in anger unto war one with another, wilt Thou, O Lord, look down upon them in Thy loving tenderness and kindness and Thy mercy upon them and prepare the way whereby war may cease and peace may be established. 

Thou hast inspired Thy prophets in days of old and in these latter days to predict that the day would come when men would cease their strife and would study war no more, when they would turn their weapons of destruction into agencies of peace for the cultivation of the earth and for the development of its resources, and we pray,' our Father, that that time may be hastened. Wilt Thou look down in mercy upon the rulers of the nations, upon all who have part in the conduct of human affairs in the various governments in the world, and cause Thy divine spirit to shine upon their understandings and to touch their hearts, that they may feel the absolute need of establishing peace on the earth, drawing the peo of the world together in fraternity instead of going forth upon the field of battle to destroy each other's lives. 

O Lord, look in mercy upon the wives and the children and other relatives of those who are now personally engaged in the strife that is causing bloodshed and horror throughout the continent of Europe. Have mercy upon them, O Lord, and turn aside the outpouring of the spirit of war, and grant that the angel of peace may hover over the nations and that the influences flowing from his presence may come down upon them; that the wives and the children may be relieved of their sufferings, and that their loved ones may be restored to them — those that remain of them who are striving against each other, and may they who seek to establish unrighteousness and untruth and oppression and tyranny not succeed. We ask Thee, O Lord, to look in mercy upon those nations. No matter what may have been the cause which has brought about the tumult and the conflict now prevailing, wilt Thou grant, we pray Thee, that it may be overruled for good, so that the time shall come when, though thrones may totter and empires fall, liberty and freedom shall come to the oppressed nations of Europe, and indeed throughout the world. We pray that liberty may come out of this oppression, that freedom may come out of this strife; and wilt Thou grant that in Thy divine providence all things may conspire together for good, so that righteousness may be established, that the fruit of righteousness, which is peace, may be enjoyed. 

Wilt Thou grant, Heavenly Father, that the Spirit of the Lord may rest down mightily upon Thy people, even Thy Saints, those who are assembled here in conference and those whom they represent in the various stakes of Zion and the missions abroad, and grant that they may obey the instructions that have been imparted and dwell together in peace. May there be no spirit of enmity or of strife among Thy Saints. Do Thou grant that they may be able to understand each other, that they may be able to accord to each other that liberty which they desire for themeslves, so that though, they may differ in opinions and in views, they may accede and concede to others that liberty which every man should enjoy under the Constitution of the United States which Thou didst raise up good and wise men to establish, and grant,, O Lord, that there may be no real spirit of strife among them, that Thy Saints, as neighbors, may dwell together in amity and in brotherly love and in unity, and may this peace prevail throughout the land of Zion, that Zion may be indeed the pure in heart, those that serve God and keep His commandments. 

Now, O Lord, we unite with all who are praying unto Thee this day to ask Thee that in Thy mercy, in Thy providence, this terrible slaughter may soon be brought to an end; that the spirit of strife may depart; that the spirit of peace may brood over the nations, so that all these terrors that have come may speedily pass away and that Thy righteous purposes may be accomplished, that good may come to the world, and the way be prepared for the coming of the King of rea.ee, even Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our elder Brother in the spirit, whom we love and adore this day, and in whose holy name we come unto Thee. 

"Wilt Thou hear our prayers, O God, the Ruler of nations, the Might) One on high I Wilt Thou Took down in mercy upon the world, and wilt Thou cause the spirit of peace to come forth to accomplish that which we desire in our hearts. YW know, O Lord, that Thy purposes shall be accomplished; we do not wish to step in the way or to attempt to hinder them in any degree, but we come unto Thee and express the desires of our souls, Thy children, O Lord, plead with Thee that peace may come and that the time may soon arrive when Thy will shall be done on earth as it is done in heaven. We dedicate ourselves and all that we have and all that we are unto Thy service, and desire to be ambassadors of peace, to carry witli us the spirit of peace, to have it in our hearts, to have it in our homes, to have it prevail throughout outland and go forth from Zion to the uttermost parts of the earth; and to this end we dedicate ourselves and all we have and are unto Thee, and ask these favors at Thine hands, in the name. of Jesus Christ . Amen. 

"Hear us, oh Father," a baritone solo, was sung by Rider Charle. Kent. 

|'|-i:si.m;nt antiion it. I.umi 

President Wilson commended for ap pointing day of prayer for peace Jesus exemplified necessity for prayer, and showed its most accept able form. Glorious principle-- in eorporatcd in the Lord's prayer,= Men exercise agency most wisely who choose to he governed by (iod\ laws,— Shocking and sorrowful con ditions in countries at war. 

I will read a few words from the book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

"And now verily I say unto you,  what I say unto one I say unto all, be of good cheer, little children, for I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you; 

"And inasmuch as you have humbled yourselves before me, the blessings of the kingdom are yours. 

T 'Gird up your loins and be watchful and be sober, looking forth for the coming of the Son of Man, for he cometh in an hour you think not."Pray always that ye enter not into iriupliititin, that you tuny abide the day of his coming, whether in life or in death. Even so. Amen." 

I have been very much pleased this morning with all that has taken place in this meeting; I have followed with interest the remarks of our President, and I hope that we will all remember the instructions that he has given us. We all took part with President Penrose in that beautiful prayer, in which we petitioned our Heavenly Father to be merciful to His children who are now in the war-ridden zones of the world. I admire the head of this nation for his belief in the efficacy of prayer, and his having appointed this day for the whole nation to come before the Lord and petition Him for peace in Europe and in countries where there is war. I believe in prayer. I know I am addressing a people this morning who are a prayerful people, who have oftentimes felt convinced that their prayers have been heard and answered, and who are firm in the conviction that God answers prayers today as well as formerly. 

We have many instances on record in the Holy Scriptures, both the Bible and the Hook of Mormon, that God hears prayers, From Adam, the first who offered prayer, and down through history, we have seen that the Lord has lent ear to petitions which have been made to Him. Before Adam withered his i'b','ht  posterity around him, in Adam-Ondi-Ahman, he had taught them about the true God and the efficacy of prayer, so that they knew to whom to pray; and after the Hood we find holy men approaching our Father in prayer, and that He was merciful to them. Abraham Gideon, David,* Solomon, the proph ets ,all bear testimony to the value of prayer. Our Savior, dtfrjng His life upon the earth, inculcated prayer, and He would often withdraw Himself from His disciples, go up into the mountain and commune with God. He felt the necessity of obtaining aid and assistance from His Father in heaven, to perform Ilia! j', real mission which had been given Him here upon the earth. He taught His disciples to pray. He did not want them to make many repetitions, He did not want them to pray to be considered of men, but He wanted them to come as chil dren to their Father, and ask for the things they stood in need of. That beautiful prayer, "Our Father, which art in heaven," that has been for generations a model to worshipers, contains so much for serious thought, and it shows the plain and simple manner in which Jesus wanted us to come before the Lord, not using high-sounding words, uut to approach I lim as a child would its father, and ask for the very things we stand in need of. I don't believe that He meant for us always to use that formula of prayer, but He gave it to us ,as an example, that when we pray we should pray in a similar manner. On one occasion when He was with His disciples, He told them that whatsoever they should .ask in His name should be granted. What a splendid promise 1 And I believe this promise is given not only to the disciples that surrounded Him at the time, but to all who believe in the Son of God. I believe also that when we approach our Father, He knows before we ask what we want, and He also knows whether that which we ask of Him is for our best good or not, yet He has commanded us to pray and open our hearts to Him. When Jesus was suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane, he asked the Lord, if it were possible, to take that bitter cup away from Him. Can you wonder at it when you remember that He was in such agony that the sweat fell like drops of blood upon the ground? But He added, "Not my will, but thy will be done," giving us a pattern to follow m our prayers, that although we ardently desire certain things; and believe that they would be for our best good still we should be submissive to the Father's will, and say, with Christ, not our will, but His will be done. 

In the prayer that He taught His discipes Jesus emphasized the great principle that God is our Father, and that we should address Him as such in our prayers. We believe that God is the Father of our spirits, and hence that we are in reality His children. When Jesus so addressed the Father, it was not a figurative title given Him, but it means that God is indeed our Father as He was His Father; Jesus was His only begotten Son in the flesh. Paul says that God is the Father of our spirits, and knowing this, we can approach Him in confidence, knowing that He will hear and grant unto us such blessings as will be for our good. In that prayer we are told to say, "Hallowed be Thy name," and in doing so we should resolve to keep His name hallowed, holy. I hope that the Latter-day Saints will remember this and that such a thing as taking the name of  Lord in vain will never be heard from their lips. The words spoken by them should be free from all things verging on profanity, and they should ever feel the greatest reverence for the name of the Father. 

Next we ask, "Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done upon earth as it is done in heaven." We should seek His kingdom first of all, for its possession is far better than riches. When we imagine conditions existing in heaven, we feel convinced that there is no such thing as disobedience found among the happy throngs that dwell there, and this is not because they are forced to do His will, but because they know it is right and most productive of happiness. Those who are privileged to enter into the presence of the Father, and dwell in His kingdom, will be such that have gone through a probation, and have been tried and found true, that have seen the consequences of sin and disobedience and who have chosen and firmly resolved to serve the Lord and keep His commandments. They are those that have proved themselves able to keep such a resolution, so that when they go into those blissful regions they feel that what the Father wants is for their own good, and hence it is their choice and delight that His will be done there. We should use our influence that His will may be done here on earth as it is done in heaven. We should use our free agency to serve the Lord and always choose to do His will; it will bring us the greatest happiness. There is no true happiness that can come to a person who violates the commandments of God, because those commandments were given for the blessing of the human race. Every commandment given by the Lord has a  to do good to them who will obey it, and those who will not obey His commandments will reap the consequences. His commandments to His children are not arbitrary like those of a tyrant, but they are measured for the benefit and blessing of all who live upon earth. So we can heartily pray also that His will may be done here upon the earth as it is done in heaven. 

We are taught in that prayer to ask for our daily bread,showing that it is not only for spiritual things we dare ask our Father, but also for the temporal things that we need as well, and in daily bread, of course, is included all our interests. We need not fear to come before Him and ask for success in our business, as well as to ask for spiritual blessings. 

We are taught in the prayer to ask the Lord to forgive us our debts as we are willing to forgive our debtors. How much there is included in this! How this would tend toward peace if we were willing to forgive one another, if we could eradicate from our hearts every tendency to hatred and bitterness. We have no right to hate our brother. We are asked even to love our enemies — a hard thing to do, no doubt, but Jesus showed us the example. When hanging upon the cross and suffering exquisite torture, the most painful that the Romans could invent, He could still say, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." Shall we not follow His example? Let us have peace, with one another. Let us not go to law with our brethren. Let us not take revenge for wrongs done to us, but try to be reconciled with those who have anything against us; and, if we have anything against our brother, let us remember the instruction in this  prayer, that as we hope to be forgiven by our heavenly Father, to whom we owe so much, we must forgive one another. 

We are also taught here to ask "Lead us not into temptation," or. as it is given in the French Bible, "Abandon us not," or "leave us not in temptation." If we know that we are weak, brethren and sisters, in anything, let us avoid to go where there is temptation of the kind that may be hard to resist, and we be tempted to do that which is not right. Remember that it is to him who overcomes that the choicest promises are made. When we pray the Lord not to allow us to be led into temptation, let us make the firm resolution not to indulge in sinful thoughts, and shun evil associations and all places where we are in danger of temptation, and then the Lord will help us to overcome every evil tendency. 

The prayer closes with these beautiful words of adoration and praise, "For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever." Let us look upon this prayer as teaching us true worship. We come together to worship the Lord both in prayer,- in preaching, in praising the Lord, and in singing inspired hymns. We do adore Him who is our Creator and our Father. We know He is all-good, all-wise and all-powerful, and worthy of all praise, and we rejoice in the promise given us that He will hear and answer our prayers. 

I see the time is going. I feel very much concerned and sad when I look upon the condition of the warring nations. Although we have looked forward to a time when war shall be poured out upon all nations, still when it comes we feel to ask that that day might be postponed. and peace come unto afflicted humanity. When we think of Europe two months ago — of the busy factories in Belgium and Germany and France, and the busy husbandmen in Russia, and other countries that are now afflicted with war, and then today see millions of men engaged in the fiercest and bloodiest of battles related in history, we are shocked at the terrible carnage, and the misery of the widows and the orphans that are made daily. Our hearts go out to them in the deepest sympathy, and we feel to take part in a prayer like that which was offered by Brother Penrose, that the Lord will be merciful unto them. 

May the day hasten when peace shall reign upon the earth, when Christ shall come and reign, and the thousand years of peace be introduced, and the announcement of the angels shall indeed be fulfilled. "Peace on earth and good will to men," I ask that we may be prepared for this, and that the Lord may bless the Latter-day Saints, and bless the leaders of this nation, that they may avoid all foreign entanglements, and that peace may continue to reign in this land, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President Smith stated that another overflow meeting will be held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., will preside. He also announced that arrangements have been made, by the Presiding Bishopric, to furnish accommodations to Conference visitors who are not otherwise provided for. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Oh come, let us sing, let us sing unto the Lord." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Samuel O. Bennion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


