Outdoor
04 10 1914

A meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information, at 2 p. m. Elder Benjamin Goddard presided, and the 20th Ward choir, conducted by David J. Watts, furnished the music. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning, 

Joy to the lands that in darkness have lain! 

Hushed be the accents of sorrow and mourning, Zion in triumph begins her glad reign. 

Prayer was offered by Patriarch William Jex. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Behold, the mountain of the Lord 

In latter days shall rise, On mountain tops, above the hills, 

And draw the wond'ring eyes. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(Sup't Bureau of Information.) 

Brethren and Sisters': We are very glad to welcome you all to this meeting. We realize that you may feel tired before the close, but the brethren whe will addiess you are interesting speakers, and I bespeak for them your faith and prayers. There may be a little confusion while people are passing by, but I am quite sure that most of you will be satisfied to stay to the end of the service, at least we hope so. 

I will refer very briefly to one or two items that may interest you. First, I direct your attention to the sterling character of the "Mormon" people, in contrast with prevailing views in some parts of the civilized world. I introduced to you, for the opening prayer, Elder William [ex.  patriarch of the Church, from Nebo Stake. I desire to say that he is in very deed, -a patriarch. We compliment him upon this sacred calling. We commend all Israel for their desire to raise families of children that shall be an honor unto God's cause. 

Brother Jex and his good wife, now in their declining years, have been exceedingly blessed. Here is their family photo (showing it) and I venture to say that there are few communities outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints that can produce an equal record. This aged patriarch and his wife have a posterity of over two hundred souls, and all are good faithful members of the Church, and a credit to any community; and mark you, this is a monogamous family. 

It is well to be familiar with such a record, at a time, especially, when there appears a desire on the part of some women to limit the size of their families. We commend all such people as Patriarch Jex and his wife for God has elected that spirits shall come from the eternal world and, when they come through such a lineage, they are fortunate "indeed. 

I desire also to read to you the last hymn sung by the choir, as we observe that many of you do not have hymn books. Probably some of you did not hear the words distinctly and they are too good to pass by lightly, especially in view of -the conditions now prevailing abroad, and that have been referred to so often during this conference. The sentiments will appeal strongly to all Latter-day Saints, for the verses breathe the spirit of prophecy, and contain a sermon well worth consideration. 

The words of the hymn, which the choir sang so sweetly, are as follows : 

"Behold the Mountain of the Lord 

In latter-days shall rise, On mountain tops, above the hills, 

And draw the wond'ring eyes. 

To this the joyful nations round, All tribes and tongues, shall flow: . 

"Up to the hill of God," they'll say And to His house, we'll go." 

The rays that shine from Zion's hill 

Shall lighten every land; The King who reigns in Salem's towers 

Shall all the world, command. 

Among the nations He shall judge, His judgments truth shall guide, 

His sceptre shall protect the just; And quell the sinner's pride. 

No strife shall rage, nor hostile feuds 

Disturb those peaceful years; To plowshares men shall beat their swords, 

To pruning-hooks their spears. 

No longer host, encountering host, Shall crowds of slain deplore; 

They'll hang the trumpet in the hall And study war no more. 

Come, then, O house of Jacob, come, 

To worship at His shrine, And, walking in the light of God, 

With holy beauties shine. 

I think you will join in the prayers that have been offered this day, that God will hasten the time when these prophecies shall be truly fulfilled, and I commend these thoughts to you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

To me this is a momentous day in the history, not only of modern Israel, but the world. Never since the year 1820, when the Prophet 

Joseph received in answer to his inquiry, which of all the churches was right, has the divine statement of the Lord Jesus, that all denominations had departed from the truth, that they had the form of godliness, but not the power thereof, and that he should not affiliate with any of them, witnessed a day more fruitful in evidence of the truthfulness of that statement than today. A summary of the changing of the creeds of the various religious denominations from the year 1820 would convince any reasonableminded person that the Lord told the truth, and that out of the several denominations has there been a revolution of religious thought and doctrine, faith and belief, until the man or woman who was orthodox in the year 1820 if he or she entertained the same views today, would be considered guilty of heresy. Such have been the wonderful changes. But these changes perhaps have been so slow, that even to our minds we have not fully appreciated what it all means. And to the world the changes may have been so slow that the world has not observed any change at all. But this day, this year, is fruitful with new evidence of the truthfulness of that statement. And as I listened to the remarks of our President, this morning, in reference to the great disturbances that interest us all, and the balance of the world, 1 found in this very thing a literal, an absolute and a complete fulfilment of the words of the Master when He said: "They have the form of godliness, but not the power thereof." 

When we realize that from a thousand altars in Austria there are going up this day prayers^to the same God whom the French worship, the Russians, the English, and all Christian men are paying their devotion to; that up from these Catholic altars of Austria (and Austria stands as one of the strong nations of the world representing the great Roman Catholic Church), that from these altars are rising prayers to God for strength that the Austrian soldiers may repel their brothers of the Greek Catholic Church, who sweep down upon them in mighty force from Russia, the strong quarters of that other great faction of the Christian religion, the Greek Catholic Church. And then over in Germany, the headquarters of Protestantism, at least where Protestantism was born, where it has been protected and thrived, the same prayers are being offered for power to destroy the Christian brethren of another nation. Likewise in France, where there are a mixture of Protestants and Catholics, prayers are ascending for the success of the armies of the allies. And in England, the headquarters of another faction of Protestantism, the mighty Episcopal, or English Church, there are ascending similar prayers; so that well nigh all factions, or at least the great majority, of Christianity is represented in these mighty nations who are in this terrific struggle. And I have thought of what I have read during the last few weeks, questions that have been ringing through all the leading magazines, periodicals, and from the pulpits of the great religious denominations, "Has Christianity then, broken down, and has it failed ? After two thousand years, is this the fruit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ ?" I discover that there are many men and women losing  faith. They are beginning to question if there is ?. God; if there is a God of the Christian religion, where is He? If there is a God, why has He deserted us ? Why does He not speak ? Why does He re- . main silent and witness the slaughter and destruction of countless thousands of innocent men daily? 

It is a good time for us to begin to observe if we have allowed ourselves to grow careless and indifferent. Have we read the signs of the times to observe what God means, that He is speaking, is exercising control among the destinies of the nations? What does all this mean ? There is no reason why the Latter-day Saints should be in the dark, in view of the light, in view of the truth that has come into the world. All this spells something to the Latter-day Saints, the fulfilment of ancient and modern prophecy, and the fulfilment of the truth of the utterance made by the Lord Jesus when He said that all the religions of the world, although claiming to be His, had but the form of godliness, but lacked the power thereof. What has become of the vital power of Christianity that would convert pagan men, teach them to love God, to love their brethren, to learn to control their own feelings and desires, master their tempers and their passions so that they might when smitten on the one cheek turn the other, if sued for their coat, give their cloak also? What has become of the religion that would produce these fruits? Anciently it was possible to discover among the Christian men and women who accepted the Gospel of Jesus Christ, fruits of this character, men who could willingly, cheerfully face death itself without murmuring, without resenting, leaving 6'S  in the hands of God. I proclaim to you my brethren and sisters, that in thunder tones, there is ringing forth over the world the evidence that Christianity is not the vital Gospel, nor has it the power and force that Jesus Christ endowed it with in the beginning. I do not speak; of this to rejoice over the weakness or the failures of my brothers of other Christian denominations, who are struggling against great odds, trying to make the religion of itself effective. I sorrow for them; I do not rejoice at their failures. I grieve, because among them are thousands of honest workers who are handicapped because they do not have the truth; and from this day forward their struggle will be a struggle against great odds, because there will be thrown in the face of all appeals for men to be Christians, the present failure of Christianity to mellow the hearts of men, to soften them towards their fellows. 

Perhaps there is no war that has been waged in the world, of any consequence that had so little excuse for its existence as this war; and yet it comes after these hundreds of years of preaching of the ( rospel of Peace. There is a form of godliness over Belgium, Germany, France, Russia and other nations. There are evidences of a form of godliness in the thousands of church towers that rise to the skies, but I regret to say that the evidence of the Christianity of the men and women of these nations is lacking, as shown by their eagerness to fly at each other's throats with all the venom and greediness for blood and destruction ever exhibited by pagan nations. And so, my brethren and sisters, you men who have been in the world preach the restoration of the Everlasting Gospel, if you have lifted up your voice long and loud proclaiming this truth, if you have sought and endeavored in your lives to live so that your lives would proclaim the restoration of the whole power, the whole truth with all of its vital force, if you have done this in the past, there is every evidence and more reason why you should do it more earnestly, more devotedly today than ever you have done before. 

A few years ago a Christian minister in the State of Montana, a section of our mission, had his eyes opened, and strange to say, this is a day when so many men, having eyes see not; ears, they hear not, and hearts, they do not understand, and are blunted to the truth; but here and there men catch glimpses of the real situation and are fearless enough to proclaim it. And when I read these striking words from this Christian minister it impressed me, and today his declaration sounds nearer the truth, and rings more strikingly . than it did a few years ago. He asks : 

"Is the church anything but a mere social organization? Is the Christianity of today the true doctrine of the Christ of the Bible? Has the so-called Christianity of today anything in it that ought to attract more than any other creed that is supposed to help humanity? The Christian community of the present is loud in its claims of Vast conquest and remarkable victories. We are invited to see its acquired wealth, its tremendous expansion and to hear the clang of its enormous and intricate machinery. But with all of this, I maintain that the Christianity of the present is face to face with a lamentable loss. The Christianity of today has acquired much, but in its getting it has lost its own soul. There are periods in the Christian era we look back upon with wonder and admiration. In those days men were convicted of sin and a judgment to come. Then the more than human element was visible in our creed. Holy men had heavenly visions. Sickness was cured by spiritual power. The dead were raised. Holy men spoke with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Prison doors were opened and Ananias and Saophira fell fifeless at the Apostles' feet for playing with 1 this power. Is the spiritual element that so characterized those days an ancient relic of something worn out like a garment? The commission to the early Christian teachers was that they must be imbued with oower from on high and then go and baptize all nations in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and that power was always manifested when they performed the deed. 

The Christian religion of the present is merely a social code and has nothing in it whereby it' could claim a divine origin. It is truly pitiable to behold the church religion of today trying to save this sinful world. We have lost our magnet. The Christ who said He would draw all men to Him if He was lifted up, is disobeyed and ignored in the multiplicity of our present church life. Since we have presented many substitutes in the world for genuine spiritual power, they are of no more value in the saving of the sinner than an artificial heart would be in pumping blood through the arteries. 

\ are like men trying to run an engine without steam. 

The church of today is the church of man, not the church of God. I predict its crashing to pieces like a ship on the rocks before a heavy sea, in the nearby years, unless there is a mighty turning to God in our ranks. 

T think these extracts from this minister of the Methodist Church is one of the evidences from the outside, that the Lord Jesus told the truth to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the year 1820, and I saythat this year is bringing forth the best evidence that has ever been produced to prove it. When I want to judge the world, as I now say  ought to be judged, by their fruits, to demonstrate whether or not they have indeed the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, I feel that "Mormonism," so-called, or the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as proclaimed by the Latter-day Saints, ought to stand the same test. In applying that test, I will ask you, is it possible that there has been produced a community of people, gathered from all nations of the earth, a race of men and women, wrio, in their lives are demonstrating that they are producing the fruits of the Gospel of peace and of good-will towards their fellow men, and that they are not chargeable with the things that we charge against the Christian denominations? Looking back in a short and brief glance over the history of the past, there come distinctly to our minds the severe trials through which the Latter-day Saints have passed, giving them the opportunity to demonstrate whether or nor they could resist the natural inclinations of the. flesh to fight and retaliate, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Go back to the days of Illinois, back to the days of Missouri, when they were expelled from Jackson County, when they were expelled ultimately from the State of Missouri, or at the period when the prophet was taken and unjustly imprisoned and foully murdered in Carthage jail in the State of Illinois. Notwithstanding the Latter-day Saints were in great numbers in Nauvoo, and Carthage had but two thousand souls, was there a spirit of murder in their. hearts or of retaliation? 

I remember on a visit to the city of Carthage of meeting a man, now an old gentleman, who was a witness of the martyrdom of the prophet. He said that, returning  hauling away from the City of Carthage the records of the county, for fear the "Mormons" would come down to Carthage and destroy them, he met men, women and children fleeing in every direction, fearing the wrath of the "Mormons." That when he arrived in Carthage he said, there were about six families remaining in the city; all had fled. ("The wicked flee when no man pursueth.") It was feared the Mormons" would come. It was known that just provocation had been raised, and if they did take vengeance in their own hands and come down to mete out justice, it would have been only the ordinary course of events. And then the next night he was permitted to go with his iather and others towards Nauvoo with the bodies of the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and he said : "We met the '.Mormons/ but they were not carrying arms. We met them, twenty thousand of them, lining the street leading out from Nauvoo to Carthage, with their heads uncovered, weeping for the loss of their dead, and murmuring all along the way the words : 'Vengeance is God's he will repay'." ' I assert that all through our existence we have said "Vengeance is the Lord's, He will repay." _ And there has been born and bred in our spirit, as young men and young women, the disposition to train our impulsive souls. When we go into the mission field and have the door slammed in our faces, are insulted and abused, we have been taught by the spirit of the Gospel to go by ourselves and say : "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." We have been led to love them, though they hate us. 

I have never seen among the min, or among men of the world, evidence of the power of the Lord Jesus Christ to love your enemies, as exhibited in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. Our fathers and mothers have set a splendid example to the young men and young women of this Church; and inasmuch as the struggle is not ended, and the battle is yet on, I appeal to you, that the day is coming when you shall be given a grand opportunity of exhibiting and displaying before the world the fortitude and the power there is in the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. Not from your public sermons, not from the publication of your word and message, but from your lives shall arise evidences to convince men of the truth. And when they look over the world and see the wreck and ruin that has been wrought in the very centers of modern Christianity they will search for something more powerful in effecting the salvation and peace of men. When their eyes shall light upon this community, established as a city upon a hill, whose light will shine forth and direct the attention of the world, they shall say: "What is this?" "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the House of the God of Jacob, that we may learn of His ways and walk in His paths." Such shall be the declaration of the honest in heart in the years that are yet to come, and I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, to live from this day forward more nearly that standard that has been laid down and established, live up to what the Gospel teaches. 

The best of us have never obtained from the Gospel what the Gospel would give, and I say that there will be an opportunity such as has never been given before, to demonstrate in a practical way what the Gospel is. There are numerous evidences that ought to inspire and influence every boy and girl, and every man and woman that here is the truth. No matter what discouragements we meet — and sometimes we get discouraged, and sometimes we are offended, and sometimes we go away like some Saints of old did from Jesus. He looked upon them tenderly, as they departed, and said to the Apostles : "Will ye go also?" He had taught them doctrine that was hard to observe; it required personal sacrifice and self-denial. If so tempted, I hope we shall say as Peter did : "Whither shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life?" And I want to ask every young man and young woman, and every member of the Church, if the day of trial comes, and you may be offended grieved and feel that somebody has not treated you just right — I want you to ask ''Whither shall you go?" Ask yourself : "Is there a haven O'f rest for you outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?" And should we not be willing to be true though trials may come. Ella Wheeler Wilcox said : "It was easy to be pleasant when the world went like a song, but the man worth while is the man who smiles when everything goes- dead wrong." I paraphrase her words. Tt is easy enough for you to be a member of the Church when all we ask and covet and desire comes to us, when if we ask for prosperity it comes; when our sick lie at the point of death and we pray for them and appeal to God, and they are healed. We are then quite willing to be members of the Church. It is easy for us, when our brothers are all very agreeable, and there is no disturbance, and we have our own  will and way, it is easy, then, for us to be members .of the Church. But the man worth while, and the man who will survive, is the man who will take the disappointments of life, the man or woman who will stand in the presence of appallingdisasters. Death comes, and not life, when you seek life; when you desire prosperity, we are tried with poverty, with affliction and with temptations of the world. It is then the test comes, and strength must be exhibited, it is then that it takes true courage, love and fidelity to believe the truth and live it. And so, notwithstanding we have difficulties and obstacles, here is the truth. We must learn early to know that it is the truth, that we can trust God. come what may, that we may stand unappalled, no matter what the little personal difficulties and obstacles and fault-finding or complaint we may have. We must have such trust and abiding faith that if we are not made the Bishop of the ward or counselor of the bishopric, or President of the stake, that we will still be true, just as true and faithful as a lay member of the Church. My glory, my heaven, shall come through my individual work, and I must be willing to trust him, no matter whether I have my own sweet way or not. 

I have thought the love displayed on the part of our Father in heaven towards His people, towards the world, and especially towards the Latter-day Saints, was sufficient to hold us, no matter what may come. And as I look back upon the experience of this Church, its trials and difficulties have been many, and yet out from these many difficulties our Father has brought goodness and blessings to the Latter-day Saints. I have thought of our own  Civil War, and of the drivings and mobbings and pillaging of the Latter-day Saints; I have no doubt with what great sorrow and great difficulty our fathers and mothers left their homes, forsook those goodly lands and made that wonderful pilgrimage to this land, believing that it was the trial of their lives. And it was a severe trial, but they had to wait only a short time to see, shining behind those dark clouds, the smiling face of their heavenly Father, for He led them to the only place in all this goodly land where there was peace; and the very place where they wanted to stay became the battle field between the North and South; and had the Church remained it would have suffered in the midst of the conflict. Through the mercy of the Lord we were taken away from the war zone of the United States, and brought to this land of peace. Not that we shirked our responsibilties, for the first message that went over the wires to President Lincoln by President Young, who was then the governor of this territory was, "Utah has not seceded, but is firm for the Constitution and the Union," and offered the services of our men. The services were accepted, hundreds of them enlisted, and then, through the kind providence of our. Father, we were not placed at the battlefront, but were given the privilege of doing military duty in the western part of the country; and the regular soldiers from here were withdrawn to do service at the front of the battle. I now look back upon the wonderful gathering of modern Israel, one of a city and two of a family, have been gathered to this land. "Come out of her, O ye, my people, that ye be not partakers of her plagues," has a clear meaning to us now. We ought  be thankful to be here, brethren from Great Britain, from Austria, and all those nations that are now full of trouble and strife. We might have been in the European armies, fighting, had it not been for the Gospel that reached our fathers and mothers, and brought them to this land. Once again the wonderful manifestation of the goodness and the mercy of the Lord is indicated in the peaceful settlement of the Latter-day Saints in glorious America, the land of peace, the land of Zion. 

I proclaim to you that there is if we shall observe and study, enough evidence to satisfy us all, notwithstanding our enemies have been numerous, our drivings and mobbings have been many; and though today we stand misrepresented and misunderstood, that the favor of the Almighty is over this people. If God ever had His hand over a people in the history of this world, then that people are the Latter-day Saints. 

I have thought, as I have had the opportunity of traveling over the sections where our people were once established, and have seen the blight that has fallen upon them .and seldom have I discovered one of them that is as large as it was when the Saints left it. Some are without railroads and sadly neglected; that the man was blind who could not see that the disfavor of the Lord rested upon those who abused and drove the Latter-day Saints from their homes in Missouri and Illinois. And his favor is with them in the mountain fastnesses, the desert wastes smile and blossom as a rose; the late and early frosts were stayed, the springs were opened, the ground became productive; and the blessings of God has been wherever the Latter-day Saints have established themselves, until it seems to me that the man or woman is blind indeed who cannot see this evidence of God's goodness and mercy to us. I have felt that the Lord wanted us to understand that He loves us; He was teaching us this when He gave to' Abraham the test of his life, to offer his son, Isaac, whom he loved with all his heart, the child of his promise, to give him as a sacrifice, he was speaking to us of His love through the test of Father Abraham. He was trying to make us feel how much He loved us, that He would give His Only Begotten Son for us. 

There have been numerous evidences given to the world from the very beginning, that our heavenly Father loved His children, in the blessing of the people of the world with health, life and strength, that has been given to each one of us; and if there is anything bigger and greater than His giving of His precious Son, as an evidence of His love towards men in the world, then I do not know what the Father could do to manifest His love. 

Take the case of Abraham: he was to be the example and the pattern or illustration of the love and " affection that the Father had for his children. "Take your only begotten son and offer him as a sacrifice." I have thought of the poor old man gathering up the fagots, starting up the mountain with his child of promise. Three days they walked until they reached the place where the sacrifice was to take place, and then his only child and son of promise said to his father: "We have forgotten something, father. Where is the sacrifice ?" Oh, how it must have torn the father, made his heart to bleed to hear from the innocent lips of his child, whom he loved better  life itself, the reminder that he should take the life of his child! He could not speak, his heart must have swelled almost to bursting. And still he went on day after day, until he reached the spot. The altar was erected, the fagots placed upon it, the child bound, the steel bared, the arm raised that should strike the blow. "It is enough," said the angel who stayed the hand. Here is the sacrifice. It was to make you feel what our Father felt, when He who loved His Son better than it is possible for mortals to love their own flesh and blood, gave His Son to the world, for the world's redemption, for the world's peace, and the world's salvation. Do you not think that while the Father, who had the power to save His Son from the abuse, from the crown of thorns, from the whippings and mistreatment; do you not think it was a trial for Him, who had the power to save His Son, to stand by and witness the appeal of the Son, in agony until great drops of blood came from His body. "If it is possible, save me, O Father!" Think of your own child. If your child was in distress, is there a man among us entrusted with the power to save, and would not use it? God knows that we are so human that if He should give us power to save our own, we would save them every time. And yet he had the power to save and did not save. What mother would not fly through fire and water at hearing the appeal of her child in distress. How it must have tried the father to hear the cry and lamentation of the Son : "If it is possible, Father, let it pass by!" I say the Father was grief-stricken when He heard the taunting of those who stood by? "He saved others, why don't He save Himself?" After the hours of grief and agony, there came a moment when Jesus cried out, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" If Jesus truly said that, it was not that the Father had forsaken, but that the hour had arrived, which often arrives in our own human experience, an hour when the mother, for example, who cannot any longer stand to bear the sight of her dying child, after the farewell is given, is taken out of the room, not to witness the last dying struggles of her loved one. And so, the Father, taxed to the utmost, had withdrawn, and somewhere was weeping for His beloved Son. Even He could not stand the sight any longer. But as I have thought of it, in my heart I have thanked God, that when in that critical moment, He might have saved His Son, he saw us, perishing in the grave, lost to Him, and lost to that salvation which is to come, he saw that on the one hand, and the appeals and the suffering of His Son on the other; and, thank God, He decided in our favor, and allowed the suffering and death of His Son. And in that, 1 maintain that He has manifested His love for us, that ought to make us trust him, though clouds may gather and darkness come, though like Job of old, "He may slay me, yet shall I trust Him," be cause I know that He loves me, and I know that He is not anxious to see my tears of sorrow and- distress. I know that He designs to purge me and purify me, and that behind this apparent darkness and cloud, there is a smiling face. 

So I say to you, my brethren and sisters, if doubt and discouragement shall ever come to your heart with reference to the truth of this work established, look back upon these evidences of the wonderful provi and mercy and love of our Father, and read anew, the truth that God loves us, that this is His work, that His Son Jesus lives, and is the Savior of the world, and that the Elders of this Church are the servants of the Father in heaven. We are human beings with human weaknesses, and yet I confess to you that I have had the opportunity to meet leading men of other "communities, and I say in all earnestness, and I do not- want to be a heroworshiper, either, but I assert to you without fear of contradiction, I have never met, in all the world, men whose hearts are as clean and as pure and as undefiled as the leaders of this Church. I testify to you that they are the servants of God, that the light is in the ship, and God is at the helm. May He give us the strength to stay by the ship until she weathers the storms and comes into that haven of rest after the great battle that God has assigned to her is ended, and human emancipation, redemption and salvation — and, ultimately, the reign of peace is obtained. That out of this trouble and this strife shall merge peace. The world may have to get it through the gates of war, but there shall come an era of peace, when wickedness shall cease, when the powers that have oppressed men shall be done away with, and liberties and rights shall be given to every nation that we enjoy in this favored land. 

There is no blunder. Though death and destruction may yet be numerous and abundant on all hands, I can see, shining through the black clouds of the present, an era of peace, a day of rest and salvation. I can see a people leading to that way, pointing the way for the countless thousands who shall remain : the mission to do this is delegated to the Latter-day Saints. God bless them that they may fulfill their divine mission and destiny, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER Q. HALE. 

(President of Boise Stake of Zion.) 

When I got on the train yesterday evening, leaving Boise. I had the pleasure of meeting a gentleman from New York,' a distinguished man, who stated to me that he had spent the last five months in this part of the country, investigating the history of the people who developed this country, and what he found is a great revelation to him, in the resuits and labors of the men who live here. He stated that he belonged to a distinguished church of the world; and, in the diocese of New York, he stated, they have over five million dollars in the vaults and treasuries of that church. Notwithstanding all their enormous wealth, said he, there is poverty on every hand, there is sin in every community. We see the laws of God violated every day, and yet we have all this means, we have many churches sending their spires up to heaven. Since I have been among you, I have observed the great wealth you have, and I have also observed the energetic, progressive people. You seem to be working with one heart and mind for one purpose, and the revelation of my life is to see what has been accomplished here. Within the lifetime of a man these valleys have been made to blossom as a rose, the ground has been reclaimed from its aridity, the soil has been moistened and made fertile, and has given forth of its life, and brought forth crops to gladden the heart and feed hungry . Said he: "Tell me if you can, what is the vital force behind all this? How has it all been brought about? How is your people held together? How is it there is less iniquity and less sin? How is it there is a less percentage of immorality among young men and young women ? How is it that your jails are less populated by your people than by the outsiders?" I told him the only solution to that question is in the fact that we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and that Gospel we apply to our lives. 

Every one who has come here today will contribute his share to the general enjoyment; we will go away satisfied. He' who is an hungered, when he sits down to the table of the Lord, he will go away full. This is a Gospel of work, this is a Church of workers, and every man in it has some position to fill, has some responsibility upon his shoulders, and knows his place. He does not depend upon a crutch that indicates he has not ability to stand alone. In the various organizations of this Church, from the heads of the Church down to the least member, you find opportunity for every man to exercise ability, develop his character, his virtues and talents, for attainment of salvation and the exaltation of his soul, in the name of the Master, who is the Savior of all mankind. I have made a little study of this question, and I am of the opinion, firm and convinced, that no man can develop any virtue unless he has exercised ' that virtue. If you have love in your heart, and desire to attract love to you, you must exercise love toward your fellowmen. You must give expression to good things, in .order that good things may come back to you. 

The lives of the Latter-day Saints are attracting the attention of the entire world, from the simple fact that they live their religion, that they give expression to the virtues inculcated by the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Every man who cultivates a field knows that it is through the exercise of his mind, and the muscles and power of his body, that he is able to wring from the soil the harvest. He knows that it is only as he contributes his labors that he shall be rewarded. He knows that he must contribute time and ability, he must sow the seed in the ground in order to reap a harvest that will gladden his heart and fill his granary, and provide the means to tide him over the time when the ground ceases to yield, and the chills of winter surround him. So it is that every man, if he be a merchant, a school teacher, a lawyer, a doctor or skilled in any profession, he knows that in order to receive a reward for his labors, he must exercise his talents. The student in the college knows, and utilizes it, he will be duly rewarded for his efforts. So it is in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; as we give of our i time, as we give of our talents, as we exercise our virtues, among our fellow men for their good, all these unselfish activities will bring us a satisfactory reward. 

That is why the Latter-day Saints are becoming famous; they are looked up to by the world today because they live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They have in their hearts love for their fellow men. They give of their time, they give of their talents, they give of their love to others, and all those things come back unto them to gladden their hearts and make them happy. As already stated, this is a Church of . We believe in the principle of "Six days shalt thou labor, and the seventh shall be unto thee a day of rest." We believe that the day of rest is not earned until it is preceded by six days of labor. We believe in the principle that iniquity spells decay. It is only the man that is actively alive that can survive; it is only the man that will properly exercise himself who will ever succeed. A German scientist discovered this principle in his experiments, that the longer an electric current passes through a volume of oxide magnesium, the greater becomes the conductivity of that thing. The same law holds good in the mind of man; the longer a certain train of thought is concentrated in the brain, the greater becomes the brain to the conductivity of that thought. The more we exercise our muscles, the greater is the power they develop. The more we exercise our virtues, the easier it becomes for us to exercise them, the greater they increase and become of value to ourselves and others. So it has proven in the exercise of the qualities among the Latter-day Saints. We have developed young man and young women of virtuous character, the superiors of whom are not to be found anywhere else in the world today, and it is because of these- things which I have mentioned. Mark Twain said: "Man is the only animal that blushes." He could have gone on to say : Man is the onlv animal that has need to blush, because he is the only animal that ever drinks intoxicants; he is the only animal that smokes tobacco; he is the only animal that beats his wife, he is the only animal that tells a lie; he is the only animal that is immoral in his nature; and he has need to blush indeed. 

Some of the purposes of the mission of the Latter-day Saints in the world are to reduce crime, to instruct men and women in the Gospel of Christ, that they may resist evil. The way to do this is to build the foundation of true manhood, make the man complete, and 'so morally courageous that he will always say, "No!" when tempted to do wrong". When he says "yes," it will be a response to do right. He is in control of the tabernacle of God which his spirit inhabits, and has been given it to manifest his agency. A man can only claim that he is a man when he is master of himself; when he regulates what goes into that body : when he can hold his tongue, and say only things that should be said; when he can exercise feeling and kindness in return for scorn; who can say a word of lnve in return for bitterness; when he can do good 'for evil; when' he can respond to the wants and necessities of his fellow men. 

These are the kind of young men and young women this Church is producing, and I am thankful and proud that I have the honor o£ belonging to it, and of contributing my mite to the building of this broad, expansive, ennobling Church, known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-da} r Saints. To me it is the grandest thing in all the world; there is nothing' like unto it. I find facilities for expressing all the good there is in me; I find opportunity for developing all the goodness that T should develop. I find opportunities for my social need, for literarv need, 'for spiritual need. When I come to a meeting of this kind, I come hungry so that I can sit at the table of God and be filled. I want  have Church work to do, so that 1 can create 'an appetite for spiritual thing's, just as the laborer works in the field and has created an appetite for his daily bread; he eats with a relish, because he has worked and has done well. 

May God bless us and help us, and inspire us to do good, and inspire us to manifest by exercise the good there is in us, to upbuilding and betterment of ourselves, and to the glory of God who is our Creator; T ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E.ELLSWORTH 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am thankful for the privilege of associating with you this afternoon upon this Temple block. T am thankful for the association of men and women whose hearts are drawn towards God and to the restored truth, that will save and redeem His children. T am thankful for my parentage, and for the privilege of coming to earth in this day and time, the best time that has ever been in the history of the world, when so many wonderful things have been revealed for the blessing and comfort of mankind. T am thankful for citizenship in this glorious country, that has been made up from the best hood of all nations. I am thankful that my parents were among those who came in response to the voice of the good shepherd, "one of a city and two of a family," to this goodly land, a land of peace, the land of Joseph. 

You who have had your patriarchal blessings have been told that you are of the lineage of Joseph, through Ephraim or Manassah, and that you have been gathered to this goodly land, under the guiding influence of the divine will, to escape the judgments of God which are to overtake' the wicked in the last days. You have also been told that, because of your former faithfulness, present willingness to obey the voice of truth, that light and faith has been given you which would lead you to keep the commandments of the Lord and be prepared not only to withstand those things which God has said would be visited upon those who did not believe in Him, but prepare yon to return to your heavenly home and there dwell with the righteous. 

I rejoice with the righteous that early in my life, a testimony of the Lord Jesus came to me, and with that testimony knowledge, that I was a son of God, destined to go back and dwell with Him if 1 lived right in this life. My heart swells within me, to see the hundreds of young men with whom I have labored come to this knowledge, and to see them realize who they are and what their mission is in the earth. 1 can tell you that it is a glorious thing for a young man to understand early in life, that he has been placed upon the earth to perform a great mission, and to realize what his blessings will be for keeping the commandments of the Lord. Salvation is the blessing promised as a reward for a well spent life, but I hold that if there was an eternal reward the blessings that come to the man here in this life for being honest, truthful, and virtuous is more than worth the effort. Every one of you will agree with me that honesty livings its own reward, that truthfulness brings its reward, that a virtui .us and honorable life among your fellowmen will bring peace of mind.  makes of earth a heaven. But in addition to the earthly rewards, we are firm in the knowledge that heavenly and eternal blessings are added for keeping the commandments of God and living righteously on this earth. We are promised. that we shall go back and- dwell with all other men and women who have lived honest and upright lives. "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him; but God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit : for the Spirit searcheth all things, vea, the deep things of God." 

From the history of the world we learn what a glorious thing it is to understand who you are. and why you are here upon the earth. The Lord, from the beginning of this world's history, has opened the eyes of young men. in various ages, and revealed to them their mission, and they have become great leaders among the children of our Father. 

You remember the Prophets David, Samuel, Daniel, Joseph Smith, and many others who have been selected by our Father as leaders. They were selected and notified early' in their youth, or young manhood. Even the Savior of men, at twelve years of age, understood that He must be "about His Father's business." and that understanding at that early time in His life helped Him for the great mission that rested upon His shoulders. So close was He to the Father that, after the temptation, angels were sent who ministered to Him and strengthened Him. Latter-day Saints have learned, early in their lives, who they are, and why they are in the earth, and everyone of you understand well the question the Lord put to Job, when He said : "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?" Likewise the statement to Jeremiah wherein the Lord sanctified and ordained him a prophet before he was born. 

Through the Spirit of the Lord our eyes have been opened as to who we are, and as to our missions in the earth, and, knowing that, we ought to be the best people in the world. We ought to be a light to all people, and so filled with love that we would be like a healing balm to the nations. Our love and devotion to the work of the Lord, and our willingness to go to the ends of the earth, have proven we do love the Lord, and love our fellowmen; through us all nations of the earth have been enabled to hear His voice, and many have gathered to Zion for safety. 

I rejoice in the testimony of Brother Ballard concerning the Latter-day Saints, that in all their mobbings and whippings and drivings, that they did not retaliate in kind but trusted in the Lord to fight their battles for them. My mind goes back to the time when the army was coming to Utah, coming with the same spirit that inspired the organized mobs of Missouri and Illinois. We did not meet them in Echo canyon with intention of shedding their blood, but to detain them till proper representation could be sent to the government. The fundamental thing pertaining to our mission in Echo canyon was to shed no blood, to do everything we could to keep the United States soldiers in the mountains all winter. We did not want the blood of our fellowmen upon us. I believe we have proven, at least in a small degree, that we can turn the other cheek when smitten, on the one, and we hope to be  enough, as a people and nation, at this hour to extend the olive branch of peace. 

My mind also goes back to Joseph who was taken by his brethren and put into the pit, but afterward drawn out and sold into Egypt. Howhe withstood temptations and bore in patience his imprisonment brought upon him for turning aside the wiles of a wicked woman. Joseph, the son of Jacob, was one man that proved himself worthy of his birth and parentage, and worthy to be the savior of his father's house, both temporal and spiritual. Notwithstanding their mistreatment of him, and their great injustice, when they came to Joseph he opened his arms and received his brethren with a love beyond the power of words to describe, and in the goodness of his heart forgave them, showing especial interest in Simeon who was the arch enemy against him in selling him into Egypt. My blood tingled with the spirit manifested in the thought of Joseph meeting his brethren, and his desire to gather to his bosom his brother Benjamin, whose mother had died since Joseph had been in Egypt. 1 recall the wonderful picture of Joseph forgiving his brethren, and how they came and bowed down before him, in fulfillment of his boyhood dream. 

We are the sons of Joseph, through Ephraim or Manasseh. We are living in the land of Joseph, a land of peace and promise to all who will keep the commandments of the Lord, and not oppress their brothers. It seems that the eyes of the nations of the world are turned toward this land, and commissioners from all the war-stricken countries are being sent to represent favorably their nation before this government. as if the Lord had set us to be peacemakers among the nations. Even more shall it be in spiritual things. The honest in heart of the world shall come bending to the land of Joseph, that they may learn the ways of the Lord, and walk in His paths, for "out of Zion shall go forth the Law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

I pray that God will help us to prove ourselves worthy, that we might be ready to open our arms to the world and save them as Joseph saved his brethren. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints. I love them. I love their missionary sons, and I am happy in laboring with them, in seeing their growth and development, seeing their eyes opened, their hearts touched, and  tongues loosened to bear witness to the world concerning God and Christ, and their mission upon the earth. May God grant us peace, and all other blessings, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Lo! the mighty God appearing, From on high Jehovah speaks! 

Eastern lands the summons hearing. O'er the west His thunder breaks. 

Elder W. E. Evans pronounced the benediction. 

At the afternoon services in the Tabernacle the audience numbered over ten thousand, in the Assembly Hall about twenty-five hundred, and fully two thousand at the open air meeting. 