2
Morning
02 10 1936
President David O. McKay 
18
16-19

None

None

Read the following report of changes in Church officers, and in stake, ward and branch organizations since the April, 1936, Conference: 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE, 1936 

New Mission Presidents: 

The Mexican Mission was divided with President Harold W. Pratt over the Mexican Mission (in Mexico) and Orlando C. Williams appointed President of the Spanish American Mission (Mexican Mission in U. S.) with headquarters in Mexico City and El Paso, Texas, respectively. 
W. Frank Bailey has been appointed President of the Hawaiian Mission to succeed Castle H. Murphy. (Pres. Murphy released last April.) 
Richard R. Lyman appointed President of the European Mission to succeed Joseph F. Merrill. 
A. Richard Peterson appointed President of the Norwegian Mission to succeed Milton H. Knudson. 
Gustive O. Larson appointed President of the Swedish Mission to succeed Hugo D. E. Peterson. 

New Temple President: 

Edward L. Clissold appointed President of the Hawaiian Temple to succeed Ralph E. Woolley (acting- President). 

Other Special Appointments: 

J. Wiley Sessions appointed Director of Missionary Home to succeed President John H. Taylor. 
Eugene J. Neff appointed to preside over Bureau of Information at Palmyra, New York. 

General Committee — Church Security Program: 
Melvin J. Ballard, Chairman 
Harold B. Lee 
Mark Austin 
Campbell E. Brown 
Stringham Stevens 
Henry D. Moyle 

New Stakes Organized: 

Pasadena Stake created by the division of the Hollywood Stake. The new stake is composed of the Alhambra, Burbank, Elysian Park, Garvanza, Glendale, Hollywood, Pasadena and North Hollywood Wards and San Fernando Branch. This leaves the Adams Ward (transferred from Los Angeles Stake), Arlington, Englewood, Mar Vista, Santa Monica and Wilshire Wards and El Segundo Branch in the Hollywood Stake. 
Long Beach Stake created by the division of the Los Angeles Stake. The new stake is composed of Anaheim, Compton, Long Beach, Redondo, San Pedro, Santa Ana, Torrance, North Long Beach and Wilmington Wards and Huntington Beach Branch. (Anaheim, Santa Ana and Huntington Beach were taken from the California Mission); leaving Alta Vista, Belvedere, Huntington Park, Manchester, Matthews, Haywood, South Gate, Vermont, Walnut Park and Whittier Wards in the Los Angeles Stake. 

New Stake Presidents Appointed: 

David H. Cannon appointed President of the new Pasadena Stake (He was formerly president of Hollywood Stake). 
Wilford G. Edling appointed President of Hollywood Stake. 
John W. Jones appointed President of the new Long Beach Stake. 
Hyrum T. Moss appointed President of the Rigby Stake to succeed John W. Hart (deceased). 
Joseph B. Harris appointed President of San Juan Stake to succeed Wayne H. Redd (deceased). 
Thomas George Wood appointed President of Taylor Stake to succeed Heber S. Allen. 
Hervin Bunderson appointed President of Box Elder Stake to succeed S. Norman Lee. 
Henry C. Jacobs appointed President of North Sanpete Stake to succeed Soren M. Neilsen. 
John Franklin Killian appointed President of Emery Stake to succeed A. Richard Peterson. 

New Wards Organized: 

Challis Ward, Lost River Stake, organized from independent branch. 
Twin Falls Ward, Twin Falls Stake, divided into the Twin Falls First and Twin Falls Second Wards. The Second Ward retained old bishopric. 
Picture Butte Ward, Lethbridge Stake, created by the division of the Diamond Ward. 
Walnut Park Ward, Los Angeles Stake, created by the division of Huntington Park Ward. 
Anaheim Ward, Long Beach Stake, formerly branch in California Mission. 
Santa Ana Ward, Long Beach Stake, formerly a branch in California Mission. 
Redondo Ward, Long Beach Stake, formerly an independent branch in Hollywood Stake. 
Mt. Olympus Ward, Cottonwood Stake, created by the division of the Holliday Ward. 
Whittier Ward, Los Angeles Stake, formerly an independent branch in same stake. 
Kanab North and Kanab South Wards created by the division of the Kanab Ward, Kanab Stake. 
Idaho Falls 5th Ward, Idaho Falls Stake, created by the division of the Idaho Falls 2nd Ward. 
Idaho Falls 6th Ward, Idaho Falls Stake, created by the division of the Idaho Falls 3rd Ward. 
Gilmer Park Ward, Bonneville Stake, created by dividing Yale and LeGrand Wards. 
Boise 3rd Ward, Boise Stake, created by dividing Boise First and Boise Second Wards. 
Grandview Ward, Grant Stake, created from Wilford and East Mill Creek Wards. 

New Independent Branches Organized: 

Romeo Independent Branch, San Luis Stake, organized from dependent branch. 
Indianola Branch, North Sanpete Stake, formerly part of Milburn Ward. 
Vale Branch, Boise Stake, formerly a dependent branch. Huntington Beach Branch, Long Beach Stake, formerly a branch of California Mission. 

Wards With New Names: 

North Long Beach Ward, Long Beach Stake, formerly Virginia Ward. 
Alta Vista Ward, Los Angeles Stake, formerly Boyle Heights Ward of Hollywood Stake. 
North Hollywood Ward, Pasadena Stake, formerly Lankershim Ward. 
Grass Valley Ward, Gridley Stake, formerly Nevada City Ward. 

Ward Disorganized: 

Merrill Ward, Portneuf Stake, disorganized and made dependent branch of McCammon Ward. 

Branches Disorganized: 

Lomita Branch, Los Angeles Stake, became part of Wilmington Ward. 
Pittsburg Branch, Oakland Stake, became part of Martinez Ward. 

Bishops Reported Died: 

Ernest N. Scofield, Bishop of Fish Haven Ward, Bear Lake Stake. 
Ray B. West, Bishop of Logan 5th Ward, Cache Stake. 
Hyrum L. Neves, Bishop of Burlington, Big Horn Stake. 

Stake Patriarchs Reported Died: 

Alma H. Findlay, Bear Lake Stake Patriarch. 
Heber J. Sheffield, North Davis Stake Patriarch. 
Joseph Keddington, Liberty Stake Patriarch. 
Ira W. Hatch, Panguitch Stake Patriarch. 
Ralph R. Cardon, Teton Stake, Patriarch and first counselor in the Teton Stake Presidency. 

Others Who Have Died: 

Lizzie Thomas Edwards, singer. 
Willard Young, son of Brigham Young. 
Jeannette Acord Hyde, former member of the General Board of the Relief Society. 
Brigham Frederick Grant, former general manager of the Deseret News, and wife, Johanna Schulter Grant. 
Elbert H. Eastmond, Professor of Arts, Brigham Young University.
