9
Afternoon
02 10 1936
Elder Wilford W. Richards 
180
38-40

None

None

My brethren and sisters, representing that great contribution of this Church, the missionary system, I have joy in speaking for the North Central States Mission. This is a fairly new mission in point of time. There is pioneering yet to be done, but growth and development are manifest. 

We find unusual joy in our association with the young men and women who come to us as missionaries. Seventy-three of them are there at the present time, laboring in love and harmony and in loyalty. I think it would be impossible to find a sweeter spirit of service than that manifest by these young people. Pushed as they are to the limit of service, and ofttimes feeling their personal weaknesses, they come to rely upon the Spirit of our Father in heaven, which is their safety. There isn't anything that they will not attempt when invited to do so. They are teachable, they are desirous of using sacredly the help which comes from their homes. As I talk to some of the missionaries about the use of their money, and the effort expended by their parents at home to secure it, I am reminded of that experience recounted in the life of King David of Israel. 

King David and his men were being pursued by the Philistines and were seriously in need of water to drink. Some of his loyal soldiers took their lives in their hands and slowly worked past the lines of the enemy to secure water from the well in Bethlehem, where as a boy David had refreshed himself. When the water was brought to him, he was overcome by the sacrifice and could not drink it. He poured it out unto the Lord. 

The money that comes into the missionary field is being used, we think, wisely. We hope that you parents at home will feel that our best wisdom will be used in instructing missionaries in its use. It is a sacred thing, this giving up a part of our lives and our money, to take the message to the world, and these your sons and daughters are dong it with dignity and power in the North Central States Mission. 

We have many fine members in that mission, something less than three thousand, scattered through the States and some of the Provinces of Canada. These members are showing remarkable faith, they are diligent in their effort to understand and live the Gospel. They are sending their sons and daughters into the world as missionaries. We have ten in other missions giving regular and full time service. This greatly stimulates and strengthens the families and branches from which they came. It brings a number of our members to Salt Lake City with the missionaries as they depart. It encourages them to make an effort to go to the temple, and partake of those many other active spiritual influences which are here. 

We want to thank you brethren and sisters here at home who have received so hospitably the members from the mission as they come to visit among you. They return to us greatly encouraged. They find the principles of the Gospel practiced here and rejoice in it. These members come back to us with increased spirit and testimony. It is an effective means of creating strength in our mission. 

A number of things emanating from the headquarters of the Church are helping us in our work. For some time, of course, we have felt the power of the Bureau of Information work on this block. We find that those who have visited here are always ready to receive the missionaries and to learn more of the Church which they represent. 

In our territory many families listen regularly to the Tabernacle choir and organ recitals, dedicating that Sunday morning period to worship with us. The Security Program offered by the Church has opened an avenue of discussion in the homes and the lives of many upon whom our missionaries call. Not only has it opened an intense interest, but it has also created a very definite responsibility. The eyes of the world are upon us and we are expecting to carry the program forward with complete success. 

The travels of President Grant and the publicity given him have done much to give us audience. The radio talks and especially the Church of the Air programs are very effective for good. 

All of these activities from the headquarters of the Church are opening up very definite opportunities for missionary service. It isn't often that we receive visitors from the headquarters of the Church. We have been recently favored with visitors from the Mutual Improvement Board — Brother Oscar A. Kirkham and Sister Clarissa A. Beesley — they left in our mission a message of Mutual Improvement work which shall inspire us for a considerable time. We appreciate their visit. 

The outstanding experience of the year was the visit of Elder Charles A. Callis of the Council of the Twelve who spent three weeks with us. He went into some places where General Authorities of the Church have not been able to visit before. He attracted the attention of many people to our meetings who are not members of the Church. Some fifty per cent or more of all those who attended these twenty-four public meetings were non-members. He bore his testimony in power and explained the Gospel with clearness. Meetings were held with the missionaries in all our districts, he inspired them in their work and left them his blessing. We are grateful for his visit and the power of his message and testimony. We always greatly appreciate the visits of those who preside over us. 

My brethren and sisters, this missionary work is making headway and is attracting attention — the lump is gradually being leavened. We feel that prejudice is being broken down in many places. We are able to contact people now where two years ago it would have been impossible. Many invitations are coming which heretofore never would have been received. 

We are grateful for the kindness of the Lord unto us, for the trust and confidence of our brethren in presiding positions of the Church to sustain and support us in our work of responsibility. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, here at home. We are proud of your efforts and those of your missionary sons and daughters. We are trying to use those efforts to the glory of God in the North Central States Mission. May peace and harmony attend the members of this Church everywhere, to the end that we may all walk hand in hand with God and his purposes in the accomplishment of this great and important work, which I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
