3
Morning
02 10 1936
Elder Don B. Colton 
115
19-21

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I think I could do no better in reporting the Eastern States Mission than to tell you in a few words of some of the work being done by your sons and daughters who are laboring in that mission. 

At our annual Palmyra conference in July of this year we held a meeting and banquet attended only by missionaries. The entire program was provided by the missionaries themselves. They planned it and carried it out, and I am sure that it reflected their true feelings. The subject of their banquet program was "Monuments." I was reminded of this during the talk of President Grant. I cannot name all of the subjects treated at this moment but will name some of them. 

"The Seagull Monument" was assigned to one missionary, and around that monument she wove a beautiful talk on faith and trust in God, and then earnestly pleaded with her fellow companions to exhibit in their lives the same fine qualities that had been exhibited by their fathers. 

Another missionary was assigned "The Mormon Battalion Monument," and he made an earnest plea for patriotism and courage. 

Another was assigned "The Monument at Cumorah Hill." He spoke eloquently, and may I say touchingly, upon the subject of immortality and the deep appreciation of the faith that had come into his life by reason of contact with that monument. Anticipating the monument at Florence, Nebraska, another missionary spoke of fidelity and courage, and closed with a wonderful appeal for all present to exhibit the same fine qualities in missionary life. 

I would not have you believe that it was all serious, some of it was high type fun and wit, but when we closed those who were there said: "This is one of the finest entertainments of my life, because with wit and fun have been interspersed and interwoven some of the finest ideals for life and for the Church I have ever heard." 

Brethren and sisters, your boys and your girls are carrying on under that kind of influence and under these lessons which this Church teaches. 

A few days ago my attention was called to an article in a magazine in which the author had severely criticised the religions of the day. He had contended that there was no progressive philosophy in any of the so-called religions of the world, a philosophy that met the problems of life. I thought this morning, I wish that author could understand the spirit and genius of Mormonism; I wish he could know truly the philosophy of life as taught in this religion; I wish he could know how basic principles are translated into the lives of those who accept and obey the Mormon religion. I wonder if anyone can listen to a speech such as that delivered this morning by the President of the Church and feel that there is not a true philosophy, a progressive philosophy of life in at least one of the religions of this world. If anything could be more basic than that to which we have listened I cannot think what it would be. 

To know that to serve God best we serve our fellowmen most; to believe in our Government, to obey its laws, to understand and respect its basic law especially, what could be higher, what could be more conducive to good citizenship than that? Surely it is satisfying to know that work, honest work brings its reward, in a consciousness of duty well done. Oh, I do hope and pray that the Latter-day Saints shall go from this conference more firmly resolved than ever to live the Gospel, to keep the commandments of God, to forget not the basic things in our religion. I hope we shall carry them back to our homes, that we shall not forget to pray, that we shall not forget to study the scriptures, that we shall not forget that the home is the unit that shall endure forever. 

Basic? Yes. Let us not forget the basic principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. May I read to you in conclusion a text that came to me as I was called so unexpectedly to the stand to speak to you this morning: 

Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I know that if ye shall follow the Son, with full purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy and no deception before God, but with real intent, repenting of your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take upon you the name of Christ, by baptism — yea, by following your Lord and your Savior down into the water, according to his word, behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then can ye speak with the tongue of angels, and shout praises unto the Holy One of Israel. 

I commend to you these words of Nephi as found in the 31st chapter of II Nephi. 

I bear you my solemn testimony that I do know that there is a religion that has a basic philosophy of life so progressive, that it meets every requirement of life. That religion is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, revealed and re-established upon earth in this day. How glorious and splendid it is to be one of the missionaries preaching that Gospel! 

May God help us to appreciate and understand our responsibilities and to meet them nobly and manfully, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
