13
Morning
03 10 1936
Elder James M. Kirkham 
179
53-54

None

None

I appreciate the opportunity given me to report to you in representing the East Central States Mission. My heart is filled with gratitude for the honor and the privilege that have been given me to labor in that field in preaching the Gospel. 

One of the recent outstanding events happening in our mission was the visit of Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve. He came just at a time when our missionaries were going into the country for their summer work, as we call it. His instructions and helpful suggestions were an inspiration to them. He promised them that if they would do certain righteous things, they would be blessed in many ways. I want to bear testimony in evidence to you that the promises that were made by him, a servant of God, to those young men and women, have been absolutely fulfilled. 

While listening to about fifteen of them bear their testimonies just previous to coming to this gathering I was thrilled with the testimonies which they had, how the Lord had blessed them, and how he had been near to them. It came about, brethren and sisters, because those young people had humbled themselves before our Heavenly Father through prayer and humility. The suggestion was made that they go into the country without purse or scrip, and they did it. A greater part of our missionaries labored that way this summer, some of them going for a month, not spending five cents; they left their money at home, and the result was that they depended upon the Lord. That experience was rich to them because of the blessings which they received. They found the Lord and he blessed and never failed them at any time. 

We are having an unusual experience in our mission, by being asked to preach the funeral services of a great many people, several of them non-members of the Church. Two hundred, four hundred, five hundred, and as many as a thousand people have attended these meetings. The sentiment towards the Latter-day Saints is changing wonderfully in that mission. You realize that years ago prejudice was very strong against us at times, but that sentiment has greatly changed. To illustrate: In the city of Goldsboro, North Carolina, where a few years ago we were not able to rent a hall, the great auditorium in the court house in that city was turned over to us when Brother Ballard was there, with an attendance of four or five hundred people. The change is so wonderful that we could use, I am conservative in saying, double the number of missionaries we have in that field today, because of the opportunities we have. Not only are we finding places, but many people are writing and asking us, "Can't you send missionaries into this locality; we would like to help you?" That request is not confined to members alone, but non-members are offering suggestions such as this. 

I have learned, and it has been emphasized to me this summer, possibly more than any time else in my life, that if I want the blessings of my Heavenly Father I must live for them. I must get near to him, and I believe I can express to you this morning the sentiment of the young men and women who are laboring in the field, that when they get close to our Heavenly Father and have his Spirit with them it is most remarkable what they can accomplish. We have been able to touch the heart of stone, so to speak. Those who have been against us have in turn blessed and helped us in our work. 

The work of the Lord in our mission field is progressing. We are happy. Young men and women are enjoying good health at this time, and the Lord is blessing us abundantly. I plead with you in all earnestness to send your boys and girls on missions, that they might have the joy and the blessings which come from this service. 

A mission is two fold, it works both at home and in the mission field. If you have the faith, as President Grant told us at our last conference, nothing is impossible. What we need is greater faith, and if you have that I promise you that the Lord will bless you and open up the way so that you can send your sons and daughters on missions. My experience has proven it to me. May I be personal enough to say to you that our eighth child is now on a mission in the Eastern states. Recently I said to my wife, "We must send another one of our children on a mission, so that the Lord will bless us." My testimony to you is that when you have the proper faith the Lord will bless you. May we have sufficient faith to help us promulgate the Gospel. 

In closing, I would like to say this: During my lifetime in the field of publicity, numbering some forty years, I do not know of any time when the world has watched and given us so much publicity as they have regarding this Relief Program, and every day they are checking our progress. If we do not make good we shall have — well, we are not going to fail — there is no such thing as failure with the Latter-day Saints. We cannot fail when the Lord is with us. The Church Security Program is going to be one of the outstanding testimonies and evidences of this work. I am glad to belong to an organization where the leadership has the inspiration of God to direct and help them, and to help us in all our problems that we have to meet. I pray that the Lord will be with the leaders of the Church and inspire them in the future as he has in the past. 

It is my prayer that we may fulfil our part in this great work, because as sure as I stand here God's work is going forward, man cannot stop it. May you and I be able to do our part in this great service, I humbly pray in his name, Amen.
