19
Morning
03 10 1936
Elder Rufus K. Hardy 
185
68-70

None

None

I am thrilled with the thought today that this body of men and women have enjoyed, since this conference convened, the true spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ, and, that from the very commencement of our exercises advice and admonition have been given to this people in a spirit of love and solicitiude, and also in a way and manner which will, I feel sure, sink into the hearts of us to the end that we shall not be turned aside from the sacred duties which devolve upon us. 

I am reminded of the statement of one of the prophets of old when he said: "Oh Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself; it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps." 

And, so, as I cast my eyes over this great congregation and think of the things that have transpired, the things which today are transpiring, and the things which in the future will transpire, I feel sure that this prophecy was not directed to the individual, but rather to the collective horde of mankind upon the earth. Surely and truly this people should be a people filled with gratitude and praise unto God our Eternal Father for the mercies and the blessings which have come unto them. We have had evidence of God's handiwork in all we have been hearing, and even in these past two weeks I personally think, at least to me, has come another testimony of this Gospel, which in no other way could have come. 

I refer to the pilgrimage which will become history, which was taken back over the familiar pioneer trail to Florence, Nebraska. There, upon that sacred hill, made so by the bodies of hundreds — they say nearly 600 people — who laid down their lives, and at a time when it was virtually a wilderness, and under the most trying circumstances. There came from their ashes and their dust a spirit which blended into the lives of the men and women who fortunately attended this dedicatory service, a something which bore to them the truth and divinity of this great work in which we are now engaged. When we heard our leaders, the authorities of our Church, telling of this wonderful pilgrimage of our forebears, and then heard the governor of the state of Nebraska, the mayor of the city of Omaha, and Carl R. Gray, the president of the Union Pacific Railroad System, all uniting their voices with ours in testimony of that which had been done, surely, I said to myself, this is virtually a whispering spirit from the dead. And, at night, as we assembled in that great and wonderful Joslyn Memorial, that great temple of marble, erected in Omaha with its art gallery, and the seats upholstered in the last word of the art of the upholsterer, and saw our brethren who were there, the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles and others as they sat on the stand and spoke to that large audience, surely gratitude filled every heart of those who had gone to pay honor to their departed loved ones who were buried in the Florence cemetery. It was my privilge to sit next to two gentlemen who were inclined to talk a little, and they said as the service went on: "They are all spellbinders, aren't they?" 

Then, as Senator Smoot finished his address one said to the other : "You know a man of such national prominence as Reed Smoot, who will give attention and pay heed to that which he is saying certainly deserves attention; we ought to do something ourselves, because I am sure that what he says has in it all the ear marks of worthwhile endeavor for mankind to listen to and follow." These things, coupled with the things which today are going on in our very midst, the advice and counsel of the authorities of the Church, asking us to go forward and carry out this wonderful system of our relief program, and that system which has arrested the attention of the United States as a whole, and, I am sure, foreign countries as well, ought to speak to you and to me this word, that it is truly the inspiration of the Holy Ghost through God himself that these things come to this people who a few years ago were persecuted and driven from pillar to post, and yet today stand out shining lights before many people, exhibiting that which the Gospel has produced among the children of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Truly, in the world today, if we will stop and think of the prayer Orson Hyde uttered on that sacred hill in Jerusalem, it is being more fully realized and comprehended than we ourselves, I think, can understand. God has said to us that he would make us lie down in green pastures, and lead us beside the still waters; that he would guide us in paths of righteousness for his name's sake, and I am sure he is doing it. I know that the statement of Jeremiah is being fulfilled wherein he said: "Oh Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself; it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps." 

My prayer is for courage, faith, hope, and above all, thankful and grateful hearts to God for that which we have received, and that which we are receiving. May God grant us these things, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
