22
Afternoon
03 10 1936
Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon 
5
80-86

None

None

It is a source of gratitude, my brethren and sisters, to be with you in this conference and enjoy the good instructions, the spirited remarks and the beautiful music that we have heard. I rejoice in the splendid spirit and the very good counsel that has been given us throughout the entire sessions. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may attend me in what I may say. 

THE PRESIDENT AN AMBASSADOR OF GOOD WILL 

I am very happy in the excellent health that President Grant enjoys. To hear his clear ringing voice and see his alert, vigorous, active personality in his eightieth year is certainly interesting and remarkable, and a source of satisfaction, I am sure, to every member of the Church. He is a powerful ambassador of good will among the people of this nation in promoting friendship and removing prejudice, overcoming ill-will and misunderstanding regarding this great work in which we have part. He is doing an important work in that respect, and in his visits in the various wards, and dedicating meeting houses, the people of the Church are having the opportunity of coming in contact with him to a greater extent, possibly, than with any other President since the Church has grown so extensively. 

WAYS AND MEANS OF REMOVING PREJUDICE 

There are various means that are being developed and have been developed in the Church that are helping materially in removing prejudice and giving the people of this nation and other nations a much better understanding of what this people actually believe, — what they stand for, — what their habits are and what their desires and purposes and ideals are. 

BUREAU OF INFORMATION TEMPLE SQUARE 

These things have been mentioned in part during this conference. One of these is the Bureau of Information on this Temple Square. During the past summer there have been more than 250,000 visitors in our midst who have come to the Square and have received information regarding the history and the ideals of this people, and have become friends. 

A great work is being done as can be declared by those who live in other sections who have been here and whose minds have been changed toward this people in many respects and have come to have a better understanding of our principles and motives. 

TABERNACLE BROADCASTS 

Another means, as has been stated, is the regular weekly broadcast of the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and other broadcasts, such as the Church of the Air in which we participate from time to time — and other programs over the air. They are all very helpful in overcoming prejudice and promoting good will. 

CHURCH HISTORICAL MONUMENTS 

In addition, the various monuments and places of historical interest, such as the Hill Cumorah, the Joseph Smith Home at Palmyra, the Joseph Smith Birthplace in Vermont, and Winter Quarters, are all proving very attractive to many visitors. They are helpful means of teaching the remarkable history of this people and the foundations of our faith. 

LIMITED EFFORTS OF INDIVIDUAL MISSIONARIES 

It is remarkable, also, what development is taking place in ways and means of promulgating our message of good will and peace not only throughout this nation but in other places. When I was on my first mission some thirty-seven years ago in the farthest corner of Belgium, in common with other missionaries, I used every available means to make known our message: tracting, conversations, holding meetings, etc. We held meetings both in French and in German among the people who were living there. We visited those who would permit us to enter their homes and held cottage meetings; and yet I thought at that time that my efforts were relatively limited in trying to get this message before the millions of people. In that little country of Belgium alone there were several million people at that time. I suppose it is the most densely populated country in Europe — over 640 people per square mile, — a nation that exemplifies the bee-hive. It doesn't have that motto, but it is honey-combed with industries of all kinds, and the people there are generally very busy. 

SCIENTIFIC DEVELOPMENTS IN COMMUNICATION 

When I read and declared the fulfilment of the promise made by the Apostle John that an angel should come forth "having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people," it seemed to me an almost overwhelming task to undertake. I could not see how it could be accomplished. In the thirty-seven years that have elapsed since that time I have come to realize more fully, particularly recently, that there are ways and means being provided whereby this Gospel of peace can be declared in a very much wider circle and in a very much wider range than has been the case heretofore. 

GREATER PROGRESS IN PROSPECT 

We are on the eve of greater developmnets. At the present time, for instance, we have an offer to install a television transmitter in this city; and while, of course, it is new and is experimental in a sense, and its range is relatively small — about twenty-five or thirty miles, and the receiving sets are rather expensive — it is an indication of additional means whereby, not only the voice, but the face and figure of the one who may be speaking can be shown successfully over considerable areas. 

MESSAGES TO BE CONVEYED TO THE ENDS OF THE EARTH 

Likewise, the matter of developing increased power for broadcasting is at our very door. Almost at this moment in the City of Washington, the Federal Communications Commission is holding a hearing on applications from some of the largest stations in this country to increase the power under which they operate, ten times as much as the power that is now being used generally throughout the country. The result of such increase cannot be calculated at the present time. Not only that, but the use of what is known as a short wave, quite different in its range, although it is of the same character, an electrical wave for the conducting of messages to the very ends of the earth, is being developed. So, I can appreciate in a larger measure that means and ways will be made available for the great missionary work we are now doing and that is to be done in the future, both in the world at large and in the various localities where Saints are established in the stakes and wards; and that the Lord will fulfil his purposes. 

GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

I rejoice in all of these things. I rejoice in the growth of the Church as it has been described by President Grant. I just happen to remember that recently in the Christian Herald, a publication that circulates widely throughout this nation, comparisons were shown for last year of the growth of the various churches. By the way, may I state that it is shown in the article in that publication that the Christian churches of the United States are growing faster than the population of the country, so that Christian membership is increasing throughout this nation. 

Among other things it is shown that there are thirty-three church groups that have a population of over 50,000 each; and in those groups the Latter-day Saint group is twelfth in number. We have advanced from fourteenth place, in recent years, to twelfth; and our percentage of membership gain for 1935 is more than double the average of that group of thirty-three and the highest of the twelve. In percentage gain we are among the highest of the thirty-three groups. In the past nine years our percentage gain is nearly twice the average of the thirty-three groups. 

IMPROVEMENT IN TITHEPAYING 

As stated by the President, also, evidences of the faith of the members of the Church are shown by the improvement made in various temporal activities — notably in the observance of the principle of tithing. I am sure that through the appeals and the instructions of the First Presidency as well as through the improved general economic conditions, and better crops and prices in the farming districts, there has been a material increase in the tithes for the first six months of this year, which is the latest report that we have, as compared with the same period of last year. This amounts to approximately twenty per cent increase in tithing. In regard to the number of tithepayers, there has been an increase of about ten per cent showing that those who are observing the principle of tithing are paying largely in proportion to their increased income. Regarding farm crops and prices, it is well to remember that the agricultural industry is a very important factor in our economic welfare. When farm crops are good and prices are normal the nation prospers. During many years past, whenever prices of farm products have been at normal level, economic conditions have been favorable. 

OBSERVANCE OF FASTING AND FAST OFFERINGS 

In regard to the matter of improvement in the observance of fast offerings, of course, there have been only about three months, as shown by the report, since the instruction and encouragement given by the First Presidency; but the fast offerings have increased for the first six months of this year forty per cent as compared with the same period last year, and the number who have paid fast offerings has increased forty-one per cent. There has been an increase in per capita of practically the same proportion. One of the interesting evidences of what can be done with regard to fulfilling the request of the First Presidency that there be not less than one dollar paid during the year per capita of the Church membership by all members of the Church is shown by one ward, at least, in the Church, during the past four or five years. That is the San Francisco ward of the San Francisco stake. For the past five years, they have had an average of over one dollar per capita of Church membership in that ward; and it is a ward that is made up largely of wage earners and people who are engaged in daily labor and earning moderate amounts. 

WHAT FAST OFFERING REPRESENTS 

The fast offering, of course, is intended to serve two purposes: the first is that it represents the fasting of the members of the Church, — the abstaining from two meals, — and the attendance at fast and testimony meeting. The people are strengthened spiritually through such fasting, praying, and testimonies. Secondly, in recognition of the needs of those who are not so fortunate as they, that they give the equivalent in value of those two meals. Thereby, they suffer no financial loss and they gain a great spiritual benefit. That is the true spirit of the observance of fast offering. It is reported to us that, in some instances, in order to make a better record, bishops have encouraged the giving of funds or obtaining of funds to be credited to their ward that do not represent the individual giving by the head or the members of the family. We would suggest that the spirit of this principle and the manner of observance should be carefully followed. It is for the spiritual benefit of all Church members as well as for the aid of those who are in need, and should be carried out in the spirit thereof as instructed by the First Presidency. 

EXTENT OF RELIEF 

Now, with regard to the matter of relief extended: There were about 16,100 people, as I remember it, who were assisted by the bishopric and the Relief Society of the various wards during the past six months, which is approximately three hundred fifty less than a year ago for the same period. The tithes expended in the relief of the poor throughout the Church have increased during the past six months as compared with the first six months of 1935 — about 31 per cent. In addition to the tithes expended, of course, there are the fast offerings and the help extended by the Relief Society. The total expended for relief by the Church increased about 11 per cent. 

There appears to be some misunderstanding in Utah regarding the Federal appropriations. The so-called "dole" was abandoned in 1935 and replaced by work relief for all able-bodied persons in need, and by direct relief for those who are incapacitated. 

SPLENDID EFFORTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY 

I rejoice in the good report that has been given and in the work that has been accomplished during the past few months under the Security Plan. There has been a prompt and active response throughout the Church to the appeal of the First Presidency made at the April Conference. I would like to express particular appreciation to the Relief Society throughout the Church for the splendid work they have done. Their willingness to sacrifice and the energy they have put into the work that has been entrusted to them of doing so much for the welfare of the poor is very praiseworthy. 

In many cases, these women, — housewives, mothers in homes, officers of the Relief Society, — have given a tremendous amount of service. In fact, according to the reports that come to us, some of them are almost worn out, because of the service they have given. Of course, it is expected and intended that as many as possible of those in need who are to get the benefit should contribute of their labor for the accomplishment of these things — the securing of food and taking care of it and the providing of clothing and bedding and things of that kind. Everyone who expects to get relief should work for it. 

SELF-SACRIFICE OF STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS 

In this great undertaking I have been greatly impressed and filled with appreciation for the devotion and the fine spirit shown by the stake presidencies and the ward bishoprics throughout the Church. Their willingness to serve, — busy men as they are, having their own living to earn, volunteering their services so readily to the Church — is admirable. They have given their time, sometimes at the sacrifice of their own occupations, in order to carry out the request of the First Presidency in this work which we are undertaking. I pray the Lord to bless and sustain them. I appreciate always the service of these men who are called to preside, because the heavy burden of this responsibility rests primarily upon the bishop and the stake president and they give that service willingly and freely. 

SPIRITUAL WELFARE OF OUR CHILDREN 

There is one other thing I would like to mention, my brothers and sisters, and that is this: We are all concerned with the spiritual welfare and the training of our children. They are a source of blessing to us if we train them and teach them in righteousness. If we fail by example and precept to stimulate them in high principle and right living, they may be the cause of sorrow and remorse to us. A great responsibility rests upon us as parents. These souls are precious in the sight of God. We should recognize their true worth, and do our utmost for their proper development. We have a rare privilege in the Church and that is the opportunity of receiving, enjoying and serving in the priesthood. That is the very foundation of the Church, — the source of its divinity. I am concerned, of course, for the girls as well as for the boys, but primarily my responsibility concerns the boys who may receive the priesthood. I realize that through the encouragement, the help, and the inspiration of the parents, the boys who should receive the priesthood can become worthy to receive it and be inspired and encouraged to carry on their responsibilities in that priesthood. 

TRAINING IN THE PRIESTHOOD 

That is, primarily, the parents' responsibility. In addition thereto the various auxiliaries — the Primary Association, the Sunday School, the Mutual organizations, and, of course, the priesthood leaders themselves — are helping materially in the teaching and training of these young men. I feel that of all things that are of concern in this Church, the training and welfare and development of these young men in the spirit and power of the priesthood is of first importance. They are the hope for the future progress of the Church. In order to best qualify these young men for the greatest good, they are entitled to have systematic teaching and training under inspired leadership, and to perform regularly all the varied duties of their callings in willingness and the spirit of true service. I think we, as leaders of the Church in the various divisions thereof, ought to give great consideration to the advancement, welfare and functioning of these young men in the various labors and duties that they are called to fulfil, that they may measure up to high standards and get the spirit of the priesthood. The youth of the Church will qualify if only we give them the proper leadership. Shall we accept this challenge? "Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence." (D. & C. 107:99). 

May the power and spirit and blessing of the Lord attend us all, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
