14
Morning
03 10 1936
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
55-56

None

None

I echo the sentiments of President George F. Richards in his opening remarks when he said he was grateful to the Lord for membership in the Church and the experience which came as a result of it. I am grateful to the Lord that his blessings are everywhere. 

When we leave this inspirational center and go to our fields of labor we do not feel alone. I find his blessings wherever I go; we are not alone in the great cities nor in the country places where our people gather. We feel that we are in his presence and that his power is over us. 

In the twenty-five branches of the Central States Mission, the fifty-two Sunday Schools and more than a hundred correspondent Sunday Schools where our people gather, the inspiration and blessing of that Spirit is present. It is the light that shines in darkness, as expressed in modern revelation, but the darkness comprehendeth it not, and even those who sit in the light only partially comprehend the blessings which the Gospel brings to us and what it means. 

We have two responsibilities in every mission; to look after the organized branches and the converted saints on one hand, and to direct the missionaries on the other. So far as we possibly can we try to keep the two separate; that is to say, allowing the saints and the local people to look after their own local organizations, get their own experiences and make their own development, and not lean on the missionaries. On the other hand to have the missionaries as free as possible to spend their time seeking out the honest in heart. It is not always possible to do this, because the missionaries at times must help the organizations. We try however to take the attitude that when a man presides over a branch he presides over the branch, and the Elders who go into the branch go to him and say, ''President, if we can assist you in any way we are glad to do so." In a district where there are no organizations the Elders have the responsibility of taking charge. 

To find the honest in heart we pray and ask the Lord to guide us and prepare their hearts to receive us, and yet when the Elders start out in the morning in the great cities or even in the country they hardly know which way to go. But it does seem that the Lord leads us many times to the very homes where he wants us to go. I frequently wonder how many homes there are that the Lord has prepared for us that we do not find, or how near we live to him so that we may obtain the revelations of the Holy Ghost to guide us to these homes. I have no idea how far we fail in that respect. 

I am happy to say that the mission progresses and the branches grow in efficiency, particularly in the past year have I been able to note a vast increase in the interest in the genealogical department of the Church and temple work. Many people are now beginning to think about the genealogy of their fathers and we have organized junior genealogical societies with a degree of success that has been very satisfactory. One young Elder travels through the mission promoting genealogy work. He usually stays about two weeks in a branch and shows them as nearly as he can how they should proceed to improve their work. He also spends the rest of the time in regular missionary work. 

Another delightful thing is the development of the missionary. A man came to me yesterday who could hardly speak for the emotion which swelled in his heart. He said: "My boy is home again. I want to thank you for what you have done for him. He is not the same boy that went away at all." 

I said to him: "My dear sir, it was the Lord and himself who did it. He submitted himself to the will of God and lived in the presence and power of His Holy Spirit, and he comes back sanctified, strengthened and made a strong character." 

We are just trying to do our duty, brethren and sisters, in the Central States Mission. We use our efforts to the best of our ability and we find that the Lord blesses us and opens the way for us. Radio programs are open for us as far as we can fill them. Newspapers give us notices, people listen to our testimony wherever we go. We try to sing the Gospel and preach the Gospel, and put literature in the hands of the people. Your sons and daughters who are with us are performing splendidly. You can be very happy about them. At the present time we have only one case of serious sickness in the mission. We hope the Lord will preserve us from further serious sickness. 

May he bless his servants who preside over this Church, that we may continue to enjoy their inspired leadership and your faith and prayers, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
