15
Morning
03 10 1936
Elder Joseph J. Daynes 
174
56-59

None

None

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to bring you a report from the Western States Mission. We have there 82 Elders and lady missionaries at the present time, all of whom are very well. We have had some very unusual things transpire, unusual healings, unusual conversions, and particularly have I been impressed with the fine quality of good people who have recently come into the Church. We have had several conversions of friends from the Reorganized Church, and they are becoming a great power in our branches. 

The Security project has met with great approval, and our people have been very desirous of doing their full duty. When the Church conceived the idea of asking each of the members to contribute as a Fast offering one dollar per capita, many of our Saints, some of them in remote places, desirous of doing their part have done it wonderfully. One man sent a check for forty-eight dollars to us, asking that we credit him and his family four years in advance with Fast offerings. 

Our tithes show a very good increase, likewise our Fast offerings. We have had a number of wonderful missionaries go out into the field from our mission. We have nine out now, and three others who will soon be in the field, making twelve from our mission who are spending their time in other missions of the Church. 

The meeting to which President Grant referred, which was held in Estes Park, August 8th, being the convention of the Institute of Human Relations, was a privilege of unusual importance given this Church. I have heard President Grant give many marvelous addresses, but I think the one given there, in which he gave historical and doctrinal phases of Mormonism, is perhaps his outstanding address. He covered almost everything historical and likewise doctrinal that the Church presents to the world. Many wonderful reactions in the nature of complimentary praise regarding his address have come from those who were present. 

Perhaps the outstanding thing that has occurred within our mission was the dedication of the Winter Quarters monument, which took place on the 20th of September, a week ago last Sunday. There were three thousand people at the dedication services proper, and there were fifteen thousand people who came onto the hill during the day, and there have been literally hundreds of people there every day since. In a letter received from one of our lady missionaries, she said: (she had been appointed to be there that day) "There were 150 people came on the hill to ask questions concerning the monument and what it stands for." 

We have had a wonderful response from the officials of the city administration in their endeavor to give us that which we needed. I want to quote you just a few words from the remarks of Mayor Butler, given at the time of the dedication: 

In meeting here to dedicate this memorial we are but acknowledging the debt we owe to the devoted men and women who gave their lives to the uplifting of this great western country. 

We are all inclined, except at moments such as this, to forget how deeply we are indebted to the men and women who crossed the plains in the days when it required sublime faith and undaunted courage to face the dangers and the privations of the long journey. 

*******

We are here, however, to do honor to those who did not reach the goal, to those that sacrificed their lives that others might go forward. 

We would be ingrates indeed were we not to commemorate the heroism of these men and women in some lasting memorial such as this. 

As the mayor of the city of Omaha I am happy to add my word of recognition of the sacrifices made by these pioneers and to express on behalf of the people of Omaha their appreciation of this monument which is to be unveiled here today. 

Governor R. L. Cochran, governor of the State of Nebraska, paid a very beautiful tribute, and I quote a few words from his remarks: 

No other events of human history are more soul-stirring than the chronicles of the struggles for the freedom of conscience. No battles ever fought have shown a higher courage than that manifested by a determined people in a peaceful exodus from the scenes and conditions of religious persecution. America was colonized by the refugees from religious intolerance in other lands, by men and women of conviction who preferred self exile rather than suffer regimentation in the manner of their worship of God. 

A century ago there was gathering on a peaceful, fertile Illinois prairie the nucleus of a colony of God-fearing people who sought to rear their children in their own particular faith. 

*******

After a few pathetic years of resistance, during which time the leader, Joseph Smith, was killed, the colony decided to move far westward to establish new homes beyond the Rocky Mountains. 

*******

This ceremony today is in proper keeping with the respect due to those purposeful pioneers who were first to leave their impress on the Christian civilization of the great plains. 

*******

And so, down through the mist of the passing years the Mormon migration has become epochal, significant as an institution having an influence on the social standards of succeeding generations. Subsequent events would seem to have justified the losses suffered, the rigors met and survived. I am humbly disposed to pay reverent homage to the high purpose that inspired the heroic enterprise, and to look upon this field of unmarked mounds as symbolic of the sacrifice that life in every scheme of human endeavor, demands as the price for ultimate success. 

I received a letter from the secretary of the Chamber of Commerce of Omaha the day before I left, and I quote a few words from him : 

We of Omaha feel that this is one of the most inspirational meetings that has been held here for a long time, and I am sure that all of those who gathered on the hill above Florence left the place better for having been there. 

You may be sure that we were more than willing to cooperate with your people in this ceremony, for the leaders of your Church approached this dedication with a dignity that was truly inspiring. The Church of the Latter-day Saints erected their own memorial to their own dead but were happy to have others join in the service. It is a great contribution to the memory of those who pioneered the middle west. 

I quote from an editorial in one of the Omaha newspapers the Monday morning after the dedication: 

Omaha listened yesterday while Heber J. Grant, president of the Mormon Church, and other eloquent speakers told of the struggles and triumphs of their faith, of its tragedies and blessings, its past and its present, and its hope for the future. 

It is a tale that bears telling. Suppose its origin does appear fantastic to Gentile unbelievers. It is not more so than that of other religions that number adherents by hundreds of millions. It is worth while for its relation to humanity's search through the ages for truth. 

Starting in New York, taking form in Ohio, coming to growth in Missouri, reaching strength in Illinois, until in Utah it mounted heights of power and influence, the story of the Mormon Church is fascinating as a human document. 

Hardships endured at "Winter Quarters" tried their souls and tested their faith, but were borne with resignation. When Brigham Young organized the march to the region he had located beyond the mountains, with songs on their lips and prayers in their hearts, thousands followed on to Utah. 

They made the desert bloom, they established cities, with all the attributes of civilization, schools, churches, factories, to utilize their products, everything connoted by greatness. 

Holding fast to their faith, they bore the shock of adversity, of ostracism, patiently striving for the goal they visioned. One need not be a Mormon, nor subscribe to any tenets of the Church, to admire the courage, the fortitude, the industry of this powerful sect. 

It is marvelous the response we have had, my brethren and sisters. My testimony has grown day by day as I have studied the reaction of the people as they have contemplated the purposes of our mission. Our Elders and our lady missionaries are reaching many honest, God-fearing people who are receiving the message of truth. And I testify to you that I know that this Church is true, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are one and the same, inseparable and indivisible. As I learn of it and study it I am more convinced from day to day of its comprehensiveness, its beauty and its glory, and in my work I am happy that I am one who is undertaking to promote its glorious truths. 

May the Lord bless us all, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
