21
Afternoon
03 10 1936
Elder Orlando C. Williams 
219
77-80

None

None

My brethren and sisters, this glorious sight takes my breath away from me. This is a glorious privilege that I am today adding to my privileges and blessings that have come to me as a result of this Gospel, and I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for it. 

I am happy to report the Spanish-American Mission. Although it is new in name yet this mission has existed for many years as a part of the Mexican Mission. 

I say to the parents that your boys and girls, the Elders and lady missionaries in this mission are well and happy in the work that they are doing in spreading the principles of this Gospel. We have had very little sickness among the missionaries during the summer months, some slight colds as a result of extreme heat in the southwest and along the Mexican border, but at this time they are all well and happy. 

It would be a source of joy and would gladden the hearts of each and every parent if they could hear the prayers that the missionaries are offering daily in their behalf, giving thanks for the privileges given them, and they are praying that the Spirit of the Lord will continue to bless you at home, that you will enjoy the same privileges, the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord that they enjoy, and that it will be possible for you to continue the means whereby they are sustained in the mission field. 

Brother George Albert Smith in speaking of the Book of Mormon and the promises of the Lamanite people therein contained, reminded me of the fact that my assignment is to this people, that it is my duty through the help of the missionaries that have been sent to me, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, to carry the Gospel to this people, that they, through the blessings of the Gospel, may be redeemed, that they may be restored to the former knowledge that their parents had, and that they may be again restored to that glory that once obtained upon these continents, as evidenced by the wonderful ruins that have been excavated in Mexico and in Central America. 

Theirs was a mighty race, a vast civilization ,at one time. As has been stated here previously in this conference, these things were unknown at the time of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. The Prophet Joseph Smith was an instrument of our Father in heaven and gave to the world a knowledge of things that were past and a knowledge of things that would be proven to them in the future. 

Today these are demonstrated facts. 

I was interested in the remarks of President Richards before the class at the Mission Home this morning, wherein he said that in the early days of this Church, the missionaries were sent forth among the inhabitants of the earth to tell them that the restoration of the Gospel was about to take place — that the prieshood was to be restored and that the keys would be restored to the Prophet Joseph and his associates by those heavenly messengers who had held them in former dispensations. He pointed out that the duty of the Elders and the missionaries in the world today had changed — that it is their duty to testify that these are demonstrated facts, that these heavenly messengers have come, that the Gospel has been restored, and that they are messengers bearing the authority of the living God in representing these keys and giving this message to the world. 

I rejoice with you in the priesthood and the authority that is in this Church. I rejoice with you in the leadership thereof. 

It is my prayer that we shall ever be found in harmony with it. I hope the day will never come when I shall be without responsibility in this Church, because it is the one thing that will keep us safe, that will keep us in the paths of truth and righteousness and that will make of us servants of our Heavenly Father and enable us to do his will here upon the earth. 

I rejoice in the inspiration that has come to us today and yesterday through the previous speakers. I only hope that through the Spirit of the Lord I shall be able to carry this enthusiasm and these messages back to our missionaries — and that we may spread it to the people with whom we are called to labor. 

I would like to say to the parents who are sending missionaries into the mission field that the people among whom we labor are some of the finest people that inhabit the earth. They are a kindly people. It is true they are meek, but I am reminded that in Matthew, the Savior speaking on the mount, is there reported to have said: "Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth." 

I am wondering if this has any significance when applied to the Lamanite race. I believe that it has. They are humble; they are meek; they are in humble circumstances. They have been a down trodden people for many generations and yet back of all that are the promises contained in the Book of Mormon to Lehi and his family when they were guided to this land, that it was to be a land of promise to them and their posterity forever — a land choice above all other lands. 

Is it possible that the day is at hand now when those promises will be fulfilled and when this meek, down-trodden people will inherit the earth? I hope so. I believe that it is here. If you could see what the Gospel is doing for this people, how it lifts them out of bondage and raises them to new heights, I am sure you would feel as I do the thrill that comes to those who see the lives of these people and the transformation that comes to them through the blessings of the Gospel. 

It is my desire to work earnestly and faithfully to discharge our obligations, to carry this message to this people, that in the own due time of our Heavenly Father these blessings will come to them, that these promises may be fulfilled, that they may return to a knowledge of the Gospel and that they might again become a white and delightsome people, full of truth and zeal and of the energy and the faith that was exhibited during their periods of faithfulness in the Book of Mormon times. 

I want to say to you that when the Gospel has reached them and touched their hearts there is not a more faithful people, a more diligent and obedient people upon the face of the earth than are these Mexican or Lamanite people, because they strive earnestly day and night to keep the commandments of the Lord, to gain more knowledge and a greater testimony and they are really enjoying the Spirit of the Lord. 

It is a significant fact that although some missionaries from distant points, who are not acquainted with the Lamanite people, feel that they would rather go to some other mission, they feel that this people is not worthy, possibly, of their attention, but they all testify after a few months in the mission field and after becoming acquainted with this people, that they are thankful to their Father in heaven that they are permitted to labor as missionaries among this people and take to them the message of the Gospel. 

I pray the Spirit of the Lord to continue with us throughout the remaining sessions of this conference and that we may go back to our homes and our various fields of labor, filled with the Spirit of the Almighty and carry to them the messages that we have received here from our leaders, and I pray that we as a people will always be found sustaining our leaders, not only by word of mouth but upholding their hands in every way possible through our work and faith, that we may sustain them that they may carry on the tremendous burdens that are upon their shoulders. 

I thank my Father in heaven every day for the acquaintance I have with the leaders of this Church, that he has permitted me to become acquainted with them and receive of their confidence and respect. 

I pray for his blessings upon them and upon all of us, and I do it in the name of his son, Jesus Christ, Amen.
