36
Afternoon
04 10 1936
Elder Daniel J. Lang 
220
119-121

None

None

It was over three years ago that, in company with my wife, I left home to fill my third mission among the French-speaking people. This missionary part of my life, aggregating over seven years, has been a rich experience. I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for the privilege of having performed this service, — for the protection that he has given us in our extensive travels, and for his inspiration that we have felt in our ministry. 

It has been a joy to see the fruits of our labors, as made manifest by the increased number of baptisms performed. As fast as branches grew sufficiently in membership and in understanding, the local brethren have been given the priesthood and organized on a self-government basis. The auxiliaries are functioning in the French Mission. We now have all the auxiliary organizations represented, thanks, largely, to the efficient and devoted efforts of our lady missionaries who came into that mission recently. The recreational entertainments given under the auspices of the Sunday School, the M. I. A., the Relief Society, Primary, etc., compare very favorably with the entertainments here at home — of course with our numbers very much smaller. 

It is interesting to see Zion being built and established in Europe, and to see the Latter-day Saint ideals permeating the homes of the faithful members of the Church. We feel the wholesome influence in these homes, just as fine and sweet as the influences we find existing in well regulated homes here. The Lord is blessing these people by inculcating into their hearts firm testimonies of the truthfulness of the Gospel. They are thereby given the strength to overcome many obstacles that beset the pathways of life in which worldly influences are very strong and sometimes tend to almost overwhelm them. 

We are building churches in Europe, and these are fine edifices. They are outstanding landmarks that make for stability among the nations in which we labor. It is gratifying to note the change of sentiment in favor of the Church. In traveling, especially on the steamers, we have many occasions to engage in conversation. We find people very much more interested in our work. In consequence of this, it was our joy in recent years to find that we have placed literature into the hands of many people who have studied and appreciated it. People coming from Algiers, from Morocco, Egypt, Palestine, India, Siam, China and Japan have accepted eagerly our literature. The newspapers are publishing items that are very much more favorable to the Mormon people than formerly. When they publish things that are untrue, we usually are able to get favorable responses in these newspapers. 

We are courteously received by the officials, and as a consequence we are introduced into some of the very best circles. Our greatest obstacle, of course, is the indifference among the people. I feel, however, that this indifference as to religious matters is not greater in France than it is in any other country. The French people may be considered a religious people. They are a thrifty people and they are very moderate in their habits. We have learned to appreciate this condition very much. I don't think that the French people are very much different from others; and, everything considered, I think the results will be just as great among them if we are able to put the effort in the missionary work there. 

I desire to say that those in charge of the Mission Home here and especially those in charge of our seminaries are very much to be congratulated for the fine work they are doing. The morale of our French missionaries is splendid, and especially is this true of the Elders coming into the field recently. I attribute this condition very much to the fine work that is being done in these institutions. 

I would urge also that our young men be taught the functions of our auxiliary organizations and especially the Relief Society for these are very valuable helps in proselyting in the world. We are pleased to report the excellent morale among our people and especially among our Elders. I believe that the spiritual development of our Elders in the French Mission is just as great as in any other mission because the opportunities are good. Our young men get to love the people, love the country and reluctantly leave the mission field. I wish to emphasize this. I find, also, that in the mission field we view with better retrospect the great work that is being done here. Certainly nowhere do ministers of the Gospel speak with greater strength, fervor, knowledge, and authority, and convey greater conviction to the human heart than the instruction that is given here by our brethren in this sanctuary and its dependences. Nowhere else do men proclaim with such certainty and with such a firm conviction that God is our Father, that Jesus is the Christ. They affirm that by keeping God's commandments, as he has revealed them in the latter days to the Prophet Joseph Smith, it will produce the happiness and heart righteousness so much needed to heal the wounds of this woe-stricken world today. 

This message of salvation is broadcast by word of mouth and sung into the souls of the human beings encircling the whole globe. It is like a pebble being thrown into a pool of clear water. The waves go afar, and we in the mission field feel those waves. The brethren here are giving instructions that are valuable and they are permeating the whole world, and we feel the force of this in the mission field. I hope that we fully appreciate the blessings that we enjoy. I am thankful to be home and to associate with my brethren. I am thankful for the opportunity that has come to me. 

The other day a man who is more or less faithful said, "I don't know whether it is worth while for you men to go out and proclaim the Gospel." He was not living as he should live, and if he is under the sound of my voice I wish to tell him this: That no material advantage can compare with righteous impulse and the joy that is given us in going out into the world to do missionary work. I believe that we are building better than we know, that this great truth is permeating the world, and the time is not far distant when there shall be a spontaneous seeking for the principles of righteousness as taught by the Gospel of Jesus Christ revealed in these latter days. I believe that is the only way that peace and joy can come to this world. 

May we appreciate our blessings. May we go forward with fervor. May we endeavor to do right in the material things of life. I rejoice in the practical way in which we apply the Gospel. The world is beginning to sit up and take notice. I hope that everyone will do his duty fully and that God will give us strength to carry on, and I ask this in the name of Jesus, Amen.
