37
Afternoon
04 10 1936
Elder Castle H. Murphy 
221
121-123

None

None

Since my childhood it has afforded me great joy to attend the general conferences of this Church, and because of the thrills which have come it has been my pleasure, on various occasions, to invite my children and other people's children to attend the conferences with me. This afternoon it was my pleasure to bring two small girls into the balcony that they might see the General Authorities of this Church, know something of their background, and appreciate the more their testimonies which they give to us on these great occasions. 

For six years I have been absent from these conferences, and I, therefore, am thrilled today in the privilege which is mine to attend and sit in conference with you, my brothers and sisters, and be lifted up and built up in my faith because of the testimonies which are borne by the leaders of this great Church. 

It is my desire to report for a moment the physical, spiritual, and moral progress in the great mission which I had the pleasure of serving in, even that of Hawaii. I was called six years ago, with my wife, to go to Hawaii to preside over that mission, and to preside, also, in the Temple. 

The thrills which have come have caused me to rejoice more than I ever felt I might rejoice in the testimony which has been mine from childhood — that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and that his authority is here in the earth to guide the people of these latter days. 

The Hawaiian Mission has progressed physically. We have built in six years eleven chapels, four mission homes, renovated and changed and improved eighteen buildings, secured eight pieces of fine land, to be used for chapel sites, from the Governor of the territory and from the managers of the various plantations. 

Spiritually we have progressed. The people of Hawaii have manifested their appreciation for the organizations of this Church, for the organizations which we have been privileged to establish among them and for the inspiration of Almighty God in the various districts of the mission. On each island there was organized, some five years ago, district councils, composed of ten or more men who, under the direction of the missionaries, labor perhaps in a way similar to that of a stake presidency in Zion, directing these councils, and they have succeeded in increasing the faith of their people to the extent that already the Authorities of the Church have found it wise to go to Hawaii and organize a stake there. 

I rejoice as I read and hear of the progress of that mission and of that stake — that the movement is ever forward. We rejoiced in Hawaii to have a visit from the General Authorities of the Church. President Grant, President Clark, their wives and their party came to Hawaii and visited each of the districts there. Many tears fell. The courage of the people was greatly increased because of the fact that they had the privilege of touching the "hem of the garment" of these fine men of God. Later on, President David O. McKay and his wife came and inspired us. 

We rejoiced in their testimonies and I shall never forget the thrill that came to me as these brethren went through our mission, leaving their testimonies, singing the songs of Zion to the people and permitting them to look into the faces and feel the spirit of the Authorities of the Church, even the mouthpieces of the living God. As I contemplated the work which they performed there and the work which they are performing here, I could not but thank God for the spirit of the present day and the spirit of times gone by. 

If you will look into the scriptures, you will find that nearly 2,400 years elapsed from the time of that prophecy of Daniel, the 2nd chapter, the 44th verse, to the effect that in the days of these kings, the God of heaven shall set up a kingdom. 2,400 years, I say, elapsed from the time of that prophecy until its fulfillment. 

Then again we often quote from the 14th Chapter of Revelations, the 6th verse: that John saw an angel, flying in the midst of heaven. Seventeen hundred years elapsed from the time of that prediction until the angel came to visit the earth again and visited Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God. 

If you will read in I Kings (8:41), you will find that at the time of the dedication of Solomon's temple, Solomon, in his prayer, asked God, our Eternal Father, that he would remember a stranger who should come there and ask God that he would hear the words of his prayer and answer those words in behalf of that people. 2,845 years elapsed from the time of that statement until Orson Hyde went to the Holy Land and dedicated it for the return of the Jews. We do not think today that the prophecy of one of those who stand at the head of the Church should carry on for many years. 

The Prophet Joseph stated thirty years before the war between the North and South broke out — the Civil War — that it would come. A very short time after that he stated that the Saints would be driven to the tops of the Rocky Mountains. That was fulfilled. Later he said, "I go like a lamb to the slaughter." That was fulfilled almost immediately. 

In this day I have listened to the mouthpiece of God. I have heard President Grant make statements and promises to me, and I say to you that within a very short time those promises, those prophecies have been fulfilled. I thank God for the fact that I know that at the head of this Church there are prophets and that this is the Church of the living God.

I bear testimony to you that it has been a joy to serve in Hawaii among those loving and lovable people. I bear testimony to you that they are receiving the truth and rejoicing in it and that their movement is ever forward. 

May God bless us that we may support those who stand at our head and that we may rejoice in life because of rendering that support, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
