38
Afternoon
04 10 1936
Elder Milton H. Knudson 
222
123-124

None

None

My dear brothers and sisters: I bring greetings to you from the land of the midnight sun where we have descendants of Ephraim, a branch of Joseph. I feel in this land we have, to a very great degree, the blood of that noble son of Joseph. As we sang this afternoon, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," I felt the same spirit as when I heard it sung in the far north. I want to bear testimony to you that those people of the north, when they sing that same grand and glorious song, they sing it from the depths of their hearts, just as we do here. What would you think if you had an assembly of several hundred people, every one of them being non-Mormons, with the exception of the mission mother and father and the two Elders, singing that song and singing it with a fervor such as we hear it sung in the assemblies of the Saints? That has been our experience. Thanks to those noble Elders who teach those people to sing these song of Zion. 

Norway is ready for the Gospel. Thousands have come out of that country. There are thousands of others that will come. God is working with that people. Those people are seeking for the Gospel, but they are blinded by the craftiness of men. But the Father in his kindness is going to move that veil, for those people are noble sons and daughters of God. 

I bring a message to you parents from those fine sons of yours. They are doing splendid work. They are being well received by the people. I want to bear testimony to you that the work that President Widtsoe commenced, of having the auxiliaries organized thoroughly, being manned by the local brothers and sisters, is a very effective program. Some of the most effective work that we have at the present time is being done by our auxiliaries. What would you think of a Primary organization, hundreds of miles north of the Arctic circle consisting of ninety boys and girls, five nationalities being represented, and only one of that ninety a "Mormon" girl, with an average weekly attendance of over eighty, meeting all through the winter period? That is what the Primary work was doing in one of our branches in Norway, in the hands of our Elders last winter. The M. I. A. work with its wonderful program is bringing converts to us, and as a result of all these various activities the mission work in that foreign land is growing. Zion is being built there. 

I wish to bring a testimony to you concerning the faith of that people, particularly of those sons and daughters of the far north who have accepted the Gospel. They believe, and they show their belief and their faith by their acts, in paying their tithes and their offerings; and every man and woman of that mission who is paying tithing honestly has good employment. I would like to bring the testimony to you of one of our prominent brethren who is president of one of our districts, a local brother, a very prominent merchant, internationally known, who said, "When I established myself in this community, Trondheim, I was not worth very much, financially. Shortly after that I joined the Church." 

He showed me a written statement of the banking institutions of that city, showing that he was the best recognized financial man of that entire community. He said, "It has been because I have paid my tithing." 

I want to bear my testimony to you of the power of healing among that people; that is, they have faith, and through that faith, which is promised to us all, the deaf hear, evil spirits are driven out, the blind receive their sight, and those that may be broken down in health are marvelously healed. 

Brothers and sisters, it does one good to know that the God of heaven recognizes his children. When you hear the testimonies of our fine Elders, those sons of yours, in our mission meetings, and in the meetings of Saints and strangers — bearing testimony that when they make promises, the God of heaven recognizes those promises and they are fulfilled, it fills one's soul to overflowing. 

I would like to say a word about the land of Norway. Many people think that if you go to Norway you go to a land of bleakness and have to live with polar bears. It may surprise you to know that during the three years that we were there, we never once saw zero (Fahrenheit) weather. The marvelous Gulf Stream really has its source in the tops of these Rocky Mountains; the waters that fall in the Rockies flow down to the Gulf of Mexico, are warmed there by the sun that God has created to give light, flow up to the north in that mightiest of all rivers on the earth, the gulf stream, and warm those shores; and those people live there in happiness, thousands of miles north of us. 

It is a goodly land. It is a beautiful land. If you receive a call to go to that mission, accept it gladly. I want to bear my personal testimony to you that you will not suffer from the cold and you will have the happiest surprise of your life coming to you, to see how moderate the climate is and to see how profusely nature produces flowers, fruits and all kinds of vegetables. 

I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. May we each and every one resolve to follow the example of that great man of God, Joshua — let us this day choose whom we will serve; let us say that we will serve the Lord God of Israel, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
