32
Morning
04 10 1936
Elder John H. Taylor 
164
108-109

None

None 

With the blessing of the Lord and your help I trust that I may give voice to a thought or two that may be helpful to us. 

On Friday when we heard the report of the Social Security Plan read I thought of the question asked by the Pharisees of the Christ. You will remember, a lawyer asked the Christ which was the greatest commandment. And the Savior replied: 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

You will notice that the two commandments which I have quoted commence with the affirmative, "Thou shalt." There are people who feel that the Lord is behind the times educationally when he uses the negative form "Thou shalt not" in some of the commandments, so to bring the Ten Commandments up to date they want to reword them, or at least feel obliged to apologize when they quote the ones that are stated in the negative. 

I can understand why some people outside the Church desire to change and make constant explanations about the negative form of some of the Ten Commandments but it is hard to understand why any of us belonging to the Church should want to modify or think it necessary to reword the Ten Commandments so that the phrase "Thou shalt not" will be eliminated. I hope that we shall have the good sense, the propriety, and the faith to retain the thought and the wording as it came from God. 

My thought in connection with the two great commandments is their practical application to the Social Security Plan. At the present time there is a great emergency in the Nation and in the Church, and it has existed for some time. Although we may have thought about it and done some good things, seemingly we were not able to get together and agree on a common plan. But as soon as the people of the Church under its splendid leadership unite and agree to handle this emergency the success of the undertaking is assured. We immediately unite together and get the feeling or power and ability to do great things in the Church not only as individuals but as members of wards or stakes. And so, we have at the present time a splendid demonstration of all of the Church being united in common thought with common desires, trying to follow the admonition of the Lord wherein he said: "If ye love me, keep my commandments." And the two great commandments are the love of God and the love of neighbor. 

Our tithes and our fast offerings have increased, because our faith and our love of God have increased. Our ability to do the righteous, consistent thing in the Church is dependent upon the love of God that we have in our hearts. We can do other things in the Church in the same way if we will unite ourselves together just as closely and just as splendidly, realizing that it is the work of the Lord. 

The Social Security Plan is not the only thing in the Church that we all need to get behind and support. I remember that when we had Prohibition we used, to hear young and old people say that the reason they drank and the reason they smoked was the prohibition part of it — that part, like the Ten Commandments, which said you could not do a thing — and the argument was that if we would eliminate this commandment and this process of compulsion, the young and the older people would very willingly walk forward in righteousness so far as the Word of Wisdom was concerned. We are where we are today in that commandment because we lack unity of purpose and desire. We know that it is not the way a commandment is worded or even a knowledge that the thing is right which keeps us from smoking or drinking, or breaking any other commandment. The thing that keeps us straight, the thing that helps us to be obedient unto the law of God, is our love for God demonstrated in our lives. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to appreciate his commandments and to unite together spiritually and temporally in the keeping of all his commandments as we are now united in this great social program, that we may grow spiritually and progress in God's church, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
