33
Morning
04 10 1936
Elder Arthur Gaeth 
129
109-110

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I appreciate the opportunity of being again assembled in conference with you after a long absence. 

I wish to bear testimony to you this morning in behalf of our eighteen missionaries laboring in Czechoslovakia among the fifteen million people of that country. Eighteen among fifteen million is rather a small number, but we feel that our efforts have been blessed and that we have made an impression upon the people of that nation. The Lord has opened up the way so that we have, on different occasions, been able to bear a message to multitudes, not only to small gatherings of people. The Lord has led us so that we have been able to touch the hearts of the officials of the country, and have been able to obtain the right to preach and teach the Gospel in a time when much of Europe is being regulated and regimented, and when it is difficult for the voice of God to find its way into the hearts of the people. We have been preaching the Gospel under disturbed conditions. The people are beginning to lose faith in religion, because religion has not been able to light the way, has not been able to appease the hearts of men and to make them see the truth and live according to the principles for which Christ laid down his life. Because people have lost faith and confidence in each other, they have lost faith in the government by the people, so many of the nations today are in the hands of a few who are not being directed by the Spirit of the Lord, but who are striving to gain in their selfish way more of that which belongs to their neighbors. But in spite of those difficulties we have found a few who have listened to our message, and who have accepted the Gospel. Europe needs the Gospel of Jesus Christ today as she never did before, and we need to send our young men and young women, and our old men among those people to preach the Gospel to them. 

I feel that in our mission we have needed older men, men of experience with burning testimonies of the Gospel, to move the hearts of those people, and I hope that as our economic program takes some of our older men and women from daily occupation that they will find the time and the courage to undertake a mission in a foreign country. I am of the opinion that any man who had the ability to learn a foreign language when he was 22 years of age still possesses that ability at 65 or 70. We have had experiments in our work with English Clubs, and have discovered that old men and women, after they had been pensioned, have been able to acquire French, English, Spanish and other languages if they had the desire. 

I bear you my testimony that we are not of the world; we are for the world, but as Christ said: "Ye are not of the world." And, therefore, it becomes necessary for us to be a light unto the world. I am thankful that the Lord has inspired our leaders in this Security Program, so that the people of this Church may be drawn closer together, that they may solve their own problems not according to the ways of the world, but according to the ways of the Lord and according to the inspiration which he vests in those who have been called to guide and direct this great work here upon the earth. And so I bear you my testimony that the Lord has spoken, and Joseph Smith was selected as an instrument to restore the Gospel of Jesus Christ in these the latter days. I am thankful for the privilege I have of mingling my voice with those who have borne testimony here, for I know that the Lord lives, and that he is in a position to answer our prayers if we will but bend our knees occasionally and ask for guidance and help. May the Lord bless us in our efforts, may he add to the number of those who are now engaged in missionary work among the peoples of this earth, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
