41
Afternoon
04 10 1936
President Heber J. Grant 
10
129-130

None

None

We are very grateful to Brother and Sister J. P. Fugal of Pleasant Grove for these very beautiful flowers. They were sent to my wife who is a Pleasant Grove woman. 

EXPRESSES APPRECIATION AND GRATITUDE 

I want to endorse all of the very splendid compliments that have been paid to the Choir, the organist and the soloists, and I am very grateful for the remarkable attendance at this conference. 

I am particularly grateful for the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord in our Priesthood meeting last night. It was a marvelous sight to see this entire building filled with men who were here because of their love of God and their desire to serve him. 

ASKS GOD'S BLESSINGS UPON THE PEOPLE 

So far as it is within my province, I pray God to bless this people with whom I am faced at the present time, and to bless the Latter-day Saints at home and abroad, to prosper those that are in the mission field proclaiming the Gospel, and to bless the soil that it may yield abundantly. 

I pray that the Lord may forgive each and all who have made mistakes. We find recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men." 

JOY COMES FROM KEEPING COMMANDMENTS 

I have nothing but love in my heart for the Latter-day Saints; I have nothing but a desire for their welfare here and hereafter, and one of the principal reasons that I have pleaded and continued to plead with the people to serve God is because it is the duty of every human being, young or old. The Lord blesses us with the spirit of joy when we keep his commandments. "Man is that he might have joy," and obedience to the laws of God brings supreme joy. 

IN BEHALF OF ELDER HINCKLEY 

I desire to express my particular joy and gratitude that Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley was able to be with us for a short time this afternoon, and I ask for a continuation of the faith and prayers of the people in behalf of Brother Hinckley. May we continue to supplicate the Lord to give him back that vigor of body and of mind and that wonderful force of character and integrity and devotion that he has manifested all the days of his life. 

May the blessings of the Lord attend us one and all until we meet here again is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ, Amen.
