28
Morning
04 10 1936
Elder John A. Widtsoe
122
97-99

None

None 

The second greatest question of life was asked by the ancient psalmist: "What is man, that thou art mindful of him?" In importance, this query is next only to that concerning the nature of God. 

Inability to answer this question has often defeated fervent faith. The correct answer has enabled men and nations to build their futures securely. Faith has been most effective when accompanied by an understanding of man's relationship to Deity. The way out of the world's tragic chaos — the terror of poverty, sickness and war — must be illuminated by a comprehension of man's nature and destiny. 

Man is one of the eternal, imperishable realities of the universe. His story begins in the infinite past, before the earth was made. His eternity reaches into the yesterdays as into the tomorrows. He belongs to the endless ages. 

MAN A CHILD OF GOD 

In the beginning, man was with God, a child of God, begotten by Him. He has a divine pedigree. In the pre-existent, spiritual domain, as a son or daughter of the divine Father, he increased in knowledge and power and grew in spiritual stature. At length he was prepared for the earth career and willing to accept its conditions. Man is not an accidental or transient invader of earth. Instead, he is a creature of plan and progress. 

As a child of God, man partakes of the divine nature of his Father. Within him lie germs of infinite development. Potentially he is a Godlike being. Therefore he may rise eternally toward the likeness of his Father in heaven. Upward, divine, unending, is man's high destiny. 

The long climb of man from the dim beginning to the noble present, came from self-effort guided and directed by the Lord. His future ascent into glorious realms beyond human understanding will likewise result from his own strivings and struggles. True, man "lives and moves and has his being" under the law of progression; but progress is ever an inward, not an outward process. His increasing progress is not imposed upon him; salvation is a cooperative enterprise between God and man. 

All men are the very children of God. They are brothers. Every man, however humble, of whatever race, has the same origin and possible destiny. The heavens and the earth were made and the plan of salvation was provided for each individual member of the human family. God is not a partial Father; each child is alike in his love. Since the plan of salvation is for all, it is fully consummated only when it has been accepted by all. Therefore it becomes a common concern to save every soul. Hence every man bears a direct responsibility for his brother. 

WERE MAN'S DIVINE ORIGIN AND DESTINY UNDERSTOOD 

Were this conception, which raises the individual man to immeasurable importance, more fully comprehended, there would come great modification of man's treatment of man. The inhumanity of man to man would soon vanish from the earth. The law of the beast would be replaced by the law of God. Love would triumph over hate. The record of history declares that nations which have recognized in part the true nature of man, have prospered most and survived the longest. 

Little men who seek to take advantage one of another; rulers who look upon their people as pawns in a game; nations who wantonly toss thousands into battle to be maimed or killed — these would falter in their evil designs before a knowledge of the divine origin and destiny of every human being, of his God-like nature. Righteousness would increase in the earth. We prattle about the brotherhood of man, but true fraternity can be realized only upon the acceptance of all men as our very brothers, possessing equal rights with us. There should be a comprehension of the innate greatness of every dweller on earth, of the possible attainment by the humblest man of an infinitely high goal. Such knowledge, wide-spread over the earth, would refine individual conduct, make men take thought before action, and would help bring about peace, the world's greatest need. 

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

A sense of individual responsibility grows out of an understanding of man's relationship to other men and to God. The world is in serious need of a compelling sense of personal, individual, responsibility. As men are, so is the social group. A righteous nation is but the assemblage of righteous men. National prosperity is but the sum of personal prosperity. When each man sets his own house in order, the whole world will be in order. There is much talk of governmental or other organized provision for our wants, material and spiritual, when in reality our greatest needs must be satisfied from within ourselves. To lean upon others for support enfeebles the soul. By self-effort man will attain his high destiny. It cannot be placed as a cape upon his shoulders by others. Upon his own feet he must enter the kingdom of God, whether on earth or in heaven. By conquest of self he shall win his place in the everlasting glory of God's presence. 

"What is man that thou art mindful of him?" He is a very son of God, endowed with God-like power, who, if he respect his divine origin and high destiny, may bring to pass the long sought reign of righteousness on earth. 

