Afternoon
07 04 1935

The concluding session of the Conference convened at 2 o'clock Sunday afternoon, April 7. 

Again the Tabernacle was crowded to capacity with people, and thousands of others congregated in the Assembly Hall and on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast by radio from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session. 

An anthem, "Watchmen of Zion," was sung by the Choir, Jessie Evans, soloist. 

James Haslam and Rilla W. Peterson sang a duet, "Love Divine." Elder T. Clark Callister, President of the Millard Stake, offered the opening prayer. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

As I stand before you this afternoon, my brothers and sisters, my heart is humble indeed. This great conference, itself, with all that it connotes, makes me feel so. The lofty and thrilling messages in sermon and song, the crowded sessions, the largely attended priesthood meeting last evening, the very fact that from these Tabernacle grounds this morning there radiated messages which touched the hearts of hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen— these and other outstandingfeatures all combine to heighten in my soul the realization of the worldwide significance of the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ. I sense, therefore, more keenly than ever before the need of divine inspiration and guidance for all who carry responsibility, that each of us may discharge his duty acceptably. 

THE HOME AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN STABLE GOVERNMENT 

I was particularly pleased with President Clark's message this morning regarding the fundamentals of our government. In keeping therewith I desire to call attention to the fact that the united, well-ordered American home is one of the greatest contributing factors to the preservation of the Constitution of the United States. It has been aptly said that Out of the homes of America will come the future citizens of America, and only as those homes are what they should be will this nation be what it should be." Of the importance of home and of dangers hat threaten the sanctity f marriage, I feel impressed to say a few words this afternoon. 

MARRIAGE A DIVINE INSTITUTION 

The exalted view of marriage .as held by this Church is given expressively m five words found in the 49th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Marriage is ordained of God." That revelation was given in 1831 when Joseph Smith was only twenty-five years of age Considerexl, nl Cl r UmS l anC ? T de Z W . hiGh {t WaS S iven ' we fin d in it another example among hundreds of others corroborative of the fact that he was 

inured of the Lord. "Watchmen of Zion, I am trusting you/' waTa 

message given m song at the opening of this session. Before irTare 

w^^2T nd A ° f W r Chmen in Zi ° n - Presidin S officers i" stakes, wards quorums, and auxiliaries, it is your duty and mine to uphold the 

oft) conception of marriage as given in this revelation and to guard g dangCrS that thrCaten t0 l0Wer the s ^ard oTthe 

INSPIRATION OF HIGH IDEALS 

toward h-Jh'V^ 't Y m i n ° h] ^ Kv« are those which are set toward high ideals. Truly no higher ideal regarding marriatre can he cherished by young people than to look upon it £ a AW Stion In 111  minds of the young such a standard is a protection to them in courtship, an ever present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the Temple to have their love consummated in an enduring and eternal union. It will lead them to seek divine guidance in the selecting of their companions, upon the wise choice of whom their life's happiness here and hereafter is largely dependent. "Our home joys," says Pestalozzi, "are the most delightful^ earth affords, and the joy of parents in their children is the most holy joy of humanity. It makes their hearts pure and good; it lifts them up to their Father in Heaven." Such joys are within the reach of most men and women if high ideals of marriage and home be properly fostered and cherished. 

ENCROACHING DANGERS 

And yet, if I mistake not the signs of the times, the sacredness of the marriage covenant is dangerously threatened. There are some who question whether family life is permanent as a social organization. They claim that marriage ties will be and should be but temporary, that children will be born not in families, but in the life of the state. Recently in a trip east I observed to my dismay an increasing number of "Gretna Greens," places where the marriage ceremony may be performed at any hour of the day or night without any previous arrangement. The license is issued and the ceremony performed while the couple wait; already I know of at least two couples that have been entrapped by such enticements and both cases have ended in disappointment and sorrow. In some instances these places are nothing more than opportunities for legalized immorality. Oh how far they fall below the true ideal! As far as lies within our power, we must warn young couples against secret and hasty marriages. 

It is vital also to counteract the insidious influences of printed literature that speaks of the "bankruptcy of marriage," that advocates trial marriages, and that places "extra-marital relations" on a par with "extra-marital friendships." 

I need say little about the growing evil of divorce and the resultant broken homes. You know that it is almost as easy to get a divorce as it is to get married. Today, one out of five marriages in the United States ends in divorce or annulment. One of the peace officers in Salt Lake reported recently that eighty-six per cent of the delinquent cases come from such broken homes. America seems to be drifting toward a low level as regards the law of family and home, with the result that sin and crime are increasing to an alarming extent among the youth of our fair land. 

I mention these things not in the spirit of pessimism nor as a crier of impending calamity, but with the desire to call attention to the necessity of our maintaining the high standard of marriage set forth in the revelations of the Lord. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTHOOD 

Equal in importance to the high conception of the marriage covenant is the teaching of the Church in regard to the responsibility of parenthood : 

Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying, on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. (D. & C. 69:25.) 

Parenthood and particularly motherhood should be held as a sacred obligation. There is something in the depths of the human soul which revolts against neglectful parenthood. Recently an incident occurred in one of the European countries which illustrates how the sense of humanity is injured when a mother selfishly and wilfully fails to take care of her children. When I read that capital punishment had been meted out to such a woman I thought that the state was almost barbarous, but really it was not the execution of the law that was so terrible- but the woman herself who by cruel neglect of her children committed the crime against humanity. How deep-seated is this soul condemnation of one who will sacrifice a child for her own indulgence or even to save her own life is impressively set forth by Robert Browning in his dramatic idyll, descriptive of a mother who had to pay the extreme penalty for having lived to tell the story of her children's death. 

A mother bears a child: perfection is complete So far in such a birth. Enabled to repeat The miracle of life,— herself was born so just A type of womankind, that God sees fit to trust Her with the holy task of giving life in turn. 

****** How say you, should the hand of God trusted with life's torch 

Kindled to light the world aware of sparks that scorch, 

Let fall the same? Forsooth, her flesh a fireflake stings The mother drops the child! Among what monstrous things Shall she be classed? , 

****** 

The fox-dam, hunger-pined, will slay the felon sire 

VxS? ?- ares . assault her whel P : the beaver . stretched on fire Will die without a groan; no pang avails to wrest Her young from where they hide— her sanctuary breast. What :s.here then? Answer me, thou dead one, as I trow, Standing at God's bar, he bids thee answer now! 

tf,i r XtT ^ e d ™ atic Presentation, but it illustrates that something which God has implanted deep in every human breast that parents cannot with impunity shirk the responsibility to protect childhood and 

frnJlhJl Se€ T t0 . be , a ^° wing tenden cy to shift this responsibility TnnJtJ ™* ° ° Ut! lde f . fl " en «* ^ch as the school and the church Important as these outward influences are, they never can take the place of the influence of the mother and the father-constant training, constant 113 , companionship, being watchmen of our own children, are necessary in order to keep our homes intact. 

The fact cannot be too strongly emphasized that the real source of security of our nation rests in the well-ordered and properly conducted home. The character of the child is formed largely during the first 12 years of his life. It is estimated that in that period the child spends 16 times as many waking hours in the home as in school, and more than 100 times as many hours in the home as in the church. Every child is to a great degree, what he is because of the ever constant influence of home environment and the careful or neglectful training of parents. 

"Teach the child self-respect," says Luther Burbank, the great plant-wizard. "Train it in self-respect, just as you train a plant in better ways. No self-respecting man is ever a grafter. Above all, bear in mind repetition, the use of an influence over and over again, keeping everlastingly at it. This is what fixes traits in plants, the constant repetition of an influence, until at last it is irrevocably fixed and will not change. You cannot afford to get discouraged. You are dealing with something far more precious than a plant — the precious soul of a child." 

THREE THINGS TO WHICH EVERY CHILD IS ENTITLED 

There are three fundamental things to which every child is entitled. First, a respected name; second, a sense of security; third, opportunities for development. 

The family gives to the child his name and standing in the community. A child wants his family to be as good as those of his friends. He wants to be able to point with pride to his father and feel an inspiration every time 'he looks at his mother. It is a mother's duty so to live that her children will associate with her everything that is beautiful, sweet and pure. And fathers, even the poorest of us, from a financial standpoint, may so conduct our lives as to be able to say to our sons in the words of a poet : 

I have no wealth to leave) you, and no fame. This must be your inheritance : my name. . . . (In interest of brevity not read but now added) T have tried to make my name synonymous In all mens' minds, with things the most worthwhile; With strength to do the right, though none might see me; With grit to meet disaster with a smile; With loyalty to those with claims upon me; With justice equally toward foe and friend; With honor, truth, integrity, square dealing — "My word my bond." 

Now, as I reach the end, K Too well I know that I have failed in efforts 

Where I have wanted greatly to succeed; Too oft I've seen my dreams, bright in the forming, Prove naught but vain imaginings, indeed. But this I do believe : when I have traveled Life's twisting road, and worked out Life's great plan, — GENERAL CONFERENCE 

When I have gone beyond life's praise or blaming — It will be said of me, "He was a man." And so, because of this, I feel no shame When I bequeath to you, my son, my name. 

SENSE OF SECURITY 

In regard to the sense of security, every child is entitled to food, shelter and raiment, and he should feel in his home a safe and comfortable protection from the outside world. "He needs parents who are happy in their adustment to each other, who are working hopefully toward the fulfilment of an ideal of living, who love their children with a sincere and unselfish love." Regarding economic security the report of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection says : 

Fundamental to the very existence of family is its economic status— its ability to provide an adequate income and to expend it wisely. A basic income should be within the attainment of each family to insure the minimum standard for survival and security. This is an economic problem of national scope. A nation that values its future development will take steps to see that this 'basic income at least is available to all its people. Only then can we demand of all families the observance of those methods of child care upon which child health and protection depend. 

In this phase of family life the Church can render excellent service. No other organization in the world is so well prepared to know the physical and economic condition of each person as is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now is an opportune time for the Church to demonstrate its efficiency not only in knowing the needs of the destitute but in supplying their needs. 

SUPPLEMENTING THE HOME 

In teaching children, it should ever be kept in mind that "Behavior is caught, not taught." Example is more potent than precept. Parents have the duty to be what they would have their children become in regard to courtesy^ smcerity, temperance, and courage to do right at all times. 

While it is true that "we need not power or splendor, wide hall or lordly > dome, the good, the true, the tender— these form the wealth of home, yet the fact remains that there are certain material and cultural needs which are indispensable to successful home life. During the present crisis, to prevent the breaking up of homes, these material needs must be furnished by the group, either through the Church or the state. Here is where the complete organization of the Church should function most adequately. The material as well as the spiritual needs of everv tamily m the Church should not only be known as I have already stated, but supplied by the bishopric of the ward either directly or indirectlv In a superior and effective manner the Church can also and does supply cultural needs such as education, social intercourse, music, etc These may be obtained by every child, every youth, every person in the Church who will avail himself or herself of the opportunities offered. I wonder if parents generally are doing all they can to see to it that their boys 115  girls are members of quorums and auxiliaries, organized for the express purpose of supplementing the home in the training of youth. Fifty thousand men and women are offering their services free of charge to give social and moral instruction and above all religious instruction to our toys and girls free. It is our duty to cooperate with them for the protection of our own children. 

With the divinity of our marriage covenant, and the responsibility of parenthood ever in our minds, with temple marriage as an ideal for every worthy couple in the Church, we associate with courtship and marriage the most sublime ideals that influence human relations. 

LISTS SAFEGUARDS 

That youth may experience in anticipation and realization all the joy that can be found in a congenial and heaven-blessed home life, they and we should be guided by the following safeguards : 

First, substitute the present tendency toward a low view of marriage by the high ideal which God has given it. Choose your mate not alone for physical attraction, but for congenial and spiritual companionship. 

Second, let us teach the young of both sexes in the sacredness of the ideals of marriage, so that they may realize that marriage involves obligations and is not an arrangement to be terminated at pleasure. In this regard, it is the duty of parents to set an example in the home that children may see and absorb as it were the sacredness of family and the responsibility associated therewith. 

Third, instruct young girls in the fundamental arts of housekeeping so that when the responsibilities of wifehood come, they 'may be free from the difficulties and perplexities which arise from ignorance and inexperience. 

Fourth, let the marriage be so solemnized, as far as possible, at the place of residence, which will minimize the evils that follow runaway marriages. For members of the Church the Temple should be the chosen place in which this sacred obligation is assumed. 

Fifth, foster the spirit of true religion from the very beginning of home life. 

Sixth, teach the young that the foundation of a happy marriage is laid before the bride and bridegroom kneel at the altar. Keep the spring of life pure and the stream will more likely flow on unpolluted. 

HOME BUILDING PARAMOUNT 

Would you have a strong and virile nation, keep your homes pure — would you reduce delinquency and crime, lessen the number of broken homes. It is time that civilized peoples realized that prevention is more profitable than punishment, and that the home is the incubator either of children of high character or of criminals. Home building, therefore, should be the paramount purpose of parents and of the nation. Tn "Home, The Savior of Civilization," we read : 

When one puts business or pleasure above his home, he that moment starts on GENERAL CONFERENCE  down grade to soul ruin. The loss of fortune is nothing compared with the loss of home. When the club becomes more attractive to any man than his home, it is time for him to confess in bitter siiame that he has failed to measure up to the supreme opportunity of his life and has flunked in the final test of true manhood. No other success can compensate for failure in the home. This is the one thing of limitless potentialities on earth. The poorest shack of a home in which love prevails over a united family is of greater value to God and future humanity than the richest bank on earth. In such a home God can work miracles and will work miracles. The greatest miracle that King Herod ever saw was John the Baptist. The religious, home, though poor, produced John the Baptist. The most dazzling miracle of all history is Jesus of Nazareth. His education was that of a united religious home. Pure hearts in a pure home are always in whispering distance of heaven. In such a home there is always a key which one' may use in opening the reservoirs of the infinite and start a Pentecost. The great, good God who made this world ordained man and woman for the home and He is seeing to it that they may search the whole world over, but will never find the sweetest joys of life anywhere but in the home. In obedience to God's law for human life, one should make it his highest ambition to build an ideal home. Make home your hobby, for, if anyone makes a loving home with all his heart, he can never miss heaven. 

MARRIAGE ORDAINED OF GOD 

Verfly I say unto you that whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man. Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, and all this that the earth might answer the end of its creation. 

I repeat, "It is lawful that he should have one wife," and that harmony, unity and blessed confidence should pervade the home. I emphasize this part of the revelation so that you watchmen of the priesthood will see to it that a group of misguided men and women now hiding behind a sanctimonious claim to possess superior knowledge regarding the marriage covenant, do not betray innocent young men and women into unlawful and unholy alliances. 

God guide and inspire us to keep intact the true Latter-day Saint home, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Tzvelve Apostles 

THUS ON TO ETERNAL PERFECTION 

I shall begin my remarks with a quotation from that masterpiece of literature and doctrine— the Sermon on the Mount: 

_ Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy. 

But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good you y ° U ' Pray f ° r thCm Whi ° h des P itefull y use y° u . and Persecute 

That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven : for he maketh Ins sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. 

For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? 117 

And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the publicans so? 

Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. 

—Matthew 5 :43-48. 

RELIGION, THE WORLDS GREATEST NEED 

The greatest need of the world today is religion — the religion of unselfishness, the religion of Jesus that teaches, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Matt. 22:39) "Be ye perfect," etc. The unceasing influence of the Church for good is like a cord attached to the feet which continues always to bring back into that straight, that narrow way any who have deviated to the right or to the left, however great or however slight the deviation. 

Scholarship has no- such pull. Science, literature and the arts cannot take the place of religion. While religion never ceases to exert a powerful influence for good, nevertheless it takes a tremendous amount of it to keep us, with our many human frailties, doing our best all the time. 

When Jesus said, "Be ye perfect," he set for us a difficult task. It is the aim of the Church to keep us on the way to perfection insofar as unceasing vigilance can do this. I shall mention a few of the practises of the Church which help greatly in this respect. 

TESTIMONY — -EXAMINATION MEETINGS 

One of these is a sort of annual examination or testimony meeting stake presidents are advised to hold with the members of their high councils, their bishops and other stake and ward workers who do their church work under the immediate direction of the stake presidency. 

And all other stakes and ward officers, including of course the bishops, are advised to hold similar meetings with those who labor under their direction. In fact all Church officers and workers in every department, including those in auxiliary activities, are to be checked up at least once each year to find out with what degree of success we are, with our mortal imperfections, succeeding in our efforts to be better all the time. 

_ May I illustrate what I mean by such an examination. The most rigid I ever had to take was given by Francis M. Lyman. He conducted the examinations for a group to which '1 belonged and over which he presided much as Benjamin Franklin proceeded with his examination of himself. 

Franklin said he knew or thought he knew right from wrong and he did not see why he might not always do the one and avoid the other. But he soon found that he had undertaken a task of more difficulty than he had imagined. However, in his practical way, Franklin made a list of thirteen virtues and by placing particular emphasis upon one of these at a time, he expected to be able to GENERAL CONFERENCE  that, and then proceed to another. By repeated efforts he planned to go on thus to perfection. 

TESTS BY CHURCH STANDARDS 

In much the same way Francis M. Lyman in his testimony and examination meetings named as best he could all the Church standards in accordance with which Latter-day Saints are expected to live. He referred to the payment of tithing, the keeping- f the Word of Wisdom, attendance at sacrament meetings, observance of family and secret prayers, etc. He asked if the members of the organization were good husbands and fathers and neighbors. Lie advised that they speak ill of no man, not even in a matter of truth, but rather excuse the faults charged against others, and upon proper occasions, speak all the good they knew of everybody. He asked if they were good citizens, that is, if they took a proper interest in public affairs. He wanted to know if they were frugal and if they paid their obligations promptly. He insisted that it is the duty of Church members when employed to live within their means, to try to be better off financially at the end of the year than at its beginning, etc. In brief, like Franklin, he hoped to have all the people struggle toward perfection all the time. 

''all these things have i kept" 

We were all impressed with the effectiveness of these examinations when on one occasion a man arose and said, "I have no difficulty in living according to the Word of Wisdom, it is easy for me to attend sacrament meetings and to remember with regularity my secret and family prayers. I have no trouble living within my income. I am better off financially today than I was a year ago. In fact," he continued, using almost the exact language of the Bible^ "all these things have I kept from my youth up, but I have one great weakness, an uncontrollable temper." 

At the meeting we sang the familiar number, "Scatter Seeds of Kindness," which in part is as follows : 

If we knew the baby fingers, 

Pressed against the window pane, Would be cold and stiff tomorrow — 

Never trouble us again — Would the bright eyes of our darling 

Catch the frown upon our brow ? Would the prints of rosy fingers 

Vex us then as they do now? 

Ah! those little ice-cold fingers, 

How they point our mem'ries back To the hasty words and actions 

Strewn along our backward track! How those little hands remind us, 

As in snowy grace they lie, Not to scatter thorns — but roses — 

For our reaping by and by. 119 

It was after hearing the harmony of this impressive song, glorified by the sweet tenor voice of George R. Emery, the leader, that our associate, our brother, with the tears flowing down his cheeks, said : "My great trouble is my temper. But I am struggling with it and I am glad to be 'able to report that during the past year I think I have made some progress." 

PERFECTION THROUGH RELIGION 

Thus a human soul was striving successfully to do that which real religion demands, namely, that we do our best to reach perfection. 

It is doubtful if science, literature, art, scholarship, any one or all of these combined, can stir a mortal heart to put forth such strenuous eflort as that, for the sole purpose of making a human being stronger and better. Only religion, the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, can do it. 

SEVEN EXAMINATIONS 

Another of the outstanding practises in the Church intended to make its members more nearly perfect is our way of advancing boys and young men in the priesthood. Our aim is to teach and train them to expect that at least seven times in their lives, if they are regularly promoted in the Church, they will find themselves alone with the bishop for the purpose of being given a kind and fatherly examination. The first comes when the boy is to be ordained a deacon, the second before he is ordained a teacher, the third before he is ordained a priest, fourth, before he is ordained an elder, fifth, when he is sent into the mission field, sixth, when he makes application to go into the temple, and seventh, when he is ready to take some charmingyoung woman with him to the altar for his marriage ceremony. 

These seven examinations are to consist of questions concerning details of Church duties and conduct, such as attitude toward tobacco, tea, coffee, liquor, tithing, keeping the Sabbath day holy, attending to secret and family prayers, being just and fair and charitable 1 and patient in all dealings with neighbors and business associates. One question to be emphasized especially is "Have you lived in accordance with the Scout oath or promise, especially that part of it which says, 'On my honor I will do my best to keep myself physically strong, mentally awake and morally straight.' " Emphasis is placed especially on the last portion. Wise men have said if the Church can bring up a generation of men and women who all their days walk with accuracy in the path of virtue, then to such a genera tion nothing will be impossible. 

ORDAINED ELDERS AT NINETEEN 

And now, beginning with this year 1935, in addition to the seven exacting examinations above referred to, an additional proGENERAL CONFERENCE  for the guidance and protection of boys and young- men has been adopted. I refer to the new and definite policy of ordaining young men elders when they reach the age nineteen. 

It has been' the practise for years to ordain boys deacons when they are twelve, and now with the same unanimity and persistence worthy young men are to be ordained elders at nineteen. 

Dr. Karl G. Maeser used to say to us his normal students, "You are being trained and educated to teach and I want you to know and to remember that if 95 % of the members of any class do not finish the course with a passing grade there is something the matter with the teacher." 

And so I say, if 95 % of our young folks at age nineteen are not worthy, and the young men cannot therefore be ordained elders, make a careful survey of the situation and I predict you will find something wrong with the teaching or the training in the home or in the Church or in both of these. 

The plan is to have all young men at nineteen become by ordination full-fledged men, to have thus put upon them the stamp of manhood, the stamp of character, the stamp of dependability. We want this ordination to be made a sort of commencement or graduation. It will indicate that the course begun at twelve is completed not only with credit but with honor as well. 

SATISFYING A NATURAL CRAVING 

You know when a boy is twelve nature fills him with visions of and ambition for the future. He begins to long for the company and fellowship and leadership of men, to desire to break away from his childhood surroundings. He wants to run away from home. He begins to hear nature's cry for association with grown-ups. It is the awakening of ambition in the soul of the boy. At his age practically all our boys are ordained deacons and enter the Mutual Improvement Association. 'In his M. I. A. work a boy is made a Scout and can be accepted as a member of the National Scout organization. 

In order to satisfy that natural demand, that craving for the association of men, we are not only requesting, but urging that a strong troop committee, a committee of developed, powerful men, the strongest available, be appointed by all the bishops in all the wards. 

The outstanding business of a troop committee is two-fold: First, to provide well-trained men to be Scoutmasters, assistant Scoutmasters, and leaders and associates for these boys. Second, to provide in some way or other whatever money is necessary to make the troop in every ward outstandingly successful. 

YOUTH TO BE GUARDED 

The prime aim and purpose of our program is to preserve youngpeople from temptation, to protect them from evil. The Church stands strongly for purity rather than for repentance. 121 

Is it not providential that this broad and intense training begins at the age of twelve? Remember Jesus was twelve when after three days his parents found him in the temple sitting in the midst of the doctors, the wise men of his day and time, both hearing them and asking them questions. Even Jesus at this age was hungering apparently for the association of men. 

While I have been emphasizing the responsibility of preserving the boys and young men frqm evil and temptation as this responsibility rests upon the bishops and their associates, I desire to make it clear that great and perhaps greatest of all is the responsibility which rests upon the parents. The home must do its part, and often that part can be done best by the mothers. Men may fail but women never, is one of my favorite expressions. 

From the Improvement Era I learned that one stake was organizing the mothers to help with the training of these young men and boys. If organized, the mothers of the deacons, the mothers of the teachers, the mothers of the priests, and the mothers of the Scouts can do more than any others in helping to train these boys so that at the age of nineteen they will be worthy men, noble, fine, young fellows, who can consistently be ordained elders. 

The forces of all our organizations are thus combined to bring not only our boys but our girls also through their boyhood and girlhood into manhood and womanhood from age twelve to age nineteen as nearly perfect as possible. 

With united ranks, we go forward singing, "Thus on to eternal perfection the honest and faithful will go." 

The congregation and choir sang the hymn, "Do What is Right." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

As usual we are short of time. We shall not call on Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon to speak to us as he addressed us in the General Priesthood meeting yesterday evening. We shall ask Elder Samuel O. Bennion and Bishop John Wells to each speak to us for ten minutes. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

One of the outstanding events of recent occurrence, if not an epochal experience in history, was the radio service held a few nights ago in which the President of the Church and the Prophet of the Lord greeted members of the Church and all others who were listening in in all the world where radio connections are made. 

I am sure that no one can accuse the Church of Jesus Christ of GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Latter-day Saints of neglecting its duty. For years the word of the Lord has gone forth from this country into all parts of the world. A solid history has been written for a hundred years. Sermons have been delivered, tracts have been distributed, books have been placed in the homes and in the hands of the people, that all men might receive a testimony of Jesus Christ. 

Now, in the present day, with the wonderful achievements of modern discoveries, we are able to reach the hearts of the children of men in nearly all parts of the world in just a few moments of time. Truly it is a marvelous age in which we live, and the Church marches on. 

The promise made by the Savior is still in effect. He said : 

My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 

I know of no authority having been given to any man to make any change in the doctrines of our Eternal Father's Son. He preached the Gospel while he ministered in the earth, he established a Church with prophets and apostles, and gave unto the world a true order of worship. Paul the apostle explains the necessity and purpose of the Church organization : 

And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; 

For the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ : 

Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God. 

In my experience in life I have not been able to find that anyone has had the right to change the plan established by the Savior during his ministry, and restored in our day. 

I have often asked men and women to review the history of the Church as well as the doctrines, and see if they do not comply with the principles that our Eternal Father taught through his Son. If men and women would lay aside personal prejudices and seek for the things that the Lord has revealed they could not but be convinced of the truth! I appeal to people to listen in fairness to the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They do not belong to us— they belong to our Eternal Father and his Son, whom he sent into the world. 

As I stated before, this Church has distributed for a hundred years millions of pages of literature setting forth our views and our beliefs, without asking men to do anything except to repent, to change their lives if they are doing wrong, to investigate the Gospel as we see it, to ascertain if there is a need for prophets and apostles, and to learn if any revelation ever came from God to man to do away with the plan that he ordained. If I were a non-member looking for the Church that would give me an inheritance in the kingdom of 123 

God,. I would most certainly look for one that offered me every opportunity to know the truth, to know what it means to live in the earth, and what it means to accept a plan which would take me back into the presence of God if I kept his commandments. 

I have never found anything in all 'history that fills these requirements as does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It gives to every man and woman who enters it the same opportunity regardless of where they live or where they come from. It is for all and no one has any right over the other. It teaches us the plan of our great Redeemer; it acquaints us with the history of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and those who have followed him. 

To men and women who may hear my voice, who are not members of the Church, again I plead with you to investigate, while you are in this life, the workings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints; lay aside prejudices of every kind; get acquainted with the doctrines, and read the word of God. It has brought joy and satisfaction to thousands of souls. It will do it to you. It will bring to you a happiness that you have never known before. It will bring to you eternal life in the kingdom of our Father. 

This is my testimony to.yott and I bear it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

Ever since the Manti choir sang the beautiful hymn, "Lord We Come Before Thee Now," this verse has been in my mind : 

Send some message from Thy Word, That may joy and peace afford; Comfort those who weep and mourn, Let "the time of love" return. 

I have repeated these words many times as my brethren have spoken and they have left comfort, understanding, and faith in my heart and an added appreciation for my membership in the Church and for this great latter-day work. 

I desire to call attention to an incident in the life of the Master, which is recorded in the 17th chapter of Luke. The Master was traveling towards Jerusalem. He passed through Galilee and Samaria and entered a certain village where he was met by ten lepers. A leper could not enter nor live in a village or town. Hence these unfortunate creatures accosted the Master while he was still outside the village. Misery had broken down all race prejudice, for we find the Samaritan and the Jew among these ten unfortunates. No doubt they had heard of the wonderful works of the Master. They stood afar off and cried, "Jesus, Master, have mercy on us." 

The Master, full of sympathy and love for suffering humanity, sent hope into the hearts of these ten men in these words, "Go, show GENERAL CONFERENCE  to the priests," and as they went they discovered that they were healed. 

The scriptures say, "And one of them, when he saw he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face at the Master's feet j giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan." 

The Master said, "Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine?" None returned to give glory to God and thank their benefactor for a deliverance from worse than death, save this Samaritan. 

Brother George Teasdale on one occasion said, "Ingratitude is such a heinous offense that nobody ever admitted being guilty of it." I have always remembered his comment on ingratitude. On the other hand, gratitude is a state of being grateful, having a feeling of thankfulness for benefits or kindnesses received and grateful sentiments toward a benefactor. 

Great changes are taking place in our civilization. We are passing through serious situations. Unemployment and drouth have become serious problems and have affected many of our people. Some have become dissatisfied. It is not easy for a man to keep happy when his family is in need. The Church has done much to relieve the suffering and distress of its members. 

My brethren and sisters, in spite of all these trying conditions, there is reason to be thankful to our Father in heaven for the many blessings which we still enjoy. While many of the things which I shall mention have already been referred to during this conference, I think it not amiss to reiterate them in this closing session that we may cherish a deep sense of appreciation for our blessings. 

We are living in the most important age of the world's history— the dispensation of the fulness of times— a day of the restitution of all things spoken by the mouths of holy prophets since the world began. Prophets of old have looked forward to this. day- and have longed to see it. Is it not a privilege to live in this day when great world movements preparatory to the coming of the Son of God are in progress ? 

We are living in a choice land, a land choice above all other lands, which is reserved for the people of God. As long as we keep his commandments, the Lord has said we shall prosper in this land. It is a land of freedom. Liberty and democracy still prevail. The Latter-day Saints were directed to these valleys of the mountains by living prophets of God. In vision, President Brighajm Young beheld this place, and when with his natural eyes he saw the valley, he said, "This is the place." Here in these mountain valleys we have been gathered to develop the highest type of civilization the world has ever known, in preparation for the coming of the Savior. 

God has again spoken from the heavens. True knowledge of the personality of the Godhead has been revealed. A great prophet has arisen. The Prophet Joseph Smith stands at the head of this dispensation. The Gospel, the science of salvation, has been re125 . It is the source of all man's spiritual and temporal g-uidance. The Book of Mormon, a new witness for God, which contains the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, has been translated by the gift and power of God. The priesthood, the power to legitimately act in the name of God, together with all necessary gifts, powers and blessings, has been restored. Thousands upon thousands have received this priesthood. It was an inspiring sight on Saturday evening to see more than six thousand brethren gathered in this building at the General Priesthood meeting. 

We are here to accomplish God's purposes, to become a great and mighty people, not in wealth, but in faith and power to do good. We are engaged in the most important work in the world's history! It is our privilege to assist in the establishment of God's work upon the earth. . 

It is our privilege to listen to the voice of prophets, apostles and leaders of this Church and hear from them the living word of God, for they speak to us under the power and influence of the Holv Spirit. 

Have we not much for which to be thankful ? Our hearts should be filled with gratitude for the privilege of living in this time, in this place, with the Gospel of Jesus Christ as our heritage, and for prophets of God to lead us, and that we are permitted to assist in bringing about the purposes of the Lord. 

No matter what our surroundings and circumstances may be, let us hold fast to our living faith. Let not our ideals be wrested from us. Let us contemplate often our blessings and hold fast to the enduring things of life, that which will bring us riches of soul— the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

May we cultivate gratitude. The spirit of gratitude always brings happiness. If we have this virtue we are more God-like. May we cultivate a thankful attitude towards God and our fellowmen. We will express our thankfulness for our blessings to our Father in heaven in daily prayer and show our love for him by keeping his commandments, in giving service in his cause, in contributing of our means for furthering his work, and in praise and song. The spirit of gratitude will grow in our hearts as we express it, and it will be ^eliminated and grow in the hearts of those about us. Let us teach it m our homes to our children, that they may grow up with thankful hearts, that the spirit of discontent and unrest which is in the world may not affect their lives. Let us follow the advice given in our song, "Count Your Many Blessings": 

When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed, When you are discouraged, thinking all is lost, Count your many blessings, name them one by one, And it will surprise you, what the Lord hath done'. 

May we, like the Samaritan, have grateful hearts and glorify God for our blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JAMES M. PETERSON 

President of the Texas Mission 

I have been delighted, my brethren and sisters, as I know you have, with the splendid things of this conference. My heart has been touched with the testimonies given us by the General Authorities. I have been . given new courage to go on in the tasks assigned to me in this great work, as I know you have. The thing that I think has touched me most in this conference is the statement that was read in the first session by President McKay relating to the growth and development of the Church. That statement reminded me of the words of one of the Book of Mormon prophets to the effect that man is that he might have joy. 

My heart rejoices that more people are coming into this great Church, that their lives may be made better and happier, because in the Gospel of Jesus Christ there is happiness, there is joy — that joy which we can obtain through no other labor. I rejoice in the growth and advancement of the Church. 

I am grateful beyond expression, my brethren and sisters, that I have been called into the service, if I may make that statement. I have been in the service a great many years, but for a year or more not in direct activity. I am so grateful that my brethren of the General Authorities found me worthy to go into the world to preach the Gospel, the message of savlation and of life. I cannot tell you how grateful I am for this confidence and I feel that no greater blessing can come to anyone. 

God bless us that we may be faithful in this great work and valiant in carrying forward the banner of truth, that his blessings may guide and direct us in all our endeavors to further his work, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

President of the California Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am orthodox. I believe in Jesus Christ. I believe in Joseph Smith, and I know that I understand the Savior's life better because of that which has come to me through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I believe just as sincerely and truly in Heber J. Grant. I have known him personally for years, and I know that Joseph Smith was no greater in doing his work than President Grant is in doing his. I have been inspired by his utterances. I have marveled at his strength, at his kindness, and at the manner in which he has stood as our prophet, seer and revelator. 

I believe in being obedient to this Church and to this doctrine, for I know that as was said of old by Isaiah, "If ye be willing and obedient ye shall eat the good of the land." Therefore, I know that those who are faithful and true in the performance of their duties in this Church shall not be crushed by this depression. They shall be happy and in their families love shall abide. For the past sixty months I have been sending out into the world approximately $50.00 a month to my two sons as they have performed missionary labors in far-off lands — $3000.00. A tremendous sum it seems to me and far more, I think, than any man should send to his son to maintain him while performing missionary labors, but it was the custom — so much was necessary in certain missions. I have thought of the words of our Savior when he sent forth his apostles to preach without purse or scrip, and I find as I read in the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants that in our day God gave the same counsel and advice to his servants through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that we should go to the nations of the earth and preach the Gospel without purse or scrip. I am reminded that a few days ago in a missionary report meeting in the California Mission, after each of the missionaries had expressed himself and told what it had cost him to live during the past months, one of them said: "Since I have been here I have had five pairs of garments given to me by my own people. My father and mother are dead, but I love this Church and I knew that inasmuch as the Christ had said that we were to preach the Gospel without purse or scrip it could be done. I have marveled as the months have passed by that my shirts have outlasted the shirts of my companions, my suit has outlasted the suits of my companions; and during the two years that I have been serving in this mission I have not received a cent from any of my people. I have preached the Gospel without purse or scrip, President Smith, and I want to stay here as long as you want me to stay here and continue to serve because I have been blessed." 

I noted his appearance — the best dressed man we had in the room. 

Then his district president arose and said, "I want to bear testimony to what Elder Rolfe has just said. I want to tell you that I have had four suits while he has had the one which he is now wearing. I spend $25.00 a month and he has spent nothing. Now I have been notified that my money is finished, but I want to volunteer now, President Smith, to stay another six months and be permitted to serve as this loyal man has served, without purse or scrip, in this great cause." 

Brethren and sisters, where do you think these men got such ideas ? They have lived in that mission under the inspiration of the man who formerly presided there, Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley. They believed what he taught them — they believed in God, and they knew that God would sustain and support them, and so they have gone forth. The missionaries now are getting along on $10 a month and less. Some are spending $25.00, but we are encouraging them to stay within $10.00. The lady missionaries naturally need more. The Lord has blessed them and been with them, and the spirit of Alonzo A. Hinckley shall never die so long as there is a California Mission. God bless that mission. I thank the brethren for honoring me and permitting me to go there. I  am grateful to you for your faith and prayers. Your boys and girls are doing a wonderful work. The Lord is with them. May his spirit ever be with his Church, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

A young man who claims to have counted the audience at our meetings from day to day announces that there are 8,029 people here this afternoon, and that there have been in this building during the conference sessions 50,562 people. I hope he is correct. 

I should be very pleased if I had the time to make some remarks, but by the time the choir has sung an anthem and the closing prayer has been offered the radio will be disconnected, and it would not be fair to the people who are listening to the radio broadcast for me to try to say anything and they not hear it. I offer my apologies to the leading brethren who are here who expected to speak but did not have an opportunity to do so. 

GRATEFUL FOR BLESSINGS OF CONFERENCE 

I earnestly and sincerely express my gratitude to the Lord for this conference. Like all the conferences that I have attended during the past fifty-two years, it is the best we have ever had. I have heard that expression regarding all the general conferences of the Church; and the only way that I can account for it is that we are hungry, and the same bread and butter tastes a little better when we have an appetite than it does otherwise although it is the same material. We have indeed been blessed of the Lord, and I am grateful for his blessing. 

I am thankful beyond my ability to express myself for the opportunity we had last Sunday morning at 12 :30 to broadcast a message to the people of the world. 

DELIGHTED WITH THE SINGING AT CONFERENCE 

I wish to endorse all that has been said in regard to the singing to which we have listened during this conference. We were charmed and delighted with the singing by the choir from Manti, and by the Singing. Mothers, as also by the Tabernacle Choir. 

An anthem, "O, Great is the Depth," was sung by the Choir. Elder Charles R. Jones, President of the Arizona Temple, pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The singing at the Friday sessions of the Conference was by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett; at the two sessions on Saturday by the Manti Choir, under the direction of Ellis E. Johnson; and at the Sunday sessions by 'the Tabernacle Choir, under the direction of Anthony C. Lund. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank Asper and Wade N. Stephens. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 52 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 19 

Learning of God's will essential, 19 — Authority to interpret divine will provided, 20 — -Authority not bestowed upon successors, 20 — John recognized as the leader, 21 — Restoration of authority essential, 21- — Deliverance from present ills through obedience, 22 . 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 121 

31uth, Elder John V. 104 

Callis, Elder Charles A 15 

-Moving toward a glorious ideal, 15 — God's purposes will be accomplished, 16 — In the, promotion of peace, 16 — Events preceding Christ's second advent, 17 — A day of the Lord, 17 — War a penalty for crimes, 18 — When the great day of the Lord comes, 18 — The monster we create, 18. 

Changes in Church Officers 4 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 89 

Tribute and counsel to Choir, 89 — Sustaining governments and laws a fundamental precept, 90 — Governments instituted of God, 90 — Accountable to the Lord, 90 — Two declarations of equal wisdom, 91 — Freedom of worship, 91 — World-wide Church, 92 — Personal and property rights protected, 92 — Loyalty to rule of law, '92 — Divine word regarding human government, 93 — Religion and the Constitution, 93- — Endeavoring to establish modern paganism, 94 — Fundamentals of Constitution God-given, 94 — Elemental principles of Constitution, 94 — No dictatorship in America, 95 — In need of convictions, 95 — Our opportunity and 'mission, 95. 

Clawson, Elder Rudger 64 

The importance of motherhood and fatherhood, 64 — The mystery and purpose of life, 65 — Opinions of a French writer, 65 — When the Almighty speaks, 65 — The first estate, 66 — In the second estate — a living soul, 66 — Those who kept not their first estate, 67 — Mortality a blessed privilege, 67 — The importance of marriage, 67 — Two kinds of marriage, 68. 

Colton, Elder Don B 68 

Financial Statement 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 28 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

Forsberg, Elder Gustave W 106 

General Authorities of the Church 52 

General Authorities Present 1 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

General Auxiliary Officers 5 

General Officers of the Church 5 

Grant, President Heber J 

Church growth, 6 — Grateful for change in sentiment, 7 — The gift of faith, 7 — Speaks to world, 8 — Claim of authority, 8 — Regarding governments, 8— Our message to the world, 9 — Wide ministry, 9 — Grateful for faith, 10 — Need of obedience, 11 — Individual testimonies, 11 — Patriarchal blessings, 11 — The Adversary's decree rebuked, 12— Blessings fulfilled, 12— The gift of tongues, 13— Other Articles, 14— God's plan, 14. 

Grant, President Heber J 5 

Stake to be organized in Hawaii, 51. 

Grant, President Heber J 52 

Presentation of General Authorities, 52 — Presentation of General Officers, 53 — General Auxiliary Officers, 54. 

Grant, President Heber J 54 

Y. M. M. I. A. Board reorganized, 54. 

Grant, President Heber J. 103 

Not time to hear from all, 103. 

Grant, President Heber J '. 121 

Grant, President Heber J 128 

Grateful for blessings of conference, 128 — Delighted with the singing at conference, 128. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 49 

Hinckley, Elder Alonzo A 71 

The army of the Lord, 71— The source of their strength, 72— At the head of the Church, 72— Every man knows his calling, 73— The magnitude of this work, 73— Only on principles 1 of righteousness, 74— The boy of twelve, 74— The Lord's way, 75— He who keeps his armor bright, 75— An awful condition, 75. 

Jones, Elder Miles L 105 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 35 

Kirkham, Elder James M 107 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 116 

Thus on to eternal perfection, 116— Religion, the world's greatest 

need, 117— Testimony— examination meetings, 117 Tests by 

Church standards, 118— "All these things have I kept," 118 

Perfection through religion, 119— Seven examinations, 119— Ordained Elders at nineteen, 119— Satisfying a natural craving, 120— Youth to be guarded, 120. 

McKay, President David O HO 

The home an important factor in stable government, 110 — 

Marriage a divine institution, 110— Inspiration oi high ideals, 110 

Encroaching clangers, 1 1 1— Responsibility of parenthood, 112— 131 

Three things to which every child is entitled, 113 — Sense of security, 114 — Supplementing the home, 114 — Lists safeguards, 115 — Home building paramount, 115 — Marriage ordained of God, 116. 

McKay, President David O. 2 

Financial statement, 2 — Statistical and other data, 3 — Changes in Church officers, 4. 

Peterson, Elder James M 126 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 86 

Richards, Elder George F 100 

Rejoices in blessings of the conference, 100 — Under the curse, 100 — Has love for the Latter-day Saints, 101 — Have not forgotten God, 101 — Expresses love for mankind, 101 — Must hear the Gospel, 102 — In behalf of the dead, 102 — -Love of God and fellow men, 103. 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 39 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 28 

True definition of orthodoxy, 28 — Clear thinking necessary, 29- — Intelligent belief consistent, 29 — Truth a requisite, 30 — Not hard to have faith, 30 — Acceptance of Joseph Smith, 31 — Lame attempts, 31 — Right of succession, 31 — Fundamentals unchanged, 

32 — Indifferent and critical members, 32 — Disposition to criticize, 

33 — True worship overcomes criticism, 33 — A plea to the indifferent, 34. 

Richards, Elder Wilford W 37 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 71 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 52 

Smith, Elder David A 76 

Smith, Elder George Albert 43 

A child's faith and understanding, 43 — Those who diligently seek him, 43 — The Gospel of Jesus Christ, 44 — Teaching in the home, 

44 — The truth made manifest, 44 — Greater than secular knowledge, 

45 — Blessings through missionary service, 45 — All must hear the Gospel, 45 — The purpose of this assemblage, 46 — The importance of sacred music, 47 — An incident in the Southern States, 47 — Our responsibility to disseminate the truth, 47 — In our own communities, 48 — Grateful for privileges, 48. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding , 96 

Meaning of civilization, 96 — Fundamental things enduring, 97 — The decree of the Lord concerning the wicked, 97 — The great day of the Lord nigh, 98 — True civilization, 99. 

Smith, Elder Nicholas G 126 

Smoot, Elder Reed f 55 

Gifts from God, 55 — Striving toward perfection, 55 — The employment situation, 56 — Foreign obligations, 56 — Our financial burden, 57 — Live within your means, 57 — Great faith demonstrated, 58 — Sustain the Presidency, 58. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Statistical Report 3 

Taylor, Elder John H 84 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 109 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 89 

Wells, Elder John 123 

Wells, Elder Rulon S . . . 23 

Widtsoe, Elder John A. 79 

The things that pertain to God, 79- — Notable events in Church history, 80 — A most remarkable revelation, 80 — Building the Church of Christ, 81 — Building for eternal life, 81— The manner of its coming, 81 — Two important lessons, 82 — Missionary work established, 82 — Value of missionary work, 83 — -The effect upon the missionary, 83. 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 58 



A Few of the Books that will Help You to Understand 'Mormon ism" 

The Book of Mormon 

The latest edition comes to you in four different bindings. Of course the text remains the same but there are added features which make the edition more complete. 

Missionary Edition # .50 

Cloth binding, embossed 1.50 

Full Morocco 3.00 

The Gospel and Man's Relationship to 

Deity 

BY B. H. ROBERTS 

"It is to place within their reach a brief and simple exposition of the first principles of the Gospel that this work has been prepared, and is now presented to the! youth of Zion; and it is the earnest hope of the author that by a patient perusal of these pages those who now believe the Gospel will find their faith strengthened and confirmed; and those who do not believe it will be convinced of its truth." 

Price #1.25 

The Story and Philosophy of "Mormon ism" 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Comprising "The Story" as told in addresses at Cornell and Michigan Universities and elsewhere, followed by an address delivered at the Panama-Pacific Exposition,  "The Philosophical Basis of 'Mormonism.' " 

Cloth $ .75 

In Search of Truth 

BY ELDER JOHN A WIDTSOE OF THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE Bound in Art Cloth $1.00 

This new book answers the questions, "What is Science" and "How does the Church view Science." A practical book for our THINKING, young people. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

Mormonism 

and 

Freemasonry" "This brief treatise is addressed primarily to the members of the Masonic fraternity. The author requests Masons and others who may read it to patiently consider its contents, and in a spirit of fairness and reason determine whether the ground taken by the writer is truth or error." 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

+ 2% Sales Tax in Utah Distributed by the 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







