Outdoor
07 04 1917

An open air meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information Building, Benjamin Go r1 dard, president of the Bureau of Information, presided. The music was furnished  the Latter-day Saints University choir, B. Cecil Gates, directing. 

The choir and congregation sang : "We thank Thee, O God for a Prophet." 

Prayer by Rider Joshua Greenwood. 

Choir and congregation sang : "Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear." 

ELDER JOHN W. HART. 

(President of the Rigby Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters and friends: To say that I am surprised to be called upon to occupy this position this morning, I assure you is putting it very mildly. I am here because I was sent, and I believe that it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to do their bit in the furtherance of the cause of this great Church to which we belong, just as it is for us to do our bit when we are calle 1 upon to defend the Nation in which we live when it is in trouble. 

I trust that I may be strengthened by the Spirit of the Lord. I can assure you that I feel fortified with the knowledge of those of my brethren who are here to assist in this service this morning, and I know that the Lord will bless them and us all, and that we will feel that our coming together has not been a failure, even if we are called upon to hold our services in the open air. 

I was impressed with the opening address of the President of our Church, at our conference, and the addresses of our brethren who followed. The theme advance! by them has been in my mind for some time, that we should pay our respects, show our loyalty, extend our appreciation to those whom the 

Lord has placed in authority over his Church and over his people in the dispensation in which we live. I am thankful for the great men who preside over the Church now. I am grateful for the President, for his Counselors, for the Twelve, for the Presiding Bishopric, for the Presidents of Seventies, and all good men who have spent so much of their time in the interests of humanity; I know that it is fitting and right that we should express our feelings and our minds along this line while those brethren are with us, and not wait until they have passed beyond. Therefore, I bear my testimony to the goodness of these men, to the efficient administration that they are giving this great Church and the people of the Lord who have embraced this gospel. 

I come from the Rigby stake of Zion, a stake situated in southern Idaho. When I went there some twenty-one years ago, I found a wilderness, a desert. Practically on the very spot that was desert at that time, three weeks ago it was our pleasure to have with us President Smith, President Lund, President Grant, and Bishop Nibley, to assist in dedicating a new stake tabernacle that we built last year. This building seated, and we had present at our afternoon session, 2,755 people, where 25 years ago was nothing but sagebrush. I mention this, my brethren and sisters, that you may know that Zion is growing and spreading; and this is only one of the stakes out of probably 15 others so organized in that great state of Idaho, adjoining Utah on the north. 

I am proud to be a Latter-day Saint, I am proud that the Lord has blessed me with sufficient courage and faith to be true to its principles, to be true to the cause. I have always taken great pleasure, and have been delighted whenever an opportunity has presented itself to me to explain unto my fellow men the principles of life and salvation that have been revealed to us in this dispensation. 

It was only a short time ago, while visiting in the state capital in the state of Idaho, that a very prominent man came up to my room, one with whom I had the opportunity and privilege of serving in the state senate in Idaho, a man highly educated. He came up to my office, not with a view of talking religion, but I presume he came to talk politics. We had not proceeded very long until our conversation drifted upon those topics, and the first thing he said to me was, "Senator, don't you know that there is now being a persisent effort put forth in this state by a certain religious organization to control its politics?" I said, "Senator, I am surprised to hear that statement; I thought the only fear that was contained in the hearts of the citizens of Idaho of any Church controling the politics of our state was the 'Mormon' Church." "O," he said, "you are mistaken." 

That opened the conversation. I asked him what religion he professed. He said he was a member of the Christian Science Church. I told him I was gald to know that, that I knew a great many people who were broad-minded who were members of that church, and I was glad to know that he belonged to that organization. 

He told me what a wonderful lecturer appeared in the capital city last year, and he explained the God they worship, and he said, "I took  of your members up and introduced him to him after the services were over, and he said he thought the talk was very nice, but he did not understand the kind of God that had been portrayed to them during that service." I said, "No, he would not understand that, because you believe in an immaterial being as your God. A,s Latter-day Saints — 'Mormons,' as we are known — we believe that God is a material being, an exalted, im mortal man. He was once as we are, and it is possible for us to attain to the heights that he has now attained; and we base our faith on the circumstance that transpired in the death, crucifixion, and resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. When he came forth, there were evidently people on the earth, his followers, who did not have a correct understanding of this being we call God, and before Jesus left, it was his will, that his disciples should know what kind of a being God was, that when Christ should leave them he might leave them united with regard to this great principle, because we are told that in order to obtain eternal life we must know Jesus Christ the Son of the Living God,' and we must know God the Father, before we can intelligently and consistently worship him. I turned to the Bible, and, by the way, I always carry my Bible and other Church works with me, I have them in the hotel now, though I don't always read them. T always feel fortified when I have them with me. I got my Bible, and I read to him where the Savior appeared to his disciples, and told them to bring meat and give him something to eat; and he did eat and drink with them, and invited them to come for and put their fingers in the holes in his hands, saying, "Handle me, because a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have." 

"Now," I said, "you may see that there were evidently people then, even in the days of Christ, who were with him personally, who entertained the same views erroneously, as you and a great many other conscientious people do, concerning the kind of being that God is. Thomas was not present, and rfe was not satisfied to accept the testimony of the other disciples, hence it was necessary that the Savior come and present himself to Thomas that he might also understand. 

And when I finished with him, he turned to me and said, "I am surprised. I never knew there was anything like that in the Bible. You certainly have some substantial evidence on which to base your theory." 

He asked me what I thought about the incident of Christ upon the cross, when the thief acknowledged him and Christ promised him, "Today shalt thou be with me in paradise." 

"How do you explain it?" he said. I said, "Let the Apostle Peter explain that to you." The thief did not go to heaven as modern Christians claim that he did, but to a place of departed spirits, as the Savior did during the three days that his spirit was separated from his body. 

I referred to several other things, but he was called away before we finished our conversation. About three weeks after, I received a letter from him something like this : "My dear Mr. Hart, The little conversation that we had on topics in the hotel during your visit in Boise  made one of the greatest impressions upon my mind of anything I have known in the religious line yet, and I am anxious to know more about your gospel and doctrine." 

1 mention this, my brethren an 1 sisters, to show that it is our duty to be alert at all times, ready to defend this great cause, because the Lord lias entrusted it to our care, and placed the responsibility on our shoulders. I want to testify to you that I have never lost anything in this way, in any shape or form. I have never lost my standing among my non-"Mormon" friends on account of defending at all times the Church to which we belong. I want to say to you that you never will. May the Lord bless us in this. This is my testimony to you, and in it I have always taken great pleasure. 

I pray the Lord to bless us that we may be valiant in the cause, that we may be brave and willing to meet all people, and defend this cause in which we have enlisted, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH R. SHEPHERD. 

(President of the Bear Lake Stake.) 

This is certainly a very inspiring audience assembled in the open air at this meeting, and I pray, for the few moments that I stand before you, that T may enjoy the inspiration of our heavenly Father. 

At every conference of the Church there seems to me to be some special message to the Saints, and at this conference, the thought that has come to me is this, that in our day we have prophets of God. who speak the mind and will of God to the people, and that we should hearken unto them. We read in the ancient scriptures that one, a very wise man, said that a prophet is not without honor save in his own country. How true this is! It is as true today as it v/as when it was first spoken. When I heard the testimonies of our leading brethren, concerning the prophets of this dispensation and their ministry, this thought came to me, that now, when some of the modern prophets are dead, we are beginning to look to their words and take heed, while probably in the day in which they were spoken, they were not heeded to such an extent. 

Tt is a very strange thing that in order that we shall pay respect an'! reverence for the prophets of God, that they must be ancient or must have lived hundreds of years ago. We will go to the scriptures and read what the prophets have said thousands of years ago, and ponder over their words and try to undertand what was meant by what they said; and yet today, when the prophets speak to us, we do not take that same care, and we do not pay that same reverence to their words. This is a human failing, and I take it that the word of the Lord to the people today is this, "Hearken unto the words of the prophets of God who are among you. Listen to their warning voice, for they speak the word of God just as truly as did the prophets of old." 

The Latter-day Saints today are reading the Book of Doctrine and Covenants probably to a greater extent than it has ever been read. Why? Because they are just beginning to find out that God revealed to his servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith, many things pertain to this world and to the condition of the world, and the things that were about to come upon the rations of the earth. We read it before, but we paid little attention to it. We did not attach the importance to it some years ago that wcdo today, and when I heard in the tabernacle yesterday extracts from the Book of Doctrine and Coveants, I was impressed how literally the words of the Lord, through his servant the Prophet Joseph Smith, are being fulfilled right in our day. We know it, we testify to it, awl the half has not yet been told. 

Search the scriptures, modern scriptures as well as ancient, and there you will find food that will be profitable for you to digest, and to profit thereby. Hear the words of the Lord as they are given to you through his servants, and then you will be prepared for the things that are about to come to you and to the nations of the earth. My testimony to you today, my brethren and .sisters and those who may not be members of the Church, is that there are today men who are prophets of God, just as much as any who have lived formerly upon the face of this earth, and they speak the word of God to you. Their words are full of meaning, full of light, and if you take the same care and patience, and have the same faith in what they say, as we exercise in what has been said thousands of years ago, we will be profited thereby. Hear the words of the Lord through his servants, and you will be blessed. I bear my testimony of these things to you, and I pray God to make us faithful, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER C. AUSTIN. 

(President of the Bingham Stake) 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that it is a very trying ordeal for me to follow such men as President Hart and President Shepherd, who have had so much experience in public life. I trust I shall be able to say a few words, by the aid and assistance of the Spirit of the Lord. I bear testimony to the truths that have been spoken by these men. 

I learn that the keynote of this conference, to the Latter-day Saints is that they shall keep the commandments of the Lord; that they shall be obedient unto those things that we have been called to and have accepted. 

In the Mutual Improvement meeting this morning, we were discussing, in addition to this, some of our duties as citizens of this great nation of which we form a part; and I was impressed with the desire of the leaders of the Church to stimulate loyalty in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, to our Nation in this day of our tribulations. Our special attention was called, my friends, to the purchasing of Liberty Bonds, this second issue of Liberty Bonds now being placed before the American people for purchase. A resolution was passed there this morning that we would all do our uttermost in the purchase of these bonds. We would not only advise our friends and neighbors, but we would purchase ourselves, and would show our loyalty by our actions. We have always believed, and it has always been the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints, that "Mormonism" should be reflected in the lives of its people. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I am delighted with the growth and development of this Church, with the testimony of our brethren concerning increased desires for righteousness and good works. 

I, too, come from the north, and I am a neighbor of President Hart and President Shepherd, and I want to testify to the truthfulness of President Hart's words concerning the growth and development of the Latter-day work in that country. We have today in the sixteen stakes of Zion in Idaho, 80,000 Latter-day Saints. Nearly all of them have gone there and have grown up there in the last twenty or twentyfive years. We are endeavoring to do our part to wield an influence among those people, that shall be calculated to place the Latter-day Saints in their proper light; and ,ve are successful, we are laboring and living in peace and quietude with our neighbors. There is no contention, the old anti-"Mormon" feeling that used to exist a few years ago is all passed away and we hear nothing of it any more. We are pleased at this condition, we recognize the hand of the Lord in it, and we recognize that the Lord has brought our opposers to a better understanding of the motives of the Latter-day Saints; and when our motives are understood by those not of us, they will judge us righteously and give us the credit due us. 

You know, my brethren and sisters, what "Mormonism" stands for — for the ideal type of citizenship, for the ideal type of good living, better living, the proper rearing of our children, that we may make not only consistent Latter-day Saints of our boys and girls, but the most ideal citizens, loyal to our land, our flag, and able and willing GENERAL CONFERENCE.  defend the country. We of all other people believe in the divinity of the Constitution of the United States. There is no other people who believe that the Lord inspired men to write the Constitution of the United States as do the Latter-day Saints; and we believe that this great instrument shall be perpetuated, and that the liberties of the people of this country shall always be maintained. We believe that this is a land preserved by the Lord until this day and generation when he should re-establish his work. With these ideals, we could not do anything else than right, i shall give way because you are all waiting to hear Major Roberts talk to you. God bless you. Amen. 

A solo was sung by a member of the choir, entitled, "Kind words are sweet tones of the heart." 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

My brethren and sisters: I am indeed happy to have this opportunity of meeting you and addressing you on this occasion. 

We are living in times that are the most trying through which the world has ever passed; but also, we are living in the most splendid time that the world has ever seen. I do not envy the ancient patriarchs named in the Bible, as belonging to the Patriarchal period of our world's history; I do not envy the people who lived in the classic lands, and in the heroic times of Greece or Rome, at the height of their splendor. I do not envy the men who lived in the clays of chivalry, in the Middle Ages, when the individual man, and his prowess counted for so much. None of those  of time was as splendid as the period in which we live; and the opportunities of those ages were not equal to the opportunities of today. 

I do not know how it comes about, but every day thrills me with emotions of gratitude that I am living now, and that in a very small and humble way I have the opportunity of doing the things that are appointed unto me to do, and 1 think that that can be true of the humblest citizen of this great republic — for there are none so humble in life that they are deprived of participating in the greatness and  in tiie glory of these days. And yet, I recognize the fact that we live in a day when destructive forces are in operation, when men's minds are troubled because of the things which apparently are coming upon the earth. I realize that it is a day of great sacrifice, when the people are called upon to lay upon the altar of their country the richest gifts that God has given to them; and as I have witnessed the sorrows of mothers who feel that they are sacrificing their sons, dearer to them . than all the wealth of the world, I have sympathized with them, but I have also congratulated them in my heart upon the opportunities that have come to them to give expression to the nobility of their souls by the sacrifices they make. 

We are in a period in the world's history of very great disturbance, when action is intense, when change is continuous. I glory in that, because I believe that action means purification. The Prophet Joseph in one of his revelations to the Church, asks this question, or at least the Lord asks it through him  "How long can rolling waters remain impure?" It is the stagnant 101  that breed miasmas, and that become dangerous to the health of communities. The glorious stream that dashes 'down the mountain gorge and flows over precipices in waterfalls, and then sjoes rushing down the rapids, broken into spray, kissed by the sunlight and purified by its exposure to the air, in its great race for the ocean — such waters quickly purify themselves; and so do peoples, so does a world in commotion, in intense action. It means for the world cleansing, purification : it means a march of progress. And we want to keep this in mind, that back of all the turmoil and commotion that comes with this war period in which we live. God stands, and his law obtains. We want to nossess our souls in absolute confidence that we live under law, and that law operates in the midst of destructive forces as well as in the operation of constructive forces. In my own reflections, I have come to a verv hapny state of mind. In *he midst of all this strife, I have learned to remember that God lives in his universe, that he is everywhere present with widely diffused influence and power, upholding all things, and that destructive forces will not go beyond what his wisdom shall decree to be their bounds. 

On this subject I think there is a fine, even a sublime, passage in one of our revelations, that I would like to read to you : 

"All kingdoms have a law given: and there are many kingdoms; for there is no space in the which there is no kingdom; and there is no kingdom in which there is no space, either a greater or a lesser kingdom. And unto every kingdom is given a law; and unto every law there are certain hounds also and conditions." 

This revelation joins most admirably in a deduction made by a prominent writer, the author of Natural Law in the Spiritual World — Henry Drummond. In that work, the author says, "There is no finer generalization made than this, that even law is governed by law." In other words, as it is expressed here in the revelation I just read, "Unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions." And back of the law always is the Lawgiver, greater than the law, since it has its source from him. 

"All beings who abide not in those conditions [prescribed by law] are not justified; 

"For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom; truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto light; mercy hath compassion on mercy, and claimeth her own: justice continueth its course, and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne, and governeth and executeth all things: 

"Fie comprehendeth all things, and ill things are before him, and all tlr'ngs are round about him: and he is above all things, and in all things, and is through all things, and is round about all things; and all things are by him, and of him, even God, for ever and ever. 

"And aga'n, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things by which they move In their times and their seasons; 

"And their courses are fixed; even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets; 

"And they give light to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years: all these are one year with God, but not with man. 

"The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also giveth their light, as they roll upon their wings GENERAL CONFERENCE.  their glory, in the midst of the power of God. * * * 

"And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law, and perfected and sanctified by the same." That conveys to us the splendid thought, I think, that we live under the reign of law. Nothing is going to happen in this world but what shall be under the dominion of law. Even the destructive forces themselves have their bounds and limitations fixed by the decree of God — the law. 

The astronomers tell us that away off in the dim distance, so far away in the space depths that we may form no comprehension of the distance, they have the evidence that here and there a world seems sometimes to be blotted out of existence, and that which was apparent to their vision has disappeared — destroyed. So that, fixed as seem to be the stars above in the night time, regular as they move in their courses, holding so far as man knows, from age to age, still there come changes in those vast creations and they are broken up and destroyed. 

This, too, is spoken of in one of our revelations in the Pearl of Great Price. Listen to it: 

"Behold there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power * * * and there are many which now stand * * * the heavens are many, and they cannot be numbered unto me, for they are mine, and as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come; and there is no .end to my works, neither to my words. For behold this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal, life of man." 

The Lord has revealed, then, that worlds pass away. In this same  it is written that there are many worlds that now stand and that there are many that have passed away. In other words, destructive forces are in operation as well as constructive and maintaining forces. What I want to impress upon your minds here and now is that these destructive forces are under the dominion of law, and that the whole scheme of things is under the hand and rule and authority and power of God; that there are no destructive forces operating but what contain in themselves the prophecy of reconstruction — that when a world in a certain course of its development has reached the highest attainment that can be hoped for it under conditions that have prevailed, behold this condition shall pass away — destruction comes, but only to use these materials in reconstructing better, and for the attainment ot higher and nobler purposes. 

I have said this much because we may consider ourselves just now as standing in the midst of a destructive period in the world's history. So indeed we are, but I am not afraid of those destructive forces, because I have this faith, that these destructive forces are under the control of God, and that they mean the reconstruction of better things for the world; and out of this maelstrom of war and famine and waste — waste of human life, waste of human treasure, waste apparently of the accumulations of civilization through many ages, there shall come even greater and higher things. There shall come larger liberty to the inhabitants of the earth; there shall come a more profound security and joy of life, of liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. There shall come a better distribution of the wealth that is created by a combinaiton of the efforts of men, by their daily toil and the supply of the capital that makes possible the labors of men's hands. And so I look forward to better times, to improved conditions, and out of this crucible through which the world is passing and being tried as gold seven times tried in the fire — I anticipate the development of larger opportunities and greater blessings than the world has yet known. 

Do we not sing sometimes, "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven" ? And do ' you know, I have got it in my mind that there is some proportion between the blessings that are to come and the sacrifices that are made for those blessings. Isn't that a reasonable conclusion? Well, if it is a reasonable conclusion, and if the promises are true, then from that view point what may not the world hope for in the matter of blessings in the presence of the enormous sacrifices now being made by the children of men? If the blessings to come shall be somewhat commensurate with the sacrifices that have been made by the nations of the earth during the last three years of strife and war and sacrifice, it seems to me that the earth itself will not be able to contain the blessings that God is designing for the inhabitants of the earth after they shall be cleansed by this maelstrom of sacrifice and judgment that is passing over the world. 

And so, I am happy, happy to live in this day of the purification of the nations of the earth, happy to live in the days that shall see a further purification of our own nation and people. I am well satisfied with our nation. No nation in the  of this world ever drew the sword in a more righteous cause and in a more unselfish spirit, and with greater desire to benefit humanity, than our nation has done in the present instance. If there ever was a holy war in this world, you may account the war that the United States is waging against the Imperial Government of Germany as the most righteous and holy of wars. We have not entered it for conquest, we have not entered it for the purpose of enlarging our borders and appropriating the lands or wealth of other people. In advance, the present administration of the government of the United States declared we wanted no indemnities. We asked for none of the territory of other nations, we did not wage this war in the spirit of revenge for injuries inflicted upon our citizenship, or upon our rights upon the high seas. We simply drew the sword in this case, that the nations of the earth should be free from the terror of militarism, from the tyranny of would-be masters of the world; we simply desire to see the nations put in the way of living their own lives without fear, the weakest as well as the strongest. We drew the sword of war against war itself. We fight not that war might be perpetuated, but that war might eternally cease upon the face of the earth, and that men might be free and live their lives uninterrupted by fear of the oppressor. Can you name a more righteous war than that ? And shall we not be devoted to our country and to this cause of freedom? 

Here in the Doctrine and Covenants is a statement that I have read I reckon five hundred times, and yet I think the truth of it never entirely came to me until recently. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

When the Latter-day Saints were in exile, driven from Jackson county, Missouri, and were bivouacked out on the Missouri bottoms with no covering but the canopy of heaven, and exposed in an inclement season of the year to the rigors of the winter season of that land, the Lord, giving instructions as to how they should proceed, said in the course of that instruction : 

"Again I say unto you that those who have been scattered by their enemies, it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress and redemption by the hands of those who are placed as rulers and are in authority over you, according to the laws and constitution of the people which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for s e rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy — inciples." 

I have to confess to you that in times past when I read that, I thought the Lord was concerning himself chiefly with those who were living under our Constitution and the laws that have been enacted in harmony with it; but behold, here is a larger vision of it, and one becomes astonished that he did not see it before. Not only are the people blessed to inhabit this land, not only are they to enjoy these privileges guaranteed to us under this Constitution which God founded by inspiring the wise men of that time to construct it, not only are these principles of liberty for them, but as stated here, "they should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh." I invoke here and now the very word of God in this dispensation to the righteousness and holiness of extending these American principles of liberty so that they shall include all the inhabitants of the earth. 

We did a noble thing away back yonder in President Monroe's administration, in 1823, when our government then served notice upon the European powers that the republics in this Western Hemisphere were no longer to be regarded as spheres wherein European systems of government might be forced upon the people contrary to their will; that those republics having declared and maintained their independence as our republic had, they were not again to be oppressed by the nations of Europe. That we called the Monroe Doctrine, and 'in announcing it, we simply stood for the right of selfgovernment within the republics of this western world. Europe, in other words, should not be permitted to coerce the republics of the western world, they should not impose European systems upon them. And in taking that position, the government of the United States stood for the great principle of Democracy, in the western world, viz., that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed; that the people of all America had the right of selfgovernment, and we would help to maintain them in the possession and maintenance of that right, for we said at that time that any attempt to coerce or oppress any of those governments would be regarded as an unfriendly act against the United States. And that was the polite way — that was the diplomatic way of saying, "If you attempt to coerce any of these American governments, it means 'war with the United States." And so European powers let up at that time on their efforts to coerce the republics of the western world. 

What do we say now? We say 105 , "All the nations of the earth shall govern themselves; there shall arise no power, however wonderful the genius of its people may be, however confident they may feel of their ability to govern the world better than anybody else, to forbid such freedom. We simply serve notice upon the Imperial Government of Germany and her allies that the principle of self-government among the nations of the earth is going to be world wide, the right of every nation, the very weakest as well as the very strongest, to govern itself will be insisted upon and maintained. So it is a worldwide application of the old Monroe Doctrine that America is about, and there is to be no desertion of the Monroe Doctrine at all. 

Since our cause is righteous, may we not hope that the God of battles will maintain our cause by strengthening our hands, by making stout our hearts? By making invincible our armies whatever they may have to sacrifice in the struggle that they shall engage in? The only thing that I am concerned about is simply this, whether we will prove ourselves to be worthy of the help and support of God. Shall we feel his strength and power enabling us to accomplish the high purposes that we have declared to be ours in connection with our entrance into this great world struggle? I am confident that the people will respond to the righteousness of our cause, and the admonitions of the president of these United States. 

These reflections indicate to us, 1 hope, a little why it is I feel so happy in this day in which we live; and we pray that God will so help us that we shall receive renewed manifestations of his goodness and his  and his guiding hand in the affairs of this nation, and of this world; which world is God's by right of proprietorship, having created it, having sustained it, having appointed to it its courses, for he has decreed from the beginning what shall be the far-off end of this world and the salvation and glory of the inhabitants thereof. 

God help us to appreciate the day in which we live, and to cause our spirits to rise to the high level of these times, and the opportunities they afford, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have been very greatly impressed by the remarks of Elder Roberts, with the grandeur, the greatness, and the majesty of God. He was quoting from this good book which I hold in my hand, The Pearl of Great Price. The closing part of his quotation reads as follows : "For behold this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." What is the work of God? is so well answered in these few words that I hardly need make further comment; and yet we were also impressed with this thought, in regard to the work of God, when Elder Roberts pointed out to us the splendors of the universe, these heavenly bodies which we behold every night of our lives when we look out into the universe, each one performing its regular functions in its respective orbit, and when we behold the sun at noonday, and admire its splendor and grandeur, and all these creations above us, as well as beneath us : the earth upon which we stand : "All these are also a part G EN ERA L CONFERENCE.  the work of God." Yet great and glorious as are these splendid creations around and about us. above us and beneath us, the greatness of the work of God is this, "to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man." 

What ? you mean to say that that is a greater work than the creation of the heavens and the .earth? By far, my brethren and sisters; greater than the making of a world, greater than the creation of the universe, is the bringing to pass of the immortality and eternal life of our Father's children; for it was to this end that these heavenly planets were created, a preliminary to the accomplishment of God's great work. It was essential that they should he made to become the dwelling places of our Father's children; and their habitations, their dwellings, their abode is not greater than the children themselves; and to bring to pass their immortality and their eternal life, is greater than all the rest. The one is but a preliminary arrangement for the accomplishment of that greater purpose. When we dwelt in the presence of the Father, in that primeval day when the morning stars sang for joy and all the sons of God shouted together — it was then that the proclamation was made that the Lord would save his children through obedience to the gospel, and give unto them their freedom, their free-agency, indicating God's purpose that his children should be free, free to chose the right or wrong as they might elect for themselves. In the exercise of that freedom, granted unto all, the Lord proposed to bring to pass their immortality and their eternal life. 

What is the difference between  and eternal life? To bring to pass the immortality of man what is needful? All men are subject to death. You cannot accomplish the immortality of your own soul, but that has been brought to pass through the atonement of Christ, for he said, "Here am I, send me." And the Lord sent his Only Begotten Son into the world, who gave his life that we might live again. He overcame death and the grave; and through that atonement was brought to pass that great part of God's work which we call the immortality of man. 

There is .still something other than immortality — it is to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man. Well, what is immortality, says one? Is not that to live on eternally? Indeed it is. And eternal life? Does that not mean immortality? Yes, eternal life means all that is included in immortality, but immortality does not include all that is meant in eternal life, and when we speak of eternal life and immortality, they are two separate things. To bring to pass the immortality of man has been accomplished by the atonement of Christ without any effort upon our part; but if we are to obtain eternal life, then we must co-operate with God and he will bring to pass that eternal life in his presence. To live not only as immortal beings, living continually, but to live with him in his celestial kingdom, that is eternal life, and can only be accomplished through obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thereby will God accomplish this, his great work, through bringing to pass the immortality of his children and their eternal life, for which the worlds were created, and for which we have come down in these mortal 107  and are commanded to yield obedience to the will of God, obedience to his glorious gospel, the perfect law of liberty which is indeed the power of God unto salvation. 

God help us to appreciate that glorious gospel and that great work of our Father which he has instituted in his great universe for the salvation, the exaltation, the eternal life of his children. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "America." 

Benediction was offered by Elder Jacob F. Gates. 


