Afternoon
06 04 1917

At 2 o'clock the conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith, who presided. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Jacob T. Tanner, First Counselor in the Presidency of the Beaver stake of Zion. 

Sister Shanna Tout .sang a solo : "O, rest in the Lord." 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Purpose of prophecy — The supernatural discredited — Dead prophets preferred to living ones — The modern Zion — Why not established — A Tempest of War foretold — The Saints migrate to the Rocky Mountains — North against South — The World War — Dangers upon the deep — The Food question — What of the Outcome? 

"Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets." — Amos 3:7. 

The words are those of a prophet of God who figured in the midst of the Hebrew nation about eight hundred years before the birth of the Savior. A more modern translation of the text might have rendered it thus : Surely the Lord God will do nothing, without first revealing it to his servants the prophets. But it is sufficiently plain in its present . The meaning I understand to be this : The all-wise Dispenser of human affairs will neither cause nor permit any event to take place, affecting the weal or woe of the human family, until he has first communicated with his chosen servants, his oracles among men, and given them due notice of its approach, making them wise as to his purpose, that they in turn may make wise the people; the object being that some sort of preparation shall precede the event in question. The promised sending of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord, as foretold by Malachi, was in order that certain things might be done which, if left undone, would cause that coming to smite the earth with a curse. 

To prepare God's people, and through them the world at large, for changes that must come in the carrying out of the divine program, is the function of the prophet, who foretells the future; of the seer, who looks through time into eternity; of the revelator, who delivers the word and will of the Universal Father to his children. The aims of the prophets are high and noble. They desire the happiness and progress of the race; yet almost invariably they are misunderstood, ridiculed, opposed and persecuted. 

There is a proneness in human nature to discredit prophets and other divinely inspired men. The supernatural is nearly always discounted, if not derided, by ultrapractical minds. "The natural man is an enemy to God." All miracles are myths to modern pseudo-science and its arrogant handmaid, the socalled "Higher Criticism." To believe in prophecies, visions and revelations, is "to live in haunted houses." So one learned gentleman asserted in an educational address recently delivered in some of our western towns. Even those who revere the prophets of the past are tempted to ignore the prophets of the present. It seems natural to turn from What Is and bow down to What Has Been. 

"Seven cities claimed the birth oi 

Homer, dead, Through which the living Homer 

begged for bread." 

The Savior reproved the pious unbelievers of his generation for garnishing the sepulchres of the dead prophets and rejecting the living ones, as their fathers ha:l done before them. A professed reverence for Moses and the old-time servants of God was a prominent characteristic of those who spurned the greatest of all prophets, the very Son of God, concerning whom Moses and others had testified. And this same spirit, the spirit that crucified the Christ, brought about in the Nineteenth Century the martyrdom of the prophet, revelator and seer, Joseph Smith. 

I want to read to you one of his predictions, of interest to us all. from the fact that it constitutes the reason why "Mormonism" came into the world. That reason was, in brief, that Israel might be gathered, that Zion might be brought forth, and the way prepared for the coming of the Lord in his glory. This revelation, only a part of which I will read, came to the Prophet in the month of March, 1831 : 

"Verily I say unto you, that great things await you. Ye hear of wars in foreign lands, but behold I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own land. 

*' Vv herefore I the Lord have said, Gather ye out from the eastern lands, assemble ye yourselves together, ye elders of my church, go ye forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent, and inasmuch as they do repent build up churches unto me; [that is, branches of the Church] 

"And with one heart and with one mind gather up your riches, that ye may purchase an inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you. 

"And it shall be called the New Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, a place of safety for the saints of the Most High God; 

"And the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come unto it, and it shall be called Zion. 

"And it shall come to pass among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his neighbor, must needs flee unto Zion for safety. 

"And there shall be gathered unto it out of every .nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another, 

"And it shall be said among the wicked, Let us not go up to battle against Zion, for the inhabitants of Zion are terrible, wherefore we cannot stand. 

"And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy" (Doctrine and Covenants 45: 62-71). 

This Church was less than one year old when that revelation was given, and but little more than a year old when an attempt was made to carry out the divine instruction. The place for the City was revealed — Jackson County, Missouri — and the plan whereby Zion would be established was also made known. Then why — this being our mission — are we not engaged in it? Well, we are engaged in it. But why are we up here in the Rocky Mountains, instead of down in Missouri, build up Zion? Well, there are several reasons why the Latter-day Saints have not yet been able to completely carry out the terms of this prophecy. One reason was mentioned yesterday in the splendid address delivered by President Smith. The people who received these instructions had to "flee from the wrath to come." The mam reason, however, was selfishness on these instructions had to "flee sary unity. "There were jarrings and contentions and envyings and strifes and lustful and covetous desires among them;" and because of these things the Lord permitted their enemies to come upon them and drive them from the goodly land. They were a good people, better than those who persecuted them, but not good enough to carry out the high and holy purposes of Deity. Had they been in all respects what the Lord wanted them to be, and what their .descendants will have to be in order to fulfil prophecy, Zion might have been redeemed in their day. But they did not prove equal to the undertaking, and consequently a next-best course had to be pursued. 

A great storm-cloud was gather ing over this Nation and over the whole world, and on Christmas day. 1832, the Prophet uttered a prediction concerning it. He said that war would be "poured out upon all nations," beginning at a certain place — South Carolina — and subsequently be declared that the conflict would arise over the slave question. Twenty-eight years and a few months from that time, this prediction began to have its fulfilment, when the first gun was fired on Fort Sumter, April 12, 1861; an act precipitating the war between the North and the South. The greater  of the prophecy is, of course, in the future. 

Now, because of these events and their own unpreparedness, the Lord's people had to "wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion." They were told that they must first become mighty — not only in numbers and material influence, but by the power of God, descending upon them as an endowment from on high. And meanwhile, as the President informed us, they had to "flee the wrath to come" — had to seek shelter from the tempest.which, when it burst, spent much of its fury upon those lands from which the Saints had been driven. Nearly twenty years before the Civil War the Prophet predicted the removal of the Saints to the Rocky Mountains, and four years later that removal besran. Here they were to become a mighty people, the prospective saviors of the Nation. Here they have founded stakes of Zion, preparatory to the redemption of Zion proper. That is why we are up here in the tops of the mountains, instead of down there in the State of Missouri. 

The tempest of war did not end with the strife between the Northern and the Southern States. That was only the beginning of the storm. God's people were warned to keep out of the way until the calamities foretold should have done their work and until the way should be prepared before them. The Prophet having been slain, his successor, President Brigham Young, led the people to these mountain fastnesses. He also was inspired by the spirit of prophecy and revelation; and I testify that every man who has since occupied the same position and presided over this Church, has likewise been a prophet of the Most High God. 

I wish now to refer to one of these men and to certain predictions that he made. I heard President Wilford Woodruff, in April, 1893, when the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated, declare that from that time forth the Latter-day Saints would have more influence in the world and their representatives would be treated with greater respect and consideration by their fellow men than ever before. In the autumn of that year I accompanied President Woodruff and his counselors, Presidents George O. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, with the Tabernacle Choir, to the World's Fair at Chicago. Among the points visited en route was Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. Just sixty years before, our people had been ruthlessly driven from that part, and every form of indignity heaped upon them. Fiftv-eight years before, this same Wilford Woodruff, then a priest on his way to fill a mission in the Southern States, had passed through Jackson County, at a time when it was almost as much a,s a "Mormon's" life was worth to be seen there. Because of this hostile sentiment he had to conceal his identityand almost skulk through the county, to avoid the danger. But how was it in the autumn of 1893? Why, the whole town of Independence came out to preet the "Mormon" leader; the Mavor delivered a speech of welcome, and the people vied with each other in doing honor and showing courtesv to the head of the unpopular and hated Church. 

Here is another prediction, uttered bv President Woodruff the year after that visit to Jackson County. T will not read it all. for  time is limited. This was delivered at Brigham City, in June, 1894. The President said : 

"God has held the angels of destruction for many 5'ears, lest they should reap down the wheat with the tares. I want to tell you now that these angels have left the portals of heaven, and they stand over this people and this nation now, and are hovering over the earth, waiting to pour out the judgments, and from this very day they shall be poured out. Calamities and troubles are increasing in the earth, and there is a meaning to these things. Remember this, and reflect upon these matters. If you do your duty, and I do my duty, we shall have protection and be shielded and pass vhrough the afflictions in peace and in safety. Read the scriptures and the revelations; they will tell you about all these things. Great changes are at our doors. The next twenty years will see mighty changes among the nations of the earth. You will live to see these things, whether I do or not. T have felt oppressed with the weight of these matters, and I felt I must speak of them here." 

It was just twenty years from the time these fateful words were spoken, when the great war broke out in Europe — a war that has caused many "mighty changes among the nations" and is evidently destined to cause many more. 

Just before the strife began, a learned gentleman from another state, a great and good man, stood no in this Tabernacle and expressed the positive conviction that there could not be another great war. He gave his reasons, and thev were most plausible. Others had done the same. Thev said the world had advanced too far; the nations were too civilized, too cultured to permit of it : it simply could not be. The Savior said, two thousand years a?o, that such thines must be ''Matthew 24 :6) — they were one of the signs of his second coming; and 

God's prophet in latter days declared that war would be "poured out upon all nations." But this learned man maintained that such things were impossible. It was only a few days after he had so expressed himself, when the greatest hell of conflict that this world has ever known broke out, and now threatens to wrap the world in flames. In the light of such developments, which do you deem the more trustworthy, the theories of men, or the revelations of Almighty God? 

One frightful phase of the great conflict is the havoc wrought by the German U-boats, otherwise known as submarines. A revelation given through Joseph Smith in August, 1831, connects closely with these fearful happenings. The Prophet, with a company of Elders, was returning from his first visit to Missouri. They had made their camp at a place called Mcllwair's Bend, on the Missouri River, where one of the party, William W. Phelps, had a vision of the destroyer riding in fury upon the waters. This incident brought forth the revelation, a part of which ran as follows : 

"Behold, there are many dangers upon the waters, and more especially hereafter; 

"For I the Lord have decreed in mine anger, many destructions upon the waters: yea, and especially upon these waters; 

"Nevertheless, all flesh is in mine hand, and he that is faithful among you shall not perish by the waters. ******* 

"Behold I, the Lord, in the begin'iiing blessed the waters, but in the last days, by the mouth of my servant John, I cursed the waters: 

"Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters, 

"And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to  land of Zion upo,n the waters, but he that is upright in heart. 

"And as I the Lord in the beginning cursed the land, even so in the last days have I blessed it, in its time, for the use of my saints, that they may partake the fatness thereof. 

"And now I give unto you a commandment that what I say unto one I say unto all, that you shall forewarn your brethren concerning these waters, that they come not in journeying upon them, lest their faith fail and they are caught in her snares. 

"I the Lord have decreed, and the destroyer rideth upon the face thereof, and I revoke not the decree" (Doc. and Gov. 61:4-6, 14-19). 

"No flesh shall be safe upon the waters." Isn't that time almost here? Even upon the calm Pacific no ship dares to pursue consecutively the same track twice. The companies operating the great ocean liners no longer announce the dates of departure from one port, or of expected arrival at another. They dare not. The destroyer is abroad, death is in the depths, and the spirit of dread broods upon the bosom of the waters. And this upon the comparatively peaceful Western Ocean. Upon the Atlantic, in the Mediterranean, and in the North Sea, the terrible submarine tells the tale of danger and disaster. 

Another phase of the gigantic struggle is the food question. Joseph Smith predicted famine, and President Brigham Young, many years ago, placed upon the sisters of the Relief Society a special mission, that of gathering and storing grain against a time of scarcity. I well remember how lightly esteemed by some were the labors of these devoted women. Some of them went to one of our bishops and asked him to build them a granary. He smiled benignantly and told them to bring along their grain and he would store it for them in his barn, implying that they would not gather very much. The sentiment at that time, in certain places, was that there could not be another famine in this world. Too much of the acreage of the earth was under cultivation, and the means of rapid transit and communication were too plentiful. If a famine threatened any part of the planet, word of it could come in the twinkling of an eye, and millions on millions of tons of food-stuffs could be transported to the scene, staving off the straitness and rendering such a calamity impossible. 

Alas for those who put their trust in the arm of flesh! How is it today? In spite of the great and ever-increasing productivity of the earth, in spite of railroads, steamships and telegraphs, this is a famine-threatened world. Europe calls to America for food; America responds; but as fast as she consigns her cargoes of grain and other food-stuffs to the needy nations, the merciless and devouring submarine sends them to the bottom of the sea. 

Eff orts have not been wanting to meet the situation and ward off the impending catastrophe. Six months ago President Smith, addressing a general priesthood meeting, with a view to encouraging a wider cultivation of the soil, offered, as Trustee-in-Trust, cash premiums in generous amounts for the best yields of agricultural products .resulting from the labors of various local organizations. The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association seconded this action of the Trustee-in-Trust, by furnishing and sending to the boys of Utah free seed for the raising of more abundant crops. The whole nation  been aroused to the necessity existing for the avoidance of waste and the conservation of food-stuffs; and the entire civilized world has awakened to the same urgent call. The "Mormon" grain-storing movement is no longer a joke, subject for ridicule. God has vindicated the patient labors of the Sisters, and fulfilled the forebodings of prophecy. 

WHAT OF THE OUTCOME? 

What will be the outcome of the awful strife now raging? Will the world be "made safe for democracy," or will it be ground under the iron heel of an autocratic military despotism ? I cannot believe that such a calamity is in store. He who died to make man free, and whose gospel is "the perfect law of liberty," will never permit the enslavement of the human race. He who in the beginning instituted laws for man's advancement will never tolerate such a turning back of the wheels of eternal progress. Having- decreed the world's emancipation from every form of misrule, he will never allow the enthronement of universal tyranny. 

Nevertheless, He will accomplish in his own way the work that he has set his hand to do, and will use this people and all peoples in the process. His gospel must have free access into and among all nations, and the nation that fights against him will perish. All power is his, both in heaven and on earth, and he will never let his work be thwarted by any scheme for personal or national aggrandizement. More to God is man's salvation than the perpetuity of any dynasty or the glory of any earthly empire. 

A greater warfare is in progress than now shakes the shores of Europe — a warfare whose beginning was coeval with the foundation of the world. Far greater than any strife between man and man, is the world-old controversy between God and Satan, between freedom and oppression, between right and wrong. And right will triumph, and God will be glorified. The world will be made safe for democracy — safe for all righteous institutions. Israel will be gathered, Zion redeemed, and the way prepared for the King of kings and the Millennial reign of universal freedom and peace. 

An instrumental piece of music entitled, "A Pastoral Offertory," was given by Prof. Kellersberger and Tracy Y. Cannon, the solo for the English horn by Prof. Kellersberger, — Tracy Y. Cannon at the great organ. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY. 

Economy and thrift, and a conservation of material things, commendable and pleasing to God — An appeal to the Saints to give more attention to the protection and conservation of youth, manhood and womanhood — The sacredness, sanctity and permanence of family relationships — The gospel should be taught in every home for the protection of its inmates — The dangers arising from a neglect of prayer and from bad example — Tobacco, particularly the cigarette, is a menace to manhood; some illustrations — It is unpatriotic to send tobacco to our soldiers to sap their manhood and undermine their strength — Testimony. 

The burden of the message to the Latter-day Saints during this conference has been a heart-felt admonition to keep the command of God, to live .in harmony with his priesthood. I wish in my soul that every man, woman and child in the Church might have heard those appeals from the servants of God to Israel to keep his commandments. There is one commandment which I feel impressed to read this afternoon : 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes, which are organized, and they teach them not to understand the doctrines of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and in baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents, for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized." 

We have heard, during the last year, a great deal about the necessity of conservation. We have been admonished from pulpits and by the press to conserve our resources, and in a measure the people have responded nobly to that appeal. On every hand you can see evidences of the desire on the part of the people to conserve the products of the earth, and to utilize them for the blessing of the people who are in distress. There is more care taken on the farm to reap the harvest with which God has blessed the people; there is more thought given in the kitchen, and the food stuff is being conserved and more economically used, perhaps, than ever before; and yet economy and thrift are fundamentals in the social organization and in the teachings of this Church. But the war has brought the necessity of it home to us, as nothing else perhaps in the world has done. 

At noon today some of us saw a wonderful display of the result of one phase of this conservation and service. I refer to the exhibit which the General Board of Primary Associations has on display in the Bishop's building. Hundreds of useful products — the result of diligence on the part of your little boys and girls — made out of old clothes, discarded suits, and other material, are now placed in the hands of the General Board to be sent to the Red Cross Association, for the benefit and relief of the soldiers at the front. I approve of it as a most commendable example of what may be accomplished by organized, and well-directed effort. 

This conservation and care is in keeping with the example which Jesus gave his disciples. You remember on one occasion he fed the multitude and commanded them to sit on the grass, and with five barley loaves and two fishes fed the five thousand, after which he said, now "Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing may be lost." 

All this conservation of material things, I say, is most commendable and pleasing to God, but the greatest conservation that mankind can engage in is the conservation of youth, the conservation of manhood and the protection of womanhood. I appeal to the Latterday Saints today to give more thought to the protection, to the consideration, of the dearest possession you have — your sons and daughters. The day after Christ gave the lesson of economy in taking care of things of the earth, he said to some of the same multitude who gathered around him in Capernaum : "Ye seek me not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye ate of the loaves and were filled. Labor not for the meat which perisheth.  for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of Man shall give unto you." And they said, "What is that?'" in substance, "Master, where shall we get this?" And he said, "This is the work of God that ye believe on him whom he hath sent." Faith in Christ is one of the principles which we should teach our boys and girls. The Prophet Joseph Smith,through revelation, received the admonition, and he has given it to the world, and it is now a standing law in the stakes, that it is the duty of fathers and mothers to teach the principles of life and salvation, based upon the faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, to their children, and those who do not have the responsibility placed upon their shoulders. 

Oh, I praise God for the instructions he has given his people regarding the sacredness, the sanctity, and permanence of the family relationship. Let us impress these instructions upon our children. First let us teach them that the proper place to begin the family relationship is in the House of God, kneeling at his sacred altar worthily. This means that the young man is just as pure and sweet in his life, and that he has been during his teens and early manhood, as she whose hand he holds in his, and who gives to him a life of purity and virtue, worthy of motherhood, worthy of one who in the holy office of motherhood joins with the Creator in bringing to the earth eternal souls. We are not conserving that which will perish in time when we protect and guide eternal spirits from God. "The stars may fade away," the poet says, "the sun himself grow dim with age, and nature sink in years, but man shall flourish in immortal youth, un amidst the war of elements, the wreck of matter, and the crash of worlds." 

The little babe comes to the home as an eternal part of it, when the father and the mother plight each other's troth, for time and all eternity. Let us teach the youth, then, that the marriage relation is one of the most sacred obligations known to man, or that man can make. Teach them that the family is the first institution ordained of God, and instituted among men. If every couple sensed the sacredness of this obligation, there would be fewer homes broken up by disagreements that lead to divorces. The safety, the perpetuity of our government, or of any republican form of government, depends upon the safety and permanency of the home. Herein we get a glimpse of one thing in which this people may be the saviors, in a way, of this great nation. The home is the place where the perpetuation of the principles of liberty as well as the instructions in the Gospel of Jesus Christ should be given to the children. When the home breaks up. then begin the children to wander off into sin. Then the law must reach out to bring them back and try to teach them some principles of service, and principles of true government; but oh, how helpless, how helpless the state, when the home has failed! 

I have here,, through the kind' ness of a state parole officers, a report of some of these unfortunate boys and girls whose lives have not been conserved properly, and it is instructive to note the causes of the delinquency found among them. They are not naturally bad. I believe that boys and girls are not naturally wicked. We are prone to  evil, it is true, but we are also prone to do right, and the children of Latter-day Saint? are entitled to that proneness to do right even nore than any other children in the world, particularly if the parents have radiated in the home, from babyhood and through childhood and manhood, the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, as the revelation here requires. 

In our Industrial School, in the month of November, 1910, there were enrolled 110 boys. Sixty per cent of those boys came from broken homes, 7 per cent of that 60 per cent came from homes where parents were divorced; 18 per cent, where the fathers were dead; 10 per cent, where the mothers were dead; 7 per cent, where both parents were dead; 8 per cent, of the children deserted by one or both of the parents. Of the remaining 40 per cent of boys, home conditions were blasted by the use of liquor as follows : fathers addicted to the use of liquor, 22 per cent; mothers addicted, 4 per cent. 

The inspiration of God is seen in requiring the Latter-day Saints to keep their homes intact, and to teach their children the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, T do not mean by that that we should make such teaching formal or in any way distasteful. I mean that the gospel of Jesus Christ should radiate in every home; that the prayer night and morning should be offered up in sincerity; that the children daily would realize that we desire in our home the presence of God. If we can invite the Savior there, we may know that the angels will be not only willing but eager to protect our boys and girls. I believe that in most homes boys and girls are taught to pray before retiring for the night. I believe, however, that, too generally, the morning prayers are neglected. When we come to think of it, though, it is during the waking hours that our boys and girls need the protection of God, and the guidance of his Holy Spirit, more even than when they are asleep. The dangers surrounding our boys and girls today are the dangers that come to them out in society, out in the. darkness of the night, when they are away from the parental influence. I plead with the parents of the Church to know where your boys and girls are at night, between the hour of sunset and the hour of retiring. I plead with you to knowwhere they are during the day. Keep your minds upon them. Let your thoughts go with them. Labor not so much for that which will perish, but for that which endures eternally, for the lives which God has given you to protect in this world; that the sin of their failing, the sin of their degradation, it maybe, may not rest upon your shoulders. 

Homes are made permanent through love. Oh, then, let love abound. If you feel that you have not the love of those little boys and girls, study to get it. Though you neglect some of the cattle, though you fail to produce good crops, even, study to hold your children's love. Loyalty is another element of the permanent home. The loyalty you afterwards want them to show to the Priesthood of God should be manifest in the home — love, loyalty, virtue. Cherish these principles, as you cherish and treasure your life. Set children the proper example. It is folly to tell a boy not to smoke, when you take your pipe out of your own mouth to tell . Latter-day Saints, let us keep the commandments of God. Let us try to teach the children those commandments. The auxiliary associations are doing much to help us. The Church in all its organizations is putting forth an effort to make ideal men in ideal communities; but after all, the responsibility of making those ideal men, those ideal boys and girls, rests with the parents, and next with the older brothers and sisters. The responsibility is with the family, God's unit in the social fabric of humanity. We shall never get away from it. 

In speaking of the necessity of guiding youth and conserving their strength, I wish to commend most highly the closing admonition of President Grant, when he referred to the appeal that is being made to the people here in the west, to send tobacco to our soldier boys. The nation today needs manhood, and any appeal or action which will tend to deteriorate manhood must be looked upon as unpatriotic. The nation today has appointed medical men everywhere to test the physical strength and mental strength of your sons and brothers, before they are entitled to enter the army. Tobacco, the cigarette particularly, is a menace to manhood. It undermines manhood. It weakens the body. It unnerves men, where they need to have steady nerves. God forbid that our boys who have enlisted in one of the noblest causes that ever a nation sought to serve, may ever have it reported truthfully of them that any of them were unfit to serve their country because of their indulgence in these pernicious habits, or indulgence in passion. God forbid that it can ever be said truthfully of our boys who are going to the front, as it has been re of men in the battle line now that one-third of them have been made unfit for service because they have been untrue to the ideals of life! Such an accusation surely can never be made truthfully of a Latter-day Saint soldier. I have faith in our boys, because most of them are going out from homes radiating the principles of life and salvation. Boys who hitherto have been somewhat indifferent before they enlisted have said, "Father, I am going to get a blessing from the Patriarch," thus filling the father's heart with joy, for he knew that in that blessing the admonition would be renewed for him to conserve his manhood by keeping the words of wisdom, and by keeping his body unstained by grosser evils. Why, isn't it folly, when you think of it, for men to be starting a campaign to send out tobacco to our soldiers, when in 1900, the nation of Japan passed a law prohibiting the use of tobacco among the young people, principally because America had proved its injurious effects upon youth? Why did the parliament at Tokio pass such a law and send it as a decree from the emperor ? Because about twelve years preceding that, Professor Seaner of Yale University had made some interesting examinations among his students. He had measured their height when they came; he had measured their chest girth, and taken their weight. He asked their age, and found out, best of all, how many of them used tobacco, and how many did not. Then he watched their development, and after nine years he published the results. In the first place he learned that the smokers were about fifteen months older than the non-smokers. Second, notwithstanding that older age,  average height of the non-smokers was about one-third of an inch more than the smokers. Then at the end of nine years he tabulated the following, based upon his observations among three classes : ( 1 ) The smokers who had smoked one year or more, (2) those who had smoked irregularly, and (3) those who had not used tobacco. In weight, those who had not used tobacco were 10.4 per cent more than those who had used it a year or more; 6.6 per cent more than those who had used it irregularly; in height, the non-smokers had gained 24 per cent over those who smoked one year or more; 11 per cent over those who smoked irregularly. In girth, 26.7 per cent more than those who smoked a year or more; 22 per cent more than those who smoked irregularly. The lung capacity, 77 per cent increase over those who smoked a year or more; 49 per cent over those who smoked irregularly. Such were the physical gains. In intellectual gain he discovered that out of every one hundred of the students who had stood at the head of their classes, only five were smokers, ninety-five, non-smokers, although 60 out of every hundred used tobacco. That is in keeping with the tests made in Harvard, where the examination of the records for fifty years proved that during those fifty years, not one smoker had stood at the head of his class, although 83 per cent of the boys who entered Harvard were indulging in the use of tobacco. Eighty-three per cent in the smoking group, and 17 per cent in the non-smoking group, and during that fifty years the heads of the classes were chosen from the 17 per cent group. 

Such facts were sufficient to influence the members of the Parliament of Japan to pass a law, in March, 1900, to be effective April 1, 1900, as follows: "The smoking of tobacco by minors under the age of twenty is prohibited." 

One of the gentlemen, speaking to this bill, said : "I wanted to keep silence, but as I heard the gentleman speaking against this bill, I felt I must say a few words in its favor. I heard from an American gentleman that in his country a large number of volunteers for the army service were rejected on account of the weakness of their hearts, and the chief reason assigned for this defect was their habitual use of tobacco. I do not need to say any more from the educational standpoint, but if our youths are to become unfit for military service by the use of tobacco, it is alarming. By all means, let us stop the use of tobacco by young persons." 

Now, some are asking us to send out to our soldiers, who need their strength, who need their nerve, who need their intelligence, as they have never needed it before, that which is going to sap their manhood and undermine their strength. I tell you it is not patriotic. Our nation needs men, true men, who will stand and fight for the glorious principles of liberty for which this nation stands. 

God help us to conserve the powers of our boys and girls. God help us to implant in their hearts the principles of life and salvation. May they have an undying testimony of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know it is true. I know that the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ are the principles of eternal life. I bear you my testimony that the men who have stood at the head of this Church have  prophets of God; that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God; that his counselors are* inspired, ,and that the unity among the authorities of the Church today, so far as I know, through reading and hearing the testimony of older men, is superior to what it has ever been in the history of the Church. I believe that this oneness is characteristic of the Priesthood. I love these presidents of stakes here, who preside over the Saints. They are one for the truth, and they would give their lives for it. God help us to instil into the hearts of the young that same desire, and to keep our girls free and unspotted from the association of men who have worse than murder in their hearts, and who would deprive those girls and those boys of the ideals of purity of "Mormonism," in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "Ever safe with God," was sung by James Moncarr. 

ELDER BALDWIN WATTS. 

President Joseph F. Smith introduced the speaker, saying that Elder Watts had been a faithful missionary with him many years ago. Elder Watts said : 

My brethren and sisters: I rejoice in the privilege of attending this conference and, as President Smith has said, I labored with him the greater part of two years in the British mission. I learned to love him as dearly as I ever loved any man in my life, and I have never seen one moment that I felt to slacken that love. I proved when I was in that mission that he was a man who has the interest of the human family at heart. I  no man that ever lived has a greater interest in the human family than has President Smith today. I have been acquainted with all the presidents who ever stood at the head of the Church of God, from the Prophet Joseph SSmith down to the present time, and i know, brethren and sisters, that they are men of God. I have been personally acquainted with all, I have listened to their talk from time to time and, as Jesus says, "My sheep know my voice and a stranger they will not follow." 

We have had the voice of the Lord, the voice of the true shepherd, delivered unto us during this conference, and I bear testimony to it. When I heard one of the brethren here speak in regard to the character of those of our brethren who have stood at the head of the kingdom of God here upon the earth, it stirred within me a desire to say something on this occasion, and I want to refer more especially to our president at the present time, because the Lord revealed to me, through most unmistakable terms, that he would be the man to stand at the head of this Church. I had a desire for many years to see him come to the head of the Church, because I could see in him the integrity of the Prophet Joseph; but when he was chosen out of the Twelve to become one of the counselors to President Taylor, I thought my hopes were blasted and that he would never get there, because I had noticed that when a president died, the counselors returned to their positions in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. I made it a matter of prayer, brethren and sisters, on a good many different occasions, that the Lord would show me, and one day the 

Lord revealed it to me. The Spirit of the Lord spoke to me in an audible voice and said: "When the time comes that he should stand at the head of the Twelve, he will be the president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." This was the testimony that was given to me through the inspiration of the Almighty, and I bear it to you truthfully before high heaven. I know that he is the man. I do not say this because he is here to hear it. I have said it many times before among people where I have spoken in different parts of this .state, or to this people. 

We are here, my brethren and sisters, in fulfilment of prophecy, and we are just what the Prophet Joseph said we would be. We have become a great and mighty people, and the people of the world are coming to us. They will continue to come to us, and we will become the head and not the tail. 

May God bless us, brethren and sisters, and bless the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and every one who has to take an active part in the building up of the kingdom of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

A FEARLESS DEFENDER OF THE FAITH 

Brother Watts was an older man than I was when we were on our mission together. I always found him to be a very staunch and fearless defender of the faith, and I was only too pleased to grant his desire to say a few words at this conference. He is a goo', true man. A MESSAGE FROM SENATOR SMOOT 

I have received the following telegram : 

"Washington, D. C, Oct. 6, 1917. President Joseph F. Smith, etc.: 

"Nothing but national duty would prevent me from attending the conference. Am over-worked but otherwise feeling well. Extend my best wishes and love to the people. May Go.d's choicest blessings attend them and may his Holy Spirit direct his people in the future as in the past. — Reed Smoot." 

A CAUTION TO VISITORS 

I have in my hand a notice, a little paper, which reads as follows : 

"Would it not be a proper thing to caution our country folks not to allow their daughters to visit indiscriminately about the city and at the Fort, without proper escort? The officers say many of them are doing so." 

I hope that our country visitors will pay attention to that caution, it is a very proper caution, in my opinion. 

I thank the Lord for the most excellent spirit and the very fitting' subjects that have been dwelt upon by our brethren today in this conference. I am gratified with the careful attention and interest that has been manifested by the Latter Saints to those who have addressed them, and I do sincerely hope that the sentiments that have been expressed, instructions that have been given and the admonition, the counsel and the advice of the brethren and the doctrines which have been promulgated by. them will sink deeply into the hearts of the Latter-day Saints; and if such a thing be possible, that the same may touch the hearts, the calloused hearts, the thoughtless hearts and minds of those who are indifferent to the duties of men toward their fellow men, and especially those who are indifferent as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the duties that devolve upon them, or should devolve upon them as members of the Church. 

God bless you; peace and prosperity abide with you in your outgoing and in your in-coming, in your business and in the performance of your religious duty and in every vocation and avocation of life in which you are engaged, that you may prosper therein, and in all things give thanks to God and glorify the name of the Giver of every good and perfect gift. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the Doxology. 


