Morning
06 04 1917

The assembly was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang : "O ye mountains high." 

The opening prayer was offered by President James Wotherspoon, of the North Weber stake of Zion. 

The hymn, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah," was sung by the choir and congregation. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Wisdom consists not only in knowing, but also in doing— Where repentance is truly made former sins and wickedness are blotted out — Our prayer should be for understanding hearts and wisdom to obey — Ancient and modern Israel alike in some respects — The exodus of each compared — Obedience to the servants of God and a study of the Holy Scriptures make for wisdom — Men of authority are among us who teach us to be wise unto eternal life — May we have understanding hearts to heed their counsel and so prove wise. 

I shall read a passage from the scriptures : 

"Praise ye the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. 

"The words of the Lord are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. 

"His work is honorable and glorious; and his righteousness endureth forever. 

"He hath made his wonderful  to be remembered; the Lord is gracious and full of compassion. 

"He hath given meat unto them that fear him; he will ever be mindful of his covenant. 

"He hath showed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen. 

"The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure. 

"They stand fast forever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness. 

"He sent redemption unto his people; he hath commanded his covenant forever; holy and reverend is his name. 

"The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; a good understanding have all they that do his commandments; his praise endureth forever." 

The Latter-day Saints are highly favored in that once more they have had an opportunity to hear his voice as uttered by the mouths of his anointed servants. We have listened to the testimony of the President of the Church, and from his lips have again received admonition and have heard the gospel principles proclaimed. We have heard the testimony concerning the divinity of the great redeeming mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, and of the divine appointment and calling of Joseph Smith the prophet, and of President Young, and the successors in the presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterray Saints. These testimonies and doctrines were declared unto us in power and in the demonstration of the Holy Spirit. There was not  therein even a shadow of doubt or darkness, but they came to us with all the brilliance of a fire struck from the very chief corner-stone of the foundation upon which this great latter-day work is built. 

Now, "the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, a good understanding have all they that do his commandments." The Latter-day Saints were declared yesterday to be an intelligent people. They are an intelligent people. They ought to be as wise as they are intelligent, but I fear that in wisdom we sometimes fall short. A wise people are a people who will do what they know to be right. The Lord has declared to us that which is right, he has given us intelligence to understand the difference between right and wrong, to distinguish between good and evil, between the true and the false, so that there can be no excuse really for the Latter-day Saints being unwise. But if the Lord has given us intelligence to understand the truth, and to know all his commandments and we do not keep his commandments, then we are not wise. There are many intelligent people in the world who are exceedingly foolish. There are many people who are termed educated, who are lacking in wisdom, and there are countless multitudes of men and women in our country, and in other Christian countries, who know to do right, and yet who do not do it, and consequently to them it is sin. The Lord has declared, through the prophet Ezekiel, something to this effect, that the righteousness of the righteous will be forgotten if the righteous turn into wickedness, and the wickedness of the wicked will be no  remembered jf the wicked turn from their wickedness unto righteousness. 

That great man Solomon offered a prayer unto the Lord which was eminently wise, and it was answered upon his head with a very great blessing. I should like to read a few words of it : 

"In Gideon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night; and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. 

"And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee; and thou hast kept for him this great kindness, that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day. 

"And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father; and I am but a little child; I know not how to go out or come in. 

"And thy servant is in the midst of thy people which thou hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered nor. counted for multitude. 

"Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad; for who is able to judge this thy so great a people? 

"And the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked this thing. 

"And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment; 

"Behold, I have done according to thy words; lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. 

"And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches and honor; so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all thy days." 

That should be the prayer that all Latter-day Saints should frequently offer unto the Lord, that the Lord should give unto them understanding hearts, that they might understand the truth, and that they might have the wisdom to obey the truth. 

Hear another passage of scripture. It contains the words of him who stood at the head of Israel in olden times, who was the mouthpiece of God, who led Israel out of their bondage in Egypt through the wilderness, and to the borders of the promised land. This passage, recorded in the Old Testament, was given to the people of Israel by the mouth of Moses the prophet. He was not permitted to enter into the Promised Land, but gave unto his people this admonition. The history of former-day Israel and latter-day Israel is similar at many points, and very dissimilar at others. The former-day Israel were not driven out of Egypt. It was the determination of the king of Egypt to retain the children of Israel, that they might be his servants and his slaves, and it was with great pleading and repeated pouring out of plagues upon Egypt that the Lord induced the king to let them depart. Israel, too, left reluctantly, and during their journey towards the promised land frequently complained and longed to return to the flesh pots of Egypt. 

The Latter-day Saints were not thus favored by the people of our own country. We were not wanted among them. The Latter-day Saints were despised and hated, and were finally driven out from so-called civilization — driven out into the wilderness, in the hope that there they might perish. The Lord evidently knew that it would be difficult to persuade his people, even in the midst of their persecutions, to come out into a desert, to an unknown . Therefore he permitted them to be driven forth, that he might make of them what he has made of them, and determined to make of them, a mighty people in this greatest Nation in the world; and these words that Moses spoke to ancient Israel may be read to modern Israel. They are just as true and just as applicable, if we will heed the admonitions today, and in fact, similar admonitions and cousels are frequently given to the Latter-day Saints in our day. Moses said : 

"Now therefore hearken, O Israel, unto the statutes and unto the judgments, which I teach you, for to do them, that ye may live, and go in and possess the land which the Lord God of your fathers giveth you. 

"Ye shall not add unto the word which I command you, neither shall ye diminish aught from it, that ye may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. 

"Your eyes have seen what the Lo,rd did because of Baal-peor; for all the men that followed Baal-peor, the Lord thy God hath destroyed them from among you. 

"But ye that did cleave unto the Lord your God are alive every one of you this day. 

"Behold, I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the Lord my God commanded me, that ye should do so in the land whither ye go to possess it. 

"Keep therefore and do them : for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the nations, which shall hear all these statutes, and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. 

"For what nation is there so great, who hath God so nigh unto them, as the Lord our God is in all things that we call upon him for? 

"And what nation is there so great, that hath statutes and judgments so righteous as all this law, which I set before you this day? 

"Only take heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart  the days of thy life; but teach them thy sons, and thy sons' sons." 

The Latter-day Saints, if they will look over the history of the Church, mav ask themselves the question : What has become of all those who remained behind, who refused to follow God and his servants out into the wilderness? The answer will be : They are dead and gone, lost; lost to the faith, lost to the love of the truth, and their children and their children's children are today grown up in ignorance, lacking in wisdom, having no understanding' concerning the work of the Lord which he established through the Prophet Toseph. All those who followed the Lord and his servants to these valleys, and their children who have remained faithful are alive this day, and vou ,see the Saints grown into a mighty people; and those who were faithful and have gone bevond the veil, those mentioned by President Smith yesterday, and many others, verily thev are indeed alive, forevermore, and their children and their children's children are still in our midst. Those who have been faithful, those who are wise, those who sought for and received from God understanding hearts, are here today to reioice in the gospel and in the testimony thereof, and thev are willing to receive and be led by the word of the Lord. 

Brothers and sisters, on this stand are men the Lord has called and anointed. We, I said in the be<rinninsr, were privileged to hear the voice of the Lord. The Lord has declared in latter-dav revelation, when his servant sneaks under the power and inspiration of the Ho1v Ghost, his words then become the words of the Lord, they are the  of the Lord, and the mind of the Lord, and the will of the Lord, and as such we receive the words that are given to us by those whom the Lord has called to preside over us and to speak in his name. 

The very burden of the message delivered to the Latter-day Saints vesterday by the President of the Church was obedience to the principles and the commandments of God; that we should be wise and have understanding- hearts, and having understanding, demonstrate our wisdom in our obedience, that the whole world may see this people and recognize that there is no other oeople in the world to whom the Lord is so near, and that no other nation so great as that of which the Latter-day Saints form a part. The government of the United States is a nation established and founded by the Lord. Wise men were raised up by the Lord and inspired to lay the foundations of this government, and to give to the people correct doctrines and high and noble principles, the principles of liberty and peace. And this nation, if they will hearken unto those wise men and uphold the constitution established bv them, and obey the laws that have been and that shall be enacted in accord with the constitution by those who are called to enact laws for our government, we will be a wise people, we will be a people with understanding hearts, and all other nations will be compelled to sav that God is here, he is with these people and with this nation, to bless them and to make of them the saviors of mankind. 

President Lund vesterdav called attention to the work that is being done by the historians of the Church. I gathered this great lesson from his remarks, that as the result of the Lord's wisdom and the people's obedience, we have in the Church a record, a history of the Church in latter-days as well as former days, and that out of these books, the history of the Church, the holy scriptures, ancient and modern, may be found the way of life eternal, and they are better than all other books; and that we .should seek out of these books words of wisdom and understanding. Why, there is more to be learned in five minutes reading in the Holy Scriptures, more that is worthy of retention in the memory, more that will be helpful if we remember and obey them, than we can find in reading all of the six best sellers in every month in the year. Here is the word of God, herein is the word of life, herein is the word of wisdom, herein we may get understanding, and learn to discern good and evil, and gather the courage and the faith to do that which is right, and to reject that which is evil. 

But in addition to the Holy Scriptures and sacred and inspired records, and even of greater importance to the Latter-dav Saints, is the fact that the anointed living oracles of God are in our presence, as so forceably set forth by President Penrose yesterday. Through them the Lord speaks, counsels and commands this people daily. If we receive and obey their instructions we will prove that we are wise and of good understanding. 

Now, I should like to conclude my remarks, my brethren and sisters, with another passage of scripture, a passage of scripture that was given during the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are his words. He was the wisest of all. even wiser than Solomon, because he retained his wisdom and his un even to the end, and did not depart in any measure or degree from righteousness, and I should like, my brethren and sisters, to impress this passage upon your mind.s. It is a familiar one, all are acquainted with it, but in the words of a great poet, I fear that it is a passage more "honored in the breach than the observance :" 

"Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. 

"Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. 

"Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy .name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 

"And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you; depart from me, ye that work iniquity. 

"Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. 

"And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not. shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell : and great was the fall of it. 

"And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine: 

"For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes." 

I testify that here in this conference yesterday, the Latter-day Saints heard men who spoke not as scribes and Pharisees, but as men having authority from the living God to preach the gospel, and to bear witness of the ministry and mission and redeeming power of his Only Begotten Son. I bear wit that if the Latter-day Saints will heed their admonitions and will do the Lord's statutes and judgments, and will keep his commandments, that they will be wise even unto life eternal, they will have understanding hearts, hearts to see and perceive and to know the truth, and by prayer and patience and humility before God they will be given the power to do that which is right in the sight of the Lord, and to be worthy of salvation in the kingdom of God. 

My brethren and sisters, no man can find forgiveness for one sin because he is righteous in some other direction. In other words, the payment of tithing will never compensate for the desecration of the Sabbath day. The faithful keeping of the Sabbath day will never make amends for the breaking of the Word of Wisdom. The refraining from murder, and adultery, will not satisfy the law which forbids bearing false witness against neighbors, or coveting their possessions. And the doing of good to men will never blot out the sin of blaspheming the name of the living God. We must keep the commandments, all of them, every one of them, every day of our lives, and then we will prove ourselves wise and of understanding hearts. 

May the Lord give this people wisdom in addition to their intelligence; may we have understanding, and may we keep the commandments of the Lord as we know we ought to keep them, and never prove recreant. God bless his servants, the Presidency, and those who are called to preside in Israel, the general authorities, the stake authorities, the ward authorities, those who preside over the auxiliary organizations, over the branches of  Church, and over the mission fields. God bless Israel, and God bless this country upon which he has gathered Israel. God bless those who stand at the head of the government, and make them, even the President and his Cabinet and the Congress and the Supreme Court, wise like unto those wise men whom the Lord raised up in the beginning of our national government, to lay its foundations, that these men may adhere to that fundamental law and enact only wise and righteous laws for the progress and advancement of this great land of Zion; and may the children of Israel be indeed Zion, the pure in heart, to teach all the world how to come to the Lord, how to learn wisdom, how to have and retain understanding hearts, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

David Reese and Anthon C. Lund sang a duet: "Let the lower lights be burning." 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Are we taking advantage of our opportunities to worship? — Benefits derived from searching the Holy Bible and listening to the teachings of the servants of the Lord — Advantages of familiarity with modem scriptures — Our Father's loving advice in the Preface of the Doctrine and Covenants, and his admonitions in the Book of Mormon — [t is needful to read the scriptures carefully and prayerfully — Answer to the question: When shall permanent peace come? — In the present conflict this Church sustains the legal acts of the constituted authorities of the Nation — A prayer for repentance from wickedness, that peace so much desired may come. 

My mind has been illumined during this conference, and my heart has been made to rejoice by the excellent instruction to which we have listened. The splendid attendance of the members of the Church at this general conference has inspired in me an appreciation of the opportunity given to meet our brethren and sisters on such occasions. 

This morning I met a brother on the street who introduced himself to me. I recognized his face, but I could not call his name, and I did not know whence he came, until he informed me that I had met him at Wilmington, North Carolina, and he had come all the way with his wife and children, that he might be with the Saints in this worshiping assembly. While sitting here pondering over the effect that that might have upon him and his familv, I asked myself the question : Have I been careful to take advantage of my opportunity and bring my wife and children into this splendid gathering, to enjoy the teachings of the servants of God? And the answer came back to me in this way : If I have not, I have lost for them a blessing, and likewise for myself, but the man who crossed the continent, came all the way from the Atlantic seaboard, paying his expenses and taking that longride, will certainlv be rewarded by the Lord, by an increase of 'faith, and so will his family. In this, as in all other cases, the blessings of God are predicated upon obedience to his requirements, and in this particular our brother and his familv are fulfilling the requirement which entitles them to the blessings they will enjov at this conference. 

I am looking in the faces of presidents of .stakes, bishops of wards : and other faithful Latterday Saints. Manly of you have made a sacrifice financially in order that you may be here, but really it  no sacrifice; it is an investment in the blessings of our heavenly Father, "That will return to you good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over." I feel to suggest now and here that each of us enjoying these favors be not unmindful of our loved ones, not forgetful of our neighbors; and at the time of stake conferences let us go about encouraging them, that they may desire to be present in those assemblies of the Saints. 

Yesterday I saw a number of people here with their children, and I felt from the depths of my soul to commend them, and I know the Lord will bless them and will bless their children, even though they be but young, because they are here in the service of the Lord, in the place appointed by him through his servants. 

Brother Hyrum has been talking to us and reading this morning from the Bible, and it brings to my mind this particular scripture : 

"Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." 

Another scripture came to mv mind along the same line, and it was to this effect, "that the Lord will do nothing but he revealeth his secrets to his servants, the prophets." From the time of Father Adam until the present the Lord has admonished the people through his servants. He has inspired them to better living when they have listened to him, and from age to age, as his children have reauired it, he has sent holv men into the world, to impart instruction tending to happiness, has inspired them to teach the glorious truths that ennoble and enrich mankind, and few people  been left with an excuse, but all have been left without excuse that have received the scriptures. 

In the days of Noah, when he went about warning the people, 1 presume there were many who ignored his teachings, who disregarded him as a servant of God, but he was sent by the Father, and the instructions that he gave the people were binding upon them; and our Father in heaven, in his own due time, fulfilled the promises of his prophet. All who were saved from the flood were those who listened to Noah. On the plains of Mamre, when Abraham petitioned his Holy Visitor to spare Sodom and Gomorrah, he was told that even if ten righteous persons be found, a very small number, too, of the multitude, that the cities would be preserved. But only Lot and his wife and two daughters were sufficiently righteous to merit preservation. The angels told them to leave the city, and fire rained down from heaven and consumed the people, who had been warned repeatedly by the servant of God that destruction would overtake them if they failed to repent. The Old Testament refers to the coming of the Redeemer of the world. Why did the world not know the Savior when he came ? It was because they had departed from the teachings of holy men. It was because they had chosen for themselves "teachers having itching ears, who preached for hire and who divined for money," who did not teach the people what the Lord desired, so they were led astray. The Savior himself taught the children of men what was necessary for them to do to obtain eternal life in the celestial kingdom of our Father, and the people rejected him, but his testimony is in force, and the time  come when those who rejected him and consented to his crucifixion will meet him and will answer for their crime. The Old and New Testaments contain the teachings of our heavenly Father. I admonish you, O Israel, search the scriptures; read them in your homes; teach your families what the Lord has said, and let us spend less of our time reading the unimportant and often harmful liteiature of the day, and go to the fountain of truth and read the word of the Lord. 

The Book of Mormon contains another evidence of the importance that our heavenly Father attaches to reading the scriptures. He sent the sons of Lehi back to Jerusalem to recover the Old Testament scripture, in order that they might retain the teachings of the prophets. The Lord would not take them into a new country, without preserving to them the privilege of reading his teachings to their forefathers. 

The importance of having the advice of the prophets of God is emphasized in our day, in the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon. The plates from which it was translated were buried in the earth by a Nephite prophet. Centuries later the Lord directed Joseph Smith to secure and translate that record, in order that we might have the teachings of our Father to his children who dwelt upon this western land. We have the Old and the New Testaments, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price, also translated by the gift and power of God, in addition new revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

While only a youth the Lord appeared to him and later he was visited by an angel who instructed him to prepare for his mission. That he might be a witness of the living God the Lord gave to him by revelation the contents of this record that I hold in my hand, (the Doctrine and Covenants) containing over four hundred pages of instruction to the children of men. How many of the Latter-day Saints have read the glorious revelations contained in this record? If we have not, we have lost an opportunity; we have missed a blessing. Let me read what the Lord says with reference to these latter days in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

'Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say, hearken ye people from 'afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape, and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear. that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be pene' trated. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

"Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitans of the earth. 

"Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled. 

"And verily, I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

"Yea, verily, to seal hem up unto the day when the wrath of God shall 

")e poured out upon the wicked with out measure; 

"Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

"Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: 

"Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; 

"And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitans of the earth; 

"And the arm ,of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people; 

"For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; 

"They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall. 

"Wherefore I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets; 

"The weak thigns of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh. 

"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

"That faith also might increase in the earth; 

"That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

"That the fullness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and  simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

"Behold, I am God and have spoken it: these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding, 

"And inasmuch as they erred it might be made known: 

"And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed: 

"And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent: 

"And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time: 

"And after having received the record of the Nephites, yea, even my servant Joseph Smith, jun., might have power to translate through the mercy of God, by the power of God, the Book of Mormon; 

"And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually. 

"For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; 

"Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; 

"And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received, for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts. 

"And again, verily I say unto yo,u, O inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these thing known unto all flesh, 

"For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion; 

"And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

"Search these commandments for  are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself: and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same; 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. Amen." 

This preface is worthy your earnest consideration. It is the admonition of the Father of us all. It is the loving advice of a tender parent who knows what we require, as he said in the chapter just read that knowing what was about to come upon the inhabitants of the earth he gave these commandments. The Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price, do not contain the wisdom of men alone, but of God. While they do not find their way into the homes of many people, they contain the word of the Lord. What mattereth it though we understand Homer and Shakespeare and Milton, and I might enumerate all the great writers of the world; if we have failed to read the scriptures we have missed the better part of this world's literature. 

My brethren and sisters, all the truth that is advocated in all the teachings of men, necessary for our salvation, is contained within the lids of the books that I have already enumerated. We may not possess a library of two or three thousand volumes, but we may possess at small cost a priceless library that has cost the best blood that has ever been in this world. Will our Father hold us guiltless when we go home, if we have failed to teach our children the importance of these sacred records? I think not. He called his sons one by one, and they gave their lives that we might have the Old Testament. He sent his only begotten Son into the world, and his life was sacrificed in order that we might have the teachings of the New Testament. The prophets of God recorded in the Book of Mormon laid down their lives and sealed their testimonies with their blood, in order that the children of men might know what the Father desired of them. He sent the Prophet Joseph Smith, and he gave his life, together with his brother Hyrum, in order that we might have the truths contained in the sacred record known as the Doctrine and Covenants. Do you suppose that after the Lord has done all this for us, has given to this world the choicest and sweetest of men and women, whose lives have been dedicated to the blessing of mankind, many of them sealing their testimony with their blood, has place! within our reach the excellent teachings contained in these holy records, that he will consider us appreciative if we fail to teach them to our families, and to impress them upon those with whom we come in contact ? 

Brethren and sisters, I desire to emphasize again the teaching of the Master; "search the scriptures;" read them prayerfully and faithfully, teach them in your homes; call your families around you and inspire in them a faith in the living God, by reading those things that have been revealed. They are the most precious of all the libraries in all the world. 

And now I would like to emphasize this fact, that in the Doctrine and Covenants we find the Lord's warning of the present condition of  world. We find there that the Saints were to inhabit this western land, and if they kept his commandments, this should be Zion unto them. I will read a few paragraphs from the Doctrine and Covenants to emphasize our responsibility, because sometimes we seem to think that because we are blessed of the Lord above all other people, we can do the things that we are tempted to do, even if they are not just right: 

"Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion  — the pure in heart; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn; 

"For behold, and lo, vengeance Cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind, and who shall escape it; 

"The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yet it shall not be stayed until the Lord comes." 

Now, if there is is any doubt in the minds of the people of this Church as to when peace shall come into the world again, I want to emphasize by reading again the word of the Lord wherein he says : 

"The Lord's scourge shall pass over by might and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yet it shall not be stayed until the Lord come. 

"For the indignation of he Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works; 

"Nevertheless Zion shall escape — " 

I have thought many times, Oh, what a comfortable thing it would be for us if that had been the end of that paragraph, but it is not. It reads in full as follows : 

"Nevertheless Zion shall escape, if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. 

"But if she observe not to do whatever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works, with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire." 

So we are in the same condition as our brethren and sisters in the world. In fact, I think we are worse off, because we have greater light, and the Lord will require more at our hands. 

So there is need for us to search the scriptures. There is need for us to put ourselves in tune with the Spirit of our Father. There is need for us to have thanksgiving in our hearts that we are led byholy men who are inspired by our Father in heaven to teach us day by day, and oh, how grateful we ought to be for these great conferences that bring us together from the ends of the earth, and unite us as brethren and sisters with a determination that, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law. So today in the midst of the difficulties that exist in the world, while there are transgressors of the laws of the land, and there are transgressors of the laws of God, in the midst of the conflict in which we are now engaged, this awful world war, it is a great joy and satisfaction to my soul that while there are those persons who are opposing this government, set up by the power of God, there are no members of this Church in good standing but are sustaining the law arid order and the government of the United States, so far as it lies in their power. There is one Church upon the continent of America that has been taught by God that this gov has been raised up for the blessing of mankind. There is one Church whose members cannot remain in good fellowship in it if they criticize and find fault and tear down and oppose the legal action of the constituted authorities of the land, with reference to going into this war; and why? Because we have been trained by the gospel in a knowledge of the purpose of this government. We have been taught by inspired men, who have pointed the way, and all Israel, to a man, comes forward in the crucial hour and says: "If I am needed, Lord, here am I." If my country requires it, my all is on the altar, and my life if need be. God help us to be worthy of our heritage, help us to sustain the government that has been so good to us, that has made it possible for the establishment of this work. Let us sustain good men and great men everywhere, and pray for them as we are told to do in this same record. Prav for the chief executive of the Nation and his associates, asking God to inspire them to labor for the good of humanity and the liberty of mankind. Let us so live, that, by and by, when our work is done, it will be truthfully said of us that this world is better for our having lived in it. May the Lord bestow his blessings upon you, my brethren and sisters, and upon all Israel, wherever they may be, and may the spirit of peace and the desire to do good in the world find lodgement in the hearts of the children of men. that repentance may come, that thev may turn from the wickedness that has been in the world, and in that way bring about the Millenium an'' the return to this earth of oeace, that our Father has said has been taken from it. God grant it, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JUNIUS F. WELLS. 

I am very much surprised to be called upon to speak before this great congregation of Latter-day Saints, and desire that while I do stand before you I may have the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, that what I shall say may be dictated by it. I rejoice with all my soul in the testimonies heard during this conference, respecting the ministry of the .servants of God, who have been raised up to establish his work on the earth in this Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. 

I have listened with interest to the testimonies concerning the inspiration and power of the Holy Ghost that characterized the ministry of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. I .did not know him, personally, though in the study of his life and ministry sometimes it has almost seemed to me that I did know him, and that I do know him; for I have been reared from my childhood to love him, and to honor him, and to rejoice in his ministry, and in the fact that God called him. I did, however, know his successor in the presidency of the Church, President Brigham Young, from my infancy. I have sat upon his knees. He was a familiar guest at my mother's table. I have traveled from one end of the State of l T tah to the other with him, when he journeyed among the people, teaching and instructing them in the principles of life, in the principles of domestic economy, in the principles of correct government; how to establish a commonwealth, and to build up the people in accordance with the design of our Father in , in these Rocky Mountains. I was called in my youth to go upon a foreign mission. He placed his hands upon my head and set me apart, and bestowed upon me a blessing, a prophetic blessing. To the extent that I have adhered to the admonition of that blessing, I have realized that he was a prophet of God; that he foresaw and knew wherein I might be of service, and his words have been fulfilled upon me. I knew him to be a gentleman, a man of pure life, a man of great beneficence, charity, and loving kindness, and a man whom children loved. He was a man to be respected by those of his faith and those not of his faith, a commanding character, a leader among men, a governor, a guide, a counselor, a friend, a father. At his direction I later undertook a mission among the youth of Zion, and established the Young Men's Mutual Improvment Associations. 

I knew his successor, President John Taylor, and I had a testimony given to me in this house, at the time that the quorums of the Priesthood were assembled to sustain him as president of the Church. There were things that caused my herat to tremble upon that occasion. But God gave to me a testimony and the power to stand up and raise my hand before God and my fellow men, to sustain him as president, as prophet, seer and revelator of this Church, and I did, and I do. I learned to honor him and to love him and to respect him, to recognize in him a servant of the true and living God; the champion of liberty, a man who had an understanding heart, a man who knew government, who knew the law. and helped make it, who understood the comandments of the 

Lord Jesus Christ, and who ministered to this people in great power and in righteousness. I bear my testimony concerning him, that in the labor, which he asked me to continue, that I had been set apart to accomplish among the young men of Zion, he took me one day by the hand in his office, and he gave me counsel and advice, and bestowed upon me a blessing, the fulfilment of which I have lived to realize. It was prophetic, and I know, because of my personal relationship with that man in his ministry, that he was a servant of God and a prophet, and spoke by the inspiration and foresight of the Spirit of God. 

As to his successor, President Wilford Woodruff, who was the first General Superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvment Associations, I was intimately associated with him in that work. I have traveled with him and slept with him. I have listened by day and by night to his counsel. I have shown to him my heart, and he has read it through and through, and has said to me things that I would not dare and would not attempt to utter before my fellow men, that were full of comfort, that were full of help, that were full of encouragement, full of kindness and love; and I love the memory of Wilford Woodruff. There is one thing he went to the Lord for in our behalf, for which the youth of this people should hold him in high reverence forever and ever, and I will relate it. There was a time when through the slackness, through the carelessness of the youth of this people, that their fathers had great concern as to whether they would qualify to succeed them in bearing off the responsibility of this work, in  the testimony that the early apostles and pioneers, that the founders of the Church had established; and sometimes this apprehension would be heard in the congregations of Israel; men of the older time would rise and express a fear that when they should pass away the work might suffer. President Woodruff, to a certain degree, not very fully, shared this apprehension. He went into the woods upon a certain occasion and prayed to God and asked him concerning the condition of the youth of his people, and God answered him and God revealed to him that: "I have tho.se already among the youth of my people who will maintain this work and bear off the responsibility of it forever. Concern thyself no more." President Woodruff told me that personally, and I heard him declare it in effect before public congregations. 

There is a stimulation in that, young men, and encouragment in that. We no longer hear that apprehension expressed in the congregations of the people; but there is faith, instead, there is confidence, there is assurance that no power can hinder the onward progress or development and growth of this work; and that those of the youth today, who are succeeding their fathers in responsible places maintain the faith, that they have the integrity, they have the character and they have the blessing of God upon them, by which they shall uphold and sustain this work and bear it off faithfully and triumphantly to its ultimate destinv, when its influence and power shall extend from the rivers to the ends of the earth. There is no influence and power that the world stands so much in need of this day as the influence and power of this people, of the priesthood that is among us, of the authority and power that exists among us to speak and administer in the name of the Lord our God. 

I was not so familiarly acquainted with President Lorenzo Snow, though I knew him well, and was always greeted by him with the utmost kindness and friendship. The form of his greeting usually was this, as he took me by the hand and saw some evidences, I suppose, of good health, he would shake and say : "Well, I suppose you are going to live to be a hundred." I generally responded with the observation that I guessed I should have to, if I ever did all the things that T would like to. I was away from home during much of the time of his administration as president of the Church, but he 'did entrust me with certain opportunities to serve the cause and the people in his administration, and I appreciated that trust, and did to the best of my endeavor that which he asked of me. 

Now, in respect to his successor. President Joseph F. Smith, I feel honored today that I can stand here and testify before you that from the time he honored me with his friendship, and better acquaintance, his confidence and many expressions of his love, that I have known him to be a man chosen of the Almighty, a man inspired of Ihe Lord, a man whose whole heart has been given to the service of God. He has seemed to me to personify that Son of God who responded to the commandment of the Lord, wherein he says : "Son. give me thy heart.'* If a man ever gave up and surrendered his whole heart to God, Joseph F. Smith is that man. Now. I am not declaring this to flatter him, but you know it,  brethren and sisters. No man nor woman who has come under the influence of his ministry in this commjunity, but who knows and feels, realizes that, this is the truth; and that is why he is great, and whv he is successful, and why he will he successful and will accomplish all that God requires at his hands. 

My testimony to you is, then, that these men whom I have named and whom I have personally known were men of God, were men of high character, and of ability. Thev were men who, among men of no faith or of other faiths, would have stood out as individual characters, commanding influence and respect. Thev were men who dedicated themselves without restraint, holdin e nothing; back, to the whole service of God, the establishment of this work known as "Mormonism" in the world. This because of their conviction and testimony and knowledge that it was of God and is true, and that it must prevail on the earth. Thev accepted the mission to declare it to mankind. They have transmitted that mission to us. Tt is our business to declare the truth to mankind, and God will not hold us euiltless if we fail to do so. but he will honor us in doing it. He will uphold us, no matter before whom we go, if we stand valiantly for what we know to be true. 

My testimony to you is that the Lord never fails to uphold and sustain those who will be true in their testimony concerning this work. May he help every one of us to be true, and to declare it, and to perform our part, however humble or in whatever field of labor, for the Lord Jesus' sake. Amen. 

The congregation sang: "Do  is right, the day dawn is breaking." 

Elder Andrew Kimball, President of the St. Joseph stake of Zion, offered the closing prayer. . Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


