Second Overflow
07 04 1917

A second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., Elder Joseph W. McMurrin, of the First Council of Seventy, presiding. Music was furnished by the Jordan Stake choir. 

The hymn, "The Mighty God appearing," was sung. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Peter L. Bronson. 

An anthem, "In our Redeemer's name," was sung by the choir. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

I observe unrest in the world, among the most learned men who themselves are nevertheless deeply concerned in trying to find out God and his ways. It is illustrated in some publications that have appeared during the .present year, and that are attracting wide attention, such books as God, the Invisible King, written by Mr. H. G. Wells,  of England's foremost writers, a book attacking the old sectarian notions of God, and seeking to find out a new kind of being, arguing in favor of a personal God, and yet eliminating from the godhead both God the Son and God the Holy Ghost. When I observe this unrest and witness such exhibitions on the part of learned men, my heart swells with deep gratitude for the testimony that I have of the true and living God and the knowledge that I have concerning his ways and his requirements. And when I look at this pathetic scene, I feel more thankful for this testimony than for anything else in the world. To me it is above all price. I realize that I must exhibit a sympathy towards men and women of this character who have not been as fortunate as I have, and I am sur.e that God will extend to them mercy if they are honest in their searches for truth. All who seek in earnestness for truth will ultimately be led to discover it. 

I find not only in the world, but to quite an extent among us Latterday Saints, a disposition to live only in part the teachings of the wonderful system which we thoroughly believe to be true. We have not the courage nor faith to adopt all, but live up to that part of the gospel which pleases us, or that part which we adopt. We have an idea that if we are faithful in one or two of the principles of the gospel it will suffice. Frequently it is said that all roads lead to heaven, and whether you are a good Methodist, or a good "Mormon" or a good Jew, it makes little difference, but as long as you do good you are along that road, and that ultimately all these roads lead to the same goal. (; /; .V E R. 1 1. ( 'ON EE RENCE . 

Now it is true that every man who does good, so far he is led towards the kingdom of God; but the difficulty is that some of us will only be able to get about a third of the way there, some will only get half way, and a great many will only get two-thirds. How many will get all the way to the kingdom of God? For whosoever enters in will have come up by the straight and narrow way, and they will be those who come up to the complete requirements of the law and comply with that law in its fullest extent, for they, and they alone will enter in; for, as I say, "straight is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth to eternal life, and few there be that find it." The gospel is, nevertheless, very broad in its provisions, for it can care for all of those several classes. Even those who go a part of the distance will be provided for. You Latterday Saints will recall Paul's description of the kingdoms that the Father hath provided for all his children of various grades; and in that wonderful vision to the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord has made it plain to us just what are those great divisions about which Paul speaks. The Latter-day Saints will recall that there is one glorious place, the highest of all, to which all souls may possibly attain, the celestial kingdom, where God and Christ live, whose glory Paul has said was like unto the glory of the sun. Now we are informed in the revelations of the Lord todav that whosoever shall attain unto this glory must keep all the commandments of God. You remember the advice which Peter gave concerning what, in addition to repentance, baptism and the laying on of hands, should be necessary; that men  add unto their faith virtue and godliness, and brotherly kindness, and charity, and so on. All these requirements were essential, ft does not mean that a man who is baptized into this Church has any sure guaranty that he is going to the celestial kingdom of God. Not at all. 

A man who is honest with his neighbor and with the Lord and with his fellows, has .done well so far; and yet his honesty will not take him all the way. Likewise a man who has been baptized and has repented of his sins, and is dishonest, after he has repented; he will never come into the kingdom of God until he is honest to the very core, heart and soul. A man who goes to meeting and says long prayers and yet returns home to lose his temper and abuse his wife and berate his loved ones will never get into the kingdom of God until he learns to control his unruly temper. The very best of us will need a probationary state to finish the work of preparation to go into the presence of the Father. If we do not do it here, just as sure as we live we will have to do it hereafter, and man)' of us may lose the chanct and the opportunity of doing it hereafter. 1 don't interpret the parable of the Savior to mean that the men who came in the eleventh hour was to get the identical privileges and blessings with the man who came the first hour, only provided that he who appeared at the eleventh hour was accepting his first chance, his first opportunity. He did not come around the first hour, and go away, and say, 1 will come back after a while and see if there is still a job for me. No, when he appeared at the eleventh hour, it was his first opportunity, 109  he seized it, and the Lord could not other than give him the privileges that the man who came the first hour received. And yet, the man who went in at the first hour would be a more experienced gardener than the man who went in at the eleventh hour. The man who goes in at the eleventh hour would have a disadvantage so far as opportunities are concerned over the man who from childhood had kept the commandments and grown up to the opportunities of the gospel all his life. He will stand far in the lead of those who are so unfortunate as not to find the door until they are old. And yet, the way is open to them to come, even in old age, and attain unto all the privileges of the gospel. They must follow in the wake of those who preceded them. I don't understand that the "Mormon" doctrine, announced by President Lorenzo Snow, and so often quoted by us : "As God is man may become, and as man is God once was," means that all men are going to become what God is, not by any manner of means. It is possible they may become; yes, when men keep and obey the fulness of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I understand, my brethren and sisters, this great scheme of our Father contemplates that the privilege of gaining celestial glory has been extended to nearly all of his children. There are a very few in the world who are barred from all the privileges. Evidently according to the revelations of the Lord, those races and divisions existing among us now, existed before we came into this world, and some had failed to carry out the will of God and to conform to his plans in their former life to prove themselves worthy to receive the highest  privileges, namely, salvation in the celestial kingdom of our God. But the great majority of our Father's children have yet reserved unto them the right, if they live the principles, to gain an exaltation, with its glories and privileges. But I am satisfied of the fact that those only who gain a celestial "lory will ever become what God is, for there are privileges that belong to that glory and exaltation that do not belong to any other. We are advised that there are those who, failing to reach the celestial kingdom, will find themselves only fitted and qualified and prepared to enter into the terrestrial glory, which glory Paul has described as like unto the moon; and then still others who, failing in that, those who lie, and steal, and who commit adultery, and who repent not of it in this life and who fail to fulfil their privileges in this life — even they in the world to come, through repentance, may find a place in the telestial glory, which is likened unto the glory of the stars. And only a few indeed, the sons of perdition, shall be lost and be without some kingdom of God, and be turned over to so out with the devil and his angels. When the Lord wanted to punish Cain, he put a mark upon him, and said. Whosoever will look upon you will say, Here is the murderer of his brother. He would not shut him up in some den or cave of the earth, and shield him from the gaze of his fellows. And when Cain realized the torture of his sentence, he said, "My punishment is greater than I can bear." When the sons of perdition shall be turned over to the ''evil and his angels, to mingle with the billions of spirits, for there will be billions of them, what a distinguishing mark for those who are GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in that punishment, to go out among the devil and his angels, with resurrected bodies, to be a laughing stock and by-vvord in that realm of the damned. Talk about hell, the meanest punishment imaginable will be that which will come to them who will have to bear the shame and the contempt which will be heaped upon them. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, what is your aim ? To which place do you desire to go? How earnest are you in this struggle? How much are you willing to live of this precious gospel ? Is your mark fixed for the celestial glory, or the telestial glory, the lowest place ? Is that your ambition ? Do you imagine that by living a terrestrial law you will attain the celestial glory? Some of my brethren and sisters find it very difficult to understand the words of the prophet, wherein he said that those who gain a lower place of glory than a celestial kingdom cannot come where those who gain the highest, dwell, worlds without end. And there is an imagination on the part of some of us that we could do our work over again, that we could catch up, and finally get into the celestial kingdom. Now to help you to ,see it. 1 ask you if three men were started on an endless race, and one given a handicap of a mile and still another of two miles, and each man could run as fast as the other, would one ever catch the other? No. But there is a big difference here. Those who live the laws and attain unto the glory of the celestial shall have a body whose very fineness and texture, the composition of it, the quality of flesh shall be superior, for the Lord has said, "there is a celestial body, and celestial flesh, and there shall be telestial , and their flesh will not be so refined nor so pure, nor the body so capable of .progress and enjoyment and exaltation which shall be enjoyed by those who gain a celestial body." So there will be a handicap. Those who gain the highest place provided shall have a very superior physical equipment, capable of more intense and rapid growth, they shall be associated with the very fountain head, and those who inherit a lesser degree of glory shall learn from those who attain unto the highest places, and so they will go on, and there will come knowledge and .progress to them of an infinite character. Do we realize that all these advantages can be obtained through our willingness and faithfulness in this short life, in keeping the commandments of God ? That those who keep the celestial law are pursuing a path that leads on to where God is. and what God is now they may become? Latter-day Saints do not need to sing the "Beautiful Isle of Somewhere," and wonder where it; s. for the Lord has revealed that this earth is keeping the celestial law, and that we expect to live in a sanctified and redeemed condition on this earth, and all of it is going;o be celestial. There is not going to be one-third of it celestial and another third terrestrial, and another telestial, but it will be celestial, all of it, and it will shine as the sun. "No longer will it have need," as John said in his revelation, "to have sun to shine by day and stars by night," but it will be a creator of light itself, or out from it will go light, and it will "rise to its place" in that great gathering and galaxy of worlds that shine above, redeemed and sanctified. It shall shine respendIll  in its place, a sun, a celestial orb, and only those who keep the celestial law will enter upon it, those who have bodies that are telestial will not be able to endure the glory and the majesty of the kingdom where our Father in heaven shall dwell. I presume that the Lord is .preparing some other place, maybe Jupiter, a larger place, no doubt, than the world whereon we now live, for his other groups who are not going to find themselves worthy in the justice of God to go into the celestial kingdom. Now then how are we going to feel if we through our own selfishness and unworthiness to attain unto the highest find ourselves upon some terrestrial or telestial world, away distant from this earth? We could all say: "I was born there on that place, and entitled to all the blessings and privileges that are theirs; I was entitled as a royal son to inherit a celestial glory, but I sold my right, I lost it, I frittered away the time during the chance I had, and I am debarred forever from that glorious privilege and place." We will realize the full meaning of those words of the poet Whittier, 

"Of all sad words of tongue or pen, The saddest are these, it might have been." 

My brethren and sisters, when the day comes that we will seek to justify ourselves for our neglect, our carlessness, our indifference, because we do not keep fully the commandments of the Lord, we will be ashamed of our excuses. On the other hand, the joy and the privileges of the righteous will be beyond the power of expression to tell you. It is not a myth. 

I know that these revelations of  Lord are true. I know the glory that awaits the redeemed and sanctified. The Lord in his great mercy and kindness has given me some little foretaste of that which is to come. 

I had an experience a few months ago, while laboring on the Indian reservation, in Northern Montana, among my Lamanite brethren and sisters, and we had some new problems, and calling upon the Lord and seeking him very earnestly to know if we were doing the right thing, and what to do, and desirous of receiving strength and light from him, I received to me a most glorious manifestation from the Lord. I was carried away in the dreams of the night to this glorious building that stands on this block, and received what fully satisfied my heart and soul in blessings and privileges that came to me there. And when I was about to leave I was informed that there was one other privilege which shoul 1 be mine, and I was taken into the most splendid room in that building. Seated on a raised platform was one of the most beautiful and exalted beings I had ever beheld, and I was informed that I might be introduced to him, and I came forward, and as I did so he arose and descended to meet me, and the smile he extended towards me I shall never forget through all the ages that are to come, and as he took me in his arms and kissed me and hug-ged me to his bosom and yave me a blessing that made the marrow in my bones to melt, and as I kissed his f eet. I saw the prints of the nails. The feeling that came to me then was one that I cannot 'escribe other than to say that I felt unworthy of that privilege. I felt, oh, how little I have done to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  such distinguished privileges as these. If the day will ever come that I may have that privilege I would be willing to give all that 1 ever may and ever hope to he. 1 f 1 can only obtain that which I have felt and know as the joy and the privilege of faithful Latter-day Saints. It is no myth. 1 know it as I live, and it is worth giving everything for. These days when your faith may be tried, waver not. be true and faithful towards the word of the Lord. I testify to you that it is true, and every promise and blessing that has been sealed upon your heads you will realize. When you do, it will be beyond anything you have contemplated in this life. 

God give us the strength to helive it, to live for it, and have burning in our hearts a desire to keep his commandments in the fullest sense, not in part, but in the fullest sense, and in the end obtain that sdorious place and privilege which is reserved for the faithful, which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Irene Folsom sang a solo. ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

Brother Ballard has eloquently presented to us some of the spiritual ideals of the Church. I rejoice in the fact that the gospel is very broad in its scope, that it reaches the highest spiritual ideals and at the same time deals with the practical affairs of life. Some young people have a notion that religion is for the old — those who are approachin-4 their graves, and that it js not for the young and vigorous. 

The truth is that the gospel is the philosophy of true living, for the young as well as the old. 

Our religion is of a practical nature. It has within it the power to grapple with the every day problems of life, no matter how they may be thrown upon us, and to correctly solve these problems. We have had within the last six months an illustration of this. On the historical 6th of April, the official declaration was made that a state of war existed between the Imperial Government of Germany and the United States, and on that very day the prophet of the Lord, his counselors, and the Twelve, assembled in general conference, struck the key-note of the situation so accurately that up to the present time it can not be improved upon. Some ten days before the President of the United States issued his food production and conservation message, a great state paper, President Smith and the brethren had given substantially the same advice to their people. Before President Wilson set apart a certain Sabbath day for the Sunday school children of this nation to make contributions to the Ped Cross, President Smith and. his associates had already set apart that identical Sunday for subscriptions bv the children of this Church. While President Heber T. Grant announced in advance bv way of nromi.se. that $5,000 would be given bv our Sunday school children : more than twice that amount was contributed by them. 

The Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Lane, in his talk in the Tabernacle the other night gave words of encouraement to the people of Utah. PTe saul the people on the sidewalks and all the throng who came to see the parade of our sol113  boys were happy, eager and enthusiastic to look at. He saw no tears, no sad faces. They were all in .sympathy with the spirit of the soldiers who were parading. Everywhere were smiling faces, showing a determination to win and to stand behind the boys. He said further "With your great development of these fruitful valleys in the establishment of this great state, you have built up a community of rarely satisfied people." He did not mean by that word "rarely," seldom, but he meant unusually. "Just why that is so I don't know, but it is a fact, and one for which we are to be profoundly glad, and it makes for untold wealth of the people; and more than any other one thing is this spirit on the part of your people precious. From Utah we have had less complaint in Washington about the use of the money that Uncle Sam is handling than from any other western state. That is an expression on the part of the people, and a thing that stands out plainest and show.s patriotism and a fine spirit is that they are willing to give." Mr. Lane did not quite understand how it was that this people were so rarely satisfied and were demeaning themselves as they are in this great crisis in our country. Those of you who understand "Mormonism" and the teachings of the Church can comprehend it. You who have been taught that this land, North and South America, is the land of Zion, the land of Joseph, concerning which we read in the 49th chapter of Genesis and the 33rd chapter of Deuteronomy, and made yet plainer by certain chanters of the Book of Mormon; and those who have read the 10th chanter of IT Nenhi in reference to the destiny of this country can under what we are contending for in this great world engagement, when the Lord said that there should be no kingcraft upon this favored land of Zion, and that he would defend it against all other nations. And then, as the Patriarch of the Church read to us yesterday, the ideals for which we are contending are God-given ideals. He read from the 101st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, commencing about the 79th verse, in reference to the free agency of man, and that wise men were raised up to form the constitution of the United Statest in order to establish these principles, the principles of freedom, and that it was not good for one man to be in bondage to another. The history of the making of the constitution of the United States and its development is supported by the word of the Lord, that it was divinely inspired. 

When the constitution of the United States was being made, those delegates whom the Prophet tells us were raised up for that purpose, realized that they needed help of the Lord in that emergency. There can be no question of that. Benjamin Franklin, a man not noted for his piety, a wise statesman but not an over-zealous religionist, the man who while in France had taken his own sons to Voltaire, the atheist, to be blessed of him, realized when a deadlock existed for a considerable time in the great constitutional convention, that it was necessary for them to have Divine aid. You will remember the difficulty between the small states and the large states as to what representation each should have, and when it appeared no compromise could be effected, Beniamin Franklin arose and said : "I have lived GENERAL CONFERENCE.  long time (he was then over 80 years of age), and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs the affairs of men; and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, it is impossible an empire can rise without his aid." And so he proposed that they have prayers; and while they did not have formal prayers, I am persuaded that there were many earnest prayers from the heart that did not remain unanswered, and, from the nature of the work that they did, that it was more than man's wisdom that prevailed. You remember what Gladstone, the great English premier, said (and he was competent to pass upon a question of that sort, and certainly not biased in our favor) that it was the greatest instrument ever given off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man. One jurist has said, not just in the language of the revelation, that wise men were raised up for the purpose of framing that constitution, but the equivalent of it, that "the makers of the constitution of the United States were the goodliest fellowship of lawgivers whereof this world has record." They were entering upon a great work, because they were declaring some new principles in p'overnment. they were establishing that very principle, that great principle that is now at issue in the world, that "governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." That is the same thing that is mentioned in different kingnaee in the 101st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that governments are organized by men for men, deriving their powers from men, to be exercised for their benefit and good. And that is one of  great issues involved today in the great world war. Mr. Bryce, also an Englishman, who knows more of our constitution than almost any other man not an American (and only a very few stand higher as an authority than Lord Bryce) said, speaking in regard to the workings of the American commonwealth, after explaining the new things and the old things in the constitution, that "after all deductions, it ranks above every other constitution for the intrinsic excellence of its scheme, its adaptation to the circumstances of the people, the simplicity, brevity and precision of its language, its judicious mixture and definiteness of principle, with elasticity in detail." That is the commendation of a very learned and impartial judge upon this same constitution that the boy prophet was giving information concerning. 

Just the other day, a distinguished American citizen, an ex-president of the United States, made a declaration in forecasting what would be demanded by the different governments when peace is established. He named one thing that the United States would demand and secure, and that is the perpetuation of the Monroe Doctrine. And what is that but a counterpart of the doctrine expressed in the 10th chapter of fl Nephi, to the effect that kingcraft shall not prevail upon this- land. That is what the Monroe Doctrine has stood for, that we could regulate our own affairs here without interference from monarchies or empires on the other side of the waters. And so those who understand these ideas that have been taught to the Latter<-1ay Saints, from the Bible and the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine 115  Covenants, can understand why it is that this people should not be easily moved in times of stress when religions are being tested and criticized, as referred to by Elder Ballard in the particular work of Mr. H. G. Wells. By the way, in the same class is a book by the same author, entitled, Italy, France and England at War, m which he passes strictures upon representatives of the great churches of those lands, because they do not rise to the occasion. I believe we can the better appreciate the attitude of the leaders of our people, of President Smith and his associates in this emergency, by comparing it with the conduct of some representatives of other churches. I have in mind now a young man, highly educated, brilliant in his natural attainments, having the ripest scholastic training that could start him in his ministry, who came to Utah as a reformer, and sought to win away our young men. He sought to undermine the Church by reaching our young men and alluring them into the smoking room and the billiard room attached to his church. But all his learning and training were not sufficient to keep him right in this emergency, and he is now being justly rebuked by his countrymen including the members of his own church. So I say I rejoice in the fact that the gospel is of a practical nature, because it enables the Church to grapple with all the practical problems as they arise, and give a correct solution of them. 

There has been advice during this conference, to turn to the scriptures, and it is very timely — timely for our boys who are going into the ranks and soon into the trenches. Let them turn to Joshua. 

One great writer has said that of all chapters in the Bible, the one that influenced him most was the first chapter of Joshua, on account of the lesson in courage that it taught: "Be strong and of good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land, which I swear unto their fathers to give them." This is the word of the Lord to the children of Israel, and particularly to Joshua their leader, just before they are to cross Jordan and take those strongly fortified cities such as Jericho. It continues : "Only be thou strong and very courageous that thou mayst observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee : turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. * * * * Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us we will do, and whithersoever thou sendest us we will go. According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we hearken .unto thee; only the Lord thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses." And then for the closing words of this chapter we have the echo again, the sublime refrain : "Only be strong and of a good courage." To understand the significance of this admonition, you have to go back into the history of Israel and call to mind the twelve men who were sent down to spy out the land of promise. Caleb and Joshua were among them. When they returned there were only these two out of the twelve who were willing to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  with the wishes of Moses and Aaron in taking possession of the land. What a disappointment it must have been to those great leaders to realize that they were leading men lacking in courage who would not face the enemy, and who reported that they had met "men of great stature, which come of the giants," the sons of Anak. They said, "We were in our own sight as grasshoppers and so were we in their sight." They were not willing to go up. But Caleb and Joshua were willing to go up at once. And Moses and Aaron were so disappointed that they fell upon their faces, and they pleaded with the Lord not to utterly destroy the people. But the fate of those who were not courageous enough to go in and take possession of the land when they had the privilege of entering, was that their carcasses should fall in the desert, that only the brave or the younger generation, those under 20 years of age, and Caleb and Joshua of those above that age should enter. Caleb, "because he had another spirit with him," and because he had followed after the Lord, after the lapse of forty years, was permitted to enter the promised land. He was then four score and five years of age, but still he was willing to have his possessions assigned to him among the fortified cities. He still had good courage, and was willing, with the help of the Lord, to make battle for the possession that should be assigned unto him. So likewise manv valuable lessons in courage can be learned by the young from the splendid life of David, and of Gi r 'eon. Gideon was willing with 300 followers to face untold thousands of the enemy and was able to put them to rout. 

1 rejoice in the teachings of this conference, in the practical advice (hat has been given, and in the ability of the gospel to help solve all of the practical problems of life, no matter how multitudinous they may be, nor how suddenly they may be thrown upon us, if we have but a knowledge of the word and the Spirit of the Lord. 

May the Lord help us to profit by his word, I ask in the name of!o sus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

( President of the California Mission.) 

I bring you greetings, my brethren and sisters, from California, from your .soldier boys, for there are a great many of them now gathered in that part of the United States. I am proud to say that those who have received the proper training at home are to be found with us whenever opportunity affords, renewing their covenants at the communion table, singing the songs of Zion, and praying that they may bear with honor the names of the fathers who have begotten and the mothers who have given them birth. I know the hearts of the mothers are wrung with fear and concern, not so much that their sons may lose their lives, but that they might be sullied, and lose their virtue by contact with the world. I want to ,say that I have no fears for those who have been trained aright, for set deep in their hearts is a love for God and godliness that will secure them in the truth. I have found in the world a sobering of the thought^ of men; I mean, they are thinking less of the pleasures of the world, as a whole, than they were inclined to do two or three years ago; men 117  would have blushed at one time to acknowledge the hand of God in their every day lives now express a belief in him and his divine providence; they pay homage to him, where once they would rail, were cynical or without belief. 

The wonderful testimonies that have been uttered at this conference, the words of admonition that we have received, have sunk deep into my soul. When I heard read, by Elder Hart, the remarks of the Secretary of the Interior, Franklin K. Lane, of California, as I heard them from his own lips the other night, I thought how wondrous after all are the children of our God, and some words of the Psalmist came to my mind, and I want to read them to you : 

"O Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth, who hast set thy glory above the heavens. 

"Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. 

"When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon, the stars, which thou hast ordained; 

"What is man that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man that thou visitest him? 

"For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. 

"Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet; 

"All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field; 

"The fowl of the air and the fish of the sea and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. 

"O Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!" 

And I contrasted these words of David with the remarks made this morning by Elders Ivins and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., in speaking of the  philosophy of men, wherein they would have us not born of God but come out of the "lower protoplasm'' of life, drag ourselves up out of the sea, dry ourselves in the sand, clamber up into a tree, and then, after some ages have passed, drop down, stand erect and become a man. I thought of what Mr. Lane said the other night when visited by the ambassadors from abroad, and they laid before the Cabinet and the President of our nation some of the great things that concerned us in the world's war, how they admonished these gentlemen, our leaders, how many years it would take to perfect an engine for an aeroplane, how many years it would be necessary to provide the needed munitions of war, raise the men, drill them, and build the ships which are necessary. Mr. Lane reported they said of the engine for our aeroplane, "It is too heavy and that it would take at least a year to make such an engine as would be needed." He said, "to show the unification and co-operation of this great land of ours," we called upon the workmen of the east and the middle west and the western seaboard for their assistance. We locked up two expert engine men in a room at Washington and asked them to give us the benefit of the best products of their combined skill in an aero-motor; and in thirty days was mobilized from all parts of this Union the new, well-built engine, perfect in all its details and surpassing those of the old world in every point, so we are advised." 

How great is the ingenuity of man, when God gives him wisdom, even in works for the destruction of the human family. How I would that they would turn their wondrous powers to the industry and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  peace of the world! And they will, as sure as the 'day follows the night, when this madness that has blinded the vision of the rulers of the earth has passed away, and they recognize that the Redeemer is the only king of the earth, and they accept him and his rule, and obey his word. 

But, to the thought that I had in my mind. To think, not only in connection with this wonderful incident I have mentioned, but with the other and greater obligations that rest upon the Nation, its powers and the intelligence of its citizens if bent upon this one end, that we shall lead in the cause of right. So we have demonstrated what man may be and what he can do when he has an incentive for doing. Truly the Lord God hath "made him a little lower than the angels." He hath set his feet upon the nethermost parts of the earth. There is no land nor clime unknown to him today, nor creature, nor denizen of the seas. He has harnessed up the silent forces of the universe to do his bidding. He flies, as Isaiah said that he should, "as a dove to his cote." 

Think you, then, that all these wonderful powers and possibilities, God-given, shall find an end with this mean and rude existence, rude because it lacks perfection? Think you that there shall be no recompense for the mothers' travail, for her sacrifices and for her tears; that there shall be no reward for the father's labors, for his toil, for the burdens that he has borne and for the battles that he has fought ? that the fond ideals and hopes that we entertain for our boys and girls shall come to naught, and all shall be vanity of vanity, as declared by Solomon, who in his old age went  false gods and strange women, and perverted the way of truth? Think you that our soldier boys, who have gone to the front, shall find an end to their activities should they lay down their lives for their country ? No, it is not so. They are not of the low and the mean of the earth. They reach out in their aspirations and ideals and purposes into infinitude, and infinite love and eternal life alone can bring to them a full fruition. 

In all creation, aside from humankind, everything seems to come to a fulness of its creation here. The whole earth, with its rocks, its crystals, its metals, and its flowers that bud and blow, its trees that live and bear, and all the brute creation, the fowls of the air and the fishes of the deep, all answer the end of their creation here; they meet their complement, they have their companions, they arc provided for in their habitat, and need and have no care nor thought of the morrow. But man, "created in the image of God, though he come from the cave man and through the stone and the iron age," if he does not come to his fulness here and may not, in this narrow vale, make a complement of all his attributes, the very longing set in his soul, the very yearning for eternal life, the very capabilities within him that are of divine parentage and birth, means that there shall yet be some other sphere for him to function in, that he may become fairly and fully what God hath ordained he should, through faithfulness, — a creator himself. 

So, men of the world who know not the gospel revealed to us, and who do not know of the restored priesthood of the Son of God, in their research by the scalpel and the knife, in the chemist's smelting pot, 119  their deep searching of the soul's emotions, have tried to .determine, and have satisfied themselves that life goes on forever. Bottomley, one of England's greatest editors and writers, briefly speaking of the soldier, along with Oliver Lodge, who is perhaps accepted as the greatest psychologist living, and who has lost a boy "somewhere in France," — each in turn have said that they know that England's boys who went to the front, are alive, and are active even in that other sphere; that their eyes are fixed upon the battle fields at the front, that their hearts yearn for their companions, and for the cause of universal autonomy, and honor and freedom among the sons of men. This from those men, who have had no testimony such as the lowliest of the Latter-day Saints have received. One of the great testimonies that has come to me in the mission field is the fact that God reveals the truth to the lowliest of his children, to those whom we may look upon as not even as intelligent as the majority of their fellows — even as wayfaring men and foolish, yet they know the truth where the savant, the scholar or the scientist falls short because of the latter's egotism and the dogmatism of men. What great cause there is in this for us to rejoice. Just as I read unto you here, "Out of the mouths of babes and suklings Go! hath ordained strength.'' And God hath .not chosen many of the great and mighty ones of the earth. He hath revealed his secrets unto babes and sucklings. Praise God, brethren and sisters, that you know the truth; that you are in touch with the powers of heaven; that you know that God hears and answers prayers; that you know that Jesus 

Christ is the Redeemer of mankind, our Mediator with the Father; that God so loved us that he gave his Son, a precious gift, that by him and through him we might learn to live and, if needs be, die; that we are joint heirs with Christ to the glories of our Father's kingdom, if we but keep the faith, il we but love God with all of our heart and soul and mind. Thank God that we are among those babes and sucklings, or the "wayfaring'' to whom this wonderful secret, these precious words of truth, have come, yet men in the world, in their egotism and in their vain and vague philosophies, have shut themselves away from God just as the poet Holland has said in a beautiful poem : 

"So, with reason's hand 1 closed the adamantine gates, Which faith alone unlocks, and shut Myself away from God, the warder Of a horde of passions that in Darkness groaned and fought, Or upon each other gnawed For the nourishment 1 desired." 

That is the state of the unbeliever, his feelings and emotions God-given nevertheless. Not any of the lower creatures of the earth reach out for immortality. Man alone reaches out for eternity and demands a hereafter and an uplift to all of -the children of men. But man in the world has stultified himself and shut himself away from God, and how happy even he is when again, through faith, suffering, and chastisement he finds the Lord, when again he has found himself and become what is called in the earth, a "Christian." 

May the blessings of heaven be with you, you mothers of men who have given of your heart's best love to maintain the honor of our counGENERAL CONFERENCE.  and its sacred liberty and name, that neither kingcraft nor any king shall find place here, and that righteousness and truth shall be defended and protected in every land and clime, until all nations shall recognize their King and their God in Christ. Bless you, you fathers, who maintain our boys in the mission field, and enable them to lift up the voice as with a trump to those who sit in darkness and know not the truth. Bless you, my brethren and sisters. May we come to a realization of what God has designed us eventually to be, and shine as the stars in the firmament of heaven, I pray in the name of Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem entitled, "Daughters of Zion." 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION. 

(President of the Central States Mission.) 

I greet you, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon with a realization in my heart of the great responsibility that rests upon a speaker on an occasion of this kind. I ask an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may be able to say such things as will be for our good. 

I have been reminded during this coference of the custom of the Lord since the beginning, according to scripture, of gathering together his saints from time to time that they might be instructed as to their duty, and have their faith increased. Yesterday, when I listened to President Smith tell of his laboring so many years in this Church, and heard him give such excellent advice, as a result of his experience, to his brethren and sisters, to those who believe in the same God that he , I was reminded of that passage of scripture in the Book of Mormon wherein Nephi makes this statement : 

''And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at that day, for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost: and if they endure unto the end. they shall be lifted up at the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of the Lamb; and whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon the mountains shall they be" (Nephi 13:32). 

No greater character, I think, lives in mortality than President Joseph F. Smith. I wonder how many among us take into consideration the number of times President Smith and his counselors are called together in a day in consultation in their office, answering questions and attending to this great work of the Lord upon the earth. I wonder if we are as mindful of them as we should be. I have learned to love President Smith, knowing him by experience to be a man of God, and a man whom the Lord has chosen for this work in these last days. I believe that he was chosen in the council that was held before the world was. You will read in the Book of Abraham as f ollows : 

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born (Abraham 3:22, 23). 121 

He said unto Jeremiah; "Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou earnest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations (Jei\ 1-5). I believe that Joseph Smith the Prophet stood among those spirits that the Lord showed unto Abraham. I believe that the Lord knew him before he ever came here, and I believe that when Joseph F. Smith was born in Missouri that God knew him, and I believe that Lucifer, the "son of the morning," knew him, and that he, the adversary of all good, sought to destroy him. Perhaps it is not generally known, but Lucifer knows it, that, at Far West, Missouri, in the fall of 1838, when he was but a fewweeks old the mob tried to destroy him. The leader of that mob, a minister of the gospel, in ransacking the home of the mother of President Smith and trying to find valuables for which he sought, found the child lying upon a bed, a helpless infant, and threw the bedding over him, and the infant, now our President, was nearly smothered when he was discovered. I believe that he was recognized by Lucifer, that he was to become a great leader in Israel. 

T know beyond a question of a doubt that God lives, and that his priesthood is here upon the earth for the good and for the salvation of men. If it were not for the authority of Jesus the inhabitants of this earth would destroy each other. The wicked would slay the wicked as they are doing until total destruction would occur. But from among the children of men scattered in all parts of the world shall come the honest in heart, and they shall come unto a knowledge of the . They shall come from the four corners of the world. Do you think that this great conflict that is now being waged throughout the world is not for a purpose? It is to destroy the wicked so that the gospel of the Son of Man can be proclaimed with freedom, that liberty of conscience may be enjoyed by the honest in heart in all the world. 

God moved Columbus to come to this land, and he labored with those who ruled over him to give him an apportunity to come here and discover this continent, and this was done that a great land of liberty might be populated by a people who love liberty and the truth. The Lord is using men in various parts of the earth at the present time to accomplish his purposes. They may not be preaching the gospel of Christ, but they are assisting in the establishment of a democracy that will give men and women liberty to act and move as the power of the Spirit of God shall move upon them. I have in mind one individual who 1 am sure is performing a great work, preparing the way for a .democracy that will permit the spreading of the gospel of Jesus Christ where it has not been heard because of tyranny and oppression. He has been called to Russia as an ambassador of the United States of America. He is not a member of the Church, by any means, but he is a character who has become well known in this land, a statesman, a diplomat, and a gentleman, a man who is able to understand the conditions and the needs of the people of that land, and who carries with him the spirit of liberty and of the democracy which we enjoy. 1 speak of the Hon. David R.' Francis, of St. Louis, Mo., who was at one time president of the world's GENERAL CONFERENCE.  at St. Louis, another time Governor of the great state of Missouri, and another time a member of Grover Cleveland's cabinet, a gentleman who has had ample experience that qualifies him for the work. I believe men like him are doing God's work in the world, and that the gospel of Jesus Christ may be carried into may lands of darkness, after the way has been opened by the establishment of good governments. 

We think that we are doing a great and a mighty work, and we are, in sending the gospel to the world and in enduring hardships in many ways. But there will come a time when every man and woman will be tried, for the gospel of Jesus Christ must be preached unto the children of men as long as flesh shall remain upon the earth, and the men who practice what they preach shall be the instruments in God's hands to gather the honest in heart that they may enjoy such sweets as we are enjoying today. For there are men and women in the world ready to receive the gospel; but because of wickedness, the preaching of the gospel has been curtailed. Hence the necessity of establishing a government which will allow its people to worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience. In many portions of the world the preaching of the gospel of Christ has never been tolerated, and those countries must be opened up, for the Savior said : 

"This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come" (Matt. 24:14). 

Christ shall come to the earth as decreed, in a moment, without . The go,spel must be carried forward unto the uttermost ends of this earth, and the people gathered together in these mountains are the ones who shall be called upon to bear the burden and the responsibility of gathering out from bondage the honest in heart in all the world. 

This western land has been blessed. In all my travels throughout the country this year I have never .seen a land that has been blessed like the country in this intermountain region. We have been favored of the Lord, and the Lord will undoubtedly call upon us, for he has given us wealth and means to provide for the future, that we might be able to carry on his work and his purposes, for they cannot fail. The heavens and the earth may pass away but the words of God shall not pass away, and men and women will have the opportunity of knowing the truth if they desire it, for the gospel is in the earth never more to be taken away or given unto another people. His priesthood which has been established will he the power by which people may receive the truth, and those who have been prospered and cared for as sons and daughters growing up as "calves in the stall" shall be called to use their strength. And the day will come, and not far distant, when thousands of men and women shall be baptized into this Church. The purposes of the Almighty shall be fulfilled. The gospel of the Redeemer of the world will go into all the world. The Jew shall be placed back in the land from which he came, and this country in which we live and of which we are a part will play an important part in the establishment of God's purposes with regard to the Jews, 123  in the fulfilment of his promises to them. The men and women who live up to the requirements made of God shall recognize his power by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto every man and unto every woman and unto every child when they are baptized. They are entitled to that Spirit and power and gift. 

May the peace of heaven rest upon us, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

The time allotted for this meeting has almost expired. I think there must be a feeling in every heart that we have had a profitable time not only in this meeting, but that we have also had a profitable and a happy time, throughout all the meetings of this general conference. I hope there is a disposition on the part of every person who is present, to believe in the testimonies that have been delivered concerning the divinity of the work to which we have set our hands, and that there is an assurance that divine authority has come to the President of the Church. We all should know, that he is the representative of the Lord Jesus Christ, in directing and managing, in connection with his brethren, the affairs of the Church of Christ. When brethren speak highly of President Smith, or of the presiding authorities in the Church, it is not because there is any disposition in the minds of those members of the Church to worship men. We do not worship men; we rejoice in the noble character of men. But we recognize and honor above all else the author that has been conferred upon them by our father in heaven, 1 trust that we all partake of the spirit of gooaly reverence that, 1 understand, was made manifest in the days of Joseph Smith by Dr. tiernhisel. The good man, after coming to Utah, was at one time representative in Congress from the Territory of Utah, i have been informed that although Dr. Bernhisel was a college man, a man of superior education, that he invariably rose to his feet when the Prophet came into any room where he was sitting, and he would remain standing upon his feet until the prophet himself would sit down. The prophet was embarrassed because of the very great deference that was shown him by Dr. Bernhisel, and remonstrated with him. The answer made by Dr. Bernhisel when the prophet mentioned the matter to him was, "I delight to honor the man whom God hath honored." I think we all should have this same disposition to honor heavenly authority. We are not making any mistake when we honor the man that God has honored, and in whom he has reposed his authority, and to whom he has given the power of the holy Apostleship, and whom he upholds and sustains as his mouthpiece and seer. 

I had the very great privilege and honor to accompany President Smith and his party, on the journey that was recently made through the settlements to the south, as far as St. George. It was wonderful to see how easily President Smith could be approached. Why, it only needed the lifting of the hands of the little children in the roadway as the president traveled along in his auto, to bring forth at once instructions for the auto to stop, that GENERAL CONFERENCE.  might greet and shake hands with the little children. The children swarmed around him by hundreds and thousands. There was no fear on the part of the children that they could not approach the President of the Church. All felt that they were in the presence of one who had great love for them, and they would climb into his auto without hesitation that they might present him bouquets of flowers, and manifest in every way the love and the confidence they had in the President of the Church. Not only did little children give evidence of this spirit of confidence, and this feeling that they were welcome by the President, but the aged had the same feeling, men and women came to him, whose heads were silvered or gray, and they come in the same confidence — no feeling that they must stand back, that he was an austere and severe man, but just the opposite, all coming near with the greatest freedom, and all manifesting respect for and rejoicing in the blessing, and kindly greeting of this great man of God. 

I felt in my soul as I listened to the wonderful counsels that were imparted by the President, and witnessed the manifestations of the power of God given through him, that he was indeed all that has been said of him in this conference. You have listened as men have testified concerning his worth, his integrity, his honesty, his love for the truth of the everlasting gospel, his willingness to labor for the salvation of the souls of men. 

I will long remember the wonderful experiences of the trip, and how by night and by day the word of the Lord came from the mouth of our dear President and Prophet in  abundance. The people of the Church were comforted whenever they had opportunity to greet him, and I believe there was a feeling in the hearts of men and women, the aged and the middle aged, the youth and the little children, that Joseph F. Smith is indeed a pi'ophet of the living God. 

I thank God that in my soul there has come a strong love for the work of our Father in heaven. God has made me acquainted with the truth of this wonderful gospel. He has made me sure that power has been revealed in these latter times for the salvation of the human family. It is the greatest thing in the world. It is the power of God unto salvation; the power that will bring men into communion with their Father in heaven, and will lead them back from the things of this world into the presence of God. The truth given of God for the salvation of men has always been the greatest thing in the world whenever it has been among the children of men. We make no extravagant statement when we bear testimony, and make the declaration that this thing that has come by the revelations of our Father in heaven, is the greatest and most blessed thing that can be found by the human family today. 

God help us to believe the truth, to uphold proper authority, -to stand for the right in all things, that we may be men and women after the heart of our Father in heaven. I pray his blessings and his peace upon you, and testify to you of the truth of this work to which we have set our hands, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, L25 

The authorities were sustained unanimously as in the Tabernacle meeting. 

The choir sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation/' 

The closing prayer was offered by President William D. Kuhre, of the Jordan stake of Zion. 


