Afternoon
05 04 1917

The choir and congregation sang : "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear." 

Prayer was offered by President 

Peter G. Johnston, of the Union stake, and member of the Church Auditing Committee. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "'How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I believe I express the feeling and sentiment of all who were present at this morning's session of the conference, when I say that I was greatly delighted and blessed by listening to the instructions that were imparted, and I hope that: the good spirit which was present this morning in rich abundance may also be poured out upon us gathered here this afternoon. 

ENDORSEMENT OF PRESIDENT SMITH'S OPENING ADDRESS 

I believe the Latter-day Saints have long been impressed with the feeling that unless the Spirit of God accompanies the word that is spoken it is net refreshing to us, we are not satisfied with simply hearing the principles that are enunciated. They are all divine, there is not a doctrine of the Church that has not come from a divine source, but when we listen to words spoken to us, unaccompanied by the inspiration that gave them orginally, we do not feel satisfied; but no matter how simple may be the expressions that are used, and how often we have heard the doctrines of the Church explained, we need the accompanying Spirit to be present with them, and unless it is with the word, as I have said, we do not feel satisfied. I felt fully satisfied this morning. I was afraid that the President was going a little beyond the time he intended to occupy, because he did need to reserve his strength; but to me it was just right. Everything that he said was right. And the time that he occupied was sufficient for us, although we are always eager to hear him, no matter how long he may feel inclined to speak. The words that were spoken to us this morning by the speakers were impressive and precious, and the Spirit of God was with them, and I rejoice that I had the pleasure of being here today. 

Now I desire that I may speak under the influence of the Holy Ghost, becaues I never feel satisfied in my soul when I am called upon to address a congregation, unless I can feel that the Spirit of God is with me. When I ,do know that, then I feel measurably satisfied, although I am occas'onally somewhat dissatisfied with myself when I sit down; but when I realize that the Spirit of Gcd has been with me, and particularly when I feel that I was inspired to say the things that came to my mind, then I am satisfied, and I glorify and praise the Lord. 

CHOIR LEADERS AND CONGREGATIONAL SINGING 

While we were singing the first hymn I was thinking about a custom that was in vogue when I was a boy. It was a game called "Follow your leader." Generally there was a great deal of mischief attached to it. I don't want to attach that to my remarks now, but I do wish that the congregation would follow the leader in the singing. When we sing, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear," there needs to be a kind of a vim to it. But when it is. "C-o-m-e, c-o-m-e, y-e S-a-i-n-t-s (Vnging slowly fn imitation], it is not very invigorating. I have heard hymns sung in some of our congregations in the wards, and the time was something like that which I tried to imitate just now. Follow your leader in the singing, and if he understands music anything like as well as Brother Tony Lund does, why, he will be right in the time as well as in the tune; and the leaders might take a lesson from him by adapting the time to the sentiment. He is right; he follows the music, and he understands the spirit of the hymn or song, he will lead you properly, and I hope that the leaders in the congregations of Israel — we have a good many fine musical men, men of talent in music — I hope that they will learn that lesson, adapting the time to the music, and when it needs a little stirring up. why, stir it up and then get the congregation to "follow the leader." 

LEADERS IN ISRAEL 

We had a strong testimony this morning from President Smith concerning the great men who have been our leaders in Israel from the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith down to the time of our present administration. Of course he was too modest to say anything about his own, but Brother Grant made up for it somewhat, and I wish to add my testimony to Brother Grant's concerning the present leader in Israel. I have known him for many years, I have always known of him favorably. I know that he is a man of God, I know that his heart is set to do the will of God and to teach men so. He always has been in that mind ever since I first became acquainted with h : m, and in later years, when I have been intimately associated with him, I have learned more and more to admire him and to have confidence in him an.d in his word, and to regard him as a true leader, the presen-day leader of the Church of Christ on the earth, having all the authority, keys and powers bestowed by the various ministers to the Prophet Joseph Smith who came to him from on high. They have been handed down intact and have remained in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that was organized on the 6th day of April, in the year 1830, without a break, right down to the present day, and that authority revealed from heaven and those keys restored by heavenly messengers are : n the Church today, and our leader, Joseph F. Smith, holds the keys, the presidency therein, over all the priesthood and authority and membership in the Churcha and in saying tbat I mean I have full confidence in him in that capacity, as a man, as a servant of God. I believe this is shared by the people generally throughout the length and breadth of the land that we can call Zion. 

The land of Zion, the land on wtr'ch Zion shall be, extends from the extreme north to the extreme south of this continent, but Zion does not extend so far at present. Sometimes I think we can hardly call this Zion where we dwell, when we contemplate the mixture that we have, and the amount of evils that exist among us, not produced perhaps by the Latter-day Saints, except in a few instances, but we are a mixed people here now, and the Zion of God, so the Lord has revealed, is composed of the pure in heart. "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God" was one of the beatitudes uttered by Jesus of Nazareth in that wonderful Sermon on the Mount. Today we can say, I think, that this assembly is Zion. Not that we are, anv of us, perfect or claiming to be perfect, but we are trying to be Saints of God in the full sense of the term, and if we will follow our leader, particularly in his instructions to us. like those we had this morning, we will be so indeed. I never hear him preach, but he speaks under the influence of the Lord, and gives afood counsel to the people, and everybody, whether members of the Church or not. who will hearken to his voice and be guided by him in the things that he teaches, will be led in the straight and narrow way that terminates in the presence of the Eternal Father. If we will follow h : m we will be all right, not the slightest doubt of it in the world, and I bear my testimony, added to that of Brother Grant, that I know he is a servant of the Most High, and that his whole heart and desire are for the benefit and building up of the kingdom of God on the earth, and the glorification of our Heavenly Father, and the. testimony that Jesus is the Chrst, and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the Most H'gh God, in that he is thoroughly and completely sincere, and his heart is set to proclaim this to the world, and has been ever since I have known him, and a long time before. And my desire is that he may remain many years on the earth to lead the people. That is in the hands of God, of course, but I feel that we need him, that Zion needs him, that Zion wants h : m, and that the people of this church desire in their hearts that he may be sustained with health and strength of body and mind, and that all things may work together that he may remain among us and be our leader for many years to come. 

OUR DUTY TO ANCIENT AND LIVING LEADERS 

Now, there is an item or two connected with that that I feel I would like to say a word or two about to this congregation, and the point is this, that no matter what may have been taught in olden times in regard to the policy of the Church of God. no matter what commandments have been given in regard to the administration of its affairs at other times, we are today under the direction of the living oracles. The living word of God comes to us through the man that stands at the head, in preference to anything that has been written aforet : me, or spoken in our own days. Circumstances change, and a change of instructions becomes necessary. As the different circumstances arise different policies have to be engaged in, and when the man that stands at the head leads out in any direction in regard to these matters, we will be perfectly safe in following him. 

OUR LEADERS AND THE WAR 

Some of our people, some that are very pacific become critical as to our war policy. I don't wonder that some of our sisters, our mothers in Israel, feel very tender-hearted just now, when they have to allow their dear ones, their sons, the boys of thier hearts, to go into the armies of the United States, with the' prospect of going abroad, perhaps, and being sent to the front, and being engaged practically in war. They 'feel sad in their hearts and almost refuse to be comforted, and they want consolation, and a few of them feel rebellious in their hearts in regard to it, and think that there is fault in the leaders of the people in permitting and encouraging such things. Now I hope that such feelings will be entirely eradicated, and when the man who stands at the head of our affairs says, "This policy is right," let our boys go as the.'/ are called upon by their country, to defend the rights of the people, to establish liberty, to extend freedom among the nations of the earth, to  potent abroad the principles that are so great and strong at home, that the nations of he earh may come to share in our freedom;" when he says that is the right thing to do, lets us all feel that we will follow our leader and will say, too, in our hearts, that is right, that is the word of the Lord unto us. It is written in the scriptures, "Thou shalt not kill," and yet on the back of that very often the Lord told his people to go forth in battle and slay all the people in certain places because of their corruption. He holds the power of life and of death, and what he says is right, and what he reveals through his servants the prophets, when they hold the keys that I have been talking about, and the prophets are led of him, what they say is right, no matter what we may think or feel. It is not r : ght for us to engage in the shedding of human blood, for vengeance or retaliation. But when the Lord commands or inspires his servants to counsel the sons and daughters of Israel to lend their aid in the work of righteous warfare, that is different. The Lord has told us what we may do in our own cases when our enemies come upon us, we are to forgive them if they repent. If they do not repent we are to forgive them two, three and even four times, but when they continue in their evil work we are not to submit, to allow ourselves and our liberties to be trampled under foot. We are to arise in our might and in our strength and go forth to victory; not with a desire to shed blood, not with the desire to destroy our fellow creatures, but in self defense and because we do want to maintain and hand down to our posterity those sacred principles of liberty that have been revealed from on high. Let us look upon it in that l : ght, and we will have no fault to find, I think, with our brethren who advise them to enter the armies of the United States and obey the commanding officers that are placed over them, no matter what that may lead them to. 

It is gladdening to my heart that so many of our good boys are willing to stand up in the defense of their country, and in the defense of their homes, for that is what it amounts to doing. If we permit tyranny and oppression to go forth, rampant among the naf'ons, and overturn these great principles which have brought us so much liberty and so much power and influence in the earth, why, we shall be trodden under foot and these blessings that we enjoy and want to extend to the nations will be thrown down in the dust, and overcome by the powers of evil. The power of Satan is great in the earth today. It has been accumulating during the centuries that have passed, through the experiences that the evil powers have obtained in "ruling in the hearts of the children of disobedience." But the time is near at hand when that power will be cast down and Satan will be bound, and his hosts with him, in the place of banishment prepared for them, and the earth be delivered from that bondage that came and entered into the world when our first parents broke the commandment of God. The earth has had its experiences, too, and the time is coming when it will be delivered from thraldom, sp'iritually as well as physically, and be redeemed from bondage and darkness, and love and light and liberty will pervail over the face of all the globe, and Jesus Christ will be our leader and our king, and the only king that we will bow down to. OUR GUIDES, THE TEACHINGS OF BOTH ANCIENT AND MODERN PROPHETS 

Now, brethren and sisters, that is quite important, and in regard to the scriptures — I believe in the scriptures, I believe that the holy book called the Bible — the Old Testament as well as the New Testament, contains the word of God. I don't think that everything that is written in it is the word of God, nor do any of us, I suppose, because in it are the words of the devil and the words of wicked men, and the wor-ds of wicked women; but that which is revealed in it as the word of God is true, of course, and the fundamental principles revealed for the obedience of the human family are all true. They were so in the beginning, and are today, and will be forever. The doctrines of faith in the living and true God and Jesus Christ whom he has sent, and of repentance from evil, turning away from evil to the good, and baptism for the remission of sins, to cleanse the repentant, believing sinner, and the laying on of hands for the imparting of the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment,' — these are among the first principles of the oracles of God as we are taught in the Epistle to the Hebrews, and they stand forever. They were so in the very beginning, were taught to our father Adam and our mother Eve, after they were driven from the garden for their disobedience, and were handed down right to the time when the people demonstrated that they would not receive them, and then the Lord added the law through Moses as a schoolmaster to bring them to Christ, to the original principles of life and salvation. The children of Israel under Moses, so we read, were baptized "in the cloud and in the sea," and they partook of that spiritual rock that followed them, which rock was Christ. But through the hardness of their hearts and their disobedience to those higher principles, the Lord gave them the lesser law, which remained among them for a long time. And then Jesus our Redeemer came, as "the Only Begotten of the Father full of grace and truth," and reintroduced the higher principles of salvation, and those who obeyed received the benefits thereof, as we read :n the New Testament. 

It is the same in these latter days, wherever this restored Gospel is preached, and people receive it and are obedient to it, and they receive the blessings that belong to it. We old missionaries have proved this by our experience in many lands. Wherever we have gone with the gospel and preached faith and repentance and baptism, and the power and gift of the Holy Ghost, and obedience to every word that comes from the mouth of God, and people have bowed down to that, no matter how well or how badly we preached, how simple we might be, how unlearned, unlettered, we might be, when they received these principles, the power of God accompanied our administrations, the Holy Ghost was given to the repentant believers who were baptized, and the gifts of the gospel that we read about in the old scriptures followed them also; the sick were healed; great and wonderful mairfestations of the power of God physically and spiritually were given. I know it by my own experience. I don't want to take up the time relating details of these things, but I  that every gift and blessing and power spoken of in the old scriptures as following obedience to the gospel of Christ, has followed the preaching and obedience to it in these latter days, and we give the glory to God for the manifestations of his power and the divinity of th : s work. 

In the early Christian church there were many little things that had to be done that we do not have to do today, and there are many things in these latter days that we have to do which they knew nothing about then. But when we have a man, as we have now, and as we have had from the days of the Prophet Joseph down, to lead us and direct us, that is the thing to do, never mind whether it was done aforetime. For instance, Paul told the people in his day, when writing to Timothy, that a bishop was to be blameless; he was to be the husband of one wife; that is, we understand he meant that he was to at least have one wife. Sometimes we have bishops that do not have even one wife. Well, is it right to retain a man as bishop when he has not a wife at all? Yes, if the man at the head says that is right, that he is the right man. He will get a wife in good time — no doubt he will if he is "the right man in the right place." Now, is there any contradiction in that ? Not at all. Why? Because the man who stands at our head has all the authority and a little more than Paul had when he lived on the earth. So in regard to other little matters. Some of the critics ask sometimes, "why do you have young men, even boys, for deacons, when the New Testament teaches that a deacon should have one wife? How is it that you have deacons that don't have any wives, and perhaps are not old enough to marry?" Well, because that is the order today, and that is just as good as the order that was common formerly. Who gave the order? Why, a man that had authority in the Church in certain localities, and I suppose if we knew the c'rcumstances that existed then, we would understand exactly why that declaration was made. Today we are under other circumstances and it is a splendid, good, thing to have our young men and boys just emerging into manhood, to be trained in the Holy Priesthood, and so we give them that office in the Aaronic Priesthood which we call the Deacon. It is an office in the Aaronic Priesthood, and they are trained up in that, should be trained up in that, until they are prepared to receive the higher grades in that priesthood, or be advanced to the Melchizedek Priesthood. 

These things have been revealed in greater plainness, in more detail, and with more power and authority and influence than the things that we read about in the Old Testament or in the New. And the Church is organized today by the gift and power of God, by revelations direct from on high, not taken out of books. And the power and authority are here, and we should follow our leader, and what he says is right; he does not vary from the things that God has revealed. Now then, if you will just get that principle clear in your minds, brethren and sisters, or those few brethren and s : sters that do not see them, — I think most of you do, — that would do away with a good many difficulties that arise. Explanations are wanted very frequently that somebody has raised a question about in some of our classes. These classes that you have for reading the scriptures, old and new— don't forget the new or latter-day scriptures. These classes should study the Bible and the New Testament and the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, they are to be sustained, they are all right; but, friends, don't raise questions to make controversy, to show how smart you are, because you can find discrepancy between something that was said aforetime and something that has been said in latter times. My point is simply this : That this Church that we belong to is a new dispensation; the "dispensation of the fulness of times," and that everything essential that was had in former dispensations is right here among us, and a little more. 

The Lord promised that he would reveal things kept hid from the foundation of the world. What are you going to do about that, if you want everything to conform to that which was in vogue aforetime? Now, don't think for a moment that I want to say anything against the scriptures. We believe in them; I have quoted them freely. I have gained the day many, many times in disputes with people who were opposed, because I understood something about the scriptures. I believe in the Bible, I believe in the Old Testament and in the New, and I believe in the Book of Mormon, and I believe in the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. I have read them and pondered upon them and prayed about them; but the real, essential thing in these remarks is that the living oracles are in the Church today, and the man standing at the head as our leader has all the authority and the power, the keys and gifts, to lead the people, that was ever had on the earth in the Priesthood. Now let us be thankful for this and be guided by it. Some people want us to do today everything that the ancient apostles pointed out for their day. You know Paul wrote to Timothy and told him to "use a little wine for his stomach's sake and his often infirmities." He said, "use no longer water." Now, we don't say that. We use water; use it in the sacrament; use it for our meals; it is the best kind of element you can have for drink. Well, shall we use a little wine for our stomach's sake, and our often infirmities ? There was an old lady I used to see abroad quite often, and she used to keep a little wine — perhaps it was something a little stronger, I don't know. She used to take a little nip every now and then. "Why," I said, "Sister, what makes you do that?" "Why, Brother," she said, "I does it because Paul taught it, I does it for my 'fummities.' " She had thought she had all the infirmites and she called them her "fummities." She took a little wine for those "fummities." Now, we are not obliged to do that because Paul advised Timothy to do it. A noted teetotaler, when he was asked why he did not fellow the advice of Paul, answered, "Well, in the first place my name is not Timothy, and in the next place, I have not any infirmities," so he was willing to use water. 1 merely speak of that by way of illustration. 

I remember a man raising a controversy over Paul saying to Timothy, "The cloak that I left at Troas, bring with thee." "Now," he says, "what does that mean, that cloak?" "Why," I said, "it means a cloak, I suppose; Paul forgot his cloak, left it behind, with some parchments that he spoke about, and he told Timothy to bring it along with the documents. 

We do not need to discuss anything now about his needing a cloak, or about bringing a parchment. I just mention this to show how silly it is for people to harp on some text in the New Testament or in the Old Testament, and try to make controversies over apparent contradictions or .present omissions. Every doctrine that is in the Bible we believe in. We believe in faith, we believe in hope,' we believe in charity, we believe in love, we believe in fidelity, we believe in honesty, we believe in truthfulness, and everything that is good and true and moral, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches and inculcates, and our leader stands out preeminently in these things, and we can afford to follow him. 

Now, don't forget, we are in the Church — I was going to say our own — well, it is our Church, although it does not belong to us, we belong to it. The Church is Christ's Church, He made it, He revealed it, all the words of God to the people have come through him, and we look up to him as our living head. But our head on the earth here in the flesh is the man who now presides over us, and this Church is sui generis. It has something to impart of itself in its own age, and all that we want for our guidance and direction in it will come through living oracles. Their teachmgs are in conformity with the principles and doctrines, the ordinances and philosophy and things contained in the Old Testament and in the New; but in regard to the policies, we may have to change, because circumstances change, that is another thing entirely. We live in the present and receive instructions suited to the present. 

WE STAND FOR LIBERTY AND FREEDOM FROM OPPRESSION 

Now, it is a good thing for us people here in Utah, being a part of this great government, to stand by it in the present conflict. It is the finest system of government on the earth, no matter about the defects of people that are in it and some of those that stand at the head of affairs in various localities, — there is no such a government on the earth, in its principles, and my belief is that they will go forth to all the world. I can see in this tumult occurring now that the purposes of God will be accomplished in extending the principles of liberty and of freedom from oppression, of true forms of government throughout the world. If it must be by war, why, it will have to come, that is all. Not that we love war or want to kill anybody, but we want to stand tip for our rghts, and the rights of our neighbors, and the riehts of our children and grandchildren, and those that shall come after us, that they mav enjoy all these Morions principles, and that they may go forth to every land, as I believe they will. What a blessing it is that the people here have and exhibit fidelity to the government under which they live! We believe in its prinrples, they are Godgiven. We want to stand up for them, no matter how circumstances may require us to do so, whether it be by devoting part of our money, our income, or by permitting our sons and our brothers and our fathers to go forth to serve in the armies of the nation, to defend it against its foes. Whatever it may be, and the man who stands at our head says it is right. we will stay by him, because we want to stay by the right. That is the idea. 

OUR WORK AND CALLING IN THE WORLD 

Now, remember this is the Church established in the last days, the beginning of the kingdom that all the prophets of Israel and all the seers and sages among the heathens, and the philosophers and poets of the world foresaw, when the nations of the earth should be bound together in one bond. That first all there would be wars and plagues and destruction, and the wicked would slay the wicked, but the principles of liberty would ultimately prevail, and the kingdom of God should spread over all the earth, like Daniel saw in the vision, and the way be prepared for the coming of the rightful king, Jesus Christ, our Head. Those ancient worthies may not all have seen about Christ, but they did foresee the establishment of peace on the foundation of righteousness. And now our work in the earth, our calling, and what we are for, what we are here on the earth to do, is to build up righteousness, to establish truth, to send and carry the gospel to the uttermost parts of the earth, and bring together those that will love he Lord and keep his commandments, walk in his ways, be baptized with h : s baptism, and receive the Holy Ghost, which enlightens the soul and leads mankind to righteousness and obedience to the commandments of God. That is our work and mission. 

OUR MISSION AMONG THE SAINTS AT HOME 

Among the Saints, it is to establish harmony and union, and not discord, not to raise up strife on little technicalities on old texts of scripture, or modern texts of scripture, but receive the word of God in honest hearts and carry it out in our homes, in our families, in our neighborhoods, wherever we go, carrying with us this divine Spirit that is being poured out from on high. God will qualify us for every task. I know this in my own experience. I know that God does inspire his servants in the latter days to do the work which they are called upon to perforin, whatever it may be, and that his Spirit will go with them wherever they go on the face of the earth, if they keep themselves clean and unspotted from the world, and walk in his ways, and set a pattern worthy of im:tation. 

But I am going beyond my time, so I will close my remarks. I am thankful to be here. I praise God from whom all blessings flow, that I have been able to be here today and to hear those inspired words given to us this morning, and may God help me and you to continue in the faith, to serve him, to build up his kingdom and aid in preparing the way for the coming of the Prince of Peace, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Evan Arthur sang the solo: "Arm, arm, ye brave." 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

The Priesthood of the Lord and its power and authority — Impartiality of God in bestowing the priesthood — The number who hold the Priesthood in the Church — Those who are worthy and magnify their callings will receive the blessings — Courses of study tor the priesthood — Benefits of these studies open to all — Invitation to join the classes — Testimony. 

My brethren and sisters: I am in full accord with the spirit of this conference, with the counsels and testiomny of our President this morning-, and of his brethren who have spoken. Their words have been very precious to me, and T rejoice in them. 

The Holy Being whom we have gathered in to worship this afternoon is no respecter of persons. This he has declared with his own voice, speaking through Joseph Smith to the peonle, in words something like the following: 

"Now therefore, be ye strong from henceforth. Fear not. for the kingdom is yours. And for your salvation, I give you a commandment, for I have heard vour pravers, and the poor have comolained before me, and the rich have T made, and all flesh is mine, and I am no respecter of persons." 

In view of the vast multitude of God's children who dwell upon the earth, this is a very remarkable statement, and the fact that God is absolutely impartial is not more clearly shown, I think, in any scripture than in the glorious Priesthood which we have received. The priesthood referred to is composed of two great heads or divisions. The one is called the Melchizedek, or Higher Priesthood, and the  the Aaronic or Lesser Priesthood, but, as I understand it, it is all one priesthood, the lesser growing out of the greater. Now, the scope and authority of the priesthood is most clearly defined in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in March, 1835, in Section 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants, in these very direct and impressive words : 

"The power and authority of the Higher or Melchizedek Priesthood, is to hold the keys of all the spiritual blessings of the Church — 

"To have the privilege of receiving the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven — to have the heavens opened unto them — to commune with the general assembly and Church of the first born, and to enjoy the communion and presence of God the Father, and Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant. 

"The power and authoriy of the lesser, or Aaronic Priesthood, is to hold the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances, the letter of the gospel-the baptism of repentance for the re mission of sins, agreeable to he covenants and commandments." 

Now, we very well know that in these two great priesthoods there are various offices or callings, as for instance, in the Higher Priesthood, we have the offices of aoostle, high priest, seventv, and elder; and in the Lesser Priesthood, that of bishop, priest, teacher, and deacon; and thus we see that the Lord has provided these various offices for the benefit and blessing of the members of his Church. 

My brethren and sisters, it is every man's privilege in our Church to receive throueh his worthiness, the priesthood, and I misdat add it is his privilege bv rfeht divine because the priesthood of God comes with the pospel and belongs to the Church of God. We verv well know. loo, that there are means of growth and advancement in the priesthood, which is conferred upon men in an orderly way. First, we know that upon the young men of Israel, those who make themselves worthy, is conferred the office of deacon, which is the first step in the priesthood. When a young man honors this calling, magnifies the office and shows himself in every way worthy, he may then be permitted to receive the office of teacher, and from teacher to priest; and usually when he has received and magnified the office of a priest he will have reached his majority. He is then ready, through his experience, and by his faithfulness in the Lesser Priesthood, to receive the High Priesthood. The office of elder is conferred upon him, then the office of seventy, and then the great and glorious office of a high priest. 

Thus, in time, every young man in Israel, as he advances in life, has the opportunity to receive a fulness of the priesthood. Such is truly the case, my brethren and sisters — and I say sisters, because I take it that the sisters of the Church are equally interested with the brethren, in the priesthood, for they are to receive their blessings and exaltation and a^lory through the priesthood held by their fathers and husbands. God has so ordained it. Therefore, as a Church, we are interested in this vital subject. 

Now, I don't know whether we fully realize and have entered into the spirit of the priesthood. I do not know whether, in mortality, we can fully comprehend it, but this I do know, that it is a great and glorious doctrine. Some further lisfht, I mav say great light, is thrown upon this important subiect in one of the revelations of God to his , and mark you, some great and glorious truths have come to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith, truths that were entirely unknown to the world in our time, but they have come to us and we are familiar with them. I tell you it is good to be reminded of these things. I refer to section 84 in the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with the thirty-third verse. I invite your close attention to these words. I would not attempt to repeat them, but I will read them carefully from the text: 

"For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Prieshoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of thenbodies; 

"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God; 

"And also all they who receive this Priesthood receivefh me, saith the Lord; 

"For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; 

"And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

"And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him; 

"And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. 

"Therefore, all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of mv Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved: 

"But whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come." 

You get some P'ea, by brethren and sisters, from this, how very important, how extremely sacred is the Holy Priesthood, which is nothing more nor less than divine authority committed unto man, and  the foregoing declaration is shown the absolute impartiality of our Father in heaven, for he says : "Whoso," (meaning any man and every man), "is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling," will enter into the possession of all things, for he will become a joint heir with Jesus Christ, the Lord, in such possession. Now, I ask you, what more could a faithful high priest receive than the promise of this blessing? Could he receive any more if he were an apostle ? Could he receive any more if he were a counselor in the Presidency of the Church? Could he receive anything more if he were the President of the Church, than a promise which gives to him a joint heirship in all things ? No, he could not. And so it is with the faithful seventy, and so with the faithful elr'er in the Church. 

There is no need for envy. There is no need for overweening ambition. There is no need to reach out and try to grasp that to which we are not entitled. The essential thing is that every man should see to it, that he obtains the High Priesthood. If he advances no further than the office of an elder but i.s faithful in the magnifying of his calling, he will enter into his glory and exaltation and will receive the fulness of which the record speaks. 

And does this not show clearly, beautifully, that God indeed is no respecter of persons? And as we heard in the prayer that was offered this afternoon, God has made us eatial. Oh, I delight in this principle of enualitv in the Church, which is invariably determined by the principle of faithfulness, of worthiness. Nothing will be with from the man who is worthy 

and no blessing will be withheld from the woman who is faithful and true. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I call your attention to the fact — and I think it is in harmony with the text and with what I have said — that we have in the Church today a great army of priesthood: 11,835 high priests; 10,497 seventies; 30,017 elders; 9,387 priests; 11,429 teachers; 23,623 deacons, making a total of 96,788 who bear the authority of the Holy Priesthood. 

Thus we see how this divine authority is distributed to the members of the Church. This responsibility reaches down to every faithful man. He is expected, he is required to carry responsibility, and to exercise in some degree divine authority. It does not all rest upon the President of the Church, nor does it rest wholly upon the First Presidency. It does not rest altogether upon the twelve apostles, or the general authorities. It rests down upon the Church of Christ throughout all the stakes. Everywhere you will meet this divine authority. I will tell you, brethren and sisters, wherever you do meet it in the stakes of Zion, or wards of Zion, or in the branches of the Church, it would be well for you to honor that authority, and not seek to override it, or go above it or beyond it unnecessarily. Let every man respect the authority of those who preside over him, no matter where he is, because it is connected with this great and glorious priesthood of which I have spoken. 

Let me remind you for a moment of the language of the revelation, which says that whoso succeeds in attaining to these two priesthoods and is faithful in magnifying his calling, will receive the blessing. In order that the men of the priesthood might become worthy of it, and worthy of the blessing and the exaltation that follow, it has pleased the Lord to inspire his servants of the First Presidency to appoint a committee to arrange courses of study for the priesthood. The committee is composed of four members of the Council of the Twelve, three members of the First Council of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric, two presidents of stakes, and five others. These brethren have been laboring in this line for about nine years. They have sought with due diligence, from time to time, to prepare manuals, or outlines, for the study of the priesthood, to be used by this great body of men, nearly one hundred thousand, that they might be more fully instructed in their duty, and in the glorious principles of the gospel. I feel that this is and has been a very great responsibility resting upon the committee. 

To give you some idea as to the manuals that have been prepared, I will just name a few : For the High Priesthood, manuals have been prepared on "Church Organization,'' "Divine Authority of the Book of Mormon," "History of the Gospel," "Duties and Principles from the Doctrine and Covenants," "Principles of the Gospel," "Atonement," "Articles of Faith." "First and Second volumes of Church History," "Divine Imminence," "Gospel Themes," "Rational Theology," and "Jesus the Christ." And for the Leser Priesthood : "Restoration of the Gospel," "Church History," "Old Testament History," "Divine Mission of the Savior," "The Bool; of Mormon," "First Steps in Church Government," "The Apostolic Age," "The Latter-dav Proph," "What the Priest should Know and Do," "Experiences from the Lives of early Church Leaders and Members," and "Jesus the Christ." 

I submit to you, my brethren and sisters, whether or not these are important subjects worthy of the attention and study of the priesthood. That is the purpose of it, and I point out to you that the opportunity is open to every man in this Church to secure the benefit of these courses of study. He is invited by the authorities of the Church into these classes, urged to go into them and to study and master these subjects, thereby fitting and qualifying him, so far as possible, under the Spirit of the Lord, to magnify the priesthood. Yet out of this vast army of priesthood, while there are many faithful, active men, diligent and studious, there are also others who are careless and indifferent, and who neglect the opportunity that is before them; but, mark you, biethren and sisters, any man who neglects his privileges and opportunities, is the loser. He is not advancing, he is not growing in faith and knowledge and good works as he should do. 

We urge the brethren of the priesthood to give this subject their careful, thoughtful and mast prayerful attention. We ask you, brethren and sisters, in the name of the authorities of the Church, who have sanctioned the movement, to take up this work and persuade those who are careless and indifferent to be a little more faithful and studious than heretofore. 

I bear testimony to you, in conclusion, that this is the Church and kingdom of God. I know it is — I have always known it. I testify to you that our leaders, the Prophets — and it is a glorious galaxy of men 

— six great leaders who have presided over the Church up to this day — I testify to you that I do positively know that they are true prophets of God, men of power, men of authority, men of counsel; and we would do well to give heed to their words and to follow their lead. There is safety in it. I know that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, that Jesus is the Christ, and that he atoned for the sins of the world upon Mount Calvary. This is my testimony, and I bear it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for this privilege of again raising my voice in the midst of the Latter-day Saints; and I can testify that the Lord has blessed us during the last six months. He has blessed both the authorities and the members of the Church, and I for one feel to acknowledge his hand in the blessings that have come to us; personally, for those that have come to me. I am very grateful to be here today, to hear the testimonies and the instructions that have been given in this conference, and I fully indorse them. My heart goes out in love and gratitude to our President. My heart also goes out to him in prayer and in blessing, that he may live yet a goodly number of years with us, to bless us, and to teach us, and to guide us in the ways of the Lord. I know through my experience in the Church, and visiting among the people, that he has the prayers of the people, both young and old, and I join with them in praying for his life and mission, that he may live to lead and bless  yet a goodly number of years, and enjoy the blessings of God all his days. 

When President Penrose was speaking concerning the mothers having to part with their dear boys, who have gone into the army, or who are preparing to go, a little passage of modern scripture, in the Doctrine and Covenants, came to my mind, and if I may have the Spirit of the Lord, as it has dictated what has already been said in this conference, I should like to remind the good mothers of this passage for their comfort. It is found in the 101st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, commencing at the 77th verse. 

"According to the laws and constitution of the people which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles, 

"That every man may act in doctrine and principles pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto them, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. 

"Therefore it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. 

"And for this purpose have I established the constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

Now, my object in reading this is by way of comfort to us as a people, and particularly to the fathers and mothers of the boys and men who may engage or who may go to prepare to engage in this great conflict. T look upon it as being a mission to every man who goes in humility and in faith, trusting in the living God— the God who has established this land and this government; that it is our duty to work out the mission given us, that the time may come when no one shall be in bondage one to another, and that liberty and freedom shall come to all flesh. Now, I don't know, when this is going to come, nor how long it is going to take, but it appeals to me, that as a people, and especially those who are called to engage in this conflict, who go out under the influence of the Holy Spirit, many of them bearing the holy Priesthood of which the brethren have spoken, servants of our Father in heaven, and our God, we have a most important mission to perform. God has given us this mission and commissioned us with divine authority to perform it. I say, many of our boys and men are going out with this authority, and it is my testimony, my brethren and .sisters, that if these men who go in this cause thus empowered, that if they go in the spirit of faith and in the spirit of humility, and will keep themselves in touch with the promptings of the Holy Spirit, which it is their right to enjoy, that they will be a force and a power for good in the earth, for the working out of the purposes of God, to hasten the time, if not to bring it about, when freedom and liberty shall come to all flesh, -when men shall not be in bondage one to another. It is my testimony that this is one of the purposes for which we as a people are called to engage in this great conflict. So I say to my brethren and sisters, especially to the good mothers of these boys, let us continue to pray  them, to sustain them, that they may be pure and clean before the Lord, and magnify that priesthood which has been given them, that God may be enabled to work about his purposes and . to bring them to pass through his honored servants, those whom he has entrusted with his holy priesthood. I believe with all my heart that these men who are entrusted with this great power and authority in, the earth will have influence for good wherever they are called to go, whether it be in the training camps or whether it be in the very battles of the world. Among these boys and men are the choice sons of Israel; many of them — I suppose the majority of them — are clean and pure and virtuous; and they are the best of those among us, because the Government will not have those who are not the best. They must be physically prepared, perfect if possible, and so they are the very best of our young men who are entering this conflict, and we look to them for something to be done by way of bringing about the purposes of the Lord. We look to them to perform a great mission. Therefore let us pray for them, let us pray that the Lord will be with them and preserve them from the evils and wickedness, the sins, and the vices of the world, that they may return, if it be possible, clean and pure, to go on and magnify their priesthood and further bring about the purposes of the Lord. 

My prayers and blessings go with our boys. God bless them and bless their mothers and fathers, and bless us all, that we may each learn our part in life, fulfill our missions and live worthy lives before the Lord. I am quite sure that his blessings have attended us through this land. In going through the country from time to time and from year to year I have never seen a more bounteous harvest, better grain, better fruit, or more of it. Let us return our gratitude to the Lord. We do not know how long these good things are going to last, but we hope that we will never lack nor suffer for the blessings of the Lord. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in a testimony of the gospel. T know that we have the gospel of Jesus Christ and that it is the true plan of human redemption and exaltation. I know that the Lord lives, and that he will hear and answer our prayers, that he will comfort and sustain us in performing our duties, as long as we are humble and prayerful and will keep ourselves in harmony with his work, and as President Penrose has said, "Follow our leader." 

Among the thousands of men who hold the priesthood about which Brother Clawson has been speaking, are about 200 men who hold the office of Patriarch, and I commend the service of these brethren to the Latter-day Saints. 

I am very gratified to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that there seems to be, during the last year, a greater desire on the part of the men or brethren to receive their blessings. Before the war the great majority of those who were seeking their blessings from the Lord, at the hands of the patriarchs, were the sisters of the 

Church; but during the last few months the men have been called to humble themselves and to think more seriously concerning the future and they too are seeking their blessings at the hands of the priesthood. I think there is a providence in this, and I trust that the brethren as well as the sisters will continue to seek and obtain their blessings at the hands of the patriarchs of the Church, and honor the Priesthood in so doing, and they will receive their blessings from the Lord at the hands of his servants. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I bless you all. My heart goes out in blessing to all Israel, to the faithful of the house of Israel wherever they are found, at home or abroad, and I pray that God will be with them all according to their righteous needs, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Hyrum M. Smith gave out notice of a public meeting in the Tabernacle this evening at 8:15 o'clock, at which Hon. Franklin K. Lane, Secretary of the Interior, would speak and be the guest of honor, in behalf of the National Council of Defense. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

Conference adjourned until Saturday morning at 10 o'clock. 



