16
Second Overflow
05 04 1914
Elder Walter P. Monson. 
94
65-69

None

None

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I am truly happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of meeting with you, and partaking of the sweet influence, the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, which has characterized the various meetings and the teachings of this conference. To one who has been away in the world, striving to gain an audience of those who do not know the Lord, no sweeter joy can come into his life than to look into the faces of his brethren and sisters, in such vast numbers as we have at this conference. These conferences have always been well attended, which is merely an expression of the integrity of heart of this people, who have made covenants with our Heavenly Father. For the true Latter-day Saint to come to conference twice a year, besides attending to his duties and services in his ward, and in the stake of Zion where he lives, is a privilege wherein our souls find a sweet expression.  
  
When I look into your faces, I realize that there is a soul to this vast meeting, which is of a higher order than, perhaps, that of any individual in the congregation. We all have our faults and failings, but not all have the same faults. When we consider the virtues of each individual here today, I want to say that the aggregate will make a character and soul to this meeting typifying, to an extent, the life, soul, and character of our Lord and Master. There is virtue in the heart of each one who has sought communication with his Heavenly Father, by the inspiration of God's Holy Spirit.  
  
We hold a position in the world I sometimes think, that is not fully realized by us as Latter-day Saints. When I looked over the morning meeting in the Tabernacle, and look over this congregation today, I see many brethren holding the priesthood, whose wives and children will be partakers of that priesthood with them, and it causes my heart to rejoice. I wonder, Do we really sense the obligation placed upon us, when the priesthood was conferred upon us, or do we look upon priesthood as merely a calling, an honor and not one of service? I do not believe that the Lord has given the priesthood for no purpose. There are certain requirements in that priesthood which we are called upon to magnify. When your sons and husbands go out and face a wicked world, raise up their voices in declaring that the heavens have been opened, and the Gospel has been restored in its infinite purity, I tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is an inspiration to me that is not equaled by anything else that I have beheld in my life. You have young men in the Eastern States Mission, and it seems that the powers of the adversary are arrayed against the work. There are lecturers talking for money and for effect, trying to poison the minds of the people against this work.  
  
Our position in this world, my brethren and sisters, is not one of destruction; it is the most constructive work that was ever inaugurated. God has called upon us, not only to go and preach the Gospel, that it might be said that we have fulfilled a two, three, or five years' mission, but that we have labored in the service of the Most High to bring souls unto God. It has been a joy to me to go and herald this Gospel to the world, to lift my voice in defense of what I know is right, what God has revealed unto me. I should be untrue to every sacred sentiment of my heart were I to say, when a call comes to me, that there are others much healthier than I. who are better prepared with this world's goods, better able from an educational standpoint to bear witness of the divinity of this work. I must be true to every true sentiment of my heart.  
  
God has not given us priesthood that we may only go to our classes and answer "present" once a week. There may be some, perhaps, who have this idea concerning their calling in the priesthood. We are that "peculiar people, a royal priesthood, and holy nation," because we are called upon to bear this Gospel unto the world. At the time that great tragedy was committed by Cain, the first capital criminal, the Lord asked him, "Where is thy brother?" he answered, "Am I my brother's keeper." We have sufficient examples in holy writ to show that it is the duty of every individual child of our Heavenly Father, who has received testimony of the truth, to bear witness unto his neighbors. It is not necessary to go into the world, cross the seas, or into some foreign country to warn another, nor to magnify your priesthood and calling; but it is equally our duty right here at home, here where charity, the love of human souls, can be increased in the hearts of the children of men.  
  
The Lord, in speaking through His Prophet Ezekiel, says:  
  
"Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel; therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul."  
  
We have also in modern revelation, as contained in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord says that every one who is warned must warn his neighbor. Does it not appear to you, then, that I am my brother's keeper? An individual who would forsake that responsibility, and partake of the spirit that was manifest by Cain on the occasion that I have mentioned, I tell you that he is not acting according to the spirit of the Gospel, or the word of the Lord. We have imposed upon us a great obligation in "bearing the vessels of the Lord" before the world, even though this life may be spent away from friends and relatives, the comforts of home, and pleasant surroundings. President Geddes has told us he respected his father because he had shown that he was willing to leave father and mother, houses and lands, wife and children, for the Gospel's sake. There is something in such a nature that is devoutly to be admired.  
  
When I think upon the release which came to my predecessor, President Ben E. Rich, it fills my heart with joy to know that that valiant defender of the faith received his release from God, our Heavenly Father. If it is pleasing unto Him, and I have found favor in the eyes of the Lord, through the sincerity of my heart, I hope that my release may come as President Rich's came. I am interested in this work. My heart is in it, my all. I have laid all on the altar of sacrifice, to go into the world to proclaim this Gospel of life and salvation.  
  
Upon one occasion the question was asked the Lord and Master by the Pharisees who came unto him tauntingly: "Master, is it right to pay tribute to Caesar or no?" The Master, with diplomacy, yet with wisdom and inspiration, said: "Bring me a penny." And as He took the penny, and held it in His hand He said "Whose is this image and superscription?" And they said unto him, Caesar's. And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's." When I look into your countenances, I see the image, the superscription of God. We are simple coin current that is passing, doing good that we could not otherwise do. We have come forth from the mint of the Gods, and passed current, and done the good that was designed in our coming to this earth, then we shall return and be redeemed. I sincerely trust that we will look upon the doing of these things as a sacred obligation we owe to mankind.  
  
I have much to be thankful for. My father, who was a jailer, had the privilege of hearing the Gospel preached through prison bars, where there were three elders incarcerated for the testimony of Jesus. Their audience was one boy, 19 years of age. He went to the head jailer and told him that those men were not wicked, as they had been accused, and the result was that the elders were released. Two of them are still living, the other has gone to his reward.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I know that the Gospel is true. I do not know how I can find words to express the gratitude in my heart for being born and raised under the covenant, and to my Heavenly Father for the testimony which has been given me. I hope to always remain true to it. Perhaps I could make you understand what the Gospel means to me when I tell you how I feel when I look into the aged face of my dear old mother, when I comprehend the loving affection that she extended to me in my childhood. When retiring at night she would have me kneel at her side and taught me to pray to my Heavenly Father to guide and teach me in my boyhood days. When I went upon my first mission, she enjoined me in these words: "Always keep your eye on the First Presidency of the Church; where these men lead you must follow." That principle has been burned deep in my nature, by the loving words of that mother. If you could understand what my father and my mother have done for me, you would understand how I regard the Gospel. The influence and teaching of my father and mother have placed me in a position to appreciate the blessings of the Gospel. I want to say that my earthly father has not been more kind to me, though he was the embodiment of affection, than has my Heavenly Father, whose merciful blessings that have been given unto me from time to time, are priceless. When I look upon the sacrifice that was made by my father in leaving his home in the old country, and walking across the plains a humble Norwegian boy, who could not say a word of English, and then realize that he has raised a family of 26 children, I feel that I want to praise the Lord all the days of my life for such parentage.  
  
The priesthood which has been given unto us is most sacred, and I feel that when we understand the full import of our calling we will be more diligent, and more faithful, and the question will never pass our lips, "Am I my brother's keeper?"  
  
I desire to read to you a passage of modern scripture:  
  
''Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson, that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved, and when it is withdrawn, amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints and to fight against God. We have learned by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; and that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death; let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distill upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever."  
  
O what a magnificent key to those who hold the authority of the holy priesthood! How many of the inhabitants of Zion have the patience and love that they should have toward those who may have sinned, some young man or young woman who may have gone into by and forbidden paths. Have we oppressed, or has unrighteous dominion been exercised in such cases? Or has there been mercy and love extended to such to keep them within the bonds of the covenant? I tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is much required of us who have made covenants with our Heavenly Father.  
  
May God's blessings rest upon us all, that when we shall look back upon our lives we may feel a sense of satisfaction, having appreciated the truths that have been revealed from heaven. When we shall be brought to stand before the great Judge, to account for the deeds done in the body, may it be said of us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many." May this be our happy lot, and that we may enter into the glory of the celestial abode, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
