17
Second Overflow
05 04 1914
Elder Lucius N. Marsden. 
111
69-70

None

None

(President of Parowan Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is truly a pleasure for me to speak to you a few moments upon this occasion. I trust that the few moments I occupy that I may be inspired by that same spirit which has been with our brethren during our conference, arid during this meeting. I appreciate very much that our stake has been recognized during this conference; not that I wish to appear before you, but Parowan Stake is one of the older stakes of Zion. While it is one of the old stakes, I am only new in the work. I am pleased to report to you that we have a lot of good brethren and sisters in the Parowan stake of Zion, and it is a pleasure to work among them.  
  
I am pleased to meet with you in our general conferences, from time to time, and partake of the spirit which prevails at these gatherings. I might mention one thing, about the only thought that I wish to speak about, and that is a thing that prevails to some extent in our stake. It is that, in traveling through the stake and getting acquainted with the people, I notice we are not studying the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, as much as we should do. You know we have been told the glory of God is intelligence. I believe that through the study of these books we will gain much intelligence. I believe that it is a great mistake for families in our community to refrain from studying these books. We are now advocating the study of these church works in our stake, and I trust that our talk will not be in vain. I noticed Elder George Albert Smith's remarks in yesterday's meeting, that he mentioned this same thing, and I take it, my brethren and sister, that we are not the only stake making this regretable mistake.  
  
Progression and advancement in a financial way are all right, but we have too many brethren and sisters in our stake that pay little or no attention to becoming familiar with the principles of the Gospel. Many go to their labors from day to day and think but little about studying the principles of life and salvation, and I think that should be regarded as most important. It has been said, "What doth it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul?" This is in my opinion, my brethren and sisters, a most important question. I trust that it will be the effort of every stake presidency and of every bishop in the Church, where these conditions prevail, to try and better the conditions in this regard.  
  
My testimony is that the Gospel is true; that the Savior came upon this earth and sacrificed His life, and made salvation possible to all. I sometimes think that we hardly appreciate that great fact.  
  
Let us investigate the principles of the Gospel. Study the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. I do not know of any better way to get the spirit of our office and calling than to study up these principles, and try to live in accordance therewith. May God bless us in all our efforts, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
