19
Outdoor
05 04 1914
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
72-73

None

None

(President of Bureau of Information.) 

My brethren and sisters, I do not think any of us anticipated this morning that the weather would permit of an open-air meeting. The Lord, however, has been very good to us, especially in view of the fact that it is impossible to accomodate you in the Tabernacle or in the Assembly Hall, and other available halls are too far distant.  
  
We are very glad that you are willing to come here, and to stand and enjoy the service that has been appointed for your benefit by President Smith. Our brethren who have been called to address you, come before you in all humility and meekness, relying upon your faith and sustaining influence, and prayers that the Lord will bless us in our gathering together.  
  
I suggest to you one thought, in connection with our meeting here, and the other assemblies that are being held on this block. The work of the Lord in the latter days had a very small beginning. The Church was organized in 1830, with six members. The growth has been steady and sure since then. The work spread from city to city, from state to state, until subsequently the Gospel was carried to distant lands, and now, in fulfillment of prophecy, our elders are going forth, carrying the message unto all nations, in accordance with the Master's injunction that "this Gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached as a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come." The growth of our work in other lands has also been slow, but just as sure, and our membership has increased year by year, until today we are assured that the Church is permanently established in the earth.  
  
God has indeed fulfilled His word. I desire to read one passage from Daniel 2nd chap., with reference to the work of the Lord in the latter day, "And in the days of these kings, shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people." Having this in mind, permit me to impress upon you the permanency of this work. I had the honor last evening of attending a mission reunion. When that particular mission was first opened, one elder labored alone in that land for several years, proclaiming the Gospel, bearing his testimony, but finding none to accept the truth. Afterwards, two elders labored there, but years passed before the truth entered permanently into the hearts of the people. At the present time, on that little island of the sea, we have a membership of five thousand people. Elders have continued laboring there, year after year, and last evening in the gathering referred to, when elders who had labored in that land amongst the natives were asked to join in song, they met on the stand, fifty strong, young men and old men, filled with faith, earnest in the work, having a testimony of the truth, and as they stood there, singing the songs of Zion, the remark was made, "If, in the Providence of the Almighty, it were necessary for every elder now in that missionary field to be removed, here is a force of men strong enough to  the mission, who would readily respond to the call, and, in an exigency, would take hold of the work in that far distant land."  
  
This is but an illustration of all other missions that have been established under the inspiration of the Almighty. I, therefore, rejoice with you in these evidences of the permanency of this work. God has established it and will sustain it. It "shall never be destroyed, nor be given to another people." We are engaged in this work, it belongs to the Saints, and the Lord has raised up prophets to direct it and has given unto them the inspiration of His Spirit. In this audience, are men of almost every nationality, women almost from every country, who are here by virtue of the work that has been done in their respective lands by elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
I pray that God will bless us in this gathering. I ask you to join in praying that the Lord will bless these speakers, and sustain them, for they have not come of their own will, but because a servant of God has said, "the people on the outside cannot be taught this afternoon, unless you go out to them, the buildings being crowded to their utmost capacity." They are here in response to that call, and I bespeak for them your kind attention and your prayerful assistance.  
