26
Morning
06 04 1914
President Seymour B. Young 
49
97-100

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I copy the following incident, from the writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith:  
  
"In February, 1841, the City Council of Nauvoo, established and organized an institution of learning, to be known as the University of the City of Nauvoo, to be under the control and management of a Board of Trustees, consisting of a Chancelor, a Registrar, and 25 Regents, which board shall be a Body Corporate, and Political, with perpetual successors.  
  
"These officers shall be known as the Chancelor, and Regents of the University, of the City of Nauvoo. These Regents of the University, will have the general supervision of all matters educational, from the common school, up to the highest branches of a most liberal collegiate course. The Regency, will establish a regular system of education, and advance the pupil from Teacher to Professor, until the regular graduation is accomplished, and the education of the pupil is completed."  
  
Daniel H. Wells, though not a member of the Church at that time, was appointed one of the regents of this University, thus exemplifying, the good judgment of the Prophet, in his selection, recognizing talent and ability outside of the members of the Church.  
  
Thus early was proposed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the leading brethren of Nauvoo, the grade system for schools, centered around a magnificient university, which would have done credit to any community. Although the prophet's life was taken, and the Saints driven from Nauvoo, before this university could be completed, the plans and ideas were remembered by President Brigham Young, and his brethren, and were perfected in Great Salt Lake City. In 1850 the University of Desert was sucessfully started, which institution increased in growth and magnitude, until it culminated and stands today, a noble monument of learning to the people of Utah, as the "U. of U," one of the greatest in the intermountain region.  
  
About two years ago, Elder Burrel Chandler, of Saint George Stake, wrote a letter to President Joseph F. Smith, enquiring as to the number of nations of the earth, who had received the Gospel, and I had the pleasure, by invitation of the President, to answer the letter. The following are the prominent nations of the earth who have received the Gospel:  
  
United States of America, (meaning our Republic); also Old Mexico, the Hawaiian Islands, Finland, Austria, Hungary, Sweden, Germany, France, Norway, Italy, Hindostan, Australia, Canada, Great Britain, (including Ireland, Scotland and Wales), the Netherlands, Switzerland, Denmark, South Africa, Turkey, Samoa, Tahiti, or the Society Islands, Belgium, Rumania, Egypt, Iceland, Bulgaria, Japan and Greece.  
  
The Book of Mormon has been translated into the following national and tribal languages:  
  
First published in 
  
1. English, 1830  
  
2. Danish, 1851  
  
3. French, 1832  
  
4. German, 1852  
  
5. Italian, 1852  
  
6. Welsh, 1852  
  
7. Hawaiian, 1855  
  
8. Swedish 1878  
  
9. Spanish, 1886  
  
10. Maori, 1889  
  
11. Dutch, 1890  
  
12. Samoan, 1903  
  
13. Tahitian, 1904  
  
14. Turkish, 906  
  
15. Japanese, 1909  
  
The Book of Mormon has also been translated, but not yet published, in Hindostanee, Modern Jewish, and Greek.  
  
Of all the recent translations of this sacred volume, the Japanese translation has been considered, I believe, the most difficult. During the administration of President Lorenzo Snow, a mission was organized and appointed to Japan, and Apostle Heber J. Grant was assigned to the presidency of that mission. He, with his fellow missionaries, arrived in that land and established the mission, and Elder Grant remained there a couple of years or more, as president of the mission. On his release from that labor, to return home, he left as the mission president. Elder Horace S. Ensign, who in his turn, presided for two years. On Brother Ensign's release from that mission, the presidency was given to Elder Alma O, Taylor, who labored there nine and one-half years, and during his presidency, the Book of Mormon was translated into the Japanese language. Brother Taylor informed me that because of the magnitude of the labor of translation he found it necessary to devote his energies almost entirely to acquiring the language as nearly perfect as possible, in order to enable him to properly undertake the great work; and that he called to his aid some of the best scholars of the nation, to assist in the construction, and proof-reading, before its publication, succeeding thus in getting it as near correctly translated as it was possible to do.  
  
The progress and advancement of the Church is undeniable. The success of the Prophet Joseph in translating the Book of Mormon, from the records committed to him by the Nephite prophet, is beyond question, and no successful contradiction has ever been raised against the truth of that record, or its faithful and correct translation from the reformed Egyptian, as represented by the character of the hieroglyphics found upon the plates. I quote from the Book of the Prophet Mormon, chapter 9, verses 32 and 33, as follows:  
  
"And now behold we have written this record according to our knowledge, of that which is called among us the reformed Egyptian, being handed down and altered by us according to our manner of speech."  
  
In First Nephi, 1st chapter, 2nd and 3rd verses, we also read:  
  
"Yea, I make a record in the language of my father, which consists of the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians, and I know that the record which I make is true, and I make it with mine own hand."  
  
Without fear of contradiction, it may he truly said that the Prophet Joseph became a successful translator, being assisted in this work by the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and, by earnest study and application on his part. He was not only enabled to translate the Book of Mormon, from the reformed Egyptian, but also to translate the Book of Abraham, as found in the Pearl of Great Price, a volume edited and compiled by Apostle F. D. Richards, which Pearl of Great Price has been and is accepted as one of the text books of the Church. The writings of Moses, another of the Books contained in this sacred volume, was "revealed to Joseph, the Seer, in December, 1830." The Book of Abraham was translated by Joseph Smith, the Seer, from ancient records that were found in the catacombs of Egypt (entitled, "the writings of Abraham while he was in Egypt." This is a quotation from the record called the Book of Abraham, written by his own hand, upon papyrus. Although, recently, a minister of a Christian Church has presumed to criticise adversely, especially this Book of Abraham, his efforts have only induced a more careful, perusal and more thorough study of this valuable work, which has brought an increase of testimony of its divinity to the mind and heart of every true Latter-day Saint. Let me say here that the statements of the critics he selected, consisting of professed scientific Egyptologists, has done this minister no credit, as they have not agreed, but have rendered diverse and contradictory opinions as to the interpretation of the picture plates published in connection with the Book of Abraham, by the Prophet Joseph Smith.  
  
During a recent visit here of General Washington Gardner, the Commander-in-chief of the Grand Army of the Republic of the United States, I had the pleasure of meeting that gentleman on several occasions, and by his invitation accompanied him to Fort Douglas, with other members of the Utah division of the Garnd Army. During our short visit to the post, General Gardner became acquainted with the commanding officer at the post, and some of his associates, and also was received and feated here by different political and local organizations. I noticed, on the occasions when he was as an honored guest of these societies, when refreshments were offered to him. in the shape of cigars, wine, or strong drink of any kind, he invariably refused such things. After we had passed out of one of the gatherings. I said to him, "You never smoke. General?" "Never, never smoked a cigar in my life." "I notice that you also refused wine, or strong drink?" "I never drink wine, or beer, or liquor of any kind, nor use tobacco in any shape or form." I was exceedingly gratified by his statements on this matter, and I felt to congratulate him in the abstemious life that he had led. I attribute his excellent physical condition, and bodily health, as a result of his proper habits of life. He seemed to be a perfect embodiment of a soldier and a gentleman. He requested that I arrange, if possible, a meeting for him with President Smith. I was enabled to do this, through the courtesy of President Smith, and when we left the president's office by the general's request, I conducted him to President Brigham Young's grave. General Gardner said that he recognized in the great pioneer of the "Mormon" people a very able general, a man of marked ability, displayed in leading his people to this land, then a desert, and the success that they have achieved in establishing great cities and communities in this distant mountain region. He also requested me to furnish him some literature of the Church. I made this request known to President Smith, and he said, "Select the textbooks of the Church, in as nice form as you can find them, and bring them to the office;" this was done and in the books he placed his autograph. The selection consisted of the Old and New Testaments, King James' translation — in an elegent cover of limp morocco; the Book of Covenants, combining also the Pearl of Great Price; and the Book of Mormon, in similar binding. In these three volumes President Smith placed his autograph, and when I presented the books from President Smith to General Gardner he expressed himself as much delighted with the present. He added, "As soon as I return home, or as soon as I have the opportunity, I pledge you my word I will read these books and note their contents I carefully. I wish you would return, my sincere thanks to President Smith, and to your people generally, for the kindness they have shown to me since my arrival here in Utah. And," said he, "I never have received, in any state of the Union, a reception so grand, so heartily tendered, or more acceptable to me, as I have here in Utah, and especially in Salt Lake City. The large number of school children who appeared in the parade, and the numbers you have enrolled in your schools, is a revelation to me of your great prospects for the future."  
  
I bear my testimony to you today, my brethren and sisters, that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God. The Lord designated him as the Prophet of the last dispensation, and committed to him the keys of His kingdom. He stands as the president, prophet, seer and revelator of this the dispensation of the fulness of times. Although he suffered a martyr's death, many years ago, the work of the Lord has continued in the hands of the able men who have been inspired by the same prophetic ministry, and today our leaders are inspired and blest with the spirit of their calling and mission. I testify to you that "Mormonism" is true, and that the glory of God's Kingdom will be realized; and, if the people are faithful, they will be partakers of the excellent results that shall come to them by keeping the commandments of the Lord. God bless you forever, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
