28
Morning
06 04 1914
Elder J. Golden Kimball. 
14
109-110

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

President Smith desired me to read this letter, signed by James M. Kirkham, chairman of the Utah Development League:  
  
President Joseph F. Smith, Salt Lake City, Utah:  
  
Dear Brother Smith: Referring to the clean town contest which I talked with you about, the committee who has this matter in charge is trying to create a spirit among all the cities and towns of this state to clean up and beautify their homes and surroundings. To do this a clean town contest has been planned. Although the Utah Development league, which consists of a central organization of all the commercial clubs of the state, are taking the lead in the matter, we hope to bring into active service in this campaign all the different societies and civic clubs, schools, agricultural clubs, and those who have in charge the city beautiful movement and vacant lot campaign.  
  
I do not know of a greater service that can be done the state than this movement properly carried out. The scoring of the different towns will be done by some person from outside the state in order that there can be no question of favoritism.  
  
Of the 100 points about 65 will be for sanitary conditions, while the remaining 35 points will be for physical conditions. This movement can be successful only by the united -co-operation of every one.  
  
The fly crusade will be part of the general scheme in the state-wide clean up.  
  
Each town will be asked to arrange for a suitable prize for the cleanest back yard, stables, corrals and general surroundings, also prizes for the most beautiful flower garden and lawns, etc.  
  
We hope to create civic pride even among those who are now leaders and in this way arouse the dormant people who have not taken part in a movement of this kind before.  
  
The state board of health is responsible for the statement that several hundred deaths could be prevented if proper sanitary conditions existed. Besides this there is the misery and suffering of many people who do not die but who become subject to sickness because of contagious diseases.  
  
The towns of the state will be divided into five classes according to the population. the suitable prizes will be given to each city in its class that scores the highest.  
  
Commencing with April 11th many of the largest towns have planned for a whole week of clean up. Wednesday April 15th. which is Arbor Day be set aside as a special day in this movement. Governor William Spry will issue a proclamation to that effect. Mayor Park and leaders in other cities will issue similar proclamations asking the people that they hold meetings and programs, emphasizing the importance of a general clean up throughout the state.  
  
This week will be the beginning of what we hope will be a general clean up program to be carried on throughout the year. The value of cleanliness I shall not presume to discuss, because you know that cleanliness is a part of Godliness.  
  
I want to assure you that any assistance you can give us in the way of indorsing this movement and saying something to emphasize its importance when you have an opportunity will be greatly apprecated. Very truly,  
  
In behalf of the Committee. James M. Kirkham,  
  
Chairman.  
  
I am very thankful this morning, notwithstanding the condition of my physical body, that I have been busily engaged cleaning up my own door-yard. I could not get the boy to do it, so I got busy and did it myself. (Laughter.) I am pretty near dead tired as a result of it; but I am grateful, for this suggestion to the Latter-day Saints, as to the "Clean town Contest."  
  
In our beauitful Utah many of the homes and farms are old fashioned. There is very little intense farming. Some people declare that nearly everybody is slipshod, barns, houses, outbuldings are fast going to ruin. The front yards are weedgrown, the fences down and hid by weeds, no flowers, no lawns, no vegetable gardens, no family orchards, and if there is, the trees are old, sickly and neglected. The fact is, no more beautiful valley, no better place has God's people ever found. No people have been more greatly favored during last year, as to climate. The past winter has been unexecelled, it has been just lovely. There is no need to go to California, or to the East, North, or South. I have made enquiries, and am posted. As the saying is, we have all countries and climates "skinned to death."  
  
What we need is old time enthusiasm. We should make a strong appeal to the rising generation and get the boys and girls to use their heads, and go to work with their hands. We need practical education, ambition, push. The whole family ought to work, none should be ashamed of work, but all should roll up their sleeves and dig. The key of success is: "We're not afraid of work." There should be no aged father or mother bent with hard work, who could say: Our boys and girls are educated so much that they go away from the home and farm. The ranch and farm just about keep me and the old lady now that the children are gone. We appeal to their children to give them a lift occasionally. Let the cry go out to all, and create a desire among the citizens of our cities and towns to clean up and beautify the old homesteads and surroundings. Certain it is that some of our homes, outbuildings and fences need whitewashing awfully bad.  
  
I visited my mother's home town in Hopewell. New Jersey, in 1884, and I found there was no home, no outbuilding, no fence that was not painted, or whitewashed.  
  
Now, brethren and sisters, awake, and make a good try-out in following this suggestion. No greater blessing can come to this people than a thorough and general cleansing of homes and surroundings. The Lord bless you all. Amen. 
