29
Afternoon
06 04 1914
Elder Rulon S. Wells. 
44
111-113

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel my dependence upon the Lord this afternoon, more than I ever did before, it seems to me, and I sincerely hope that the Lord will favor me with His Spirit to say a few beneficial words while I stand before you.  
  
I have rejoiced exceedingly in the spirit of this conference. It has been to me faith-promoting. When President Smith was speaking at the opening session, I recognized the spirit of inspiration which rested upon him. The high standard, that has been raised up in this dispensation of the Lord's providences unto His people, is something worthy of consideration by all the peoples of the earth. It seems to me that in the life of our Redeemer the example was set for all mankind, and whereas we may fall short of those perfections which were illustrated in His divine life, nevertheless we have a standard raised up by which we are to be measured. In order that we may approach His perfections, the Gospel has been delivered to the children of men, and in it we have been admonished to be perfect even as our Father in heaven is perfect. No one realizes more than I do myself the weaknesses by which we are beset at every hand. Sometimes we hear one say that we ought not to preach anything that we do not practice. It seems to me that that is not altogether correct, but I do endorse the doctrine that we ought not to preach anything that we do not try to do, even though we may not completely succeed in coming to that degree of excellence. We should preach Christ and Him crucified. We should preach the excellence of His life, whether or not we are able to come up to His standard completely. We are living in a world of sin. We are exposed to the temptations of the world. We have our weaknesses and our imperfections. Nevertheless we have delivered unto us the power of God unto salvation, and that power of God is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and obedience to that will perfect us in our lives. Nevertheless there is sin in the world, and none of us are perfect. We have our weaknesses and our imperfections, but we ought not to glory in them. We ought not to think that they are justified, or that we are justified in doing anything that is wrong. We are only in the right attitude when we are engaged in the fight against sin.  
  
It is a great warfare that is being carried on in this world. It is the power of God versus the power of the adversary. It is truth versus error. It is righteousness against sin; and only he has his feet planted in the straight and narrow way that is striving and endeavoring to overcome his weaknesses and imperfections. Neither ought we to judge one another, and think because some one may not be as near perfect as we consider ourselves to be, that he is therefore lost. Each man and each woman, each child of God has his own battle to fight. They have their own environment in which they move. They have the particular training that they have received from their parents. Some have had greater advantages than others; and we are not in a position to judge any one. We are scarcely able to judge even ourselves. But we ought to be engaged in fighting sin, at the same time being full of love and charity towards all men, whether they be sinners or not. All men are to a certain degree sinners; and this question of sin is to be regarded pretty much in the same light as we regard sickness and disease. We may loathe and hate sin and yet be full of love and charity towards the sinner, just as we may loathe and despise disease and pain, and at the same time be full of love and charity towards those who are afflicted; and our purpose should be to bring relief both to the sinner and to the afflicted.  
  
There is an analogy between these two propositions, between sin and sickness. In each case, in both cases, it is required that they should have proper treatment. In the case of a man or a woman who has been afflicted with some bodily ailment, what a splendid thing it is to call someone in who is skilled in the art of bringing relief, some physician or doctor who can bring relief to suffering humanity. It is also essential and requisite that those who are afflicted with sin should have relief brought to them; and what a blessed service it is when we can render relief, bring restoration unto a state of righteousness to him that is afflicted with sin. There are a great many maladies both physical and spiritual. The Lord, however, has given a remedy for every evil, for every affliction. The Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is a panacea for every affliction of the soul of man. We ought to practice and obey that Gospel, apply it to everything in our lives, that we may be healed from the afflictions of sin. The whole world lieth in sin, under the bondage of sin, and we are not relieved from that bondage until we shall overcome evil, even the sins with which we are afflicted. If the Gospel be applied to each and every one of us, and we obey its principles, its precepts, it will heal us spiritually, and finally bring us back into the presence of God, sound and whole, and free every whit from all the contagions and diseases of sin that are found in the world today.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I realize that the moments here are very precious so I will close, and in conclusion let me I bear my testimony that I know that this Gospel, which has been restored in the day and age in which we live, through the instrumentality of the prophet Joseph Smith, has within it the power of God to heal the sick, to heal the afflicted, whether it be from sin or from sickness. I pray the Lord that He will guide us by His Holy Spirit, and finally bring us back into His presence, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
