34
Afternoon
06 04 1914
Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith. 
32
122-123

None

None

I, too, my brethren and sisters, rejoice in the spirit of this conference, in the instructions that have been given; and can bear my testimony that I know the Lord has been with us, by His Holy Spirit, to indite the same. I know that the Lord is pleased with those who work, not only for themselves but for others. I rejoice in having the privilege to do my part in the work of salvation. I rejoice in the testimonies that have come to me, concerning the means and opportunity for salvation. I believe in the plan of redemption that has been made known in these last days unto the Latter-day Saints. I know from my experience, and from the testimony that has come to me, through the promptings of the Holy Spirit, that it is the true plan of life and salvation, and all of those who will accept the same, and obey the principles thereof, will gain that eternal salvation which we are all working for. That is my testimony.  
  
I rejoice in the privilege of associating with the men whom the Lord has called in this present time, to stand at the head of this great work. I pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with them; and may His blessings be with all Israel, and those especially who are called to responsible places in the work of the Lord.  
  
I have rejoiced in the songs of praise that have been sung in this conference. I have rejoiced in the testimonies that have been borne. My heart has been touched with the words of kindness concerning those who have devotedly labored for our welfare; and that the young and rising generation are receiving such splendid opportunities for progress in this present time. I would like to exhort the youth of Zion to follow more closely in the footsteps of these men and women who have gone before us, who have diligently labored, and truly have eaten their bread by the sweat of their brow, who have incessantly toiled in these valleys of the mountains, and have cleared away the roughness thereof, so that their children are now rejoicing in the productive gardens, and beauties of these valleys, and the fruits of the land. I would like to exhort the younger people that when we are gathering and garnering the fruits that we are now enjoying, that we will not forget the Lord, nor our parents, — those who have so toiled for us that these blessings have been made comparatively easy. I believe, as our beloved bishop has said, that only those who do work, are entitled to receive the blessing, and that we ought not to think of gaining a salvation in ease.  
  
I am grateful to have the privilege of going about in the stakes of Zion, visiting and getting acquainted with those whom the Lord has called into responsible places in the midst of His people. My particular mission has called me to associate with men who are the fathers of this people, who have won their places and standing in the Church through constant and persistent labor. They are the men whom the Lord has chosen, whom He has honored with responsibility, who after their labors are almost at an end, have been allowed to step up and take seats of honor and comparative ease. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that we have men in our midst who can stand up in the congregations of Israel and testify that, through all these years of toil and labor, the Lord has been with them, and that the honor and glory is not theirs, but is the glory and the work of the Lord.  
  
May His Spirit be with these honorable men and women; sustain them in their callings and responsibilities; that in the end they may triumph in the glory of the Lord. May His work in the earth triumph; and when He comes in His glory, I trust He will be pleased with us, and that He will not put off that glorious day upon our account; but that we, through the inspiration, received in the lessons of life that He has given to us, will be accepted as His chosen children, that we may not turn away from that responsibility but live up to it, keeping every precept, accepting every truth and living in very deed as His children.  
  
The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters; may you take to your homes the admonitions and exhortations imparted at this conference; that you parents may teach your children the truths of the Gospel, and not come under condemnation for neglect thereof. May the youth of Israel, the young and rising generation of today, listen to the teachings of their parents, and heed the admonitions of those who are called into responsible places in the Holy Priesthood. May the blessings of heaven attend you all, my brethren and sisters, especially those to whom responsibility has come, that the work of the Lord may triumph, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
