35
Afternoon
06 04 1914
Auditors' Report. 
13
123-125

None

None

The annual report of the Auditing Committee of the Church was read by Elder Anthony W. Ivins. as follows: 
  
The undersigned Church Auditing Committee, having completed their 1913 audit of the books and accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust and of the Presiding Bishopric, hereby beg leave to report that we have made a careful and searching examination of the receipts and disbursements of the funds of the Church as disclosed by the books of the respective offices and find them in a most excellent condition. They not only disclose a full, frank and intelligent statement of every item of receipt and expenditure, but they also manifest the exercise of careful business methods, coupled with a broad, charitable, Christian-like spirit in the management of the tithing and other income of the Church. It therefore affords us much pleasure to certify to you and to the Latter-day Saints that we have nothing but commendation for the integrity and ability with which these trust funds have been handled by the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric.  
  
Very respectfully submitted, W. W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft, Auditing Committee.  
  
After the reading, Elder John W. Hart moved to accept and file the report. Embodied in the motion was also a vote of thanks for the committee who do this work of auditing, without compensation. Elder Seymour B. Young seconded the motion, which was thereupon put by Elder Ivins and unanimously carried.  
  
Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Author of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows:  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage.  
  
Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church.  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young.  
  
Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors.  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder.  
  
Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians.  
  
As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman.  
  
Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education.  
  
Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools.  
  
Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, Willard Young, and C. N. Jensen.  
  
Auditing committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Joseph S. Wells.  
  
Tabernacle choir: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt,. librarian; and all the members.  
  
Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference.  
  
Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference.  
