Morning
05 04 1902



ELDER REED SMOOT. 

People should be fed with the bread of life — Prophecy fulfilled — Progressive character of the community — World afraM of the truth — High moral status of the Saints — Missionary work and proper training of children. 

In looking upon this multitude this morning I can assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I feel my weakness in standing before you; but I rely upon the prayers that have been offered during this conference in behalf of those who shall speak, to guide my utterances. I sense the responsibility that rests upon the servants of the Lord as teachers, to give to the people the word of the Lord. I indeed rejoiced yesterday in listening to the testimonies that were given of the growth of this people. Zion is growing, "Zion kept by power divine." I also rejoiced in hearing the Prophet of the Lord speak to the people and say that they were increasing in good works, in the payment of their tithes, and in numerical strength, and that God was blessing them both temporally and spiritually. I noticed in the Deseret News, on Wednesday, a statement from the president of the 

Mexican mission that 30 members of the Church had come from Mexico to attend this conference, costing them something over $7,000 to make the trip; and I thought to myself, how important it was that every speaker should speak by the power of God, that those faithful Saints should be repaid for so great a financial sacrifice. It is certain every one of them will attend every meeting during this conference, because they came here for no other purpose than to be fed with the word of God. "What a responsibility it is upon those who are called upon to teach people with such faith in God and such devotion to His work, and, as I have said, I feel my weakness in doing so; but I shall claim an interest in the prayers that have been offered, that the spirit of Almighty God may be with me, so that 1 may by the grace of God feed the people the bread of life. 

I also noticed in that same report that in far-off Mexico there were at least 3,000 people who had taken upon them the name of the Lord, who had bowed the knee to the God we worship, who had acknowledged that Jesus is the Christ, and who were members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When Prest. Joseph F. Smith was speaking of the wonderful progress of this work, it was brought to my mind that the prayers of Saints in asking that Zion's Stakes be strengthened and her cords lengthened, have been answered. Not only are we growing in the Rocky mountains, but we are spreading all over the face of the earth. While I was thinking of these things it called to my mind a revelation that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the year 1829, a short time before the Church was organized. Joseph Smith was only 23 years old then, and I ask you today to see if the words that were revealed to the boy Prophet at that time have not been verified in the history of this people. 

"1. Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; 

"2. Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; 

"3. Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work, 

"4. Behold the 'field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"5. And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"6. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humanity, diligence. 

"7. Ask qnd ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. Amen." 

Even before this revelation was given, the world was worried over the statement made by this same Prophet, that God and His Son Jesus Christ had appeared unto him; and all the Christian denominations were up ii arms against him as soon as he made the statement. They have been trying to block the wheels of this work ever since, and have stopped at nothing to bring about its destruction. I tell you God will not allow this Church to be overthrown or given to another people. If it was possible for Satan to destroy this work, he would have accomplished it in its infancy. 

When we look at the marvelous growth of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and read the prophecies of the Prophet of God who was chosen to open this last dispensation, it seems to me that it leaves no room to doubt that the hand of God has been over this people from the day the Church was organized up to the present time. It is true that we have been tried and tempted; it is true we have  persecuted, and all manner of falsehoods have been circulated against us, and retailed and wholesaled the world over; but let me say to you, be faithful to the God that has watched over this people and to His commandments, and just as sure as we have increased to what we are today, just so sure will the little stone that was cut out of the mountain without hands roll forth and fill the whole earth, as the Prophet of God foretold. The time is not far distant when men and women from among this people will be wanted all over the world. I want to testify to you today that this people, who have been chosen of God, will yet teach the world the way of life, and the only way to get back into the presence of God. The world may not believe it, and they may hold out against it as long as it is possible; but the word has been spoken that this people, governed by the revelations of the Almighty, shall yet be a light unto the world and teach them the way back unto eternal life. Why, today the world look upon us in wonder. It is true, they are trying in various ways to break down the power that this people is wielding in the earth; but I want to say to you, it cannot be done. As we advance and Increase in knowledge, they will fight it harder and harder; but God has said that it would roll on, and it will go on and on. Today we command the respect of the honest and respectable portion of all classes who know us. Whatever we undertake to do, whatever is placed upon us by the authorities of the Church, is fulfilled and accomplished. There is scarcely a colonization scheme proposed but those interested in it ask for the "Mormon" people to become interested in it and carry it on to success. Have you not noticed that wherever the Mormon people have put their hands to accomplish a thing, and the Prophet of the Lord has said it would be a success, no matter how hard or difficult it may have appeared, it has always been successfully accomplished. We are spreading abroad into all the adjacent States and Territories, and our influence is felt for good wherever we go. In Mexico, in Arizona, in Wyoming, in Idaho, in Canada, and in every country where the people are called to go, those interested in that section of country and in its development say, "Let the Mormon people come and teach us how to make a new country." There are always two sides to a question, and while you hear some people claiming that Mormonism is on the wane, there are others who look upon it as a menace, and a growing one at that. I have here a clipping taken from one of the great New York papers, and it states: "The danger of Mormonism is underrated, not overrated. When the public realizes that there are two Mormon Churches in Brooklyn, on? in Manhattan, one in Philade'phia, a strong and growing Mormon settlement on the borders of Pennsylvania, and New Jersey, and that the strongest  Church in a section fifty miles from Jersey City is Mormon, it may be understood that the situation is menacing." 

This statement, which startled the women's executive committee of the domestic missions of the reformed church at its eighteenth anniversary in ths city, was made by Miss Elizabeth V. Vermilye, a member of the committee, in an address upon Mormonism in the east. She said further: 

"It was predicted that in fifty years the Mormons would control a belt of ^States cutting the country in two from northeast to southwest. The prediction has been verified in twenty years instead of fifty. They own land from the Rocky mountains to the Sierras and are spreading east as I have told you. They control four western states and at the present rate of progress in others will soon have supremacy." 

I say to you my brethren and sisters that as God has predicted that this people shall grow and increase the work will go on and on until every word that has been uttered by the Prophets of the Lord shall be fulfilled in every particular. What if we did control four western states? What if we controlled all the western states? I testify that if it were so there would be no man or woman living within the borders of those states but would have absolute liberty. No authority in this Church would ever take one whit from them of their rights. No priesthood that we  would ever interfere with a man's citizenship. If these states were controlled by the Mormon people, they would be controlled in righteousness, honesty and honor. 

A few years ago there was a Congress of religions at Chicago, and every known religious denomination of the world was invited to be represented. The Anglo-Saxon, the Latin, and all other known races, the semi-civilized, and even the uncivilized nations were asked to be present by representation. The Latter-day Saints, desirous of presenting the truths as revealed through Joseph Smith the Prophet, sent a representative and you all know the result, they would not receive him. I was impressed that the reason we were not allowed representation was that they were afraid of the light and truth that would be given to them from the representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Later-day Saints. His testimony would condemn them all. One thing the matter with the world today is: They do not want the light; they do not want the truth; they want to live as they are living; but just as sure as the sun will rise tomorrow morning, just so sure will the truths of heaven as revealed to Joseph Smith condemn or save the world. It may be slow; truth always moves slowly, but it will be triumphant in the end. So will the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints triumph over all opposition. 

In this revelation we are admonished to remember faith. I do not believe that there is a people upon the face of the earth with more faith than the Latter-day Saints. Every act of their lives, every move that has been made by the Authorities of the Church, goes to show that they have had unbounded faith in God. And we will continue to have faith in that same God who directed us to this land, who has watched over us at all times, and will do so as long as we serve and honor Him. 

The revelation also says, remember virtue. My brethren and sisters, as far as my travels have extended — and they have been in a great many countries of this world — I testify to you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that there is not a people upon the earth that holds so sacred the law of virtus as do the Latter-day Saints. True, it was reported here yetsterday that some of the vices of the world were creeping into our midst, and as a result in some instances, there is a loss of virtue among our youth. As long as there is one case of this in the Church it is too many; but for all this I know there is no people on the earth who are as virtuous as a whole as are the Latter-day Saints. 

The remarks that were made yesterday about our missionaries and the qualifications required for a missionary, I fully endorse. The other day I had one of the Elders, who had presided over a conference in a mission, tell me that be did not think there was much difference between the missionary that came into the field unprepared and the one that came prepared; for, he said, God mskes up to the one unprepared and it was but a short time until the one that came unprepared was just as fully qualified as the one that came prepared. I took issue with him on this, for I know, when I was in the missionary field, the men that came from our Church schools, where they had been taught the principles of the Gospel, were ready to go to work at once, while most of the others were not. But, said I, grant that what you say is true; I want to tell you that there is something more than that. I said to him, and I say to the mothers and fathers here, that missionaries whose associates are bad before going on a mission may go and fulfill a satisfactory mission; and receive an honorable release, with the blessing of the President, but if they have been wayward before they leave, and their companions have been unfit for an Elder of the Church to associate with, in almost every case as soon as they return they go right back into the same company and fall into the same evil habits as they had before they went. It is nothing but natural that they should do so. The result is, in too many cases, they are not home from their mission three months until they are in almost the same condition spiritually as they were before they went. I have thought many a time that if I had a son called upon a mis who had had bad associates before going, I would want him on returning to go to some other place to live, and take up with new associates, get away from the influence of his old companions and start anew in life. I believe that the surroundings and associations our young men are taken from have a great influence upon them when they return from their missions, and it is the cause of many of them falling back into the old rut. I want to ask the Bishops to look after the boys who come from missions. Perhaps you ask them to speak on their return, and never think of them again. Keep them in the harness; put them to work in the Priesthood; for if they are kept at work they will enjoy the spirit that they had while in the missionary field. Let them return and do nothing at all, and they soon become cold and lose the testimony they sacrificed so much to obtain. I felt like saying this much upon the missionary question. 

In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Sidney Rigdon, Parley P. Pratt and Lemon Copley in the year 1831, it says: 

"But before the great day of the Lord shall come, Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness, and the Lamanites shall blossom as the rose. 

"Zion shall flourish upon the hills and rejoice upon the mountains, and shall . be assembled together unto the place which I have appointed. 

"Behold, I say unto you, go forth as I have commanded you — repent of all your sins, ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you: 

"Behold, I will go before you and be your rearward; and I will be in your midst, and you shall not be confounded; 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, and I come quickly. Even so. Amen. 

I want to call the attention of the people to the fulfillment of this prediction. Has not Jacob flourished upon the mountain? is not Zion surrounded by hills? As stated in the beautiful hymn that was sung this morning, 

"For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, 

Our God our fathers God." 

I am most thankful that God my Father allowed me to be born in Zion, surrounded by the grand old hills, and under the everlasting covenant. I am thankful that he gave me such noble parents, and I hope to live so that I may merit the blessings that have been conferred upon me by my heavenly Father. Children are given to us, my brethren and sisters, as a blessing. The world today do not believe in having families, for they seem to think that children are a burden; but the first great law that God gave to man was, multiply and replenish the earth. Thank God that this people practice and believe in this commandment. Our children are a blessing to us, or they bring sorrow and trouble upon us. Let us watch and take care of them. Let us realize that they are placed in our care by the Father; that they should be Jewels in our crown in the world to come. I promise the mothers and fathers here, if they do not watch their children, there will be many of them making the same statement, wrung from the anguish of their souls, as one father made, according to last night's News: "My boy has been the victim of the baneful influence of a depraved moral degenerate and the evil effects of dime novel reading." I hope to God that every mother and father in Israel will watch carefully their sons and daughters. Be a little suspicious of them, if you can do it in a way that they will not realize it. Examine what they read; learn where they go, and who their associates are. There are so many fathers and mothers who think that it is some associate of their children who is the bad one, while perhaps it may be their child that is the bad associate of others. 

T ask the fathers and mothers of Israel to not only watch, but pray with your children. Make them your confidants; salute them with a kiss; keep them within your love; make them feel that no soul that lives has such an interest in them as you have; make the home just as happy and comfortable as possible for them, and keep them around home and under home influence as much as you can. There is no greater comfort to you in this life than a worthy son or a pure daughter. There is nothing that brings more comfort to a father or a mother than to have dutiful children; and there is nothing that  more anguish and distress than a child that is wayward and commits some awful crime. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel to ask God's blessings upon you. I leave with you this day my testimony, that Jesus is the Christ, and that God lives. I know that this is the work of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that this work is destined of God to roll on and fill the whole earth. Do hot get discouraged, my brethren and sisters, no matter where you live. I remember going down to Millard Stake of Zion some six months ago, and the people were quite discouraged. Many of them felt like moving away and going to some new country. I remember praying while there fervently to my heavenly Father that He would send them rain, and they would be blessed with more water the coming year. Every man I met from Millard Stake for some time after I asked as to the conditions there, and the same reply came: "Dry and dusty." The people as a whole offered their supplications to our heavenly Father for moisture, and I believe their prayers have been answered. The very sections that were parched most in this fair state of ours, today have a good prospect for more water and consequently better crops the coming season. In speaking to some of the brethren from Millard Stake the other morning, they told me that the earthquake that visited the southern portion of our state recently, had increased the streams of water, and the Sevier river had been filled as it had not been for years before at this time of the year. Their little reservoir just east of Deseret, with all the water that reached it during the whole of last season was not filled; but this season it was filled in eight days, and the people have taken heart again. I say to you, my brethren and sisters, even if things look gloomy to you at times, do not get discouraged, but trust in that God who led you to this country. This is a promised land. God will bless it, and do not forget that he can increase the waters and make your lands productive. May the peace of God be with the people as a whole; may His blessings be upon the Church; may it grow and increase until it fills GENERAL CONFERENCE.  whole earth, as has been predicted by the Prophets of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Restoration (if the Priesthood— Its powers, functions and duties— Noae exempt from Its influence and authority. 

If President Lorenzo Snow had lived until April 3rd, he would have been 88 years of age. He was a very active, energetic and progressive man. He died "in the harness," and passed into the spirit world; and the great work of the Lord moves on without let or hindrance. I am sure that he would have been very happy to be present with us upon this occasion, to have listened to the testimonies of the brethren, nad gazed into the faces of this vast congregation. 

Brethren and sisters, notwithstanding the servants of the Lord fall from time to time battling for the truth, Zion must be redeemed. While sitting on the stand listening to the discourses of my brethren, I have greatly marvelled at the wonderful providences of the Lord unto us; for when He uttered forth His voice and said that His Church must be established in the earth and His work must be accomplished, He furnished to the children of men the means to accomplish it. As early as the year 1823, the Lord made use of this language. 

"Behold I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord." 

A dreadful day; A day of pestilence, of famine, of earthquake, of tempests, and a day of burning, designated here in very impressive language as "the great and dreadful day of the Lord!" When that days comes, the power of the Priesthood must be upon the earth to protect and deliver the people of God from destruction; for the righteous and those who keep the commandments of God, including those who are tithed, shall not be burned. 

The priesthood has been restored to the earth, and is composed of two grand divisions — the Melchisedek and the Aaronic. The Aaronic Priesthood was restored to the earth and bestowed upon Joseph Smith by the hand of 

John the Baptist, in May, 1829. The Melchisedek Priesthood was restored and conferred upon the Prophet Joseph in June, 1829, by Peter, James and John. The authority and power of the Melchisedek Priesthood is to hold the keys of all the spiritual blessings of the Church, to have the privilege of receiving the mysteries of the kingdom, to have the heavens opened unto us, to have communion with the general assembly and church of the firstborn, and to enjoy the communion of God the Father and Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant. The power and authority of the Aaronic Priesthood is to hold the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances the letter of the gospel — the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments. Thus we see, brethren and sisters, that the Priesthood connects this Church with the heavens, and the channel of communication is open. Oh! how weak indeed would we be without this authority; and oh! how weak indeed are we except we honor it, for if we do not we come under condemnation. The president of the Melchisedek Priesthood is a High Priest, and is designated in the revelations of God as a presiding High Priest over the High Priasthood of the Church, and is also President of the Church. His Counselors are High Priests; and these three constitute the Presidency of the Church, and have authority over all its affairs, to regulate them throughout the world. The president of the Aaronic Priesthood is a Bishop, who is called to preside over the quorums of the Lesser Priesthood. 

Let me say to you, brethren and sisters, (I say it to the sisters as well as the brethren, for I feel that it is a good thing for the sisters to hear something regarding the Priesthood) there is not a living soul connected with the Church that is exempt from the authority and influence of the Priesthood; for the reason that the Priesthood holds the keys to all the spiritual blessings of the Church. It is true that the sisters do not receive the Priesthood, but they receive its blessings in connection with their husbands and fathers. The 

Priesthood continues in the Church of God throughout all generations, and is without beginning of days or end of years. We are told— and oh. how impessive is the thought!— that without the Priesthood the power of godliness cannot be made manifest to men, and without it no man can see the face of God and live. What a sorry plight the world is in, if that statement be true, that no man can gaze upon the face of God and live, without the Priesthood! We must needs take it to them; we must needs preach the Gospel to them. 

In these two great Priesthoods that I have mentioned are various orders or grades. In the Melchisedek Priesthood we have Apostles, High Priests, Seventies and Elders. In the Aaronic Priesthood we have Bishops, Priests, Teachers and Deacons. So that every age and condition in the Church is provided for; and no man, be he young or old, is authorized to exercise authority in the Church of God, except he bears some portion of the Priesthood. Wonderful thing! A church of Priesthood! The duties of these several orders of Priesthood are well and clearly defined in the revelations. There need be no confusion, or misunderstanding. The. High Priest is under no necessity to run to the Seventy and ask what his duty is; the Seventy need not go to the High Priest to learn what he should do; and the members of the lesser Priesthood need not be uninformed as to what their duties are. God has laid down the rules and defined the duties pertaining to these two Priesthoods so clearly and so strongly that they cannot be misunderstood. The Apostles are to officiate under the direction of the First Presidency, and build up the Church and regulate its affairs in all the world, agreeable to the covenants and commandments. The High Priests are standing ministers in Zion, to administer in spiritual things, and to be taught, instructed, and qualified, that they may hold the office of President of Stakes, High Councilors, and other important appointments in the Church. The duty of the Seventy is to act under the direction of the Twelve Apostles, to build up the Church, to regulate its af in all the world, first to the Gentiles, and then to the Jews. The duty of the Elder is to be a standing minister in Zion, to administer in spiritual things, to administer the sacrament, to baptize, to lay on hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, to take the lead of all meetings when no higher authority is present, and to conduct them under the influence and power of the Holy Ghost. T<!o Elder or High Priest is to conduct meetings in this Church by any other spirit than the spirit of God. Heavendelegated authority to man! The duty of the Bishop is to preside over the Lesser Priesthood and the quorums thereof. The duty of the Priest is to preach, teach and expound the scriptures, to baptize, to administer the sacrament, to visit the homes of the people, to pray with them vocally, and to teach them all family duties. The duty of the Teacher is to watch over the Church, to be with the Church constantly, and strengthen it, to see that iniquity doth not abound, to see that there is no evil-speaking, or backbiting, and to preach, teach, exhort, and expound; and he is to be assisted in his duties by the Deacon; but the Teacher and the Deacon have no authority to baptize, or administer the sacrament. They do have the authority, however, to preach the Gospel, to show forth a good example, to warn the people and invite all to come unto Christ. There is no confusion in all this that I have told you. Every duty is well expressed and clearly defined in the revelations. 

I have had some thoughts relative to the great responsibility resting upon Presidents of Stakes, who are High Priests in the Church, called to preside over the Stakes of Zion. O how great— almost unlimited authority, you might say, is exercised by the Presidents of Stakes, presiding as they do over all the affairs of the Stake! Then, how great the authority and responsibility resting upon the Bishops of wards, who are called to preside over all the organizations and Priesthood of the ward! We sre sometimes told that the High Priests over there are not magnifying their Priesthood; the Seventies over here are not doing their duty; the Elders are slack, and do not attend their quorum meetings; the Priests in that ward over there are not being used; the Teachers fail to visit the families of the Saints, and the Deacons are careless and Indifferent. The question arises, where is the fault? Where fhall the responsibility be placed? Upon the High Priests? Yes. Upon the Elders? Yes. Upon the Seventies? Yes. A great responsibility rests upon these men who have received the Priesthood. But let me say to you, there is a further responsibility, a responsibility resting upon the presiding authorities in the stakes and wards. I do not believe that it is the duty of the president of a stake to spend his whole time in preaching the Gospel. I look upon the presidency of a stake as executive officers. You will find in every stake of Zion scores of preachers, eloquent men, who can edify and strengthen the people, and it is not needful for the presidency of the stake to spend very much time in preaching the gospel. But it is their duty to see that others magnify their calling; to see that the presidency of the High Priests' quorum honor the Priesthood; to see that the presidency of the Elders' quorum are active, diligent and faithful men, and to watch over these quorums of the Priesthood and see that «very man does his duty. Then I conceive it to be the duty of a Bishop, not so much to preach the gospel at length, or to occupy much time in the pulpit, but to be the executive officer «f the ward, to deal in temporal affairs, to be a common judge in Israel, and to sit in the Bishop's court and adjudicate and regulate the affairs of his ward, with his counselors. It is the duty of the Bishop particularly to fee that the presidencies of the quorums of the Lesser Priesthood are active and faithful. Let him see also that the presidencies of the auxiliary organizations are faithful in the performance of their duty. The great responsibility resting upon him is to see that others do their duty, and let the preaching of the gospel be done by the brethren and sisters of his ward. Our Church is full of good preachers. Every man that bears the Priesthood is called to be a preacher of righteousness, to be a minute man, and to be on hand  called out of the congregation. I venture to say, that Prest. Smith, who presides here, could find hundreds of men in this congregation who are eloquent preachers of the gospel, well informed men, who have preached the word in foreign lands with great power, and they could come to this stand and edify and strengthen the people. Time would not permit of this, and it might not be appropriate at a general conr ference, when we come together to hear from the Presidency of the Church and some of the leading authorities upon matters of moment; but the spirit of the conference can be taken by the presidents of stakes and Bishops of wards into all Zion. 

I rejoice in this work. I rejoice in the Priesthood, and marvel greatly at the wisdom, power and greatness of the Almighty, and I must needs ascribe to Him the honor and the glory for the wonderful things that are being accomplished in His Church. It is the Spirit of God, even the Holy Ghost working in the hearts of the people that brings to pass the purposes of Jehovah. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER A. O. WOODRUFF. All who know the truth should testify to It — Wrongfulness of an unforgiving spirit — Wonderful growth cf the Church. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, the desire that shall prompt my remarks this morning to this congregation will be to say something by way of testimony to the divinity of the mission of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, to the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and in support of the established and recognized authority of God our Eternal Father upon the earth. I feel a natural spirit of timidity in standing before this vast congregation, but I have an unshaken confidence in God, and I know that by His help and the aid and the sympathy and prayers of my brethren and sisters, I may be able to say something that will be of benefit to the Latter-day Saints who have gathered here in this conference for the purpose of being fed with the bread of everlasting life. I desire to read to you a few verses from the 39th Section of the book of Doc and Covenants. They are the are specially called to labor in one of 

words of our Lord and Master: the missionary fields we have not the 

"Hearken and listen to the voice of right to make known our testimony of 

Him who is from all eternity to all the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, 

eternity, the Great I Am, even Jesus This is a mistake. Everyone who has 

Christ. received a testimony that this work is 

"The light and the life of the world; of God is at perfect liberty to bear that 

a light which shineth in darkness and testimony to his or her neighbors; and 

the darkness comprehendeth it not: indeed, I feel that we will come under 

"The same which came in the me- some degree of condemnation before 

ridian of time unto my own, and my God if we fail to do this. If we have 

own received me not; received the pearl of great price, let 

"But to as many as received me, gave us not hug it to ourselves and say that 

1 power to become my sons and even we do not want others to receive it, for 

50 will I give unto as many as will re- fear it would diminish our joy and satceive me, power to become my sons. isfaction to see them enjoying a like 

"And verily, verily, I say unto you, blessing. This is not the spirit of the 

he that receiveth my Gospel, receive th Gospel. Every member of the Church 

me; and he that receiveth not my gos- cf Christ, whether male or female, 

pel receiveth not me. ought to be continually anxious that 

"And this is my gospel: repentence a knowledge of the Gospel shall be 

and baptism by water, and then cometh spread to every creature upon the 

the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, earth. We are as a light set upon a 

even the Comforter, which showeth all hill, a beacon to the world; and we 

things, and teacheth the peaceable ought not to hide this light, but strive 

things of the kingdom." to let it so shine that people seeTliis is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus in & our ffood works may be led to 

Christ; and it is perhaps scarcely prop- glorify God. This is the desire that 

er to say that in Zion there are only , should prompt us in our lives. We 

1,300 or 1,500 missionaries, for there are would then seek after eternal riches, 

over 50,000 men in this Church who bear tven the bringing about of the salvathe Priesthood of the Son of God, and tion of the souls of men, more than we 

there are over 300,000 souls in this do other things. 

Church that have their names upon the 1 want to read you a few verses from 

records of the Church; and inasmuch the 64th Section of the book of Docas we have received light concerning trine and Covenants: 

the value of the souls of men, every one "Wherefore I say unto you, that ye 

of those who have a standing in the, ought to forgive one another, for he 

Church of Christ ought to have a tes- that forgiveth not his brother his trestimony regarding the divinity of this Passes, standeth condemned before the 

work in which we are engaged, and be Lord, for there remaineth in him the 

a witness for the Church and for Jesus greater sin. 

Christ. So, instead of there being 1,300 " L the Lord, will forgive whom I 

or 1,800 missionaries, we all should be will forgive, but of you it is required to 

missionaries for the gospel of the Lord forgive all men; 

Jesus Christ; and indeed no one who "And ye ought to say in your heart, 

bears a portion of the Priesthood of let God judge between me and thee, 

the Son of God ought to be satisfied and reward thee according to thy with his life's work unless he has been , deeds." 

an instrument in the hands of God of I do not desire, by reading this, to bringing some other soul to a knowl- offer any plea of justification for edge of the truth. We are told in this wrong-doing; for the Lord has same book of Doctrine and Covenants said that He cannot look upon sin that this is a day of warning, and not with the least degree of allowed: many words, when every man who ance, neither will the Gospel of Jesus receiveth the light and truth should countenance sin. At the same time our warn his neighbor. The trouble is, we mission is to save the souls of men; not do this. We feel that unless we and where the authority of the Holy Priesthood is conferred upon men, and it has a right effect upon them, it will make them more humble and more childlike. It will not puff them up and make them great in their own estimation. The greater the authority or calling that is placed upon men, the more humble they should be, and the greater in their own estimation. The greater desire they ought to have to save mankind. The . whole need not a physician, but those who are sick. Those who are spiritually sick are the ones that need the aid of the servants and handmaidens of God. Those who know that Jesus is the Christ, those who know that Joseph Smith was sent of God, those who have implicit confidence in the leadership of this Church today, need no particular laboring with. They will labor for the benefit of others, to bring about much righteousness, although they may not be especially commanded to do so. But we want to look after some of those who have not this faith and this testimony. Many of the men who were the pioneers of this work, and who aided in laying its foundation, I am sorry to say that some of their sons and daughters have drifted away from the Church of Christ. People may say that these men devoted so much of their time to the Church that they neglected their families. Be that as it may, these men were good men. They enjoyed the spirit of the callings whereunto God had called them; and if on account of their devotion to the work of the Lord some of their sons and daughters are not doing as they ought to do today, there should be a spirit of charity and of love manifest on the part of stake and ward officials toward them, to try and bring them back, and not to cast them off. I believe as I believe that I stand here, that in the resurrection of the dead, there will be some stake and ward officials come under sore condemnation before men that have stood as leaders in this work, because their sons and daughters have not been sought after and labored with as much as they ought to have been — where this spirit of forgiveness has not been exhibited. No matter what authority a man may hold in this Church, it does  exalt him to that degree that he is justified in not forgiving the repentant and those who desire to do better, and who will come and supplicate for forgiveness. Men who have taken this stand will come under the condemnation spoken of in the verses I have read, and in them will remain the greater sin. Thank God, there are not many unforgiving men in this Church; but occasionally we have found men who have been unforgi\-ing to those who have sinned and then repented and sought forgiveness. Where do you suppose we would be if God should deal with us in this way. It is not right. f tell you that the stake or ward official who will take this stand will receive sore reprimanding at the hands of the fathers of these sons and daughters that have thus been dealt with, when they meet them in the resurrection. An unforgiving spirit is by no means an evidence of strong character; it is quite the reverse. A man of strong character, who understands the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, would ask his own little child to forgive him, if he had wronged that little one; and he would not feel, even if he had received some great calling in the Priesthood, that it was beneath his dignity to go to the one he had w:|nged and make it right. As a result of this spirit of unforgiveness, which has been exhibited in the past in some of the stakes of Zion, though, I am happy to say, to a very small degree, we occasionally find men who are not doing anything in the Church, because they have some grievance against the president of the stake or the Bishop. Can not the man who is called to be the shepherd of that flock afford to go a little more than half way in order to save some member of his flock? Can he not afford to go to the one who feels offended at his action, although he may not be in the wrong, and say. "Brother, I want to straighten this matter out with you?" But why is it that some of our brethren, instead of doing this, will feel like beating them over the head and keeping them down; and if they manifest any desire to do right again and to take an active part in the Church, instead of holding their arms out, as 

Christ would, to welcome them back to the fold as they should do, they continue to drive them forth and to cast them out, and to keep them down, so that they never have any chance to do "better; unless they move out of the confines of that stake or ward. 

My brethren and sisters, in these thing's all that is required of any man who presides over a stake or ward is to follow the example of the men who stand at the head of this Church. The Presidency of the Church will never require anything of the Presidents of Stakes that they would be unwilling to do themselves. They are anxious for the salvation of the souls of men, and that none should be cast out; that those who are weak and sore in their spirits should be healed and brought back, if possible, into full fellowship with the Church of Christ. We do not want to lose any of those that are committed to our care. If God will help us, we do not intend to do it. If He has made us the shepherd, the watchman upon the tower of a Stake; if He has made us the shepherd of a ward, or the watchman upon its towers, let us guard that flock well, and strive with all the power that God has given us to save all those who have been committed to our care. We spend hundreds of thousands of dollars and give the time and the lives of our Elders to spread the Gospel abroad, and why should we not be just as anxious to save those at home who have drifted away or have become cold in the Gospel? Why should we not be just as anxious to bring .them back to the fold and awaken the spirit of God within them, as we would be to go to Japan or other parts of the earth, to make the Gospel message known there? One is quite as important as tlie other; and I am sure that a president of a Stake, a Bishop of a ward, or any other man holding a responsible position in the Church will not feel happy in the resurrection if a son or a daughter of one of the prominent men of this Church, or of any other man, comes up and says, "Brother, I did wrong when I was in the flesh. I went to you, as my Stake President (or as my Bishop) and asked you to forgive me, and you would not." I feel that that man will  a most unenviable position, and will have sorrow until that son or daughter is saved and enjoys t^at degree of glory that he or she would have enjoyed, had he done his part to help the erring one along life's pathway. 

I rejoice exceedingly in the spread of the work of God. I rejoice that wherever the Gospel tree has been planted it has not been uprooted, although our people have had much to contend with, and have had to perform a work that could not have been performed by any other people upon the face of this pa-th. Read the words of Isaiah as contained in the Sth chapter of II Nephi, as follows: 

"Hearken unto me, ye that follow after righteousness: Look unto the rock from whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit from whence ye are die-ged. 

"Look unto Abraham, your father, and unto Sarah, she that bear -nm- f or I called him alone and bl Q s?ed him. 

"pY>r the Lord shall comfor* ^i^n he will comfort all her waste places: and he will make her wilderness M v » T^d°n, and her desert like the garden of the Lord. Jov and o-ladness s'-a' 1 be f«und therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody." 

Are we not, as a whole people, witnesses unto God our E+e-n-M Tether and all men this day that this ^ror^hecy has been fulfilled under our eyes? It is peculiar that, although tM* is the chosen people of God. they ha" been called to seWe the desert and barren spots of this earth? It is n»cul! ar in one sense, and yet it is qui*e natural in another, when we take into con~ideration that through the conversion of the desert wastes into gardens and thus fulfilling the prophecies, the L^rd has had a chance to prove His people, to develop a superior type of manhood and womanhood, and to bring out the best qualities of their natures. I rejoice in. the work our people are performing. I rejoice that the Lord has aided and befriended us, and that He has raised up many friends from those who are not of our faith to assist us in getting our rights and to aid us in establishing the Gospel of the Lord Jesus in various parts of the world. I rejoice in the faith that the people have manifested' in converting these waste places, in their colonization work, and in the effeet that this labor has had upon them. If they had never accomplished anything by way of making homes, they have benefitted themselves and been rewarded for their labors in the spiritual advancement that they have made while engaged in such work, by the development of faith and seeing the promises of God fulfilled upon their heads. And we are not through with this work yet. Calls are made from time to time for our people to go to this or that place, and the only trouble is, we have not colonists enough to meet the demand. I shall welcome the day when the gathering, without which the Gospel is not complete, shall be more thoroughly carried into effect than it has been during the past few years. It has been rather discouraging on account of the lack of labor and the conditions which have surrounded us, and I shall rejoice when these barriers are removed and the gate shall again be open; when the people of the Stakes of Zion shall exhibit that liberal spirit which was exhibited by the people in the early days here, in taking in the newcomer and assisting to get him employment, so that he might establish himself in Zion. We do not have as much sympathy for the people who accept the Gospel abroad as we ought to have, for the reason, I think sometimes, that we forget their situation. "We forget that if they remain where they are, although they may be able to do much good in assisting the Elders and in spreading the Gospel, their children will naturally intermarry with those not of our faith, and therefore they will not have the joy or the satisfaction which the Gospel in its fulness carries with it where the people are gathered and enjoy the blessings of Church organization. I would ask the Stake presidents to encourage a spirit on the part of the people to be willing to say to the Presidency of the Church, "If you will send us ten families (or twenty or thirty, as the case may be) into this Stake, we will see to it that ih:y are aided in making homes, so that they may establish themselves in the borders of Zion." I believe that great good could be accomplished in this regard by the Stake presidents and Bishops getting together to exchange ideas in relation to this mat, so that there may be a more thorough looking after the new converts who come into the Stakes of Zion, that they may not feel friendless and that there is no one to receive or welcome them, but that someone may look after them and nurse them until they are able to go alone. If this is done, how grateful they will be to us in after years. It may take some of our property, it may mean some sacrifice on our part to do it, but how they will bless us when they themselves have good homes in Zion, with their sons and daughters around them, married in the Church of Christ and having a numerous posterity. This is an individual work that we are engaged In. It is not the work of any one man, or any quorum of men; the responsibility rests upon the shoulders of any individual in the Church, and it becomes us all to feel an interest in these things. If we will do this, the Lord will bless us, and He will make us happier. We must not simply strive after dollars and cents; but let us do some good to others as we go along, by assisting them to enjoy the comforts and blessings which we enjoy. 

I rejoice exceedingly in this conference. I thank God that He has permitted our Brother Grant to return home and visit with us. His mission has been a success. If he never accomplishes any more, he has gone and turned the key in the Gospel door to the nation of Japan, and the Gospel has been established there; at least, the seed has been sown, and has partially taken root. This will bring joy and satisfaction to the many Latter-day Saints who have upheld and sustained him by their faith and prayers, just as we uphold and sustained Apostle Lyman in his presidency over the European mission. Every Latter-day Saint feels a personal interest in the labors of these brethren and their associates m the mission field, as well as in every other mission president and every Elder who is laboring for the spread of truth upon the face of the earth. I rejoice in the advancement of the work of God, in the numerical strength that we have gained, and in the prosperity which God has sent to us in answer to the prayers of the people and in fulfil of His promises if they would obey His law. I rejoice in a testimony of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; that I have a knowledge that this is God's work, and not the work of man; that I have a knowledge that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the true and living God, and that Joseph F. Smith and his counselors are the men that God has called to preside over this Church at this time, and that they hold every key, every gift and authority which was conferred upon the Prophet Joseph Smith; that this people have come to the vales of Israel in fulfillment of the prophecies which Were made by the Prophet Joseph, and have established villages, towns and cities throughout this intermountain region, and that the work will roll forth until it fills the whole earth. God grant that we may be faithful, in connection with our brethren and sisters, in this great latter day work, that our hearts may be filled with sympathy, and that our education in this life may not be wholly of the head, but of the heart also; which may God grant, for Christ's sake. Amen. * 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

My very dear brothers and sisters, I have been asked to speak a few moments in relation to the California mission. It is most gratifying unto me to report that the same Spirit that actuates the Saints in Zion is felt by those who reside in the state of California. I do not know that there is a more cosmopolitan people in these United States than the people of that great state. They are liberal-minded; there is very little prejudice existing in their minds; but there is an indifference in relation to all things pertaining to the Gospel of Christ. They are a pleasure-seeking people, and a moneymaking community. But for that, we are received well, and many open their doors and their hearts to receive us. They say they believe that we have within our organization and in the very genius of the Gospel we teach that which will uplift and benefit mankind and will do more to bring about the fraternal spirit that characterized the efforts of Christ and His Apostles than  taught by any other people. From a very few members some eight or ten years ago, the branches have increased in the largest cities of the coast to number about 600 souls. Last year they paid a tithing of upwards of $5,000, and about $600 in fast offerings. Many of them are desirous of coming to the house of the Lord to receive their blessings, and the spirit of gathering is upon them, despite the fact that we advise them to stay at their homes and at their various employments, and build up the branches in the State. It seems, however, that so soon as they have been born into the kingdom by baptism and the laying on of hands of those in authority, a yearning and a longing comes into their hearts to be within the Stakes and borders of Zion, to partake of the blessings which their more fortunate brothers and sisters enjoy. 

The recent visit of the Tabernacle choir to the coast will no doubt give a wonderful impetus to the cause. It has broken down the barriers of prejudice in the minds of many, and we are being felt after and enquired about. The secretary of state and the mayors of San Francisco and Sacramento were most kind and courteous in receiving us, in keeping open public buildings, in guaranteeing and giving us police protection, and welcomed us with a spirit of fraternal brotherhood that was very pleasing and satisfactory, I believe, to all our visitors, and especially to us who are laboring in that state. 

Thousands of tourists go to the summer land, as it is called, to spend their winter, and they enquire after us. They hear us on the street corners, receive our tracts, attend our meetings, and are frank enough to admit that in the east, where they reside, they would hardly do it, for fear of losing caste; but many of them have gone home with a broader idea and a better knowledge of our work and of our people, and are more kindly disposed towards us. Many of them, upon hearing our choir, left their addresses in the east with the Elders, saying that if there were any Elders In their neighborhood they wanted them to call, so that they might hear more of what little they had seen and heard of us in California. 

My brothers and sisters, I know that the Gospel is true, and that it is leavening the whole lump and modifying the sentiment of the Christian world. We hear it, we feel it, we see it, in what is being said and done today upon the coast, where their churches are being emptied and their pleasure resorts are being filled by the doctrines of men as they are now taught. It brings joy and satisfaction to my soul to knowthat I have been born of goodly parents, and have received and do participate in the Gospel of Christ, which will bring men to a full salvation and an exaltation in His presence; and that that may be our happy lot is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: 

Light and Truth. Benedition by Elder Jesse N. Smith. 
