Afternoon
04 04 1902




ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 

Futility of opposit'on to hindpr progress of the the Church — Prospective gathering of the Jews — Expansive chara* ter of the work of God. 

My brethern and sisters, I rejoice this morning in being present at this conference, and was happy in the reflection that the attendance upon the opening session was the largest I had ever witnessed. I was also happy in the testimony of President Smith concerning the spiritual condition of the Saints of God. It is indeed a glorious truth, when it can be said that the Latter-day Saints are in a better condition spiritually, morally and financially than they have ever been in before. I rejoiced to think that, notwithstanding all the efforts that have been made to retard the progress of God's work, it is larger, more prosperous, better established in the earth now than at any former period of its existence. 

This afternoon, when the choir sang this beautiful hymn they have just , I almost regretted that the desire for brevity would not permit them to go on with at least one or two of the other verses; for this song of Zion seems particularly adapted to the present condition of the Saints and the spirit of this conference. Listen to two or three of the other verses of this . hymn : 

What though our rights have been assailed? 

"What though by foes we've been despoiled? 

Jehovah's promise has not failed, Jehovah's purpose is not foiled. 

His work is moving on apace, And great events are rolling forth; The kingdom of the latter days — The "little stone"— must fill the earth. 

Though Satan rage, 'tis all in vain; The words the ancient Prophets spoke, Sure as the throne of God remain, Nor men nor devils can revoke. 

I say that I am happy in the reflection that the work of God, notwithstanding all the storms of opposition it has met, moves on apace in the earth, with a force that is irresistible; and I cannot help but rejoice just a little — the brethren must excuse me if there is just a little worldliriess in my makeup, enough at least to rejoice in the failure of those who have assailed the work of God. Truly, it must be just a little humiliating to them when they see all their purposes thwarted, and every storm they start passes over the Saints only to leave them the stronger and the more confirmed in their faith. I cannot help but exult just a little at this condition of things. 

I rejoiced in the testimony of the brethren when they declared that the work of God was more prosperous in the foreign missions than it had ever been before, and that new doors were being opened for the proclamation of the Gospel. All these reflections made this forenoon a happy day to me, and I rejoiced in the glorious work of God and in the contemplation of its greatness and its stability, and especially since I received renewed assurances that it would remain in the earth until all that has been decreed concerning it will be realized. 

But these reflections, brought to my mind by the remarks of the brethren, caused me to extend my thoughts a little beyond the limits of their remarks, and I contemplated some of the movements that are taking- place outside of the lines of our Church membership. I called to mind the promise of the Lord that He would bring to pass His great purposes among all the nations of the earth. And while the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is given a prominent part in this great drama of the last days, it is not the only force nor the only means that the Lord has employed to bring to pass those things of which His prophets in ancient times have testified. I desire to call your attention to a prophecy found in the Book of Mormon: 

"And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered, also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall believe in Christ shall also become a delightsome people. 

"And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall commence His work among all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, to bring about the restoration of his people upon the earth." 

These are the words of the First Nephi. I wish to read; in connection with them, the words of the Lord Jesus Christ to the Nephites on the occasion of His visiting them after His resurrection from the dead and departure from His disciples at Jerusalem. After portraying the blessings that would be granted unto the Gentiles that should inhabit this promised land— the land of America — He refers to the promises that have been made to the house of Israel, and says: 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, all these things shall surely come to pass [namely, the gathering of Israel, and especially the restoration of the Jews to the land of Palestine], even as the Father hath commanded me. Then shall this covenant which the Father hath covenanted with his people, be fulfilled: and then shall Jerusalem be inhabited again with my people, and it shall be the land of their inheritance. 

"And, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you a sign, that ye may know the time when these things shall be about to take place, that I shall gather in from their long dispersion, my people, O house of Israel, and shall establish again among them my Zion. 

"And when these things come to pass, that thy seed [referring to the' seed of the Nephites and the Lamanites] 'shall  to know these things' [namely, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation] 'it shall be a sign unto them, that they may know that the work of the Father hath already commenced unto the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the people who are of the house of Isreal.' 

"And then shall the work of the Father commence at that day, even when this Gospel shall be preached among the remnant of this people. Verily I say unto you, at that day shall the work of the Father commence among all the dispersed of my people; yea, even the tribes which have been lost, which the Father hath led away out of Jerusalem. 

"Tea, the work shall commence among all the dispersed of my people, with the Father, to prepare the way whereby they may come unto me, that they may call on the Father in my name; 

"Yea, and then shall the work commence, with the Father, among all nations, in preparing the way whereby His people may be gathered home to the land of their inheritance." 

Now, I have said that I rejoiced in the reflections that the remarks of the brethren called to mind in reviewing the conditions of the Church of Christ; in its growth at home, and in the increasing opportunities for proclaiming the truth of God abroad. But I rejoice also in those events that are taking place among the nations, in which a people enlightened by the revelations of the Lord through this Book of Mormon may see the hand of God and receive the assurance that the work of the Lord, not only within the boundary lines of the Church, but among all nations, is going on to its glorious consummation. 

Let me call attention to just one of these movements. The civilized world was thrilled with horror some five or six years ago by the atrocities perpetrated upon the Jews in Russia; and because of the oppression inflicted upon them a world of sympathy was called forth for that suffering people. Civilization cried out against the conduct of their oppressors. "Various questions were agitated concerning the Jews, and various movements were spoken of to bring to pass their deliverance out of that land. One man suggested that it might be a propitious time to establish the Jews in the ancient land of Palestine — a mere sug from Dr. Theodore Herzl. A short time ago — namely, "in the month of December, 1901 — we were surprised to learn that the suggestion had been acted upon and the movement it inaugurated had grown to such proportions that at a conference held in the City of Basle, Switzerland, there were more than one thousand representatives of the Zionist movement, which has for its object the colonization of the Jews in Jerusalem, and the re-establishment of the Jews as a nation; in fact, it is the ambiton of this organization to have the Jews resume the broken thread of their national existence. At this conference, at which Dr. Herzl presided, he reported that the Su tan of Turkey, within whose dominions the land of Judea is now enclosed, was friendly disposed towards the colonization movement on the part of the Jews, -and regarded them as desirable colonists, and intimated very clearly, so this man reported, that there would be no serious obstacle presented to the attainment of the ambition of this organization. So far as his government was concerned. Israel Zangwill, in the month of October, announced that out of several millions of dollars that would be necessary for the purchase of the land of Palestine, more than one million had been subscribed by three or four donors. At a conference of this same organization, held in the City of Chicago, at which there were representatives from ten states, and more than 2,000 people present, it was represented that there were more than 134,O00 shareholders in the colonization trust that proposed the settlement of the Jews in Palestine. I remember noting some few years ago, from the British consular reports, thhat there were but from 10,000 to 15,000 Jews in the land of Palestine; but later reports state that there are from 60.000 to 80,000 located in the land of Judea now. More than 134 societies, whose chief aim is the accomplishment of this purpose, exist within the United States alone, and the movement is gaining impetus and growing larger, and it begins to look like a settled fact that Judah's face is turned toward the land of his fathers. 

It would be interesting, if time would permit, to go into further explanation concerning this movement; but all I can do upon this occasion is to thus briefly call your attention to it, and also to the fact that the promise of the Father to that people begins to take the form of fulfillment. 

The passage I first read to you includes these words: 

"And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered, shall also begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall believe in Christ shall also become a delightsome people." 

The change of sentiment that seems to be taking place among the Jews concerning Jesus of Nazareth, is indeed remarkable. It is true that they refuse to regard Him as the Son of God; but if they have not yet brought their faith up to that high point, they have at least begun to honor Jesus Christ as one of the first of their race, and to be proud of the great peasant-teacher of Judea, as is evidenced by the expressions of many of their leading men. But to this other point in the passage under consideration: 

"And it shall come to pass that the Lord shall commence his work among all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, to bring about the restoration of his people upon he earth." 

One thing connected with the great latter-day work that has always had a wonderful influence upon my own mind has been the largeness of it, the greatness of it. I recognize in "Mormonism" one of the great world-movements for the accomplishment of the mighty purposes of God. It is connected with all the other great world-movements that are bringing to pass the revolutions now going on in the earth; the uplifting of one nation and the putting down of another; the enlightened policies of administration of governments by which the liberties of the people are extended; the destruction of isolation which has hitherto separated great empires of people from the commercial and social contact with other nations are all movements which have connection with "Mormonism." The work of scientists and inventors resulting in making the earth a network of railroads and telegraph lines, and converting the oceans, once a terror to man, into merely convenient highways of commerce, together with the etablishment of those systems of communication which bring all parts of the world into immediate touch with one another. All these things, I repeat, have a relationship to "Mormonism," in that they are means by which physical conditions are being brought into existence that will co-ordinate with those spiritual and moral conditions which "Mormonism" will yet establish, and will bring to pass, the realization of the world's hope for that reign of peace and righteousness called the millennium. 

I thought perhaps that by calling your attention to things outside the lines so far reached by the remarks of my brethren, might increase your joy and lift up your hearts in gratitude to the Lord for allowing us to be connected with a work so glorious, so immense; a work that reaches backward into the past, that fills entirely the present, and that will shape the destiny, of the human race. I thank God for the bigness of His work, for its successes at home and abroad, and for the indications to be seen in the revolutions going on about us that God's spirit is working among all people, to bring to pass the accomplishment of His great designs. 

May the Lord bless you, Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

The work of training pi ospectlve missionaries — How the Elders are called— Appeal for personal purity. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I have listened today with joy and satisfaction to the remarks of my brethren, and with you I rejoice in the testimony they have given and the pleasant influence that has prompted them, and that especially rested upon President Smith in his introductory remarks this forenoon. 

As has been remarked by my brethren of the Seventies, many missionaries are being called and sent into the field. We have at the present time  1,300 and 1,400 young men scattered throughout about twenty missionary fields. While there are less at the present time than we have had in times past, we believe that as a rule the Elders are better equipped now than formrly; for they have better opportunities' to school themselves and to gain the information that will qualify them tc meet the vicissitudes and the obligations that missionaries have to face in the midst of an unbelisv.'ng worl3. Looking to this better equipment, the Presidency of the Church have established missionary classes in most of the leading institutions of learning in the various Stakes of Zion. In Arizona there is a Latter-day Saints academy in the St. Joseph Stake, which Stake is presided over by Prest. Andrew Kimball, and it seems to have been his ambiton and determination to make that institution, with the aid of his brethren and the Latter-day Saints of that Stake, an institution where the young people can be educated and advanced along the lines of proper education, thus fitting and preparing them for missionary labor and for the duties that will devolve upon them as they grow to riper years. In the Brigham Young Academy at Provo is established another missionary class; also one in the Snow academy, of South Sanpete Stake, and another large class in the Latter-day Saints University of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and still another in the Weber Stake Academy and in the Brigham Young College at Logan. In these missionary classes the young men are taught the principles of the Gospel. They are also taught good manners. They are introduced to a system of study, and required to prosecute it, a'ong particular lines, so as to prepare them tor the duties of missionaries, and fit them to meet the people of the world in a proper manner and spirit. It is enjoined upon these missionaries, when they go out into the world, that they not only bring to bear the power that they may gain by having a knowledge of the Gospel and a witness of the Holy Spirit in regard to its truth, but that they shall approach people in a proper, gentlemanly manner, and never be guilty of tearing down or - to pieces other people's religious faith. They are shown how to make friends with strangers, and how to induce people to receive them kindly, by creating a friendly feeling in the hearts of those whom they approach. About thirteen weeks ago it was proposed in this stake of Zion that there should be a night school for missionaries established. President Paul, of the Latter-day Saints University, had an interview with the Presidency of the Church, and they assigned the management of this class to the Council of the Seventies. Immediately the class was organized, and teachers were chosen to give this night class instruction. Brother Ben Goddard was chosen as instructor for the first six weeks; Bishop Iverson of the Second ward was chosen for the next six weeks; and those two brethren are just closing their labors with this night class. I wish to say in their behalf that they have manfully, earnestly and profitably conducted this class; they have "been devoted, and they have done a good work among the youth of this stake of Zion. They are worthy of great praise ar.d commendation for the devotion they have exhibited In this work. Brother J. M. Tanner, superintendent of Church schools, and a professor of marked abiiitv in the education of the youth of 7.ion. is going to take charge of the class fcr the next six weeks. We see already good results from the training of these brethren. 

In regard to the young Elders that have recently gone out on missions, I want to say that they, like other Elders who have been called and sent into the missionary field, have been called by the voice of the Lord through the Prophet. Seer and Revelator of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. While 1 state this I agree with my brethren that in the future possibly some brethren of greater experience might be added to this corps of young men that are being constantly sent out. On the first of the month we set apart 26 young Elders : on the second, four mere, ana , yesterday, 18 more, making 48 yo:ir>y m!ss 'i-raries tnat h<. ,'e a Iran 'v been ordained and set apart and are ready to start. Some of them have already gone, while the rest are ready to  into the different parts of the world. These are mostly young men, some of them quite boyish in their appearance; and yet they have come here at the call of the Presidency of the Church and offered a sacrifice, to devote their time, their lives, and all that they have, to the service of the Master, at the call of their leader. When we look upon these young men we feel to bless them. As the presiding quorum of Seventy have considerable of this labor to do, we rejoice exceedingly when t.e see the willingness with v/hi,?h these young men respond to the call* made upon them; and we contemplate with a great deal of satisfaction the advance that they have made in the past few months during which they have been students in these missionary classes, thus fitting and preparing themselves for usefulness and beginning the labor of their lives; for this is only the beginning. As we have been informed by our presiding officers, other missions will be opened, and more numerous will the calls be. Therefore, the Seventies need to prepare themselves for this great labor, by earnest and faithful study of the principles of the Gospel; and when the call comes to them, let the feeling be universal in the quorums of Seventies that there is no chance to shirk, no loophole for them to get out, and that they must respond to the call; for when a man is ordained a Seventy he becomes a "minute man," and the Lord and His servants expect that he will be ever ready, for that is what the term means. 

I saw a notice not long ago that Harvard university was calling from its advanced classes for volunteers to go to foreign lands to preach the Gospel — to be soldiers of the cross and follow the Divine Master. It was stated that some had answered that they were ready to go to any part of the world, but not any very great number. Then I asked myself the question, How are they going? Are they going out as Elders, or Priests, or Seventies, or High Priests? What kind of a calling do they get, and who calls them? I am not going to pass any opinion upon them, nor upon the call that they received; but I have learned of the Gospel this much, that for a man to he called of God by prophecy and by the laying on of hands and to be authorized to go forth to preach the Gospel, he must be ordained and set apart under the hands of an Apostle or by his direction. This is the way that the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are sent out. This is the way the servants of God have always been sent out, in every age of the world. The missionaries that preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ are always sent out under a divine call, by direction of the Apostles, with the Lord Jesus himself at the head. 

Recently I read part of a column in the Deseret News from which paper I gain much valuable information in regard to things that are transpiring in the world; and of interest to the people of this Church. I noticed that a Prof. Hite had made a great discovery pertaining to the cliff dwellers along the Colorado river. In speaking of one cliff dwelling he stated that he had traced it along the surface of the cliff down near the bank of the river, and had measured the distance as accurately as he could, and that one dwelling, he said, was more than a quarter of a mile in length and four stories in height, and the lower story was 600 feet up a perpendicular cliff, out of reach, and the rocks projecting as they did some 100 feet out from the cliff overhanging the dwelling prevented anyone from being let down from the rock above to reach it. This learned professor gave it as his opinion that this structure must have been erected more than 12,000,000 of years ago, because the erosion of that rock could not have been accomplished in less time than that. I want to call your attention to III Nephi in the Book of Mormon. We And there that great upheavals took place on this continent during the crucifixion of the Savior. Many cities were destroyed, and great inland seas were formed; great fissures and caverns were made through solid rocks, and lakes and rivers drained. By reading an account of this great upheaval we may readily conclude that it has not taken 12,000,000 of years to  the face of nature sines these cliff dwellings were erected. The Prophet Joseph, through the inspiration of the Almighty, brought to ii^ht the Book of Mormon. By the same power he introduced the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and instituted the organization of the quorums of the Holy Priesthood in the perfect form that we see them today. 

These young Elders go out with a testimony in their hearts that in 'he latter days the Lord has raised up a Prophet, who has brought life and light and immortality to the children of men. They have received a knowledge that Jesus is the Chri.it, .ttii that by Him and through Him mankind may be redeemed, through faith and obedience to the Gospel. The resurrection of the dead is brought to light through the resurrection of our Redeemer, and Jesus lived and died for the salvation of the huma.i family. These young Elders have this testimony, which they go out to proclaim, after being ordained and set apart Under the inspiration of divine .authority, through the Apostles of the Lord Jesus. Those who volunteer to go in response to the call made upon them, go forth fearlessly, trusting in the power that called them; reiying not on their own strength, but jn the strength of the power of God. 'We say to these young Elders, "When you go into a house where they give you entertainment, conduct yourselves as gentlemen; be clean and pure in your department and in your conversation; hold the honor of that house and that family as sacred, yea, more sacred tV an you do your own life, and do not permit anything to be said or done by you that shall bring suspicion upon you or shall tarnish your good name. You go out to represent a good people, who are virtuous, honest, and upright before the Lord. Do not let your actions tarnish that good name. Do not do anything that shall prevent you, when you return, from receiving the embrace of that loving mother that Brother Kimball mentioned this morning; but be in that condition that when you look your loved ones in the face you can do so without your cheeks  with shame, or without your eyes quailing through a consciousness of misconduct." 

This is some of the instruction that the Elders receive prior to their departure for missionary fields. We want to say to our young men who are still students in these missionary classes,and to all our young men and maidens throughout Israel, Be ye pure and clean; observe the laws of perfect chastity in all your associations, knowing and realizing that the eye of the Almighty Father is upon you, and that youi parents and the pioneers of this great work expect from you that you will conduct yourselves in a way that shall bring credit to this people, not only while you are abroad.but when jou are at home also. Let your conduct be all that it should be, and do not infringe upon the rights of your fellow men. Let your lives be garnished with purity of thought and action. The Jewish maidens were taught by their mothers, many generations before the coming of the Messiah, to be pure and clean and to keep their persons from everything that would bring a taint or a blemish upon them, for the reason that theii- Messiah, the king ft Judah, was coming to reign upon the earth, and He -«ould come through the loins of a Jewish maiden. Hence the Jewish mothers impressed upon their daughters the necessity of keeping themselves virtuous and sweet, so that they might be worthy of the honor of bringing forth the Messiah. Such was the lasting impression made upon the Jewish maidens by these teachings that the same purity of thought and action charaUi.-izes them even to this day. The Messiah came through a beautiful Jewish maiden, but they did not receive Him; and many of them still look forward to His coming. As you were informed today, many of the Jews now look upon the Savior as a great and gcod teacher, and one worthy of the esteem and fellowship of the Jews; and in this connection I am reminded of a little circumstance that was called to my mind in witnessing a play called "The "Wile." In one scene there was a sneet'nsr of the directors of a bank at midnight. Their cashier had been embezzling the funds of the bank, and  wife came in to plead for mercy for him. She found, however, that she could not touch the hearts of the bankers. The president of the bank was a Jew, and she, seeing a picture of the Messiah on the wall of his study where they were assembled said, in the name of that holy being whom you worship, I ask for mercy." He said, "Madam, I do not worship that being." "Why, then, said she, do you have His picture in your house. Because, he replied, he was a Jew, and the greatest Jew that ever lived, and why should I not have his picture in my house? This evidences the very thing thai Brother Roberts said, that the Jews are learning to look upon Jesus, whom we worship, as the greatest of the Jews, as a great teacher, and are honoring Him as such. The time has not yet come for them to acknowledge Him as the Messiah of their nation, but it will come; and He will come, for He has promised that He will come and reign upon the earth with His people. It is the duty of His people, therefore, to prepare for His second coming, that they may be found ready to receive Him, and not be like the unbelieving Judean nation— refuse to recognize Him when He does come; for it is by the faith of the Gospel and the witness that we have in our hearts that 'vo> Know that He is the Savior of the world, and that He is coming to reign on earth with His people. May the Lord bless you, and fit and prepare you for His coming, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HTRUM M. SMITH. 

The value, a qutfement and possesfion of truth— Prayers that rt*e heard not always answered— Evidence of dfrrlne origin of the Church. 

I, too, am filled with the spirit of rejoicing today, in being permitted to gather in conference with the Latterday Saints, and in listening to the testimonies of the servants of God as they are borne. In looking over this vast congregation I have felt to offer in my heart a prayer of thanksgiving to my Father in heaven that He has done so much for His people. Nearly all things that the Latter-day Saints need are given to them. Whenever they ask, their prayers are heard and answered. Truth is what they have wanted, and truth is what they have, and is the link which welds them all so closely together. 

It was written in Salt Lake City a short time ago that all religions have some truth, but that no religion has all truth, for that could only be gained through infinite progression. While that statement is true, yet the Latterday Saints have the assurance and the knowledge that all they have is true. Every principle, every rite, every command that has ever been given to the Saints of God in these days, from the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith till now, is true, because it came from God, and therefore must be true. While we have not all the truth, still we are in that line of eternal and infinite progression which eventually will place in the possession of the faithful Latterday Saints all the truth. The Latterday Saints can have any and every truth that others have. I cannot have perhaps the same object that you have, but I may have a truth that you have. If you have the knowledge that the sun first makes his appearance in the east, I, too, may have that identical knowledge. Therefore, whenever the Latterday Saints see a truth, whenever one is made known, no matter where or by whom it is possessed or found, they can possess it also; and they do usually accept gladly every truth that is brought to light. It makes no difference to them whether it be Christian or pagan, or heathen, who under God has been permitted to show forth that truth. 

My brethren and sisters, here we are gathered together in a multitude. Thousands of us can stand up and before all men declare that this is indeed the Church of God, and that we have a knowledge — not a mere belief, but a knowledge— that once more the Lord has set His hand to establish a people of His own in the earth. Because we know this, we have gathered together today to listen still further to the truths that God may have to transmit to His children here. The Latterday Saints gather in their meeting houses every week and there bear testimony one to another of the goodness of God. They testify that they know that God lives, and that He indeed did con to answer the humble prayer of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and they call attention to many of the gifts and blessings of God that have been made known to them since their connection with the Church. Many of them will tell of the healings of the sick which have been made manifest in their midst. They acknowledge the hand of God in the raising of their loved ones from disease and affliction. They say they know their prayers have been heard. And while that is one of the evidences of the truth of the Gospel unto us, there are, in my judgment, many other evidences, greater than the healing of the sick, that God lives and is at the head of this work. It is true that many prayers are heard and answered in behalf of the sick. We know that we are given that for which we ask. We have received that for which we sought. Yet how many parents are there who have prayed earnestly and long, and with all the power of their souls, that God would give them back one who was at the point of death, and still their prayer has not been answered? How many children have also offered such prayers in behalf of parents, and yet their prayers have not been answered; but those for whom they wept and prayed have been taken away. Prest. Woodruff often used to say that he had passed the allotted time of man and was kept alive by the faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints. Here Apostle Brigham Young comes back to us almost from the point of death, and testifies that God raised him up, and that he knew the prayers of the Latter-day Saints were ascending to Him in his behalf. Yet the time came, my brethren and sisters, when all the prayers of the Latter-day Saints, earnest though they were, and accompanied by the faith of the people, did not save President Woodruff from death. The time has come when our prayers in behalf of many of our loved ones have not been answered, but those for whom we have prayed have been taken away. But, my brethren and sisters, because they are taken away, is that any sign that our prayers were not heard by our Father in heaven? Not in the least. It is but an evidence that God knows best, that His will is not  will, and that the time had come when He saw it wiser not to answer that prayer. How often do parents have to deny the prayers and petitions of their own children. Notwithstanding the child desires a thing greatly, and can see no reason why he should not have it, yet in the greater wisdom of the parent his request is denied and the supposed blessing is withheld. But that is no evidence that the prayer was not considered by the parent; it is simply an evidence that the parent knows best when to give and when to withhold. 

The healing of the afflictions of physical man by the power of God is one of the evidences of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; but it is a greater evidence to me, that there are, as has been mentioned, thousands of young men, Elders in Israel, filled with the power and spirit of the Holy Ghost, going abroad in the world, clothed with the Holy Priesthood and power of Almighty God, equipped with the pure and unadulterated principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, healing the nations of their spiritual and soul-destroying ailments and afflictions. These Elders go forth, taking the Gospel with them, and after they have healed men of the errors and falsehoods they have been traditioned in from their youth up they bring them home to Zion. Here we are, a people from almost every nation in the world, men and women of different tongues, different customs, different heliefs, different gods; brought together, through this glorious panacea for the ills of all men, and made one in Christ Jesus, with one Lord, one faith, one baptism, knowing each other, knowing the principles of the Gospel as they have been revealed, and testifying to the truth of them — all by the power of the Holy Ghost. This is a testimony to me, greater indeed than the healing of the sick or the taking away from this life of any individual. Gathered together in the vales of the Rocky Mountains, in fulfillment of prophecy, are the people of God, and here they are established as an evidence that it is futile for the world to raise a hand against the Latter-day Saints to retard their progress or check their advancement.. They cannot be stopped; they must go; for God is their leader. As Brother 

Roberts said he must exult a little, I 

often exult a great deal because of the 

goodness of God to His people in 

thwarting the efforts of unrighteous 

men to check the progress of and to 

bring reproach and ignominy upon the 

Saints of the Most High. I rejoice in 

this, and I love to see the Church grow, 

in spite of all they can do. I love to 

see the people live near unto God, obey 

His commands, accept the leaders of 

the Church as men chosen of God, 

hearken to their counsels, and meet together with smiling countenances. 

All of us may have a knowledge that this is the one and only religion in all the wide world of which it can be said, "all they have is true." Yet how gladly we would extend it to everyone else! How gladly we would give to others that which we have received, and how assiduously are we working for the salvation of men, as is evidenced by the hundreds upon hundreds of Elders sent forth to proclaim repentance and salvation to the world! 

Another evidence of the truth of the Gospel — a very strong one to me — is the organization of the Church. Look at it, my brethren and sisters. Men in the world have wondered and could not understand how it was that God could be omniscient and omnipresent, and the teaching of this doctrine has led them into all kinds of error as to who and what God is. Now, look at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints— a church composed of nearly four hundred thousand people, divided Into stakes and wards and missionary fields, presided over by men holding the holy Priesthood. Think of all that number of souls, and then bear in mind that the President of the Church can within a few hours, get in touch with the remotest parts of the Church, and become acquainted with almost every individual member. His knowledge concerning any part of the Church, scattered throughout the world, becomes almost omniscient. All he needs to do is to communicate with the president of the stake, whom he knows, and that president may communicate with the Bishop of a ward, the Bishop may inform his teachers that he desires information concerning a family or an individual in his ward, and the information is received, and transmitted right back to the head of the Church. In this way the President of the Church is brought in touch with all the Church, in all its branches, however remote they may be. If, then, one man, in a finite condition, on become so thoroughly acquainted with a people numbering four hundred thousand, can we not understand how easy it is for God, who is infinite, to receive all knowledge concerning all the works of His hands? The organization of the Church is as perfect as it can possibly be in our present state. All has been given us that we are capable of receiving. And Oh! how we rejoice in it, my brethren and sisters, and in the knowledge, too, that eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into our hearts, what God has in store for us as we march on in that infinite progression and advancement. All things will be given to us— all power, all glory, all knowledge, even as our Father in heaven possesses it — in due time, as we are capable of receiving them. 

My brethren and sisters, ought we not to rejoice in the testimony of the truth, and ought we not to give glory to God? After He has done so much for us, ought we not to do all we can for Him, and for His children, all over the world, no matter who they are, where they are, or what they are? Should we not love our enemies, and be willing to do all we can for them, even though their hand be raised against us? God has done so much for us that if we do all we can and live to the age of a tree, we will never be able to repay Him for His goodness to us. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we have the truth. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that the truth was a knowledge of things as they were, a knowledge of things as they are, and a knowledge of things as they are to come. Is not that a beautiful definition of truth? Does it not embrace all truth? And indeed, according to that definition, have not the Latter-day Saints more truth than all the other peoples of the wide world, because they  a greater knowledge of the dealings of God with men in the past, of man's condition in the present, and of the destiny of mankind, than any other people or denomination? And how have we received this, my brethren and sisters? Why are we thus placed above others? Because we have been willing to humble ourselves and accept the testimonies of the truth as they have been brought to us by those Elders who found us in the world without a knowledge of the truth. The Lord indeed has been merciful unto us, and I trust that He always will be, and that we will ever be worthy of the trust which God has reposed in us; that we may stand on the foundation of the principles of the Gospel as they have been made known to us and as they may yet be made known, and never deviate, never sacrifice a principle, no matter what consideration may be brought to bear upon us to do so. Stand firmly upon the foundation of the truth, you Latter-day Saints. Seek for more truth; put yourselves in a position to receive more truth; and God stands willing and anxious to still pour out upon us a knowledge of greater truths than we at present can conceive of. Let us make the truth known to others. All that the Lord has given^and ' He : has given freely— let us be willing to ' give to others. Let us seek for the salvation of the souls of men. And while we are working in the world for the salvation of those who are yet in unbelief, let us work also for the salvation of the souls of our children, and bring them up to maturity in the fear and admonition and knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

May God bless us; may we still prosper; may we still be blessed, and may we never, because of the goodness of God and the blessings He has bestowed upon us freely, imagine in our souls that we are better than the other children of God. We have been more favored; we ought to be better; but never let us exalt ourselves above others. Let us be humble. Let us seek the truth, and receive it when it is made known to us. Continue on in this path of righteousness, and then indeed can the powers of the adversary not pre with us. The Lord bless the Latter-day Saints, bless His work, bless the children of God in all the wide world. May He hasten the day when sin and wickedness, error and corruption shall be put down, and when adulterated truth may be no more retailed and wholesaled to the children of men as true religion, by those calling themselves doctors of divinity, but when all men may dispense the truth for the  of the truth and for the love of seeing men come unto the Lord out of the obscurity and darkness of error and unbelief, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The choir and congregation sang: 

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word. 

Benediction by Elder Wm. T. Jack.