Morning
06 10 1092



ELDER MARRINER W. MERRILL. 

Remarkable development of the Lord's work — The elements tempered, and tbe land blessed — Continued Improvement essential — Importance of the teacher's calling— Evils of debt and mort gages. 

The meetings of the conference thus far have been very interesting to me. I have listened with a great deal of interest to the reports of the presidents of missions and presidents of the Stakes of Zion. We are here, my brethren and sisters, to be fed spiritually, and to be  with regard to our temporal duties. Thus far, I think, we have all been satisfied with the things that we have heard and the spirit that has been manifest. Indeed we may say we have had a refreshing from the Lord. We have been benefitted and profited by the various subjects that have been treated upon. How vast is the work of the Lord! And how it is increasing and spreading abroad, notwithstanding the difficulties that have been thrown in the way! When we look back, say 50 years (there are many here, I suppose, that can remember 50 years back,) and observe the progress that has been made in 50 years, it is wonderful to contemplate. While in that time twenty of our Apostles and Presidents of the Church have passed to the other side, yet we see today the Church is stronger and the people are more numerous than ever before. There is more interest manifested in the forwarding of this work in the earth, than ever before in our history. Thus we see the hand of the Lord manifest towards this people in their growth and development in the earth. What will be the growth and development in fifty more years? No doubt there are people here that will live to  fifty more years, and the work being developed fifty years hence. 

We have great cause to give thanks and praise to our heavenly Father for His goodness unto us, and for His mercy in tempering the elements in these high mountain valleys. I can well remember when it was said that certain valleys in these mountains would not produce the cereals of the earth, because of their altitude and the frosts; but this saving has been brought to naught. I remember very distinctly going with President Young on his first trip into the Bear Lake Valley. A number in the company, after we arrived there and camped, predicted that there never would be any grain raised in Bear Lake Valley, because it was too cold. But we find that the Lord tempered the elements. I remember what President Young told them in the first meeting. He said, "You have come here to a cold, high valley; but if you will stay here and be contented, and serve the Lord, you will get rich." He assured them that they would be able to raise grain; but if you cannot raise grain, said he, you can raise hops, and get rich raising hops. We find that the elements have been tempered in all the high valleys. In Cache valley we all huddled together, you know, on the low lands. I remember President Kimball saying one time when he was there that the day would come when we would want to crowd up toward the mountains, and cultivate the land on the high benches. That saying is verified today. Go into Cache valley and you can see the valley cultivated in places almost to the top of the mountains, while the lower part of the val. ley is abandoned to grass. 

The Lord has been with His people. He has been with His servants. And it has seemed to me, in watching the progress of the work of the Lord, as if e"ery administration that we have had was a little stronger than the previous one: but perhaps that is not the case. It may only be that in the development of the work of the Lord new things have arisen. The Lord did not promise He would reveal everything at once. He said He would give line upon line, precept upon precept, here a  and there a little; and as the work of the Lord develops new features are brought before the people. Things are revealed from time to time that were not necessary half a century ago. 

Now, taking into consideration om condition and our circumstances, is there yet room for improvement among the Latter-day Saints? Notwithstanding the good reports that we hear from the various Stakes of Zion, let me ask, is there yet a chance for improvement in the Church of Christ? Why, thefe certainly is. We have not all come to the unity of the faith yet. We have not all come to a perfect understanding of the Gospel. We learn a little today and a little tomorrow, advance step by step and keep learning a little more about the work of God. 

The Lord has given unto His people a perfect organization, such as is not found anywhere else in the world. It was reported by somebody since the conference commenced that there werti no poor in one of the Stakes of Zion. When I heard that, I thought to myself that that Stake was in rather a bad condition. The Savior said, The poor ye have always with you. My experi. ence in the Church has taught me that if no poor are found it is because a thorough search has not been made in the Stake; for I believe there are poor in all the Stakes of Zion. There is a certain class of people amongst us that wont make their wants known. They will suffer, and suffer a great deal, before they will let their neighbors know their condition. I have acted as a Bishop for eighteen years in tbv? Church, and I have found in my administration that there are cases of this kind, where people will not reveal their condition. Such people have to be hunted for; and then looked after, by the Priests, or by the Teach ers, or by somebody, in order that their circumstances may be made known. I will guarantee if all the Stakes of Zion were searched carefully it would be found that there are poor everywhere; not so extensively perhaps in some Stakes as in others, but there are poor. The organization that the Lord has giv. en us suits the condition of every member of the Church, and also the condition of non-members of the Church, because they, living among- us, are to be cared for, are to be looked after, and treated kindly. 

I fear there is a lack, my brethren and sisters, with regard to the labors of the Lesser Priesthood. I fear thia because I know from experience that it requires a constant labor and a constant watchcare on the part of the Bishop to keep the Lesser Priesthood in good working order. Now, every family in the Church, and every family in the district, whether they are in the Church or not, ought to be visited. They are the Lord's children, and they ought to be looked after. They ought to be visited at least once a month. Can we Bishops or Presidents of Stakes say, and say truthfully, that the flock over which the Lord has appointed us to preside is visited, cared for, looked after and provided for. If we can, then we are in a happy condition, and we are doing just what the Lord wants us to do. But if we fail in this important matter, then it is time for us to consider, to counsel together as the Priesthood, as a quorum of the Priesthood, and see wherein we can make our labor more valuable and more profitable to the Latter-day Saints. The Teachers, you know, have general jurisdiction. The office of a Teacher is an important one in the Church. I remember once going as a Teacher into the family of President Kimball, and President Kimball was there. Of course, being a boy, I felt bashful, and ver> diffident in talking in the home of one of the Presidency of the Church; but it was not long before President Kimball made me feel perfectly at home, to talk there just as I would to anyone else, because of the spirit and kindness he manifested. He says, "I want you to preach the Gospel to my fam. ily. If you see anything out of order, I want you to tell them about it; whether it be indoors or out-of-doors, tell them about it; advise with them about it, counsel with them about it." Now, that has always been a lesson to me. I have always remembered it. The Teachers should advise with the people in regard to their interests. Not that they should have one simple rou of questions to ask in every family; that is not necessary, and the Lord will not lead you that way either; but He will lead you to say such things in each family as shall be suitable and proper. The Lord will be with ever> Teacher if he is humble and prayerful. No»w, I conclude, from my own experience, thai the very best thing in the world for the Teacher to do before he goes out, is to go off into a secret place, and tell the Lord he is going ouv in fulfilment of his duty, to labor as a minister of the Gospel among the people. If you will do this in humility, the Lord will be with you and direct you in your labors. Now, do not miss anybody in your travels. Do not be in such a hurry that the most remote fam. ily in the district may not be visited and looked after. You may feel in your hearts that those people are no good, that they are not worthy, that they wont receive you kindly, and so on; but there may be children there, on whom your influence may have great effect, and you cannot afford to neglect them. We cannot afford to neglect our duty to these people. Now, these things apply to the Presidency of the Stake as well as to the Bishopric. 

There is one very good thing that tht-- Teachers might talk to the people about, and that is with regard to going in debt. Some of our people have had a great desire to go in debt, perhaps for the purpose of making as good a show as their neighbors. In my opinion, the time has come when we should desist from "going into debt. We should not mortgage our homes. This is a subject that I certainly think the Teachers should talk about. I hope that it may be said from this time on that the Latter-day Saints will not mortgage their realty, their homes, their chattels, or anything they have. Under some circumstances it may be a necessity; but a rule it is a bad thing, and we ought to quit it. I have seen people turned out of their homes, owing to tre mortgage being foreclosed. They have had to let it go for half its valu^, because it is seldom you can borrow on a piece of property the full value of it, and in that way their hard earningr are dissipated. Do not mortgage your . There was a time when there were no mortgages in all Utah; but 1t is not so today. I do not suppose there is a Stake of Zion that is now free from it. It is time, therefore, that we began to seriously consider our condition, and cease going in debt. Let us pay off our mortgages and our obligations as fast as possible; and the quickest and easiest way to do it is for every man to pay his tithing and offerings to the Lord. For everything belongs to the Lord, and He has made us stewaids over what He has placed in our hands. Then let us pay our obligations to the Lord, no matter what our neighbor may say about it. Every man in the Church should pay his tithing, and pay it when he has it. Do not put. off paying the tithing on your summer's wage until the fall, because that is not a good way. When you receive your monthly salary, pay your tithir.g right at the time; and do the same with whatever you get from any 3ource. If you will do this, the Lor>l will open up your way and help you out of debt. Let us make a resolve not to go in debt any more, and the Lord will assist us to carry it out. We not only want to get out of debt ourselves, but we want to see the Church out of debt, so that the hands of the Presidency may be so liberated that they can use whatever means are necessary for the development of the work of the Lord and the building up of Zion. If we had in our possession today the interest that we have paid on outside capital, it would help us considerably. 

Another thing: Let us not make too many demands upon the Presidency of the Church. The Presidents of Stakes and Bishops of wards are continually asking the Church to help them for one purpose or another. Bless your soul, tne Presidency of the Church would b= willing to help everybody if they had it in their power; but it is not in their power at present. Therefore, if we have a meetinghouse to build, let us go to and build it without asking aid from the Church. If we could utilize thv labor that is wasted in all the Stakes of Zion, we could build all the meeting-houses we need. You brethren that  meetinghouses in your wards and stakes, try and utilize that labor in the building of them. I know by experience that this can be done. Then you will not have to ask the Church fcr anything. 

These are some of the details that affect us in our wards and stakes. It would be a good thing for the Bishops* and Presidents to make a note of what is said by the speakers, and wherein the remarks fit their circumstances, apply them. We are gathered from all parts to get information and instruction, and let us not pass these things by without giving heed to therr. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the work of the Lord It has done my soul good to hear the brethren testify that they knew tikffc was the work of God. It is not our work, but the Lord has given us tho privilege to take part in it. Joseph ^mith, the great prophet of the last dispensation, has a wjatchcare over as today, just as he had while he wa^ on the earth; and he is not so very far off, either. The Prophet Brigham also, and the other leaders of Israel who have gone to the other side, are watching over the people of God; and let us not feel that they are away, beyond the bounds of time and space, because they are not very far away. This is the work of God. Joseph was a great prophet. He ushered in this dispensation of the fulness of times, and it is gradually going forward. It hss spread abroad upon the mountains and in the valleys, and will continue to do so. God will build up His kingdom and sustain His servants. Let us see to it that we are not found complaining or faultfinding, but let it be said of u* mat we have sustained the work of God and our brethren. God bless you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID K. UDALL, (President of St. Johns Stake.) I desire the faith and prayers of my brethren and sisters the short time that I may stand before you. I am not like President Andrew Kimball, acquainted with every nook and corner of this beautiful city of yours. It is a revelation to me to behold what is to be seen in these lovely valleys of the mountains. It has not been my good fortune to be associated intimately with the leading authorities of the Church, only when they have visited our country. For twenty-seven years I have been engaged in looking after the interests of the Latter-day Saints in different parts of the Lord's vineyard. It has been my lot to be on the frontiers, and to assist in building up the waste places of Zion. I have rejoiced in this labor, and have seen the power of God made manifest on many occasions in the support and succor that has come to the Latter-day Saints in the establishment of new colonies. I rejoice exceedingly in the testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know this is the work of God. I have known for many years that those who led the Church were inspired of the Almighty. I can remember, in the days of my childhood, when the little children went out to greet President Brigham Young as he passed through the settlements of the Saints. I recollect how my heart leaped with joy and satisfaction in seeing this great man and in listening to his words and the words of those who accompanied him on those noted trips. In my ministry among the people I have rejoiced in the teachings and the words of encouragement that have come from the leaders of the Church, and I bear my testimony today that the men who lead Israel are men of God, who have had and do have the power and the inspiration to lead this people successfully, if we will adhere to their instructions. 

I have had great pleasure in my labors in the St. Johns Stake of Zion. "We do not raise these wonderful sweet potatoes that President Kimball referred to; but I will tell you what we do have, as no doubt President Kimball has in his Stake: we have a choice people in that land, who are trying to serve God. As an evidence of this, we discover in all the wards a desire on the part of the Bishops and the Saints generally to keep up the organizations that have been established for the welfare  the people. "We are at peace with our neighbors. We have the Navajos on one side of us, and the Apaches on the other; and in some places where our people reside there are Pueblo Indians. "We are at peace with these people. "We are at peace with the territory of Arizona, and I was very thankful to listen to the remarks of President Kimball yesterday in regard to our treatment there. I think it is due the people and officials of the territory that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints should understand that we are treated nicely and kindly in the country in which we live. The conditions surrounding us in the St. Johns Stake are rather peculiar. We live in a section of country where we are not favored with a railroad passing through any of our settlements, nor a telegraph line. "Whether these things are a blessing or not is not for me to say, but we miss these opportunities of the age. We rejoice, however, that we have the same' privileges in the Gospel that you have who are more favored in these other regards. We have a people free from mortgages. I do not believe there is a single home belonging to the Latterday Saints in that Stake of Zion that is under mortgage. Every meetinghouse, every schoolhouse, our Academy building, and all our public property, is free of debt; and though we are poor, we rejoice in that fredom. In our farming we depend almost entirely upon reservoirs. If my memory serves me right in the eight wards of that Stake we have fourteen reservoirs, constructed by the united labor of the people. With a population of about 1,500 in the Stake, we have expended in the neighborhood of $80,000 in the building of reservoirs, and we do not owe anything for them. 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, in having the privilege occasionally to come and visit with you and to attend the general conferences. I pray God to continue to bless and prosper His people. There is one thing comes to my mind that I will refer to. We have been very much exercised in our part of the country over our financial conditions. The young men and many of the fathers and husbands are under the ne of leaving their homes to find employment, so that they may support their families in these dry times that we are passing through. The thought has occurred to us many times that if we could put forth the same energy and union in this direction that we manifest in keeping up the organization of the Church, it would not he necessary for us to leave home to find employment. I look forward to the time when in every village and city throughout the land where the people of God dwell, there will he industrial establishments, where our young people will he taught to work in wood and iron, etc., and by means of which we will be able to produce all that is necessary for our support. How is it today? "We bring in from abroad that which we wear, and that which we eat in some localities. Nearly everything that we need has to be imported; at least, that has been the case with us for some years past, in consequence of the drouth. How it is that we can live and maintain this drain upon the people is a mystery to me. It certainly is an evidence that God is watching over us. In many of our homes we see the motto, "God will provide," and He, surely has provided for the colonies of the Latter-day Saints on the outskirts. I bear testimony to this today. God bless this people and the leaders of Israel, and may we be faithful and true to them, as they are true and faithful to the Church of Christ.is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JESSE W. CROSBY, 

(Of the Presidency of Big Horn Stake.) 

In standing before you this morning and representing the Big Horn Stake of Zion — a new stake that has been organized in "Wyoming — and in listening to the reports of the different missions and stakes, I feel that we still belong to Zion. The people of our stake have come from various parts; some from almost every county in Utah, some from Idaho, some from Canada, some from Mexico. They have formed themselves into a body of people there that are  and recognized as Latter-day Saints. To us who have gone there it has been a land of promise, and our gathering is a fulfillment of prophecy; for it was prophesied many years ago that the Saints would locate in the Big Horn basin and become a flourishing people. President Young prophesied in regard to this, as did Jesse "W. Fox, the well known surveyor, who went into that locality and discovered its resources. We believe that the Lord has held in reserve portions of that country for His people. 

I do not think it necessary to say much about our country; in the due time of the Lord it will speak for itself. When compared with many places that the Saints have located in, it is certainly a goodly land. The Lord has heard and answered the prayers of His people there, and the success that has attended our labors has been marvelous to us, as well as to those who have watched our operations. Quite a number of eastern people have tried to colonize in that land, but have r>een unsuccessful in taking out the water. They have had fto concede that the Latterday Saints are natural colonizers, because of the union that exists among them. In a little over two years we have opened a number of canals, our biggest canal being thirty-three miles long, and costing nearly $100,000.00. The water was taken out this year, going the full length of the ditcn, and on the 23rd of June we commenced irrigating, and have produced some crops. This will show what can be done on that soil. 

We have friends in that land. The governor of the state has been watching very carefully what the Latter-daySaints were capable of doing. He says he has watched us with more than personal interest, so that he might see what could be done to make some of that desert land fruitful. Since we commenced operations, companies from the east and the west have started to taking out canals. The officials of the state of Wyoming are treating us with all the courtesy that we could ask. We have come to regard Governor Richards as being unto us like Joseph was in Egypt, and we feel very grateful to him. 

Many of those who have gone into the Big Horn country are poor people. They had more labor than they could utilize where they were living, the water resources being limited, and they either had to work for someone else or go without employment. They are now working for themselves, opening up farms and making homes. About two years ago we discovered that we were going to be short of provisions, many people having come in without sufficient to hold out until they could raise something. The situation seemed somewhat serious; but the Lord openea the way, in answer to fasting and prayer. The Burlington railroad officials offered us contracts on their road, which we accepted; and after fulfilling the contracts we received our money, and utilized it to the very best advantage. 

The people, I believe, are trying hard to make it a land of Zion, by keeping the commandments of the Lord thereon. We have a God-fearing people there, who are trying with all their hearts to serve God, and to make the land a place that the Lord will delight to bless because of the faithfulness of those who dwell there. 

May God bless Israel, and all who write and speak in favor of Zion, is the prayer of your humble servant, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN (President of Alpine Stake). 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the privilege that I have of meeting with the Saints at the Conference of the Church, to receive the instructions which come from the leading brethren of the Church. I never come to these Conference meetings without being fed with the bread of life. 1 have shown to me many places in my character that are weak, and when I depart from the Conference I feel strengthened in my faith and in my determination to go forth among the people and, if possible, make a greater effort to accomplish good. I have rejoiced in the testimonies that  been borne by my brethren. I have been exceedingly grateful and satisfied in my feelings with the manner in which these meetings have been conducted, wherein we have had the privilege of listening to our brethren from far and near bear their testimony and tell of their work among the people. 

I have pleasure in reporting the Alpine Stake of Zion, which is located in the north end of Utah county. It comprises ten wards and four branches. The largest ward numbers about three thousand souls; the smallest about two hundred and fifty souls. In the ten wards there are now being erected seven meetinghouses, one of which you might term a magnificent tabernacle, which will cost in the neighborhood of $50,000 or $60,000. About two weeks ago we called the Bishops and the High Council of the Stake together and conversed with them upon the condition of their wards, and we found the spirit of harmony existing among them. On the following evening we called together all the authorities of the Stake, and from them we also learned that the spirit of harmony and good feeling prevailed in their midst and with the people they are presiding over. The presidency of the Stake are united; the High Council are united. We can testify that there is a good feeling prevailing in the Alpine Stakp. Tn pnitf* of the outlay of means in the erection of these meetinghouses, we are pleased to state that last year the people did not fall behind in their tithes and offerings. All the organizations of our Stake kept a record of their doings for the year 1901, upon loose leaves which were given to them for that purpose. These leaves were handed in at the end of the year.and have been compiled and bound in one record, so that we have the records of the different organizations, together with the minutes cf the presidency of the Stake, all in one volume. The presidency of the Stake meet every week, to talk and plan for the welfare of the people. We have counseled our Bishops to do likewise, as well as the presiding officers in the various organizations. We have secured individual tithing cards for every member who paid tithing in our (59 

Stake last year, which have been given to the Bishops to present to each tithepayer. The card has on it the amount of tithing that the individual paid last year, and it contains space for the recording of his or her tithing for twenty years. We keep duplicates of these cards at our office. From the testimony of the Bishops we believe that this will result in good. Only this morning one of the Bishops reported to us that in delivering a card, the brother receiving it said he felt ashamed of the tithing that he had paid, and he has already paid a great deal more tithing this year than he paid during the whole of last year. The people are instructed to bring these tithing cards at the time of settlement, so that what they have paid during the year may be placed on them. 

We know that our labors among the people are appreciated, from the fact that they are carrying out the instructions which we have given them. Wa know that the gifts of the Gospel are among the people as they were anciently. Not long since one of our members met with an accident in the little city of Alpine. A large hayfork ran in his body at the shoulder to a depth of fifteen inches. The physicians were called in to dress the wound, and they declared that his chances for living were very slim. His mother received a testimony at that time that he would live, and therefore told them that he would not die. The Elders were called in to administer to him, and in about two weeks the young man was out upon the streets, and is living today. There was another brother, who came to us to receive a blessing for his speech. He was of a stammering tongue. Before he went on a mission to which he had been called.he received a blessing at the hands of the presidency of the Stake, and word comes to us that he has been wonderfully blessed so that he is able to speak to the people in plainness and without difficulty. We have the spirit of prophecy, the gift of tongues, the gift of revelation and of great wisdom in our Stake, and we feel to rejoice that these blessings are with the people today as they were anciently. We also can testify that we  the Gospel is true, and that the men whom God has called to lead in the affairs of the Church are men of God. The teachings they give us are true and timely. If we live up to them, they build us up in our faith and make us better men and women . 

I pray that the Lord will bless us in our labors, and help us to magnify our callings, that our faith in Him may be increased, that our testimonies may be added upon, and that we may have strength and courage to perform every duty required at our hands, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER URIAH T. JONES, (President of Parowan Stake.) 

In facing this vast audience I feel that I am overrated; but I am very grateful for the honor conferred upon me in having the privilege of representing the Parowan Stake of Zion. It is one of the oldest stakes in the Church, Iron county having been settled, I believe, in the fall of 1850. In the years 1853-4 iron works were started in that county, and the population at that time was about as numerous as it is today. After the failure In the manufacture of iron, the number of inhabitants was reduced nearly three-fourths. Cedar City then had three hundred families, and in 1856-7 there were only about fifty families. We now have a population in that stake of a little upwards of four thousand. We have all the auxiliary organizations of the Church in fairly good running order, and those who have charge seem to be alive to their duties. The tithing of the people is not as we would like it to be. Of course, we attribute that, to some extent, to the unusually severe drouth that that part of the country is going through at the present time, and which we hope will soon be broken. Numbers of our young men, the best of our communities, are moving to other places. During the last three years we have been under the necessity of organizing the Young Men's association three different times, the presidencies having moved to other places. The present prospects are that our wonderful iron deposits will be developed. Of course, we cannot tell; we Aave been fooled so many times that it won't hurt us if we get disappointed again; but from what we can judge at present the time has arrived when they will be developed, and instead of our people moving away we will have room for many to move in. 

As I have said, I feel it an honor to have the privilege of standing before you for a few moments and bearing my testimony to the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with us as a people, that we may be as a light set upon a bill, that the people of the world, seeing our good works, may be led to glorify the name of our Father in heaven. In the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES D. WHITE, (President of Beaver Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, in standing before you here, I feel as Brother Jones stated, as if I was overrated, although I am very pleased to be numDered with the Latter-day Saints and to have the privilege of meeting with you in general conference. I endorse all the remarks that we have heard during this conference. My testimony is that they are true, and that they have been dictated by the Spirit of God. The Beaver stake is in the southern part of this state, adjoining Parowan stake. While we have suffered in the past from drouth and frost, we have not the same reason to complain that they have. We feel that the Lord has blessed us abundantly, because we have very fair crops this year, and our prospects are bright. Beaver City, the capital of our county, is as nice a little city as there is anywhere. We may not have the rich soil and the good climate that they have in other parts of the state, but we have as good water, as fine streets, and as clean a city as there is anywhere. We also have a Church school that we are very proud of — a branch of the Brigham Young Academy — and it is doing a great deal towards making Latter-day Saints. I tell the people of Beaver that the money invested in that school goes  towards making Latter-day Saints than the money they spend in sending their Elders out into the world to preach the Gospel, although we have Elders out in the world who send us very' encouraging reports of their labors. In that school we have many that will bear testimony, whenever opportunity affords, that they have learned that the Gospel is true through being taught there. We think that we have the nicest place for a Church school that there is anywhere in the state. We have 240 acres of land, and quite a number of buildings. There are perhaps a hundred rooms rented at the present time to students who are attending the school, and we have room for more. The school is increasing each year. This is the fifth year of its existence, and we are very much encouraged with it. We feel that the Lord is blessing the people of Beaver. I bear testimony that the Gospel is true. The Lord has certainly revealed His mind and will to His children in this age of the world, and there is no mistake about it. 

I pray that God will bless us, that we may be true and faithful to our callings and always be found steadfast and laboring for the advancement of the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER IRA N. HINCKLEY. (President of Millard Stake). 

My brethren and sisters, I feel full of gratitude to my Father in heaven and to my brethren for the privilege of standing here a few moments, notwithstanding I must confess that I have rather shrank from it. Listening to my brothers that are laboring as presidents of stakes, seeing the good spirit tha: has attended them and noting the good instructions they have given I felt that if I should be called upon I might not be able to interest the people as much which will probably be true. I was much pleased with "he remarks of Apostle Merrill this morning in regard to the great improvement made in this part of the country. I landed in this city in 1850. It was my  fortune for a while to be a policeman on the streets of Salt Lake City, and I used to know where every individual lived in the town, and where everyone sat when they came to meeting. But I was thinking if I was dropped down with my eyes blindfolded in some parts of this city now I would hardly be able to find my way out, it has made such a growth. 

I feel to endorse the remarks that have been made, and I assure you that on returning home I want to put into practice some of the things that have been told us, in which we are behind perhaps in our stake. We live just next to Beaver, and we border on to Juab stake. In listening I find out, as I always do when I come to conference, that we are lacking in some things, anl that there is room for improvement in our stake. I am pleased with the opportunity of coming to headquarters for the purpose of learning my duty, and I desire to be faithful in discharging it. I have struggled along and am a member of the Church yet, and I hope to continue to the end. I find that the greatest difficulty I have, under some circumstances, is to fellowship myself from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, not being altogether satisfied at times that I have done my full duty; but I assure you that I have been determined to do right although I may. not have been so strong as I might in fulfilling all that has been required of me. I am pleased to note the improvement of the Latter-day Saints. I want to tell you that I have endorsed the leaders of Israel all the day long. I have traveled with this Church something over 60 years and I know a little about the people and the trials and hardships we have gone through; and when I see Zion at headquarters branching out over the hills enjoying plenty, dressing well, living well, I feel to r ejoice. 

We have all the organizations in our stake of Zion that are in the other stakes and they are in pretty good shape. We have been suffering more or less for three years from drouth, and we have sometimes lost good citizens on account of it, and sometimes we have had some go that we are glad went. I  very much pleased with the idea expressed by one of the brethren, that when people want to leave a stake ot Zion they should get a release. I tell you, I have always believed in standing to the rack, hay or no hay. That has been my motto all my life since coming to Utah. I have not been on preaching missions, but I have done some working missions. I love my brethren, I love the leaders of Israel, and I love and fellowship my brethren in the stake over which I preside. I know that the Gospel is true, and I pray God to bles3 us in all our walks in life, that we may stand shoulder to shoulder, in touch with all the leaders of Israel and in touch with our Father in heaven. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

A promise fulfilled — Pleasure In preaching the Gospel — The Lord answers prayer — Union among the servants of God. . 

I have been exceedingly interested during this conference, and have reflected upon the power of testimony that has been manifested here. Over 50 years ago I heard this everlasting Gospel. It was then promised to me that if I would worship the living and true God, repent of my sins, accept of the atonement of Jesus Christ, and o'cey the Gospel, I should have the piivilege of a knowledge that God lived, that Jesus was indeed the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet tent of God, and that the signs followed the believer. I was told that I had to believe in God, the Maker of heaven and earth, the sea and the fountains of waters, and that I had to accept of the efficacy of the precious blood of Christ, which cleanseth from sin and sanctifieth the believer, and then I should receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of the Father which would reveal to me the things of God. This everlasting Gospel was preached to me in my early days. After some consideration I accepted it, notwithstanding it was so dreadfully unpopular; for the Latter-day Saints were nicknamed "Mormons," and th* doctrine they taught "Mormonism," and those who embraced it were looked upon as the offscouring of all flesh. I received the promised testimony, and after 50 years' experience I do most as buredly know that God has spoken from the heavens, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet sent of God, and that this Church, now presided over by Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R Winder and Anthon H. Lund, is thij Church of the Lamb. 

This everlasting Gospel is being preached in all the world for a witness. I have had the privilege of traveling abroad to preach it. I labored for some time in the Southern States, declaring the message of salvation, and when I was released to come home I was sorry, for I was enjoying my lators so much among that people. No one could be treated any better than I was by the people of the Southern States. I never had to sleep out of doors, for the Lord always opened up the way for me. And I am so thankful to know that the Lord blessed the peo pie that blessed me. Those who threw open their doors to the Elders, who fed and clothed them, and who aided them in the work of the ministry, though they have not embraced the Gospel they will most assuredly receive the recompense of reward from the Lord Jesus, our Master. We were representing the Lord Jesus Christ, noc ourselves. We were not beguiling the people by falsehood, by false dogmas or to. lish traditions; we were offering th<=m the Gospel of the Son of God with the promise that if they would repent and obey it they should be put in possession of a similar testimony and knowledge to that which we ourselves enjoyed. Love the inhabitants of the earth? Of course, we do. I have crossed the Atlantic ocean seven times, rot on pleasure trips, but in the interests of the Church, and I know how the Lord has protected me and taught me. He will do the same to anybody else, if they will put their trust in Him and ask; for He has declared in the^e last days that if we will ask we shall receive, if we will knock it shall be opened unto us, if we seek we shall find. We do most assuredly know that this is true. 

These are the glad tidings that we take to the nations. We tell the people what opportunities are within their reach today, if they will only repert and obey the Gospel. We are pleased to do this, because we love the inhabitants of the earth. As Latter-day Saints we are frequently admonished to live our religion. I understand that, to live our religion is to love the Lord oiir God with all our might, mind and strength, and our neighbor as ourselves, and speak of all the best we can. I understand that to live my religion is to mind my own business, attend to my own affairs, work out n:y own salvation, and magnify my calling. I ".mderstand that to live my religion is to trust in the Lord and do good; to seek earnestly for the blessing of the Almighty, and to be filled with gratitude to Him that I have the privilege of being a member of His Church, that 1 have a living testimony, that I have become -sanctified through the precious^ bl.->od of Christ, and that I have th»* fellowship of the Holy Ghost. The Lord has said He would be enquired after, and I have enquired of Him for the last 50 years, and do most assuredly know that when I have asked for thct wrich has been necessary He han gi anted my prayer, having tested Him under many different circumstances in my labors. It has been my privilege to bear my testimony in many countries, and I have been thankful to Almighty God for the manner in which He has sustained me in all my travels. He has preserved me from all harm, ai'dt enabled me to accomplish His purposes. I have frequently said that if I had been as kind to myself as the ...ord has been to me, I would have no reason to complain. I am thankful to declare the loving kindness of our Father in heaven. 

Ihere is a living testimony manifested here. I shake hands with brethren* whom I knew 50 years ago, when we were brought into the Church by our Father in heaven; for the Lord Jesus Christ said, "No man can come to me, e>cept the Father which hath sent me draw him." I know that He drew me and enlightened my mind; I know that He drew my brethren and enlightened 73". . They know it, too, and we are living witnesses, living monuments of His mercy, that in all the vicissitudes of life our Father has preserved us ani has filled our souls with gratitude and praise. He has given us the privilege of the higher education in His ho 1 }' temple, and of all the blessings of the n^w and everlasting covenant. There is nothing that we have and enjoy but has been given to us by Him, and we soy. All glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost! 

I am thankful that I have the privil ege of bearing my testimony upon this auspicious occasion. I am thankful for this conference, and for the testimony of my brethren. It has been sweet to me to listen to their voices, declaring the goodness of God to them. We can see what class of men the Lord has selected to be his ministers, humble, childlike, filled with the Spirit of the Lord. Do we love each other? We do; it is impossible for us to do anything else. May the Lord God of Israel bless these His servants in all thenoutgoings and incomings. May they be established in His everlastirg righteousness, that their days ma> never fail, but that their testimony may be true and bright, so that they rray lay down their lives as members of the Church of Christ in full fellowsnip, to be received into the Church of the Lamb behind the veil, and to realize the promise, Blessed are they that have a right to the tree of life. If we can obtain a right to the tree of life, we will surely be members of the Church of Christ in good standing, to the glory of God our Eternal Father, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Possession of Priesthood not confined to a few. 

Although we may enjoy a little a>l\antage over the rest of the congregation, for my part I could stay here a week longer to hear the testimonies of my brethren, and to give to the world an opportunity to see and know that the Priesthood in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is not confined to one man, nor to three , nor to fifteen men, but that there are thousands of men in Zion who hold the Melchizedek Priesthood, which is after the order of the Son of God, and who possess keys of authority and po-ver to minister for life and salvation amcng the people of the world. I would like to give the world an opportunity to see what we are, to hear what we know, and to understand what our business is and what we intend to do, by the help of the Lord. The choir sang: 

Zion stands with hills surrounded. Benediction by Elder George C. Parkinson, president of Oneida Stake. 

