Afternoon
05 10 1092




ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

ATords inspired by the Holy Spirit are ScriptureNeed for giving heed to such words— Callings in the Priesthood must be magnified— Willing obedience. 

I have greatly rejoiced in the spirit )f this conference. We are assembled lere, a mighty host of Israel, gathered ogether from all parts of Zion. We lave with us the First Presidency,  of the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, the presiding Patriarch, the Seven Presidents of Seventies, the presiding Bishopric. We have Patriarchs, High Priests, Seventies, Elders, bearers of the lesser Priesthood, and members of the Church in great numbers, who have come up to wait upon the Lord. The heathen would say perhaps: "We have our gods before us. We can see and feel them, and we fall down and worship them. But where is your god?" The answer is that our God is not far away, and certainly He is not beyond the bounds of time and space; but He is a God who hath ears to hear, eyes to see, and a mouth with which He can speak to His people. 

We may get a general idea of the character of this work and of this great general conference by the revelations of God which have been given to us in this age of the world. Upon one occasion, in speaking through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Oliver Cowdery, the Lord said: 

"If thou art led at any time by the Comforter to speak or teach, or at all times by the way of commandment unto the church, thou mayest do it. 

"But thou shalt not write by way of commandment, but by wisdom; 

"And v thou shalt not command him who is at thy head, and at the head of the church; 

"For I have given him the keys of the mysteries.and the revelations which are sealed, until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead." 

Upon another occasion the Lord said: 

"Hearken, O ye my servants! Ye are rot sent forth to be taught, but to teach those things which have been put into your hands by the power of my spirit; and ye are to be taught from on high. 

"Sanctify yourselves, and you shall be endowed with power that ye may give even as I have spoken." 

Again, the Lord in a revelation to Orson Hyde, speaking of the manner in which the Gospel should be preached to the world, said: 

"And behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this Priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth; 

"And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost. 

"And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord. shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation. 

"Behold, this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants." 

We can see by this, my brethren and sisters, how great is the responsibility resting upon us in this important conference. If the Presidency of the Church and others who may be called upon, shall arise before the congregations of the Saints and speak by the voice of the Comforter, it is the will of the Lord unto us, and we are in duty bound to receive it. How much will we be benefitted by assembling together? Just so far as we lend a willing ear to the counsels which are given. During the conference possibly many principles of interest and importance will be touched upon. The law of tithing has been mentioned here; you may hear something further in relation to it. Is there need of such instruction? Verily there is. I presume there has not been a general conference convened for the last 60 years at which this principle has not been alluded to, and specific instructions given the Latter-day Saints. I grant you that there are many in the Church who are honest with the Lord, and who come up to the spirit of the law; but there are many who do not pay a full tithing— many who sit under the voice of the Priesthood, which is the mind and the will of the Lord, and go straightway from the meeting or the conference and fail to give heed thereto. It may be that the Word of Wisdom will be touched upon, and the importance of its observance set before the people. Is there need of this? Will somebody ask why is this principle again spoken of. Verily, it is not the word of man; it is the word of God to His people; and so long as it goes unobserved by any number of the Latterday Saints there is need to speak of it. It may be that a word or two of counsel will be given in relation to magnifying the Priesthood. Is there need of such word? I ask the High Priests. Seventies, Elders, and the lesser Priesthood, is there need of something being said concerning the authority and power and sacred character of the Holy Priesthood? You know that there are many who disregard the Priesthood;  who fail to attend their quorum meetings, and consequently fail to catch the spirit of the Priesthood. Only about fifty per cent of those who bear the Priesthood are faithful in attending their quorum meetings, which have been appointed by the Lord, under the counsel and direction of the First Presidency of the Church. The brethren of these various orders of the Priesthood should meet together often, to bear testimony one to another and to be instructed in their duties, that they may exercise this sacred power for the salvation of souls. If any man or woman enters into the celestial kingdom of God, it will be by and through the authority of the Holy Priesthood. If we do not hold that Priesthood, and magnify it, we cannot pass by the angels and the gods. It may be that a few words will be said by some of the speakers in relation to the quorums of the lesser Priesthood. Words of instruction were given last night relative to them. The orders of the lesser Priesthood are v_ery necessary and important in the Church, very needful to its welfare, and placed there by the God of heaven. This is the Church of God, not our Church, and who are we that we shall rise up and say that these quorums of the lesser Priesthood are unnecessary, and that we have too much Priesthood? It is God who has established the Priesthood, and set its bounds and limits. Something may be said in relation to the acting Teachers of the Church, who are called to act as Teachers in the lesser Priesthood. The ordained Teachers are usually young men from fourteen to eighteen or perhaps twenty years of age, who are not of themselves quite qualified to go out and teach the families of the Saints? Hence men are called to be acting Teachers, whose duty it is to take these young men with them in their visits to the people, that they may gain experience and become qualified to perform the functions of their office. If there is any duty neglected in the Priesthood, I think you will find it among the acting Teachers of this Church, who in many places fail to meet this responsibility. 

There has been no lack of instruction and counsel, from the days of thi 

Prophet Joseph Smith until the present time. Twice a year in these general conferences, four times a year in the Stake conferences, once a year in the ward conferences, and then in the Sacrament meetings, the Priesthood meetings, and on other occasions, instruction, full and complete, covering the whole field, has been given to the Latter-day Saints. But I often think that some of us are like the people of ancient Israel— we are slow to hearken to the voice of the Lord. We acknowledge His hand; we admit the importance of these things, and see the necessity of them: but in many cases fail to carry out counsel, and thereby lose the blessing. I give it to you as my candid judgment that the great success which attended the ministry of Jesus Christ was due to His strict obedience to the will of the Father. I fancy that He sought to teach that lesson in all His life— almost by every word He spoke and everything He did. He was constanly striving to impress upon His disciples that He came not to do His own will, but the #.ill of the Father who sent Him. Do you not remember that even at the age of twelve, when but a lad, upon one occasion he was separated from his parents. They searched for him with great anxiety, and finally discovered him in the temple at Jerusalem, disputing with the learned doctors. His parents chided Him for what appeared to them an act of disobedience in leaving them without their knowledge, and He turned and said, "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" Even at that tender age the spirit of obedience manifested itself, and He gave His earthly parents to understand that He was there to do the will of the Father. When He came to the waters of Jordan to be baptized, John the Baptist forbade Him, feeling that he was not worthy to baptize the Savior. The Savior said, "Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness." In other words, to render obedience to the will of the Father. He who was without sin and without guile went down into the waters of baptism, and when He came up out of the water the heavens were opened and the Holy Ghost descended upon Him in the form  a dove; and a voice came from the heavens, saying, "This Is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." Why was the Father well pleased? Because of His obedience; because of His willingness to do that which was required, even though it seemed not to be necessary. Again He was willing to be lifted upon the cross. Did He not say to the Father, "O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as Thou wilt?" And did He not thus fulfil the will of the Father by His sufferings on the cross? Afterwards He ascended into heaven, and now sits upon the right hand of the Father, glorified, the Lord of life, the Savior of the world a perfect example of obedience! And should we not therefore follow His example, resting as we are under the great responsibility of having rceived the word of the Lord in relation to the various duties required at our hands? How strict is the commandment of God! Are we not told in the language I have quoted, that the President of this Church is endowed with the keys of the mysteries, and of the revelations which are sealed; but is there time at this conference to talk upon the mysteries? No; we must talk upon the practical things, especially those which are neglected by the Latter-day Saints. Then when the next conference comes we shall doubtless have to talk about the same things, again and again, because of our forgetfulness and our mortality. The President of the Church holds the keys of the revelations which are sealed. Have you forgotten, my brethren and sisters, that part of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated are sealed, to come forth in the due time of the Lord? Is this the due time of the Lord? Can we expect that these plates will be unsealed and these mighty revelations brought forth, unless we accept and carry out in our lives the commandments which have been unsealed and transmitted to us in the Book of Mormon, in the Book of Covenants, and in the Holy Bible — these glorious books which are before us, and which should receive our attention and our study, that we may become acquainted with the commandments of the Lord and observe to keep them, that we may prepare ourselves for the great revelations which are to come, and which will come, as the Lord lives. 

I rejoice in these things. I know that this is the work of the Lord. I know that His hand is in it, and that His power is with us. I have seen it manifested upon many occasions. I have received many testimonies of the truth of this work. I cannot deny it and never will so long as the Lord will bless me with His Spirit and the power of the Priesthood. It is the work of God; and all who give heed to it, and who go down into the waters of baptism and are baptized for the remission of their sins, have hands laid upon them for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and continue faithful, will receive a knowledge of this work, and shall know, as I know and as you know, that it is the work of the Lord. May God bless you and prosper you abundantly, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Charles Kent rendered, with excellent effect, the beautiful hymn of which the following is the opening verse: 

my Father, Thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! 

When shall I regain Thy presence, And again behold Thy face? 

In Thy holy habitation, Did my spirit once reside; 

In my first primeval childhood. Was I nurtured near Thy side. 

ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. (President of St. Joseph Stake.) 

1 rejoice this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, in this opportunity, and deem it an honor to my sacred father's name and to my sacred mother's name. I feel it an honor to the Indian Territory and Southwestern States Mission, with which I became so intimate, and to the Stake that I now have the honor to preside over. 

It takes me nearly two thousand miles travel to visit with you in conference, and it is my pleasure to gain all the information possible to take back to our people in the St. Joseph Stake, and they shall hail with delight my return to receive the word of the Lord as it has come unto us through the servants of God in these meetings. I indeed feel embarrassed to take up  valuable time, and if others feel as I do they desire to get the word from the fountain head; but we do appreciate the recognition of our Stakes and Missions, and we know that this is going to redound to the good of the Church; for the people will feel complimented and will be strengthened in consequence of this remembrance. 

The St. Joseph Stake of Zion is situated in the southeast corner of Arizona, adjoining Old Mexico and New Mexico. If you were to ride across Arizona, on the north, from Albuquerque, New Mexico, to California, you would see nothing but desert and tops of mountains among the timbers, and on the south along the Southern Pacific railroad nothing but sand hills and desert; but leaving the railroad, in a little oasis in the desert, you will find a happy people, nearly 4,000 Latterday Saints, over whom I have the privilege of presiding. It seems that the Lord has preserved these choice little spots in the desert for our people. They could not be seen by the travelers going to and from California; but they were found by our people who were sent by President Brigham Young in early days. I will here say that those who left Utah in early days by team, did not find the promised land. They journeyed into Arizona, and, becoming discouraged, many of them returned home. There were some who had courage to remain and "hold the fort," and they have continued to increase, until today in that arid district of Arizona we have four good Stakes of Zion. 

I will say to you that we appreciate what has been said by the brethren in regard to the restless condition that exists among some of our people. There have been many inducements thrown out by some of these northern Stakes to draw people thither, and we ask you brethren of these Stakes to keep your hands off. We are happy and contented down there, and we do not want to lose our people. The trouble is, you are drawing away the financial men, the men of strength and character, whom we need ourselves. There are, however, a number in our Stake that we would like you to have. We are living in a desert.Every foot of the ground  sandy desert, and were it not for the water that is brought upon it by irrigation, it would still be a desert, and when the water is taken off it becomes a desert again. But it is one of the most fruitful spots on earth. Possibly you have heard some of my stories about big sweet potatoes, the large shocks of corn, the thrifty growth of trees, and all that; but they are true, nevertheless. While I was in St. Paul this summer, representing Arizona in the Trans-Mississippi Congress, I had the pleasure of telling something of the resources of Arizona, lest those people in the rainy districts might think they had it all. After I had told them that we had grown a sweet potato weighing 37% lbs., there was a Missourian yawned, got up and went out. You know, the Missourians have to be "shown." A Texan came up and congratulated me, and said to the convention, "Texas has held the fort in all these conventions up to the present day, but now we'll give it up to Arizona; we can't beat the sweet potato." 

We bring the water from the Gila river and carry it over the sandy soil, and with the warm climate we can produce anything on that soil.. We have already dispensed with our early crop of Irish potatoes, and are now eating sweet potatoes from the same ground. I remember a short time ago seeing a beautiful field of grain, containing possibly forty-five bushels to the acre, and just as I left there was good-sized corn standing on the same ground. 

Now, we do not want you people of Oregon and Canada to get excited and come rushing down, for there is not room for you. 

We have a Latter-day Saint schcol established in Thatcher, the attendance sometimes running as high as 220. They come in from the surrounding country, and are trained in the Gospel as well as the various branches of education. It was my privilege to be in tb° 1 gislature two years ago, and while there I secured the passage of a bill giving to the Academy the National Guard, and now we have the largest National Guard in Arizona, and will get the regiment band soon. The governor, I  to say, is very proud of his "Mormon" boys. Recently it was my pleasure to visit him and talk with him about our country. He wrote me and asked me to go and see him. I called on him on my way home from St. Paul, and reported my trip in the interests of the Territory, and he was very much pleased. He wanted to know all about you good people, all about our organization, etc. He took me to dine with him, and his wife, a very amiable and nice lady, was there also. While there he desired me to get information from th other Stakes of Zion in Arizona in regard to our people, and I did so. The Arizona people are broadminded and liberal. They are not hurt with religion, however. We have no trouble from the outside churches. Occasionally a little upstart comes in from the east and undertakes to uproot our people, but he can get no following. Not leng ago a wealthy Jew— Mr. Solomon— after whom the county seat is named, had some relatives and friends visit Salt Lake City, and they were kindly entertained on these grounds. They spoke to Mr. Solomon, and he was very much interested and desired to visit Zion himslf. They told him he must try and get into the Temple, and he said he would get a recommend from President Kimball. Sure enough, he came to Thatcher with the company and introduced them to me, and said, "Brother Kimball, I want a recommend to go to the Temple." "Well," said I, "Brother Solomon, I'll tell you how you can get there. Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins — and I know you need it— will let you through the door. Then you can take your wife along, if she will repent, and you can have her married to you In the right way." I went into the store and wrote out a nice recommend to President Lorenzo Snow, and he brought it up here, and President Snow entertained him for four hours. He came back and bore testimony throughout our country concerning the grand old gentleman at the head of the "Mormon" Church. He said he was the cleanest, nicest man he ever saw. 

Many good things have been said of us there. Last winter, while visiting in Tucson, one of our largest cities, Senator Ives, president of the last legislative council, asked me to dine with him. In the evening I joined him and his wife, and after they had put their lovely little family to bed, we commenced talking upon Mormonism. I saw they were interested, and for four hours I explained to them the rise of this Church, told them of the Prophet Joseph Smith in his boyhood, of the establishment of this work in the earth, of the exodus of the people across the plains, of their establishment in the Rocky Mountains, and explained to them in detail the organization of the Church. Occasionally I asked them if I was not tiring them but they would say no, go ahead, Mr. Kimball, it is immensely interesting. When I reached the point of divine authority, then the good lady, who is a devoted Catholic, said, "Now, I have it. Some time ago there were two Elders left some tracts in our home, and I told our Protestant people that they were not in it a bit as far as authority was concerned, for it rested either with ourselves or the Mormon people." I replied, "Yes, that is where it rests. You people claim the literal descent, but we claim that the Gospel was taken from the earth and restored again through the Prophet Joseph Smith." Thus our conversation ended. 

This is the principle upon which we act down there; we treat the outside world right, and they treat us right. As Apostle John Henry Smith said to me, "Andrew, we are not out of the woods yet;" and sometimes I think that his policy of kindness is the safest policy to win friends. I have not forgotten a lesson taught me by our venerable brother, Apostle Franklin D. Richards, when I was in the Indian Territory Mission. He said, "Brother Andrew, if you can do nothing more than to win friends unto the Gospel of Christ, you are doing a good work; for the honorable of the earth will have a much better opportunity than we can imagine — greater than many of those who have received the truth and not lived up to it." 

Brethren and sisters, Arizona is all right. We have a song, composed by  of our people, called "Arizona — the sun-kissed land." I wish now that I had sent it up here for Brother Stephens to have the Tabernacle choir sing it; for I want to tell you, it is good enough even for the Tabernacle choir. I was raised in Salt Lake City. These dear old streets and almost every nook about the city are familiar to me, and I love the people here with all my heart. My wife's folks and my folks are here. My wife said she had trembled all her life lest she might be sent into Arizona, and it seemed to me that was my condition, too. I went down there, in obedience to the word of the Lord, with a feeling of gloom and despondency hanging over me, and when President Joseph F. Smith set me apart he blessed me that I might not become despondent. 

I want to say to you that since I have been there I have not had time to be despondent. Arizona is the sun-kissed land, the home of the cactus and of the Gila monster. I am satisfied with my home there. I say, God bless Arizona; God bless her people. God bless those people that have had nerve and courage enough to stay down there and hold their homes; and you people up in these more favored districts, keep your hands off. God bless you all. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM T. JACK. (President of Cassia Stake.) My brethren and sisters, I need not say that I am delighted at this opportunity of meeting with you in another general conference of the Church. For many years it was my lot to live in Salt Lake City, the place of my birth, and when conferences were being held it was not an unusual thing for me to be engaged in the avocation of life; but as time rolled on and my place of residence has been changed to one of the remote settlements in our neighboring State, I have come to appreciate the blessings of the Gospel, and the gatherings of the Latter-day Saints in which they come together and listen to the voice of the servants of the Lord, and receive that spiritual food which is calculated in its nature to strengthen and brace them up. 

It is a little over two years since the call came to me to remove into Cassia county, Idaho, the gem state of the Union. I am thankful to say to you that long years ago, from my parents and through the inspiration of the Almighty, I was taught the lesson of obedience, and I take pride today in saying that whatever word has come to me from the servants of the Lord, I have been willing to accept it cheerfully and to accomplish the work intelligently, so far as my ability would permit. I removed to the north and succeeded that venerable old pioneer, Horton D. Haight, in the Cassia Stake. I found there a delightful place to live. The climate is similar to that that we have in Salt Lake City. The district is new.and the possibilities of the country are immense. Lying out in the valley to the northwest of where our little city is situated there are 250,000 acres of as good land as can be found anywhere outside the valley of the Nile, and all we require in that district is the blessing of the Almighty and more water. We are waiting now for the hand of the artisan and the mechanic, and for the means of the millionaire, to come and assist us in taking the water out of the mighty Snake river and carry it upon that vast tract of land. 

In our religious work I feel very much encouraged. I think I can see a steady and constant growth on the part of the people. In the labor to which I have been called I am abundantly blessed with the association of two stalwart, faithful, tried and true men, Elders John L. Smith and William T. Harper, and with their aid, counsel and encouragement we are laboring for the advancement of the work of the Lord in that held. We rejoice in the thought that good is being done. We also are blessed with the presence of a Stake academy in our lcality. At the present time we have over 100 of our young men and women enrolled in that institution.and they are receiving that education which is calculated to prepare them, not only for the duties of life, but for the eternity before us. 

I rejoice in the work of the Lord. I  rejoiced exceedingly in the testimonies that have been borne by our brethren, and I have thought that it must be exceedingly discouraging to our enemies who have looked for the overthrow of the Gospel from the day of the assassination of the Prophet Joseph Smith until the present. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was among the people they thought he was the power of Mormonism, and they said among themselves that if they could destroy him, Mormonism would go down. They accomplished their desire, but Mormonism lived and flourished. When President Brigham Young, that noble leader of pioneers, came upon the scene, and he led the people to this wilderness and planted their feet firmly upon this land, they again thought that if Brigham Young were disposed of Mormonism would die. The time came when that venerable leader passed away; still the Lord had prepared another to take his place. Men have looked from time to time for the leader of the people to pass away, in the hope that the religion of the Latter-day Saints would then come to naught. But in this Conference we have seen a new generation, young men of faith, and of most promising futures, upon whose shoulders some day will roll a portion of the responsibility of this great work. While this must be most encouraging to President Smith and his counselors, to the Twelve Apostles and our leading brethren, it must be very discouraging to our friends who have waited and hoped all these long years for the downfall of Mormonism. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us, and that He will inspire us to be faithful and to be charitable to our enemies, remembering the words of Malachi the Frophet, who, in speaking of the wicked makes the statement that the day will come that shall burn as an oven, when all the proud, and they that do wickedly, shall be as stubble. "The day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch." I think we can safely leave the wicked and all their evil machinations unto the Lord: for that day will most assuredly come that shall burn them up, saith the Lord. "But unto you that fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing- in his wings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of the stall." Therefore, brethren and sisters, be encouraged in good works. Put upon yourselves the whole armor of righteousness, do your duty, yield a faithful and implicit obedience to the counsels that are given you from time to time, and I promise you today that the power and peace and blessings of the Almighty shall rest upon you; your streams shall increase, your borders shall be lengthened, your boundaries shall be strengthened, and you will see the hand of the Almighty manifest in your deliverance in these troublous times, because just as sure as the angel has flown through the midst of heaven bearing in his sacred charge the everlasting Gospel and has restored it to the earth, just so sure are we living in the hour of God's judgment. Therefore, I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, be faithful to yourselves, and faithful to the trust that has been reposed in you, to the Priesthood, to the Father and to His Son Jesus Christ, whose blood was spilled on Calvary's hill. May we be humble and diligent in the performance of every duty, and may the power and blessings of the Almighty rest down upon the Prophet of the Lord, who stands at our head. May he be filled with power, with wisdom, and with every gift necessary for his high and holy calling, and may his brethren who are associated with him constantly hold up his hands and help him to accomplish the purposes of the Lord. I ask God to bless Israel in all her abiding places, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER S. R. BENNION. (President of Uintah Stake.) 

T deem it a great pleasure to have the privilege of assembling in this place and mingling my voice with the Latter-day Saints. It has fallen to my lot, from my birth to the present time, to always be associated with the Latterday Saints, and I hope that it will ever be my lot. I pray that I shall enjoy the Spirit of the Lord suffi to enable me to endure faithfully unto the end, and to be true to the trust which is committed to me from day to day. It is only by constant labor and training that we shall secure to ourselves an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of our Heavenly Father. The prize is not to those who run swift for a few years, but it is to those who will endure unto the end, and I hope that we will all be enabled to endure to the end. I realize that we will be called upon to meet trials. Tt is written that the Lord is going to have a tried people. He will have a people that will serve Him and keep His commandments. Therefore, I look to be tried in all things. If I have not had trials they will come along soon enough; but I hope to be able to endure them. 

It is my pleasure to preside over tbe Uintah Stake of Zion, which is situated in the northeast corner of our fair state. We live in a goodly land. I suppose our Heavenly Father design id us to be there. Many good people live in that Stake of Zion, although there are some who are restless, wanting lo go to the north or to the south. I remember a brother who resided the^e years ago. He had one of the finest locations in the valley, but wanted to go down where Brother Kimball is. "Whether Brother Kimball has him yat or not I don't know. He was anxious to go where he could raise five crops of lucern a year. In our country he could not take care of two, so that I do not know what he will do down there. It is better for us to be contented with our lot, and try to do our duty in all things; and if we do this we will be. greatly blessed of the Almighty. The earth and the fulness thereof belongs to the Lord, and He has said that He will give it to whomsoever He will. He has promised to bless His people and to pour out His spirit upon them, if they will keep His commandments. I expect to enjoy every blessing that I live for. Every Latter-day Saint will enjoy everything he or she is entitled to. 

I pray that peace and prosperity may attend the labors of the Latter-day Saints, and the labors of the servants  God who are directing the affairs of His kingdom upon the earth. I feel satisfied with my brethren who are placed over me in the Holy Priesthood T am satisfied with those who laboi v/ilh me in the Uintah Stake of Zion — my counselors, the High Council, and the Bishops. The only thing that I am fearful of is, am I doing my duty from day to day? If I am not, my Heavenly Father and my brethren who are placed over me will hold me responsible. I can bear my testimony in regard to this work. I know that it is of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that those who have succeeded him were prophets. I know that we have prophets and apostles to l^ad and guide the affairs of the kingdom of God upon the earth today. May God add His blessing. May we be humble before Him from day to day, is my desire and prayer in the name of jesus. Amen. 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR. (President of Granite Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters, I esteem it quite an honor to represent the Stake over which I preside. 1 am also happy in the thought that when they selected me to preside over a Stake of Zion they did not send me down to Arizona to raise big potatoes or up to Canada to raise large fields of wheat, but they let me stay right at home in Salt Lake county, almost on the borders of Salt Lake City. I am delighted to say that the people in our stake are a good people. We have able men who are endeavoring to live their religion, and all organizations of the stake are, I believe, practically up-to-date in their work. The presidency of the stake has been loyally sustained by tne people. 

I was very much interested and impressed last night with the talk that Bishop Preston gave to us in regard to the training of our youth in the Lesser Priesthood. It appears to me that as the Priesthood and presiding officers in the Church we ought to pay a little more attention to the proper training of our boys and girls, particularly the boys in the lesser Priesthood. I believe the future strength and growth of this  people and the work of the Lord depends largely upon the proper training of our young people. I believe that it is the duty of presiding officers in the Church to see that there are no Deacons neglected in the Church. We ought to be sure, as Bishops of wards, that we have the organizations of the Deacons' properly perfected. If we take hold of them at the right age and see that they attend their meetings and are trained properly in the duties assigned to them, I believe we will have less trouble to organize our Teachers' and our Priests' quorums. I think we ought to begin young with the boys, nurse them along kindly, and try to implant within them a testimony of the faith that we have espoused. We ought to put them to work; teach them to act as doorkeepers in our meeting houses, to open the door when people come in and to act as ushers in taking the people to their seats, and showing them to the front, so that the late-comers will not have to pass a crowded place at the back to get to empty seats in the front. I tried this when I was a boy. I remember that of all the duties I had to perform in this Church, there is none that has given me greater pleasure than to act as a Deacon. The Bishop of the ward where I grew up used to honor the Deacons in their place. We had to look after the door and to seat the people in their places. He honored us in our positions to the extent that he expected people to conform to the rules of the house and to take the seats we assigned them. We had a trial of that down in our stake the other day. We had a conference of the Lesser Priesthood, and I believe it was one of the most profitable meetings we have ever neld in our stake. In that meeting we gave the boys a practical illustration of their duties. We had Deacons that had been previously trained stationed at the door, and no boy was allowed to open the door. The door was opened for him very courteously and nicely, and as he stepped in the vestry a Deacon tapped him on the shoulder and led him to a seat in the proper place. We instructed them that they were to take the seat assigned them. We had places for our Bishops and High Councilors, and the Deacons knew just where to take them. During 1 the meeting- one of our Bishops came in late. He had been accustomed, I presume, to take any kind of seat he wanted; but I had instructed the Deacons that it would make no difference whether it was a Bishop or myself, they were expected to assign the seats. The Deacon and the Bishop walked up the aisle, and the Deacon had got clear to the stand before he noticed that the Bishop had taken a seat of his own choosing. Then I had to get up and remind the Bishop that we expected him to honor these boys in their place. I believe we ought to honor our Deacons, and encourage them in the start, so that they may grow up to understand the duties pertaining to the Priesthood, and not have to wait until they are twenty years of age and then have to be humiliated, when they want to get married or something of the kind, because they have to go through the order necessary for them. I thank the Lord we had a Bishop that took hold of me when I was a little fellow and trained me in the duties pertaining to the Lesser Priesthood, because if there is any strength in me it is due to the training that I received when a little boy. I think this is the time we ought to start in matters of this kind. 

There is another thing that is lacking: at least, it is with us. It seems to me that there ought to be in every ward, where possible, a quorum of Priests, a quprum of Teachers, and they ought to be active in the performance of the duties pertaining thereto. If we get these quorums thoroughly organized and attending to their duties, we will not have much trouble with acting Teachers. The great trouble is, the Bishops cannot get the Teachers to do their work; but if we get the boys started early and train them aright, we will have little trouble in regard to this. 

There is another matter that appeals to me very strongly, and that is the welfare of the youth of Israel. I love the youth of Israel, and I feel that as Latter-day Saints we are not giving them the close attention that we oughi to in the way of missionary work, and nurturing them, and getting them to  the little evil practices they indulge in by holding out a better life and light unto them. We are so busily engaged in the duties of life that we do not stop to think that there are some who need an arm thrown around them. They need someone to love them, someone to nurture them, and give them a chance to reform. I heard of a case recently that will illustrate this, of a boy who had lived in a settlement all his life. Nobody had paid any attention to him; they had taken it for granted that there was no good in him. But a stranger moved into the settlement, and he liked the appearance of the boy. He put his arm around him and in kind words asked him if he had not better repent; that there was a better chance for him in the fold of the Church of Jesus Christ than on the outside. The boy turned to him and with tears in his eyes thanked him for the interest he had shown in him by putting his arm around him and speaking kindly to him. He said, "You are the first man that ever did that to me in my life. I have lived in this settlement all my life and it has been the rule almost to point the finger of scorn at me; but never has it occurred to any of them to come up and say a kind word as you have done." That boy turned round and is now a faithful, honorable young man in the Church. The trouble is, we are so busy that we take it for granted that our boys who sometimes make mistakes have no good in them, and we do not go out of our way to put our arms around them in love and teach them the principles of the Gospel. We ought to preach the Gospel of Christ at our firesides, and in the homes of our neighbors. There is plenty of opportunity in these valleys of the mountains to preach the Gospel, and to bring the wayward back again into the fold of Christ. Here is opportunity for all of us: Blessed is the father and blessed is the mother whose family is all around them and living their religion, and making no mistakes! That father ought to rejoice that he has such a family, and he ought to feel warm towards the less fortunate father who has a family that he has no control over. He ought to put his arm  his neighbor's children, and with the talent he has exercised in controlling his own family try to use an influence with them. Do not let the boys go to the four winds, simply for the lack of doing our duty in this regard. I have said it before and I will repeat it here, that lots of us will go out into the world to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ without asking any questions. "We will have door after door slammed in our face; and if opportunity will present so that we can pour into the ears of the people the good things of the Gospel we are delighted. After awhile, if we can lead them down into the waters of baptism, we rejoice exceedingly that we have converted someone. We do not specially ask them about their past or what they have been doing. All we ask of them is to repent of their sins, go down into the waters of baptism, and have hands laid upon them for the reception of the Holy Ghost. Yet ofttimes we will come back home and we would not cross the road to preach the Gospel to some of our young boys right here. I believe I will be safe in saying that if we would expend one-tenth of the energy and time and means, onetenth of the patience and love, that we give to the children of the world, in the interest of our own wayward boys at home, we would save many more souls. We could love our boys more than we do; we could have more patience with our girls than we do have. We could spend more time around our own firesides, teaching the children the principles of the everlasting Gospel, instead of going after the things of the world and letting the boys go to the winds. As fathers and mothers, we ought to be more careful in regard to the rearing of our youth. We should make home the most pleasant place that the boy or girl can find in this whole world. It ought to be the center of attraction to every child. We should make it so attractive by our kindness, our love, and all necessary conveniences, that they will love it better than any other place. I believe it would do good sometimes to sell a calf or a horse in order to place good books in the home for our boys and girls to . Subscribe for the works of the Church, so that they can read the principles of the Gospel and have them implanted in their hearts. Then let us take some time to sit down by the fireside with them and explain unto them the Gospel. 

Brethren and sisters, I love the youth of Israel. I know that there is good in them. If the coal looks dead, it reeds someone to blow the bellows to bring it back to life again. I have found boys who have been looked upon as no good and practically dead, but with nursing and effort that coal has been brought back to life. And what happiness comes into the home when a wayward son turns over a new leaf and becomes a good, upright Latter-day Saint! I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I bear my testimony to its truth. I know that the Prophet Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that the prophet that we have presiding over us today is a man of God, and sets an example in his family that is worthy of all Israel. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER MATHIAS F. COWLEY. 

Difficulties to be settled privately, If possible — Presiding authorities should not be appealed to unnecessarily — Honor every man in his position. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice very much in the teachings of this conference, and in the way that President Smith has been led to conduct the conference. I would like to say to the Bishops that it is a good example for you to follow. It is impossible for the work of the Lord to be carried on by the intelligence of man, or by any premeditated arrangement carried out in a mechanical way. As the President of the Church has been led to conduct our conference, so ought every Stake President to conduct his Stake conference, and every Bishop to conduct his ward conference, as well as his meetings in general. I do not mean by that that you should follow it in mechanical detail, but that you should follow the whisperings of the Holy Spirit; for this is what has been done during this conference, as it has no doubt in the conferences of the past. We rejoice to hear the testimonies of our brethren who preside over the Stakes. I rejoice to be associated with men such as they are; and if I were as sure of my salvation as I am of the salvation of such men as have stood before us this afternoon, I would be exceedingly delighted. They are men of God, and we who live in the Stakes of Zion ought to look to these men for counsel, and not, when we have difficulties to settle, always run to one of the Twelve Apostles, or to one of the presiding Council of Seventies, when they are in the Stake. We ought to settle our troubles right in the Ward where they occur, and there ought to be a more strict observance of the law of God in regard to the adjustment of difficulties. Where there are differences between brethren and sisters, they ought to try and settle them in the way indicated by the Savior — between themselves, in the spirit of prayer; not with a determination to show how wrong your brother is, but in the Spirit of the Lord seek to be reconciled with your brother. If this will not accomplish it, then call in the Teachers of the Ward, and let them act as peacemakers; for blessed are the peacemakers. And when the Teachers find a difficulty in a family, they have no business to tell it to anybody else or to circulate it on the streets. They ought to guard such things with the utmost sacredness. 

The Lord has laid down His law on this subject, as well as on all other subjects affecting the welfare of the Church. In Section 42 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, it is written: 

"And if thy brother or sister offend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she confess, thou shalt be reconciled." 

That is, it shall not be harped upon or talked about after it has been settled. Every man ought to esteem himself as put upon honor, after a difficulty is settled, not to stir it up or resurrect it among the people of God, but let it be settled forever. When Teachers find difficulties existing in families that they can settle without reporting them to the Bishop, it is not a duty in  sight of God that the Bishop even should know of them. In fact, I do not suppose the Bishop wants to know the failings of the people, if they can be rectified without his knowledge. The Lord has laid down the doctrine that the confession shall be as broad as the offense. If I offend my brother, I must make it right with my brother; and it is hypocrisy to go and ask the forgiveness of God until I have become reconciled with and made restitution to my brother. The Lord says:> 

"If any one offend openly, he or she shall be rebuked openly, that he or she may be ashamed. And if he or she confess not, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of God. 

"If any shall offend in secret, he or she shall be rebuked in secret, that he or she may have opportunity to confess in secret to him or her whom he or she has offended, and to God, that the Church may not speak reproachfully of him or her." 

The object is to save people; to make it as easy as possible for them to repent and to make restitution for their wrong; not to circulate the story of their wrongdoing and create a public scandal, but to have it settled according to the law of God. 

In another revelation, the Lord says: 

"It always has been given to the Elders of my Church from the beginning, and ever shall be, to conduct all meetings as they are directed and guided by the Holy Spirit." 

This is the law of God to every Bishop, to every stake president, and to the president of every quorum or association in the Church. They are to be guided by the Holy Spirit. Thia conference has been exceedingly interesting because it has been conducted by the Spirit of the Lord through the man who presides over us on this occasion. I may say that it is the most Interesting conference of the Church that I ever attended. 

Another thing: The Lord certainly placed prophets and apostles, evangelists, pastors and teachers in the Church, as Paul describes, for the work of the ministry and for the edifying of the body of Christ; but He has placed the Bishops and the authorities of the stakes in the Church for the perfecting of the Saints, just as much as the Apostles, or the Council of Seventies,  the Presiding Bishopric, or the Presidency of the Church, who stand at the head; and there ought to be an improvement in all the stakes in regard to the adjustment of all matters affecting the salvation of the Saints of God in the respective stakes. I suppose that the President of the Church gets bushels of letters written by men and women who, disregarding the Bishop and the presidency of the stake, go over the heads of those officers in order to lay their cases before the President or to ask questions of him, some of which are of the most foolish character. This is all wrong. I want to advise the Latter-day Saints to settle these questions at home just as far as possible. When the Priesthood of God is trusted by the people, there will be a greater measure of the Spirit of the Lord attending the ministrations of oui Bishops and stake presidents throughout the Church. I do not believe that the Presidency of the Church are under any obligation to do those things that ought to be done by the local authority, and I do not knew that they have any promise of being blessed of the Lord in doing work that ought to be done by the Bishops and presidents of stakes. I am impressed with this, because I have been asked in various stakes of Zion a great many questions that could easily be answered by the Bishop of the ward, and I have been appealed to to seUH difficulties that ought to be settled easily right at home. The Latter-day Saints should understand this and feel the responsibility of it. The Priesthood of God is the representation of God, if you please, in th& earth. It is not man's personal individuality that we honor, but it is tht authority of God which he holds. God has established His work upon thu earth, and He has appointed men to be the recipients of His holy will and, through their administration, to voice that will unto the Latter-day Saints. The Savior said to His disciples, "H*» that receiveth you receiveth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth me; and he that despiseth me despiseth Him that sent me." When this principle is understood and properly carried out, there will be more of the power of God  the midst of the Latter-day Saints, there will be a stronger bond of union among them, and there will be greater and more effective work accomplished throughout the stakes and wards by the local Priesthood. I »wish to say to every man in the Church, young and old, that the greatest desire of his heart should be to honor the office in the Priesthood which he holds, and not have constantly in his mind the greatness of somebody else's calling. It is all the authority of God, the one Priesthood, and it cannot be parted asunder. The High Priest holds the Melchisedek Priesthood;the Seventy holdb the same, just as the Apostle does, and he is entitled to the power of God in his ministrations among the people. 1 have heard President Woodruff say many times that he never enjoyed mora of the Spirit of God than he did when he was a Priest, preaching the Gospel, I believe, in Arkansas. It was the same with John the Baptist, and with Philip; they enjoyed the spirit and power of Almighty God, and yet they officiated in the Lesser Priesthood. We are entitled to the same blessing if we live for it. I think it would be a good thing if every Bishop would call together all the Priesthood in his Ward, and would select from the High Priests, the Seventies and the Elders enough men to act in the capacity of Priests. I have enquired in the Stakes of Zion where I have traveled, about a quorum of Priests and have found but few. Yet the Lord has laid down that as one of the offices in the Lesser Priesthood, and has specificially stated that they are the ministers of the Gospel unto the people. 

We had instructions here last night by President Smith concerning our responsibility to the authorities of Wards and Stakes. I have been taught this doctrine all my life. I was born and raised on the same block as Brother Frank Y. Taylor and Brother John W. Taylor, and I used to act in the capacity of a Teacher in the home of President John Taylor. I was not very well qualified, it is true. I believe the only qualification I had was a willing spirit and an obedient heart; but the Lord blessed me in my labors. Whenever we entered into the house of President Taylor as Teachers, he laid aside all other things that were demanding his attention, and he would call his family together, sit down with us, and hear what we had to say. On one occasion a young man, who was asked to question President Taylor in regard to the performance of his duties as a member of the Church, said he did not want to. Why not? Because, said he, he is a so much better and greater man than we are. President Taylor told him it was his duty to question him. "Why," said the young man, "I don't think you would hold the office that you do if you did not perform your duty as a member of the Church." The President replied, "It is your duty to find out  I do my duty as a member or not; whether I teach my children the principles of the Gospel, and pay my tithing, and attend to my family and my secret prayers." 

The more men know about the Priesthood of God, the more they respect it. I say to the people, seek unto the Priesthood of God, and let wizards, necromancers, hypnotists, spiritualists and all such things alone; for within the Church of God there is all sufficient for our salvation in this life and our exaltation in the life to come. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Rouse, all ye mortals." 

Eenediction by Presiding Patriarch John Smith. 