Afternoon
06 10 1092




ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

Ancient prophecies fulfilled in these days— The work of John and the three Nephites— Preparation for the coming of Messiah. 

My dear brethren and sisters, I never enjoyed a conference better in my life than the one we are now holding; for I delight in hearing the workers in Zion express their views. This is a remarkable congregation, and last night we also had this house filled to overflowing, with Sunday school workers. When I see these large congregations gathered together in the tops of the mountains it Alls my heart with joy, because I can see in it the fulfillment of ancient prophecies. Yesterday the choir rendered a beautiful anthem, suggesting that the mountain of the Lord's house would be established :n_ the tops of the mountains. The Prophet Isaiah spoke of this. He was a great prophet. He prophesied of the coming forth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ a long time before His birth into the world. He also prophesied of the coming forth of the Gospel in the dispensation of the fullness of times, as, well as the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. He said: 

"And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

"And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

Brethren and sisters, where did you come from? You came from the various nations of the earth, and in your presence here is fulfilled one of the greatest signs that will ever be given to this generation before the second coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

When our Savior was among men he rebuked them because they took no notice of the fulfillment of prophecy. He said, "O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?" He said further: "Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, This people draweth night unto me with their mouth, and honoreth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me. But in vam they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." Jesus wanted to impress them that they should rather look to the fulfilment of prophecy than to the precepts of men. He himself respected all that the holy prophets uttered. In His memorable sermon on the mount He said: "Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets; I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled." 

The Prophet Jeremiah also prophesied concerning the gathering, in the following language: 

"I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion: 

"And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding." 

When you find a pastor that will teach the children of men according to the heart of God, you will find one that has perfect reverence for the words of Jesus wherein He says, "Men shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." 

It has been eighteen hundred years since any one has come forth and testified that they have seen the face of God, until among all the nations of ttu-> earth they are beginning to look upon the Eternal Father as an imaginary creature. Through transgression the Lord withdrew the Gospel from the children of men. Jesus foreshadowed this when He said to the Jews, "The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bringi g forth the fruits thereof." He was finally put to death, according to prophecy, and after His resurrection He appeared unto the Apostles. On one occasion they asked Him, "Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power." Again, when His disciples asked him "what shall be the sign of thy coming, ai d of the end of the world?" He said, among other things, "And this Gos. el of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.'' He also said, "Jerusalem snail be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." Here are two remarkable signs that w* re to precede the coming of the Son of Man. 

Now, the Lord our God has opened the heavens in these last days, in accordance with the prophecy of Jesus Christ, and the Father and the S n have appeared to the Prophet Jose; h Smith. The Gospel of Christ has been restored, in fulfillment of prophecy, and it is being preached in all the world for a witness, according to the predic of the Savior. The Elders of Israel have stood up in your midst and spoken as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. "When you heard them you said in your heart that what they said was true; for behold it went through your systems like fire. God poured out upon you the convincing power of His Holy Spirit, and gave you a witness that the Elders were servants of God and were speaking under the influence of the Spirit of truth. Hence you yielded obedience to the Gospel. This also is in accordance with the words of Jesus wherein He says, "My sheep know my voice; but a stranger they will not follow." The voice of the Spirit of God led you out from the nations of the earth. As Elder Teasdale testified here this morning, "No man can come to me, except the Father which sent me draw him." When that Spirit rests upon the honest in heart their greatest desire is to help build up the kingdom of God. 

A portion of Israel is now gathered together, but in a little while you will find another prophecy will be fulfilled, and that is the prophecy that Jesus made to the three Nephites who, having power over death, are still livirg upon this continent. He spoke to them of a time when they would perform a great and mighty work among the Gentiles; and that has not yet been fulfilled, but it will be. You will find that many districts where the Elders of Israel cannot reach will be penetrated by these men who have power over death; and when the honest in heart see the power and authority that is with them, they will feel like Nicodemus did of old, (but I trust they will have more faith and courage) when he said, "Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: ror no man can do these miracles that tnou doest, except God be with him." These three men are going to perform a great work in the program of the last days, as is the beloved disciple, John, whom Christ refers to when He says, "If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?" According to a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Savior said unto Peter, "If I will that he tarry till I come, what «s that to ? for he desired of me that he might bring souls unto me, but thou desiredst that thou mightest speedily come unto me in my kingdom. I say unto thee, Peter, this was a good desire, but my beloved has desired that he might d» more, or a greater work yet among men than what he has done before; yea, he has undertaken a greater work; therefore I will make him as flaming fire and a ministering angel; he shall minister for those who shall be heirs of salvation who dwell on the earth." 

My testimony is that these men are going abroad in the nations of the earth before the face of your sons, and they are preparing the hearts of the children of men to receive the Gospel. They are administering to those who are heirs of salvation, and preparing their hearts to receive the truth, just as the farmer prepares the soil to receive the seed. The Lord has promised that He would send His angels before the face of His servants, and He does so. 

You are here, my brethren and sisters, in a gathered capacity, in fulfillment of prophecy. This is the day spoken of by Jeremiah: 

"Therefore, behold the days come, saith the Lord, that it shall no more be said, The Lord liveth, that brought up the children of Israel out of the land of 

Egypt; 

"But, The Lord liveth, that brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the lands whither he had driven them; and I will bring them again into their land that I gave unto their fathers. 

"Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the Lord, and they shall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks." 

Brethren and sisters, your sons are fulfilling this prophecy today in the nations of the earth. Speaking of Zion that should be established in power and glory in the last days, the prophet says: 

"The Gentiles shall come unto thee from the ends of the earth, and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity, and things wherein there is no profit." 

In conclusion, let me say to my young brethren and sisters and to my friends who are under the sound of my voice, I know that God lives. I know that Jesrus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, and through His atoning blood all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel which He has revealed in these last days through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that Joseph Smith was an inspired man, raised up of God to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times; yea, that time which all the holy prophets looked forward to. My testimony is that through your faith and diligence in keeping the commandments of God, every gift and blessing that He has ever promised unto the children of men is yours, whereby you can be brought back into the presence of our Father and crowned heirs of glory, immorta-ity and eternal life. Behold, this is the day of the Loid's preparation We are preparing for the coming of our Lord and Sa\ ior Jesus Christ, and His coming is near at hand. He will come in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory. I also lestify unto you that the words of the Prophet Malachi are true when he said, "For, behold, th? day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it slvll leave them. neither root nor branch." I say unto you when that voice goes forth among the children of men, "Lo, the bridegroom cometh; go ye forth to meet him," it will be a sorrowful day for the children of men. It will be a day of weeping and wailing among those who have taken "the broad way." As Jesus himself has prophesied, they will cry for the rocks to fall upon them, to hide them from the wrath of Him who shall come; for no man can stand in the presence of God, except he be cleansed every whit from sin. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sistecs, and fill you with His Holy , Spirit, that your greatest desire may be to build up the kingdom of God upon the earth, that we all may keep our garments clean and unspotted from the world, and strive to set an example worthy of imitation, that we may be justified of the Lord and be prepared  His coming; which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER W. C. LYMAN, (President of San Juan Stake). 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I feel very humble in attempting to speak to you a short time, and I trust that the Spirit of the Lord may be with me, that my remarks may be appropriate to the occasion and applicable to those who may listen. 

I was sustained and set apart as the president of the San Juan Stake a little less than six months ago so that I am perhaps not as well acquainted with the conditions that exist there as I will be in the future. However in connection with my counselors Brother William Halls of Mancos and Brother Redd of Bluff I have visited the different wards that compose the stake. I believe all the auxiliary organizations are in good running order. The stake covers the southeast corner of the state of Utah the northwest corner of the territory of New Mexico and the southwest corner of the state of Colorado; and all we lack to make us happy is a portion of the territory of Arizona that we may raise some of those large sweet potatoes that Brother Kimball has been telling you of. We have some good county in the San Juan Stake and we have a good deal of the other kind. Inasmuch as the brethren have counseled the Saints not to move too much at the present time it would perhaps not be wise for me to tell you the advantages of that portion of the Lord's vineyard. However, if any of you are dissatisfied with your present homes and think you are not getting wealthy fast enough come dcnvn and visit us, examine our country, and you will certainly return home and feel satisfied to stay there. Some portions of our stake have been settled under peculiar conditions. One of the towns that we have there, when the first settlers went into that locality they had to take their wagons to pieces and let them down over a perpendicular cliff nearly 40 feet high. Some of them never came out again. I would like to men briefly trie history of one of our towns. For a period of years after it was settled it seemed as if it would be impossible to maintain the settlement. I believe the people once or twice asked the privilege of leaving there and going to a more favored locality. The servants of the Lord told them that those who desired to leave were at liberty to do so and they could go with their blessings but that those who remained would be doubly blessed. Quite a number of the members of that ward hai faith in the promise of the Lord, and they remained there, and that promise to them has been literally fulfilled. I presume that today there is not another ward in the Church, *with the same number of people, that possesses the same amount of wealth aa this ward does. 

We are happy in that country. We are trying to keep the commandments of the Lord and to build up His Church :n that part of the vineyard. I love the cause in which we are engaged. I love the Latter-day Saints, and I love the men whom God has appointed to preside over us. I bear testimony that I do know that they have been called of the Lord, and that they are inspired b> His Spirit. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may accompany each one of us who have attended this conference to our homes and remain with us through life. May the Lord grant it. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH B. KEELER (Of the Presidency of Utah Stake.) 

It affords me much pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to represent before you the Utah Stake of Zion. It has only been about twenty months since that stake was divided, and three stakes made out of it; but I can assure you that its spiritual welfare, and, I hope, its temporal welfare, has been enhanced by this movement. It seems as though our quarterly conferences and our general meetings are as well attended now as they were before the division. From the reports we hear from the Alpine Stake and from the Nebo Stake, it would seem that they likewise are prospering. The people,  the whole, are striving to keep the commandments of the Lord. I believe they are increasing in their tithes and offerings. They rejoice in the educational advantages that they have. As you know, one of the great Church institutions is located in that stake — the Brigham Young academy. Its registration last Friday evening in the higher departments was 710 students, and 140 in the preparatory * school. The stake is composed of seventeen wards and three branches, and all of the organizations are complete, I believe. 

I have been much interested, as doubtless you have, in the reports that we have listened to today. It seems as though, when we are hearing these reports, we cannot refrain from exclaiming, Zion is growing! We are living in the midst of the fulfillment of prophecy, as was remarked by Apostle Taylor. The faith and the testimonies of the people are increasing. I do hope that we will be able to follow the counsel and advice that is given to us from day to day by our brethren who are placed over us. I think it is wonderful counsel they are giving about remaining in the places where the Saints have settled, and have an inheritance there. I know full well that there is a restlessness among the people, even in our part of the land, where they are not so short of moisture as they are in other places. But the counsel to the Latter-day Saints is, Remain where God has planted your feet, unless you are advised to go elsewhere. I believe that the Lord will send the former and the latter rains. He is not going to drive His children from this chosen land. We are in a position that we may know in the spring of the year whether there is a prospect for much or little moisture and it seems to me it would be the part of wisdom if we should govern ourselves in our farming interests by these conditions. There are some crops that we need not plant if we know there is going to be a shortage of water. It would be better for us if we would intensify that that we already have; farm less in these dry seasons, and cultivate it more thoroughly, and in all probability we would get just as great returns. I have also been gratified to hear the counsel given regarding the betterment of the quorums in the Lesser Priesthood. I acted for a number of years in the Bishopric and I know the difficulties the Bishops have to contend with. I have been a short time in the presidency of the Stake, and I comprehend also the difficulties that have to be surmounted in that calling. I believe that we should get nearer to the Lesser Priesthood. "We prepare, say the Seventies, to go abroad to preach the Gospel. Our Mutual Improvement associations tend toward this; our Sunday schools in some respects tend toward this. But we find very little done for those who officiate in the Lesser Priesthood. I have rejoiced to see that a movement is now being undertaken to make more effectual the religion classes. I hope the brethren will pay some attention to this. The brethren who hold the offices in the Lesser Priesthood need to have personal attention. They need to come in personal contact with the Teacher. The trouble is 1 think, we talk to them at too long a range. They ought to be trained in their duties, the Deacon to be trained in his office, the Teacher in his. If the Teacher is a young boy, put him in care of some experienced man, and let him be taught the practical as well as the theoretical part of his calling. If our young men can be put through this system of training and education, the result will be, when they arrive at manhood they will be capable of going among the people and giving them good advice in their homes. One would think that the Seventy, coming from his mission, would be just the man to go among the Latter-day Saints in their homes; but that work is altogether different from the work he has been doing in the world. The work of proselyting is one thing, the work of Teacher among the Saints is another thing. Although they both belong to the Gospel, they are not quite alike. I feel to rejoice that the brethren have been advised in these matters, and I hope we will take these instructions home to our Stakes and wards, and put them into practice, that in the years to come we may have a valiant band of brethren of the Lesser Priesthood, or  who will act in that Priesthood, going among the people and teaching them their duties. May God add His blessings, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MILTON H. WELLING (President of Malad Stake.) 

I rejoice exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege I have had of attending this conference. .1 believe it has been the most inspiring spectacle of my life. To hear the brethren who are laboring in the various mission fields and in the Stakes of Zion report the progress of the work of God among the children of men is a testimony to me that the Gospel which we .have received is true. I believe if the young Latter-day Saints will make a careful study of the proceedings of this conference they will be able to obtain a testimony of the fulfillment of prophecy in the spread and development of this work. The Prophet Daniel saw the time when a little stone should be cut out of the mountain without hands, which should roll forth and fill the whole earth. Today we can see in a measure that this word of God is being fulfilled, from the reports given h_re by the servants of the Lord who have come from different parts of the earth. 

I am honored this afternoon in having the privilege of speaking to you for a few moments regarding the conditions that prevail among the people of the Malad Stake of Zion. The Malad Stake was organized about fifteen years ago, with President Oliver C. Hoskins at its head. President H>skins remained as the presiding officer of that Stake until about seven month? ago, when I had the honor of being^ called to preside among that people. The Saints of the Malad Stake are united. They are laboring earnestly and devotedly, I think, for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God among the children of men. The Presidency of the Stake have visited all the wards, of which there are eleven, and two branches, and we find that the people are striving to the best of their ability to serve the Lord and keep His com. The Presidency of the Stake are united, and in my youth and inexperience I have been exceedingly blessed in my ministry among the people there by having two faithful, stalwart counselors — Brother Gibbs, who has been associated with the Presidency of the Stake since its organization, and Brother Ward, who has been presiding for the last twenty-two years among the Indians of Washakie. In that connection I may say that we feel proud of the fact that we have an Indian ward in our Stake, thoroughly organized, and with all the auxiliary organizations. These Indians are endeavoring to serve the Lord, and we feel that they are a credit to our Stake. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire to testify that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and that those who are placed at the head of this Church are inspired of the Lord to perform the work that they have been called to do. I trust that the Latter-day Saints may go forth from this conference to the various Stakes of Zion and carry the instructions they have received to the home of every member of the Church, that this work may grow and prosper in the earth. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Importance of an education, secular and religious — Missionaries should avoid debates— The God we worship — Only the accepted standard works of the Church authoritative . 

This conference has been a very interesting one to me. It has been instructive to hear the reports from the different stakes and missions, given by those who are present; and as far as I have learned the conditions, I know that they have reported truly. 

I have one or two things I would like to speak upon, if the Spirit of the Lord shall lead me upon those subjects. 

Winter is coming, and during the winter time our day schools are all in session. We have an excellent school system in the state, and we desire to ask all parents to see to it that their children attend school and receive all the benefits they can from the schools in our midst. We have been accused  being an ignorant people, and that the authorities of the Church believe their strength lies in the ignorance of the people; but this is not the case. We do not want to foster ignorance. On the contrary, we desire that all our children shall enjoy the blessings of an education, as far as it lies in our power to give it them. The Prophet Joseph said that no man could be saved in ignorance. We look upon ignorance as a hindrance to salvation. Hence we want our people to be an enlightened people, an educated people, a people trained in all that leads to eternal life. 

Besides our district schools, *we hav«» schools instituted in our midst for the teaching of the principles of the Gospel. Last night we had a large congregation here of Sunday school workers. We would like our brethren and sisters throughout the stakes of Zion and in the different missions where Sunday schools are established, to see the importance of having all their children attend them /and receive the instructions given there. We look upon the Sunday school as a very important organization in our midst, and we are indeed pleased that so much interest has> been taken in this matter. While speaking about Sunday schools, I want to mention the Juvenile Instructor, and to ask the parents to support that journal and place it in the hands of the children. Remember that it belongs to the Sunday schools; and is not a private enterprise. Hence we ask the Sunday schools to be loyal in its support, so that we can spend more means on improving it and making it what it ought to be — a journal in very deed for the instruction of our juveniles. 

Religion classes have also been started in our midst; and now that the day schools are opened, we want these classes started, too, that the instruction given in the district schools may be supplemented with religious instruction. It is not intended, however, to mix the two. We cannot interfere with the state schools. We do not desire to take any rights from our friends, living here; but we do claim the right to see to it that our own children are given the privilege of learning that which we believe to be of the utmost importance. Presidents of stakes ana Bishops of wards, we depend upon you to put forth a strong effort to the end that in every ward a religion class bt established, if there be not one already We have quite a number of Church schools, and we encourage our younj, men and young women to attend them. We are pleased to hear from all our academies that they have opened with better prospects than ever before. A greater interest seems to be taken in these institutions, and the First Presidency and the Church board of education, realizing the importance of this work, have made a greater appropriation in favor of it than ever before. We feel that the expenditure of means foi the education of our children in thesb schools is profitable. We cannot fully estimate the value of these institutions. It may cost us a great deal, but if we can saA-e if it were but one soul, how great will be our joy, saith the Lord. I believe these institutions will be the means of saving thousands of souls. In our academies missionary courses have been established, which many of our young men have been called to attend, in order to study the principles of the Gospel and get a systematic knowledge of the plan of salvation, so that when they go out into the world they may know how to teach that which they believe. These courses are doing a great deal of good. 

I started by saying that we want all to attend the district schools. Now, we have in this state an excellent university. There has been some talk that the First Presidency and other authorities of the Church were inimical to that institution, and did not want our people to send their young men and young women there. We want it understood that this is not the case. In the past our legislatures have been composed mostly of men belonging to this Church, and they have made large appropriations in favor of that institution, to equip it and make it worthy the name of a university. We feel that our people should avail themselves of the advantages of that institution Many who go east for education could go to that institution and receive just as much, I believe, as they do at the  institutions of learning. We want it understood that we are not against the university, but we favor our people getting the advantages which it offers. Religion cannot be taught there, of course. There all sects and denominations must meet on neutral ground. But for the students belonging to the Latter-day Saints it is possible that some means can be found whereby they could be given religioua instruction outside of the institution. If any of them could make arrangement to attend the theological course in the Latter-day Saints' university, it is open to them. 

When we were down south we encouraged the people to also attend the Normal school established at Cedar City. We consider that these state schools are well equipped and supplied with able instructors, and that our young people can derive much benefit from them. In short, '.ve want to study how we can make the most of the educational advantages in this state and in the other states throughout Zion, that ail our children may receive an education. 

In listening to the reports from the presidents of missions, I was pleased with one feature. Some of them said that the missionaries avoided debates and contention. I look upon this as the right course. Some there are who think we are afraid to meet anyone in debate. Not so. It is much harder for oup young brethren to keep from debating than it is to engage in it; for they feel that they have the truth, and they are not afraid to meet anyune in defense of the principles in which they believe. But we have only one object in view in going out amongst the nations, and that is to follow the Master's instructions — to go out and teach men. That is our work. We do not go out to win battles as debaters; but we go out to teach men that which we have received, and which we know is true. If men are not willing to receive it, that is their own concern, not ours. When our Elders show the world the beauty of the principles of the Gospel as revealed to us, it is for men to say whether they will receive them or not. The Elders do their duty, and leave the  to the Lord. Those who seek to debate with our Elders and thirst for the honor of beating them in argument, do not want to be taught; they simply want contention. Paul tells us to avoid contention. He said: "But if -any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God." So we say; contention is not our custom, and we advise our missionaries not to contend, but simply go out and teach the principles of the Gospel. 

Some there are who follow our Elders, and after they have preached the principles of salvation, these men get up and charge that the Elders do not believe in God, but that they believe in Adam as their God, and they will bring up a few passages from sermons delivered by this or that man in the Church to substantiate this charge. Now, we are not ashamed of the glorious doctrine of eternal progression, that man may attain the position of those to whom came the word of God, that is, gods. When Jesus was preaching unto the Jews on one occasion they stoned Him, and He wanted to know if they stoned Him for the good works He had been doing. Oh, no, they say, "for a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God." To meet this, Jesus said: 

"Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? 

"If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scriptures cannot be broken; 

"Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God?" 

"We believe that there are gods, as the Savior quoted. He repeated what was written in the law, and He did Tiot say it was wrong, but used it as an argument against them. While, however, we believe, as the scripture states, that there are more gods, to us there is but one God. We worship the God that created the heavens and the earth. We worship the same God that came to our first parents in the Garden of Eden. In the revelation contained in Section 116 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants the Lord speaks con Adam-ondi-Ahman, "the place where Adam shall come to visit his people, or the Ancient of days shall sit, as spoken of by Daniel the prophet." In the 107th section, the Lord speaks of Adam as "Michael, the Prince, the Archangel," and says that he shall be a prince over the nations for ever. We may with perfect propriety call him prince, the ancient of days, or even God in the meaning of the words of Christ, which I have just quoted; but we do not worship him, we worship the same God that he worshipped. When our missionaries are met with these sophistries and with isolated extracts from sermons, we say to them that anything that is a tenet of our religion must come through revelation and be sustained by the Church, and they need not do battle for anything outside of the works that have been accepted by the Church as a body. When men come with extracts from sermons, let them bring the whole sermon, so that the context can be taken to see what was the meaning of the preacher, and not bring a few isolated passages whose meaning can be twisted and distorted to something opposite to what was intended. Our brethren have a right to ask for this. They can defend the principles they teach by the revelations of God as contained in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, the standard works of the Church; outside of these they need not go. Many of our Elders, when they go out into the world, have never heard of the things that are brought up against us, because they are not doctrines believed or taught here. In regard to the young man who lately committed a fearful deed, in New York, and the charge that the teachings of Mormonism had caused him to do it, I am safe in saying that the young man never heard at home in Zion a single thing taught by the people here in regard to the horrible doctrine attributed to us by the world, called "Blood atonement," for nothing is taught either in private or in public that would lead to such a dreadful crime. It is only out in the world where we are accused of holding such views. I have alluded to the arguments brought against us and the works considered by us as standards in order that our missionaries may not feel at a loss what to do. They know the works which have been accepted by the Church; they can read the word of God unto His people, both ancient and modern, and let them plant themselves firmly thereon. God bless you all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. Temple work — The Sacrament— Fast offerings. 

While listening to the reports made by the Presidents of Missions, I thought it might not be out of place for me to say a few words in relation to some missionary work done at home. I refer now to the work that is done in the house of the Lord. We have in the Salt Lake Temple about fifty missionaries — brethren and sisters who have been called to that labor— and they work without compensation. Some of them have been on that mission for more than nine years. I have in mind one sister who has been working in the temple nine and a half years, and I do not know that she has ever missed a day during all that time, when the temple has been open. She is not quice as old as I am, but she is nearly 81 years of age. If you will pardon me, I can say the same thing for myself: daring the nine and a half years I have never been absent from the temple one day when it has been open. 

1 will give you a few figures bearing upon the work that is being done in *he houses of the Lord. In the Salt Lake Temple, during the past six months, there have been 34,758 ordinances performed, and during the past year 73,060 ordinances. Since it was opened in 1893 there have been 726,924 ordinances performed there. In all the Temples now in existence there have been 2,447,000 ordinances performed. 

This is a brief sketch of the work that is done by the missionaries who are called to work in the houses of the Lord. 

Be it remembered, brethren and sisters, that this Temple work was one of the most important subjects that  mind of the Prophet Joseph Smithy in his last days, was very much exercised over. And it is an individual work. It is the duty of all who have relatives and friends on the other side of the veil to see that this work is done for them. These temples have been erected at great expense; millions of dollars have been expended on them; they are kept open at a heavy expense; and we ought to avail ourselves of the opportunity to obtain blessings in them. There is room in them for all who desire to perform ordinance work. 1 hope, therefore, you will take this into consideration, and remember the word* of the Prophet Joseph, that it is the duty of every person who has received ordinances for themselves to seek after their dead relatives. 

There is one more subject that I wish l o say a few words upon: it is in relation to the administration of the Lord s supper. When visiting wards and stakes I have thought there is not that solemnity surrounding this ordinance ihat ought to be. It is a matter that J he presiding officers should look after. Call the attention of your people, when tJ-e sacrament is being prepared, to the sacredness of the obligations they are about to enter into. I remember the fiist time I ever visited a Latter-day Paint meeting after I obeyed the Gospel, that when the sacrament was prepared the presiding officer arose and spoke to those present in relation to tt-e obligations they were about to eninto, and time was given for any who had been overtaken in a fault to make confession before partaking of Ihe sacrament of the Lord's supper. I believe we are too careless in relation to this ordinance. When the bread and the water are passed around, we ar* too apt to partake of it in a mechanical "kind of a way, without thinking scarcely of what we are doing. Consequent 1 } , I call the attention of the presiding officers to this subject. 

One more subject I want to touch upon. Tour attention has been called to the fast offerings, and it has beeu en id that some stakes and wards had no poor, consequently they did not deem It necessary to fast. Don't you know, brethren and sisters, that a  comes from fasting? It is not; so much the dollars and cents aa it is the blessing that we are afte i \ and unless we observe this we cannot expect the blessing. I could give you some statistics on this question that probably would astonish you, but I wtll say this: Last year $36,000 had to b^ drawn from the general tithing office to provide for the poor. Now, if the Latter-day Saints would observe this rule as they ought to, every Bishop would have abundance with which to supply all the poor in Zion. 

My brethren and sisters, during the three days we have been here, while hearing the brethren I have felt several times like shouting Hosanna, Hosanna, to God and the Lamb! In tn<? r.ame of Jesus Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

"I hold in my hand a copy of the revised edition of the Pearl of Great Price. The" Pearl of Great Price, as it originally existed, was presented before the general conference and accepted as one of the standard works of the Church. Since then the book has undergone a revision; that is to say, all the revelations that it formerly contained which were also in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, have been eliminated from it, as we thought it unnecessary to have revelations published in this book which were already published in the Doctrine and Covenants; therefore, these revelations have been eliminated from the Pearl of Great Price as it now is, and you will find them In the Doctrine and Covenants. In addition to tbis, Professor James E. Talmage has gone through the work and divided it into chapters and verses, making it a far more convenient book of reference than it was before. He has also supplied copious footnotes or references, which will be an aid in the study of the book. 

These are the changes that have been made .in the book, and we now present this book in its revised form — the original matter being preserved as it was before, only divided into chapters and verses — for your acceptance as a standard work of the Church." 

It was moved and seconded that the book be accepted as a standard work of the Church, and the motion was carried unanimously. 

President Smith then presented the authorities of the Church, first remarking that "we desire that the brethren and sisters will all feel the responsibility of expressing their feelings in relation to the propositions that may be put before you. We do not want any man or woman who is a member of the Church to violate their conscience. Of course, we are not asking apostates or non-members of the Church to vote on the authorities of the Church. We only ask for members of the Church in good standing to vote on the propositions that shall be put before you, and we would like all to vote as they feel, whether for or against." 

THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

of the Church were presented by President Joseph F. Smith, to be voted upon by the conference, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Brigham Young, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale.Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot and Hyrum M. Smith. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham Henry Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrih. 

William B. Preston, *s Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as Trustee-in-TVust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund as Church historian and general Church recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, O. F. Whitney, A. M. Musser and B. H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education; Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund.James Sharp, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner and John R. "Winder. 

As General Superintendent of Church Schools — Joseph M. Tanner. 

Secretary of Church Board of Education — Arthur Winter. 

As members of the Board of Examiners — Joseph M. Tanner, Benjamin Cluff, Jr., George H. Brimhall, Joshua H. Paul and James H. Linford. 

OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTERDAY SAINTS. 

Bathsheba W. Smith, general president; Annie Taylor Hyde, first counselor: Ida Smoot Dusenberry, second counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, general secretary; Clarissa S. Williams, general treasurer. 

OFFICERS OF THE DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 

Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; J. M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. 

Members qf the Board— Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Geo ge Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Sey B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace Cummings, George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, treasurer. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Joseph F. Smith.general superintendent; Heber J. Grant and B. H. Roberts, assistants; Thomas Hull, secretary and treasurer; Evan Stephens, music director; Horace S. Ensign, assistant music director. 

Aids — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Matthias F. Cowley.Abraham O. Woodruff, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Le Roi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Jos. W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Bryant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner, Hyrum M. Smith, Wm. B. Dougall. 

OFFICERS OF THE YOUNG LADIES MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Elmina S. Taylor, president; Maria Y. Dougall, first counselor; Martha H. Tingey, second counselor; Ann M. Cannon, secretary and treasurer; Mae Taylor Nystrom, corresponding secretary; Joan Campbell, recording secretary. 

Aids— Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Lillie T. Freeze, Susa Young Gates, Minnie J. Snow, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Alice K. Smith, Elizabeth C. McCune, Ruth M. Fox, Julia M. Brixen, Helen W. Woodruff, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze. 

OFFICERS OF THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS. 

Louie B. Felt, president; Lillie T. Freeze, first counselor; Josephine R. West, second counselor; May Anderson,  and treasurer; Olive L. Derbidge, assistant secretary; Euphemia I. Burnham, recording secretary. 

Aids— Aurelia S. Rogers, L. Lula Greene Richards, Isabella S. Ross, Camilla C. Cobb, Edna L. Smith, Eliza Slade Bennion. 

GENERAL BOARD OF RELIGION CLASSES. 

Anthon H. Lund, general superintendent; Rudger Clawson, assistant general superintendent; Joseph M. Tanner, assistant general superintendent. 

Members of Board— L. John Nuttall, John M. Mills, Henry Peterson, Horace Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Matthias F. Cowley, Hyrum M. Smith, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, L. John Nuttall, general secretary. 

Leader and director of the Tabernacle choir— Evan Stephens, with Horace S. Ensign as his assistant; John J. McClellan as organist, and all the members of the choir. 

John Nicholson as clerk of the conference. 

The voting to sustain was afflimatively unanimous. 

PRESIDENT SMITH 

read the following and in suitable remarks gave it his hearty approval: 

Salt Lake City, Utah, Oct. 6, 1902.— An organization has recently been effected under the direction of the general board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in which Sister Emma A. Empey was sustained as general supervisor of the Relief Society nurses, with Sister Phebe Y. Beatie as secretary and treasurer, and Sister Margaret C. Roberts as instructor. 

It is desired that the Relief Society of every stake of Zion shall send as many young women as possible to study nursing, and that the presidents of stakes shall interest themselves with the Relief Societies and young ladies that the good work that has been started here may be carried on, and that the sick and needy throughout all the settlements may have proper attention. 

The class will start Monday, Nov. 3. For further information see Relief Society pamphlet, or write to Sister Phebe Y. Beatie at 55 North West Temple street, Salt Lake City. Emma A. Empey, general superintendent. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Honor the Priesthood in their respective callings — Sustain the Church publications— President Snow's great and good work — Commendation of the auxiliary organziations— Closing admonitions. 

Six months ago we announced to the people in conference assembled that we expected to carry the Gospel and our testimony to the Saints as far as we had power to do it. I desire to say to this conference that we have fulfilled that promise to the best of our ability. Myself and at least one of my counselors, together with a number of the Apostles, have visited many of the settlements between here and Canada, holding conference in Canada and meetings in several of the wards there; and we have been as far south as St. George. We have attended the conferences of the people as far as our time would permit, and there has not been a Sabbath day that we have been idle. We have visited the Saints, borne testimony and declared the truth to them as diligently and faithfully as we had strength and time to do. What remains to be done, we hope, by the blessings of the Lord and continued health and strength, to be able in the future to accomplish it. Between now and next April we will perhaps be able to visit a number of the Stakes of Zlon, and Wards, too, which we have been unable to reach up to the present. We cannot afford to be idle. 

At this conference we have heard from nine Apostles-all that were in attendance. I regret exceedingly to say that President Brigham Young is confined to his room with serious illness; and while we hope and pray that the Lord may be merciful unto him and prolong his life, we feel, from ^ the knowledge we have of his condition and sufferings, that we will have to leave him in the hands of the Lord. If he had been present at this conference, we would have had all the brethren of the Twelve with us, excepting Brothers Lyman and Grant, who are in foreign lands laboring in the missionary field. Besides the Twelve, we have heard from almost forty presiding officers in the Church; and I only regret that we do not have the time to continue this work until we could hear from all the Presidents of Stakes, at least. But, brethren, do not be discouraged; if you will come next Conference we will give you a chance then. 

Furthermore, I want to say to the Saints who have listened to the brethren who have spoken unto us, that they are only an average of the Presidents of Stakes. We have not selected the brightest, the wisest and the best to speak to us. "We have taken those from the outer settlements, as far as we could, because we desired to have them heard here. We desire to recognize them, and we would like their people at home to realize the fact that they are recognized in the general conferences of the Church. I believe it to be the duty of the Church to recognize and acknowledge every man that holds an official position in it, in his sphere and in his calling. I hold to the doctrine that the duty of a Teacher :s as sacred as the duty of an Apostle, in the sphere in which he is called to act, and that every member of the Church is as much in duty bound to honor the Teacher that visits him in his home as he is to honor the office and counsel of the presiding quorum of the Church. They all have the Priesthood, they are all acting in their callings, and they are all essential in their place, because the, Lord has appointed them and set them in His Church. We cannot ignore them; or, if we do, the sin will be upon our heads. 

We have had some excellent instructions from President Lund and President Winder of the First Presidency, in relation to the work in the Temple, to discussions and contentions, in the missionary field, to the education of our children, to the maintenance of schools, to religion class work, and other matters. I endorse their remarks. Presioj papuauiuiooaj osre SBq pun^ }uap  the Juvenile Instructor, of which the brethren have given me the honor of being the chief editor. I am not the only editor of this periodical. Brother George Reynolds is one of the editors; indeed he is the worker, the bee in that hive. He is always busy wherever you find him. So far as industry is concerned, I do not know a man in Israel that performs a greater multitude of duties and labors than George Reynolds does. He is always at work, and always has plenty to do. I desire to remind you too, that the brethren have done me the honor also of electing me to be the editor of the Improvement Era, the organ ot the Young Men's Mutual Improvement association, Elder E. H. Anderson being actively in charge. As the Juvenile Instructor belongs to the Sunday schools, and not to any individual or syndicate of individuals, in like manner the Era is the organ of the young men of Zion. No man has any interest or profit in it more than another; nobody is making money out of it, and nobody is getting any salary out of it, except one or two who have to be constantly employed in the office. We send the magazine to the missionaries abroad, and receive commendations from the Elders with respect to the good that ig being accomplished by doing this. We recommend the Improvement Era, as we do the Juvenile Instructor, to the youth of Zion, and we say that you cannot do better than subscribe for it, and have it in your libraries, and still better, read it. Nor do we wish to overlook the Young Woman's Journal, nor the Children's Friend. 

Brethren and sisters, we want you to be united. We hope and pray that you will go from this conference to your homes feeling in your hearts and from the depths of your soul to forgive one another, and never from this time forth to bear malice towards another fellow creature, I do not care whether he is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or not, whether he is a friend or a foe, whether he is good or bad. It is extremely hurtful for any man holding the Priesthood and enjoythe gift of the Holy Ghost to harbor a spirit of envy, or malice, of retaliation,  intolerance toward or against his fellow man. We ought to say in our hearts, let God judge between me and thee, but as for me I will forgive. I want to say to you that Latter-da* Saints who harbor a feeling of unforgiveness in their souls are more guilty -and more censurable than the one who has sinned against them. Go home and dismiss envy and hatred from your hearts; dismiss the feeling of unforgiveness; and cultivate, in your souls that spirit of Christ which cried out upon the cross, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." This is the spirit that Latter-day Saints ought to possess all the day long. The man who has that spirit in his heart and keeps it there will never have any trouble with his neighbor; he will never have any difficulties to bring before the Bishop, nor High Council; but he will always be at peace with himself, at peace with his neighbors, and at peace with God. It is a good thing to be at peace with God. 

One year ago today, as near as I can recall, we were honored by the presence, and with the privilege to hear the voice of President Snow. Shortly after he was called home to his final account before the great Judge of the quick and the dead. The Lord preserved his life to a goodly age, and I want to say that the Lord Almighty accomplished some things through President Lorenzo Snow that neither President John Taylor nor President Wilford Woodruff accomplished in their day. Although the same questions had been brought before them, yet they were never thoroughly decided and settled until President Snow did it. Therefore, I say, all honor and praise be unto that instrument in the hands of God of establish. Ing order in the midst of uncertainty, and certain rules by which. we know oui bearings. I wish to mention this, because I feel in my heart to thank the Lord for President Snow, and to honor iiim as the instrument in His hands of accomplishing his mission, for which the Lord preserved him so long in life. He lived to bear his testimony to the world that Joseph Smith the Prophet taught him the doctrine of celestial marriage. He lived to declare to the  that he knew positively that Joseph Smith did receive it by revelation ajnd that that doctrine was true and of God. And if he had done no more than this he would have accomplished a great work, because he was a living witness, an eye-witness and an earnvitness, and he knew whereof he spoke. You and I will have to meet his testimony, and so will the people of the world; and when we go to give an account of that which we have heard and known in the world, we can not dodge this, but will be held to an account for it, just as sure as the Lord lives and President Snow did his duty. 

I want to say a few words to the Mutual Improvement associations. You young men and young women, officers of the Mutual Improvement associations, I implore you to go from thia conference and do your duty. Look after the wayward, the disobedient, the thoughtless, and the indifferent. It is necessary that they should be guarded and looked after. As it has been expressed here time and again, it is better for us to save our own boys who are being misled at home, than It is for us to go out into the world and spend years of time and endless means in order to gather in a few people from the world, while some of our own boys and girls need redemption as much as they, besides these people of the world are so full of the traditions and superstitions of their fathers when they gather to Zion that it is difficult, if not impossible, for them to entirely overcome these traditions and get down to a full comprehension of the Gospel and a complete reception of the truth. Yet a soul saved out in the world is as precious in the sight of God as a soul saved at home. But we have work to do right at home, at our own doors; and it will not do for us to neglect the work necessary to be done at our own thresholds, and then go out into the world to do work that is no more necessary. Let us do our duty everywhere. 

I desire to speak a word of commendation of the Primary associations. The sisters who are engaged in this noble work are most worthy women and very energetic in their labors. They are accomplishing a wonderful work. It is soul-inspiring, delightful and encouraging to see the results of the labors of these sisters. I commend this work to the attention of presiding officers everywhere, and would ask that the Bishops encourage and foster not only the Sunday schools and the Improvement associations, but also the Primary associations; for theirs is a work necessary to be done among the little children, which cannot be done, it would appear, in any other way. 

Furthermore, I desire to commend the work of the Relief Society, an organization that was effected by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The objects of this organization are manifold. It is not designed to look only after the poor and the needy as to their bodily necessities, but it is also intended to look after the spiritual, mental and moral welfare cf the mothers and daughters in Zion, and all who are engaged or interested in female work. I commend the Relief Societies to the Bishops, and say, be fnendly to these organizations, because they are auxiliary organizations and a great help to the Bishops. 

I regret very much indeed that we *ave not had time to hear from the Seven Presidents of Seventies, but neither they nor you need to feel very bad about it, because we expect to send them out to visit you. If you have not nad the prilvilege of hearing them here, we will let you hear them at your homes. It is their business to preach the Gospel, and another time they may have a chance to preach it to you here. I would love to have heard them and — I was going to say — hundreds of others, whom we would like to have heard, if time would permit. 

I now say to the brethren of the Priesthood — the High Priests, the Seventies, the Elders, and the Lesser Priesthood— magnify your callings; study the scriptures; read the 107th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, on Priesthood; learn that , which was given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and live by its precepts and doctrine, and you will gain power and intelligence to straighten out many kinks that have heretofore existed in your minds, and to clear up many doubts and uncertainties in relation to the rights of the Priesthood. God gave that word to us. It is in force today in the Church and in the world, and it contains instruction to the Priesthood and the people in relation to their duties, which every Elder should know. 

I will say now to all of the Latterday Saints, Let us live our religion; let us pay our tithing and be blessed; iet us remember the poor and the needy, and sustain and help them; let us visit the sick and afflicted, and admlnster consolation unto them; let us help the weak; let us- do all in our power to build up Zion, to establish righteousness in the earth, and to plant in the hearts of the people the glorious truth that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God, whom the Lord raised up in these last days to restore the everlasting Gospel and the power of the Holy Priesthood to the world. 

That the Lord may help us to accomplish this work, and sustain us in every good word and work, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang, We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles W. Penrose, counselor in the Presidency of the Salt Lake Stake. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 
