Afternoon
04 10 1092



ELDER J. G. DUFFIN. 

(President of Southwestern States Mission.) 

I desire with all my heart, my brethren and sisters, that I may be led by the inspiration of the Spirit of God during the time that I shall speak to you this afternoon. There is one lesson, at least, that I have learned during my brief life, and it is this: no man can reach the hearts of the children of our Father in heaven, in speaking upon the principles of eternal life, save he is led by the inspiration of the Spirit of God. So important has our Father thought it to be that His servants should be led by that Spirit, that He has given commandment that they should not attempt to teach unless they knew they were led by His Holy Spirit. 

While the brethren have been speaking today I have thought a little about the opening up of this great work that you and I are engaged in, and of some questions that are presented to us when we go among the nations of the earth and bear witness unto our fellows that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and that Jesus is the Christ. When we bear witness of this great truth revealed in these latter days we are frequently asked, "Why do you so often bear witness that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God? Do you believe that he takes the place of Jesus, the Sa_vior?" If we should answer that question dogmatically, we would say that we bear witness to that great fact because it is true; but that, I take it, is not sufficient. Whenever our Father in heaven has had a dispensation of the Gospel upon this earth, He has sent to the earth choice spirits, who had been foreordained in the heavens because of their pre-existent faithfulness, through whom He could reveal His will, and upon whom He could confer the keys of power and authority to minister His word among His children upon the earth. The time came when the promises of our Father were going to be fulfilled pertaining to His work in the last days. Again He sent to earth one of those choice spirits, who, when he came here, was given the name of Joseph Smith. Through him Father in heaven revealed His will again to His children, and to him He gave authority. Through that great man of God has been opened up the work of salvation for the living and redemption for the dead in this the greatest of all dispensations that have been given to man. I hold as a principle in missionary work that the first fact to be established before the people is the great truth that Joseph Smith is the man whom Father in heaven has raised up for this special purpose; for if they will not accept of him they will not accept the revelations of God given through him. It is because we believe this with all our hearts that in the mission over which your humble servant has been called to preside the Elders hold before the people first and foremost^ the great truth that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet of God. 

A few weeks ago I stood, with President Andrew Kimbail, in the room in Carthage, Illinois, where our beloved Prophet and Patriarch laid down their lives and sealed their ieouiiwny witu their blood. Years before that time I made a vow to my Father in heaven that if He would give unto me His Holy Spirit, and courage and intelligence sufficient, I would devote my life to bearing witness to the world that He had raised up that man of God to establish His latter-day work. When I stood in that room and passed to the window out of which that man of God threw his body in order to save hia brethren who were yet alive, I renewed that vow, with tears streaming down my face; and I want to say to you this day, especially to the young brethren and sisters in Zion, that again I do renew that vow, and desire with all my heart that I may ever be led by that 

Spirit of God to lift up my voice and bear witness that that great man who there gave his life is a Prophet of God, and that his testimony, sealed by his blood, lives today and will live in the hearts of the children of men. 

In the Southwestern States Mission this fact is second only to the great truth that Jesus is the Christ. In that mission we are doing the work of our Father in heaven as He gives us ability to do it. "We have about 120 Elders laboring there, and have had two of the beautiful, intelligent daughters of Zion, but one has recently returned from filling a faithful mission and is now in this building; the other is still there, doing good, efficient work. "We hope to have others of the daughters of Zion sent to us to assist in the work. Brethren and sisters, your sons who are there are full of courage and zeal. Your daughters who have been and are there are filled with the same spirit of devotion and courage. I bear witness this day, with regard to the work of our young sisters, that when they stand before the people of the world and bear testimony that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and that Father has again spoken from the heavens, it goes to the hearts of the people, and they cannot resist the humble testimony of our beloved sisters. 

I would like to say a word with regard to writing to your sons. Never allow one line of discouragement to go from you to them. Never put a thought in their minds that they should return home until the men whom God has chosen to direct His work are moved upon by the Spirit of God to release them from their missionary labors. Why do I say this? Because we have had occasion sometimes to know that the work of the Lord has suffered by reason of our young men being taken from the field before they ought to retu %\, and they themselves have suffered most in consequence of it. I know the presidents of missions are careful of the young men. They are considerate of your sons. They love them as they love their owns sons. They would lay down their lives for your boys, and they are not going to permit them to do that  would be for their detriment, if they can help it. 

The work of the Lord in that mission is progressing- reasonably well. Our Elders are treated well by the people. It is a rare exception where they meet mob violence. We have only had one case of extreme mob violence in about three years, and that was in a part of a state that has always exhibited a rank spirit towards the work of God; but even in that state the governor is a friend to the people of the Lord, as are some of the judges. I have talked with leading men in that state, and they have said to me, "Mr. Duffin, I want to say to you that the better element in this state, the men of thought and progress, are not bitterly opposed to your people, but are friendly towards you." That is the spirit which prevails generally among the intelligent and thinking classes of the people throughout the Southwestern States Mission. There is one exception to this rule, and that is among those who pretend to be followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene. From that class of people come the bitterest statements and opposition that we have to meet. A few weeks ago we held a conference of the Missouri Elders in Kansas City. The leading newspapers there treated us nicely, and gave fair accounts of the conference. They sent their reporters to our meetings, and they advertised us free of charge before the conference began. This stirred up the anger of some of these men who pretend to be followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene and they gave us a little more advertising in their Sunday night sermons. As soon as the reporters got those sermons they came right to our office and wanted to know whether the ministers' statements were true or not. They said they wanted to treat us fairly and get our side of the question, and they reported pretty fairly what we said in reply to the attack of those men who are not following the Savior, though they pretend to be. President Rich said he sometimes got warm in talking about these men and thinking how they treated our young men who are full of faith and zeal and who are doing a work of unselfishness among mankind. I do not suppose there is a presi of a mission anywhere but gets angry sometimes at this, and righteously, too. 

Brethren and sisters, we reported last spring that we had issued a ten thousand edition of the Book of Mormon in that mission. Since last May we have distributed nearly seven thousand copies of that sacred book, to various missions and throughout the country; and it is now going out by the thousands where formerly it was distributed by the hundreds. It is down to a price that can be reached by the people. Since I have been a student of this great latter-day work I have always held that if we must speculate out of any books, it should not be out of the Book of Mormon; for when the angel delivered the plates to the Prophet Joseph Smith he warned him against using them for the purpose of getting gain. I believe that same principle should obtain in the publishing and distribution of the book. We have acted upon that principle in contributing of our means in this direction. Your sons have given of their means to put this book at such a price that the people could reach it. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord may be in the heart of everyone who attends this conference, and in the heart of every member of the Church, and that it may go forth among the nations of the earth and enter into the hearts of the people and open them to the reception of the eternal truths of heaven that have been revealed in this dispensation. I want to bear you my witness this day that I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I know that Brigham Young is a Prophet of God. I know that these testimonies are being borne among the nations by our young men. I know that our beloved brother who sits on this stand today— Joseph F. Smith— is a 

true and a living Prophet of God, and that he holds the keys of the kingdom in the day in which he lives. God bless 

you. Amen. 

ELDER ASAHEL WOODRUFF. 

(President of the Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, while standing before you upon this occasion I earnestly desire an interest in your faith and prayers,- that I may be clothed upon with the Spirit of the Lord, to enable me to report truthfully the conditions which prevail in the Northern States Mission. We have heard today reports from that portion of the country that is washed by the waters of the Pacific, and from portions washed by the Atlantic and the great Gulf as well as from the great interior country embraced within the Colorado Mission. It is my privilege to report that part of the country which may be called the district of the great lakes. Of late years the Northern States Mission has been shorn of some of the outlying States which were formerly part of it. The State of Missouri was given to the Southwestern States Misson, the States of Kansas and North and South Dakota were added to the Colorado Mission, and Ohio to the Southern States Mission. At the present time the Northern States Mission is very compact, the city of Chicago being almost centrally located, geographically. There are six states embraced in the mission, viz.: the state of Michigan (which in the early rise of the work furnished many splendid converts to the Church), the state of Indiana, the state of Illinois (whose soil drank in the blood of the Prophets that were slain for the testimony which they bore, and within whose borders are many points of historical interest connected with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints), the state of Iowa (into whose wilderness the band of pilgrims made their way when they commenced that great exodus in the summer of 1846), the state of Wisconsin (which furnished the "cedars of Lebanon" for the beautiful temple at Nauvoo), and the great and beautiful state of Minnesota, with its more than ten thousand lakes, including Itasca, which gives birth to the great Father of Waters— the Mississippi river. We have about 100 Elders laboring in that mission at the present time. 

Our work has been somewhat hampered the last few months, during which time it has been my privilege to  over that part of the Lord's vineyard, owing to many of the Elders having to be released, and a large number of fresh ones sent into the field. I will say, however, that, notwithstanding the great majority of our force are young men, they are laboring assiduously, conscientiously and diligently to spread the work of the Lord in that part of the world, and their efforts are being met with reasonable success, though in point of baptisms the success is not as encouraging as we could wish. During the past eight months about 80,000 tracts have been distributed, and practically the same number of families have been visited, and 25,000 revisited; 2,500 meetings have been held, among this number being about 1,000 street meetings. I do not know that we can trace any conversions directly to our efforts upon the streets, but it has allayed a great deal of prejudice and has warned the people of the impending judgments which God designs to pour out upon the world. We have also seen this beneficial effect resulting from our street meetings: in districts where they have been held, the Elders have received a more cordial welcome at the homes of the people in their tracting. We have in the mission three Young Ladies' associations, one Young Men's association, and seven Sunday schools, all of which are doing effective work. Among those who have identified themselves with the work in these states we have some good, honest souls, who are thoroughly converted to all the principles of the Gospel promulgated by the Elders, and who have paid their tithes with care and precision. Many of our converts are employed in the factories and stores, and they will come religiously each Sabbath day and pay one-tenth of their earnings, thereby setting a commendable example to many of our people at home. 

The spirit of gathering seems to take possession of the people almost as soon as they embrace the Gospel, and it is hard to restrain them from carrying out their desires in this matter. This tendency weakens our branches to a great extent, and we try to discourage it as far as possible, advising the people, in preference to gathering and  employment which they have and going where they will perhaps find it difficult to get suitable employment, to make a brief trip to Zion and attend to their work in the Temple of the Lord, which is the great incentive for them to gather with the people. 

I believe that, aside from the work of the conversion of people in the world, one of the great features of missionary work is the conversion of the corps of Elders who are constantly traveling throughout the nations of the earth. Missionary work is one of the best educators that a young man could possibly have. It gives that practical education which fits them for the battle of life. It has been contended by people who are not of our faith that the young Latter-day Saints who show a disposition to follow in the footsteps of their fathers do so because they have inherited their prejudices. They look upon it as a case of the blind following the blind, and the ignorant following those who are still more ignorant. They say that the solution of this trouble is greater light, greater knowledge, and opportunity for the young men to come in contact with the purer (?) state of society which exists outside of Utah. That is largely the contention of the people who are opposed to our faith, notwithstanding the great amount of evidence which time is continually accumulating to show the plan to be a rank failure. The young men of our Church do go out Into the world, with very limited knowledge or experience, perhaps with no certain knowledge of the divinity of those principles which they have embraced, except that which comes through a consciousness of the honest, probity and truthfulness of their parents who believe in the Gospel. They go forth into the world, which has grown rank with conflicting notions and Ideas, and they are compelled to raise their hand against every creed, because every creed lifts its head against them. Surely this is a condition the most lavorable that could be desired to eradicate from their young minds whatever respect they might have for the faith -of their fathers, if anything could do ao; and yet the leaders of the Church  the fathers and mothers of the young men all unite in urging them to take the very step which our enemies declare will be the means of eradicating from their minds whatever belief they have in the faith of their fathers. We see these young men by the hundreds taking the advice which comes from such opposite elements. They go out into the world, remaining there from 18 months to 3 years or more, and in 999 cases out of 1,000 they return with a firm conviction of the truth, the purity and the unsurpassing reasonableness of the Gospel. There might not be anything remarkable about an occasional conversion among these young men to a faith that had long been professed by them, though perhaps but little understood; but almost without exception these young men return with a strong personal testimony of the truth which their fathers have espoused. 

There are many ways in which missionary experience is of great value to those who engage in it. It gives them a breadth of charity and consideration for their fellow creatures which cannot be obtained in any other Way. It gives them an insight into the hopes, the aspirations and the conditions that exist in the world. It gives them a broader understanding of our Father's purposes in connection with the placing of His children here upon the earth. It also develops within them that quality which is declared by all people to be one of the cardinal virtues— unselfishness. The very fact of their being willing to sacrifice home, friends, and all that is near and dear to them, for a period, and go forth to suffer the scorn, the contumely, the hatred and the rebuffs of the world which they have to meet, is an evidence of their sincerity and their unselfishness. This gathering of people from all parts of the world, and this sending forth of our Elders to every nation under heaven, by which they become acquainted with the conditions that exist in the world, and then their returning home with the experience which they have acquired, is filling this state and surrounding states with men possessed of a knowledge of the world that cannot be found in any other community on the earth. I believe that this continued will be the means of establishing here the greatest, the purest and the most progressive people upon the face of the earth. 

My testimony is that this work is true, that Joseph Smith was a divine instrument in the hands of the Almighty of establishing His work in the last days upon the earth, and that be did his work nobly and well; that he was succeeded by spirits which had been held in reserve tc come forth in this important dispensation, to continue the work and to build upon the foundation laid by the Prophet Joseph; thst a prophet of God still stands at the head of this Church, and that He will continue to place prophets at our head to receive His will and deliver it unto the people. I pray that God will help us to work out our salvation with fear and trembling, and to be true and loyal to the Priesthood, to God, to our friends and to ourselves, and to be counted worthy to be numbered among the jewels of our Father when He shall come to make them up. I ask these blessings in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER NEPHI PRATT, 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

I feel thankful to God for the blessings that we have received tnis day by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit in listening to the inspired remarks of the brethren who have spoken. To come from the missionary field and look upon the faces of the Saints and hear the voice of inspiration from the mouths of the prophets, is a great privilege. It is greatly enjoyed by those who from day to day and from month to month go through the great cities of our land and seldom look upon a friendly face. 

The Northwestern States Mission, over which I have been called to preside, is a small mission in some respects. It consists of the State of Washington, British Columbia, Montana, and a part of Idaho. I took the presidency of that mission and started my labors on the 14th of May last. I found about twenty  cities in the mission, and many large towns, and there were only eight Elders. They were so few and so inexperienced that it seemed when I arrived there like we had nothing to work with. But we commenced a little more systematically than the Elders had been doing, and we started to hold street meetings in Spokane, and in Butte, where they had almost given up the work. In our preaching instead of speaking so much upon faith, repentance and baptism, as we have in years past, we were led to preach upon the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith, and upon the fact that God had once again uttered His voice from the heavens, and that He had sent forth divinely-authorized servants into the great field of the world to warn the peopleof the judgments of God that are coming upon the earth; for the people of Washington and Montana are so utterly indifferent to the Bible and its contents that those whom the Elders can reach seem to have no interest in those things. We cannot reach the family people, who make up the church-going members in the various cities where welabor; for they reject us, shut us out, and will not have us. When we Dreach on the streets our tongues are loosed upon the subject of the coming of the Son of God and the signs that were to precede it, and we are led to proclaim that this people are the ones that are doing this great and marvelous work. We have also been able, by the power and inspiration of the Holy Ghost, to defend the Prophet Brigham Young, and to show up the majesty and the greatness that rested upon him in establishing the Latter-day Saints in this place, where in the beginning, when welooked down at the earth, it was like an ash-heap, and when we looked at the heavens, the sun's scorching rays came down upon our unprotected heads without pity. We did not know anything about irrigation, and we could not tell, if we dropped the seed in the soil, whether it would ever grow. We have told the people that in the midst of these difficulties, so huge and so appalling, there was one potent voice — thevoice of Brigham Young, who, sticking his cane in the soil, said, "Here shall  erected the Temple of our God;" and there was one voice that could say, "Here shall be builded a great city." We have testified to this, and to what it has done for the people of the west; and when we have defended the prophets and declared these things, we have been received royally, and our hearts have been made to rejoice when we went on the streets without fear and trembling. 

In the mission we now have 15 Elders in all, a few of whom are in Spokane, a few in Butte, and a couple in Anaconda. "Western men do not threaten to mob us. They seem \o feel above it. When we have been attacked on the streets by some wicked or quarrelsome person, we have found that we had defenders, who rose up and spoke well of us; while some have bx>rne testimony to the greatness of the men that settled this country and made it possible to settle the other countries west of here. We have three branches of the Church — one in Butte, one in Anaconda, and one just established in Spokane with 22 members. In the five months I have been there we have baptized 17. We have Sunday schools in two of our branches, and expect to establish one in Spokane next Sunday or the Sunday following. In Spokane we have to hold our Sabbath meetings in our private residence, and we are beginning to have it crowded each Sunday, with tts many strangers as Saints. Our Elders are young men, without any training in singing. You ought to go out on the streets and see how lamentable it is to call what we do singing. Men that cannot carry a tune, to save their lives; but, like Brother Grant, they are persevering, and we are getting so that we sometimes sing in harmony, if the Spirit of the Lord rests upon us. If I were to speak my mind, I would say to the rising generation of men who expect to fulfill missions in this Church, learn to become good singers; learn to sing in parts, so that you can form singing clubs. When you go into the missionary field it will help you greatly, and it will open doors to you that will not be opened if you do not possess that gift. 

Brethren and sisters, in our mission we have not been able to set the world  fire by any means. I never saw such indifference as there seems to be there. Men do not want you to speak the word "religion" in their hearing. They have their business to attend to, and they won't talk religion. There is only one here and there that cares to speak upon the principles of the Gospel. But we have considerable opposition there from the ministers, and from some apostates that have been spewed out of the mouth of the Lord. They get into our street meetings and begin to abuse the prophets and find fault with us and the word of God; but we ignore them. We will not contend with them, and they are getting so that they have no following, a nd I am glad of it. In the cities where we preach on the streets, we have good crowds to hear us, and some of them are quite intelligent and attentive; but they are not made up of men who care anything about it after we are through. Some of them will come and bear testimony to the excellent character of our people, and that is all. We have a number of scattered Saints there, among them some young people, and they are hoping that some day they may come where they can get good companions and marry. They are holding themselves from the company of the wicked, trusting that in the future they may have the blessing of becoming united with the righteous. They are mixed up with the sectarians, and we cannot hold meetings with them. The best we can do ia to send an Elder among them occasionally, and then very often they cannot get a schoolhouse to meet in. But we feel blessed and encouraged. We have the still small voice up there, and receive of the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. We feel to bless the name of the Lord who gave us that mission, and to proclaim His Gospel. We would be discouraged, did we not know that it ia His work, a nd not ours. 

One evening, on the streets of Butte, we met a minister, who got up a new argument against us. We had been preaching that a church without apostles and prophets, pastors and teachers, called by divine revelation from God, was not the body of Christ; that a church which did not have these officers was a thing without parts, without limbs, without eyes, and that a church without the Holy Ghost was dead. This man said that he wanted to tell the people that we were a deformity. He had studied Mormonism seven months, and he said the Mormons believed in a great many things that were not in the New Testament. He went on to say that we believe in three Presidents to preside over the church, and there was no such thing establishd by Jesus; we believed in High Priests, and there had been no High Priests in the Church in the days of Jesus; we believed in Patriarchs, and there was no such thing as Patriarchs provided for in the New Testament days. He continued, "If we are a body that is dead, without limbs or eyes, what are they? Are they not a body with three ears, and four arms, and eight legs?" And he called us a deformity. "Well, the people did not receive him very well, and the answer of the young Elder to his remarks was so overwhelming against him that he departed very quickly. We have been blessed and prospered, and it has not been possible for whatever intelligence has been brought against the work of God to bring it into shame or humiliation. I will tell you what we need in that mission. We need 80 Elders. But they are giving us missionaries just as fast as they can spare them, and we are thankful for them. 

I ask God the Eternal Father to bless this work, to promote its interest everywhere, to bless the missions and the mission presidents, with all the missionary Elders, to bless the Presidency of the Church and all the interests of this people everywhere. I ask God to bless them all, and to plant our feet wherever we are colonized, that our influence may be felt, and that we may exhibit those qualities of salvation that shall attract men to us. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Friendly manifestations where persecution existed before— Favorable time to preaoh the Gospel — Liberal-minded listen respectfully, but few yield obedience— Talents should be used for the blessing of all. 

My brethren and sisters, it is a matter of pleasure to me to be with  in attendance upon this conference, and to have listened to the wor Is which have been spoken by our brethren who have been in the missionary fie-d, seeking to sow the seeds of the Gospel and to discharge that obligation required at the hands of those that are warned, namely, that they shall warn their neighbors. The brethren ha\e given us in brief some of their experiences in connection with the work that has been assigned unto them. It has been my privilege in the past few weeks to have ha,d some little opportunity of mingling with the people in several states of the Union, and noting conditions under which the Elders are laboring in some of the fields to which they have been appointed by the presiding authority of the Church. My own experience while away from home in the discharge of a duty that had fallen to my lot, was among the pleasurable ones of my life. In an absence from home of something like four weeks, I do not know that in the entire time, although I mingled with a great many, I had one wry face made at me because I happened to be a "Mormon." I do not know that any of our brethren who were with me were subjected to any evidence of disrespect, or that any expressions of animosity were in any way directed against the organization of which we are members. We received the most thoughtful treatment, and in the discharge of the duties that were incumbent upon us were enabled, I believe, to impress upon the minds of seme of our fellowmen a higher regard and a better understanding of our purpose than they possibly had before. 

Among the most pleasing experiences through which it was my privilege to pass in connection with other brethren, was one such as stated by Presidert Duffin as having occurred in his experience, and that was in the payment of a visit to Hancock county, Illinois, and to receive very kindly consideration from many of the old-time citizens ot that county. Their expressions were of the most friendly character, and many of them absolutely and unconditionally declared that Hancock county today was "Jack-Mormon," and not 9nti-"Mormon," and they expressed a  that it were possible for the Saint i t<- again establish themselves upon that land and build up again, by their thrift and industry, the towns that had withered after the removal of the Saints. The sentiment that we found among many of these men and women was to me an evidence of a working change in the breasts of the people; and I am of the opinion that the opportunities for extending the Gospel fn cur own nation are better today than they have ever been since the Saints left their homes in the east and established themselves in the valleys of the mountains. "While there are some men who are given to misrepresenting our character, and the press of the country in many instances take up very readily anything that will reflect upon and in a measure retard the progress of the latter-day work, the constant travel of the better elements of the people of the United States is having the effect to wear away and disprove the false st\tements that have been heralded broadcast in times that are past and gone, and the possibility of arousing a spirit of hatred and animosity again.it u.<? is not so marked as formerly. There are large bodies of fair-minded, honorable men and women in all parts o* the land, and while they may not be as aggressive in their spirit as the enemies of the Saints are, they are ready to give aid and comfort to the Elders of the Church in the performance of their part, and to defend them if necessary. 

I feel that no better time has existed for us to fulfill that great responsibility of preaching the Gospel and warning the world than exists at the present time. Our contact with men in bust noss, our association with them in the variety of congresses and conventions that are held in the various parts of the nation, has awakened in the breasts of many thoughtful and prudent men mcst serious thoughts in connection with our ministry. The large bodies of men who attend these cattle conventions, irrigation congresses, good roads congresses, Trans-Mississippi congresses and other representative gatherings at which our brethren and other -rieri from our state have been present, have accomplished wonders in chang the spirit of the thoughtful and fa?rminded of our land. One man who has figured most conspicuously in almost all of these congresses, and who is eminent in one of our territories, in a published expression over his own signature, recently made the statement that if nothing else had been accomplished by these conventions and congresses in this western country than the obtaining of a better understanding of "Mormonism" and its purpose in the world, that alone has amply repaid the p-ople of the Trans-Mississippi country for the establishment of these gatherings. Coming from such a man,' who is equipped, by the education and training of his life, to discharge fully and thoroughly almost any part that might be required at his hands, after an extended acquaintance with the men who h?ive gone from our state to these various gatherings, that statement is a witness to me of an advance in the line of thought and in the opening up to the fairminded and generous American people a way to allay the intense excitement that in the past has been awakened against us because of a lack of understanding with regard to our puipose. 

I believe this is true, not only within the confines of our own great government, but also beyond our borders in the great south land and in the lands to the north of us. While many men are not inclined to express themselves vipon the question of our religion, yet th« justice engendered in their hearts as a result of their mingling with the people has broken in pieces many of the idols of the past, and has destroyed, in a great measure, the work of the illiberal and smallminded, too many of whom are found in the ranks of the clergymen, so lacking in that breadth and understanding of the principles of the government under which we live that their constant clamorings are directed to the hurt of their fellowmen. But even among the ministers there are men of broad minds, of big hearts and generous purposes. While they are not believers with us in the doctrines of the Gospel as restored through the administrations of the prophets in this dispensation, still they recognize the fact that in the exercise of their rights and in the fulfillment of their mission they cannot regard with respect those that would trample upon them in the exercise of their rights, and they concede to their fellowmen the same privileges that they desire for themselves. All such men, whether they be without faith, whether they are acceptors of the doctrines of the Protestant world, or believers in Judaism, or members of that great organization known as the Catholic church, wherever they may be found they are among the protectors and preservers of the liberties of man and those human rights guaranteed unto us by the Constitution of the United States. To these men, whose hearts are big, and whose education is in keeping with the character of the government which the Almighty has permitted to be established in this day, we may turn our faces with a degree of safety. But when it comes to those whose souls are narrowed down to the acceptance of the idea that their prayers can simply ascend in the interest of their own little circle, and that liberty can only be permitted to be enjoyed by the members of that circle, sentiments such as they possess, and which find expression in a desire to interfere with the conscience of their fellowmen will, I trust, gradually decrease in influence and power until beneath the flag of the United States, no human being can be called in question as to the character of his faith, whether he worship Mohammed or whether he ac  cepts the doctrines and views presented to the world by the great Christian organizations that are proclaiming Christ and His ministry in the world. 

The promise to us in the introduclion of this work was not that it should ever become a popular system in the minds of mankind. The promise made was that it should gather one of a city and two of a family. Up to the present moment, take the statements of the men who are in the mission fields of this great country, and there has been no declaration that the work which the Almighty has established in this day has become popular among the people. A few receive their message; a few have adm'ni«tered  them the ordinance of baptism: a few aid them in the accomplishment of their work by providing for their wants, or by preserving them from the attacks of mobs or unwise and thoughtless people. The work began with a few; it probably will continue for some time with a few. But its destiny and mission will be accomplished upon the basis designated by our heavenly Father. The one of a city and the two of a family will be gathered, will be nurtured in harmony with our Father's purposes, and in due time the work will be established in its fullness and become indeed the joy of the whole earth. It will not come with a rush; it will not come by great popular demonstrations; it will not come as a result of any great eloquence or skill or power that we may possess; it will come through the operations of the still small voice bearing witness to the hearts of the few, until step by step and stage by stage the children of our God will be assimilated and brought into harmony with the principles of His. truth; for it is destined to accomplish its work and bring about our Father's purpose. "We note the conditions that grew up in the ages past, when the Christian religion became a popular religion; when the Christianity of the Redeemer was lost or buried in the paganism that surrounded it, and when the ordinances of God's house, with the keys, rights, authorities and blessings, were lost in the philosophy and wickedness of that day. 

My brothers and my sisters, before us is this entire world. Our Father has given it to us as our field. From its islands and from its continents, from its mountains and from its valleys we are to gather together the children of our Father, indoctrinate them in an understanding of the principle of revelation, write upon their hearts the characteristics of the prophecies of old, and engender in their minds the understanding that as prophecy and revelation were requisite in that former day, so they, in this day, who would be in communion with our heavenly Father must seek to obtain that selfsame spirit and drink in of that revelation and prophecy that stall bring 

"to the souls of men a complete comprehension of our Father's purposes in connection with His great family. To this end the seeds will have to be sown, gradually but surely, that little by little the lump may be assimilated, the conditions may be shaped, the hearts of God's children may be brought to the proper understanding, and that upon their souls shall be written, by the impress of His Spirit, the truth of His work that shall lead them to obey it and do His bidding. 

There are many things we have to do in connection with the development of our Father's work that probably in our experience are very trying to us; but we look back over the past, as we remember the conditions that surrounded us in the state of Illinois, or in the state of Ohio, or in the state of Missouri, and we note the changes that have been wrought in our establishment in this mountain home, we must glorify our Father's name that He utilized means to push us into the valleys of these mountains, and equip us by the education that we have received for the accomplishment of that great work which He has set us to do. There was no escape from this. It has come to us in the accomplishment of His purpose, and His purpose is the gradual regeneration of His children and the establishment in all the world of the truth of that message which God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ made known to the Prophet of this dispensation, and to which our brethren have borne testimony this day and become witnesses of the ministry and mission of the chosen ones designated to scatter this seed and bring to repentance the sons and daughters of God. At jio time in the world's history has there ever been made so wonderful an accomplishment in the sowing of seed and in the dissemination of principle such as was made in the life ministry of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In almost every church we hear sung songs of the latter-day Zion. We hear them clamoring in many sections of our country for information bearing upon many principles in which we believe, and we note that the thoughtful and prudent men of the land.as well as of other parts of this  upon which we live, desire our association and companionship, that the labors of our organization may be brought to bear to change the conditions in their sections of country and open the door that more of our Father's children may be successful in securing to themselves the blessings and comforts of life. 

I recognize the fact, my brethren and sisters, that it is not prudent In me to speak to you longer; but with my associates who have spoken to you this day I desire to bear my testimony to the truth of this Gospel. I desire to say to you practical and thoughtful men among the Latter-day Saints that our Father expects you to utilize the talents that you possess in the creation ol industries, in the providing of work, in aiding every child that shall receive ot that faith which the Almighty has given unto you, that he may secure for himself a home, that he may be indoctrinated in the principles of eternal truth, and that all our talents may be utilized for the spiritual and tempora' blessing of every one of our Father's children to the uttermost limit of ou' capacity. That which we have embraced came from a divine source. It' mission is a mission of regeneration. It moves forward in the accomplishmenf of its destiny. Nothing in the world can stay its progress. That declaration that "no weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn," will operate in the future as it has in the past. Ail honor to the honorable, upright and generous men of this world who stand upon the basis of fair-dealing among their fellows, and all dishonor to the narrowminded, illiberal and ungenerous men of the world whose hearts and minds are not broad enough to register aright the rights that they themselves enjoy and that the rights of their fellows should be sacred in every sense of the word! 

May the blessings of God attend you. May the faith that was delivered to the prophets of this dispensation And its lodgment in your hearts and homes. May you be stalwarts among men in the defense of human liberty and in the blessing of every creature. May you impress upon the souls of your sons and daughters that sacred regard for human rights that no human being with your consent should be denied the exercise of his conscience, so long as ne does not interfere with the rights or liberties of any other human being; and that this principle and spirit may grow  garnish your lives and enable you to fulfill your destiny, under the blessing of our God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. The choir and congregation sang: 

^Ye thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet. 

Benediction by Elder Edward H. Snow, president of St. George Stake.