Overflow
05 10 1092

ELDER WM. H. SEEGMILLER, (President of Sevier Stake.) 

I very much appreciate the privilege of meeting- in this conference with my brethren and sisters. I have enjoyed myself very much in listening to the remarks that have been made since the conference began. 

I desire to add my testimony unto those of my brethren with reference to this great latter-day work. I know that we are engaged in the work of God, that the Gospel has been restored and that the Latter-day Saints enjoy its gifts and blessings. I know that Joseph Smith was an inspired Prophet of God, that he sealed his testimony with his blood and that his testimony is now in force in the earth. 

In listening to the remarks of the brethren this morning— although I may be but a new-comer in the Church as compared with those who gained experience in Kirtland, Missouri and Illinois, where the Saints were once located—when I came to consider that only fourteen years of the history of the Church had been made in Utah when I became identified with it, I began to feel that I had been associated with it for some time myself; and as I think over the changes that have come to us as a people, I also rejoice and testify, as my brethren have done, to the knowledge that I possess that God has been with this community; that He has guided them, that He has directed and prospered them, and that they have spread out, since those days, until they now occupy land outside of the realm of the United States. I know that as we have prospered in the past so we will in the future. 

The different Stakes of Zion have been organized that the Latter-day Saints might acquire an education which will prepare them for coming events, yea, for the coming of the Bridegroom. There is an important question that confronts us as a people, individually: Will we be numbered among the wise virgins or among the foolish ones? It is a problem that confronts ever one of us, than which there is no more important subject for our . The path of counsel, we have been told, is the path of virtue. Those who observe the counsel and commandments which come to us from time to time from those who are inspired and appointed to advise the people, will be prepared to go forth when the word is sounded that "The Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet Him." 

There are grand opportunities before us, and I hope and trust that we will improve the chances and privileges that are ours today, that in time to come we and our children may stand with the people of God. When we look around we find there are names mentioned in the early history of the Church that we do not hear sounded today in the councils of the Elders of Israel. In reading the early history of the Church we are able to ascertain, at least in part, the reason for this. I hope and trust that we will appreciate the privileges that are ours; that we may have testimonies in our hearts strong enough to endure everything that may beset our pathway in life; that our integrity may be great, yea, that we may value it more than we do life itself. 

My experience thus far in connection with this work of our Father is that the more intently I labor to advance His purposes in the earth the more joy, pleasure and contentment I have. So, if it is a matter of contentment and joy, the way to obtain it, as I understand it, is to do the will of our Father in heaven, so far as it is made known unto us. 

May the peace of heaven continue to be upon the Latter-day Saints; may this great latter-day work continue to grow and increase, and may it accom-' plish in the earth its mighty destiny; may we who are beginning to grow old in the work of our Father not become weary, but may we continue faithfully on, doing those things that may be required at our hands, that at last we may gain the reward which the faithful are entitled to, and hear the glorious words, "Well done, thou good ar.d faithful servant; enter thou into the joy of thy Master." I ask it through Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER C. 

ELDER C. N. LUND, (President of North Sanpete Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters, my heart is filled with gTatitude to my heavenly Father for the opportunity tint I have of meeting with you here in conference. I have come here for many years to attend the conferences of the Latter-day Saints, held at th« headquarters of Zion, and I have never left one of them disappointed. The inspiration that I have received in these gatherings and the counsel and teachings to which I have listened have beep a guiding star to me through life. 

It must be a great testimony to the world, after having heard the Elders of this Church announce that we have a living Prophet upon the earth, as referred to in the hymn this afternoon, to ree the people gathering here by the thousands, from all parts of this state and from other states in this Union, and from Canada in the north and Mexico in the south, that they might receive the word of the Lord. We have rot come here to listen to man as man speaks, but we have come to receive the word of God through His inspired servants, the prophets, whom He has raised up to lead Israel in these latter days. We have gathered here to drink in of the inspiration of the Almighty, that we might receive the key-words for the future to guide us until we shall have the privilege and opportunity of meeting here again. Such a gathering as this proves that we believe what we proclaim: That God has T-.vlsed up a Prophet in these last days, and that He has ushered in the great and glorious dispensation of the fulness of times to prepare the way for the coming of His Son, Jesus Christ. This is our testimony to the world. I have rejoiced in listening to this testimony during this conference, as borne by the authorities of the Church, and also by the mission presidents, who have come in from the various parts of the earth. They have borne their testimony that they know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I was very much pleased to hear one of the mission presidents say that he and his fellow-laborers had been inspired to take up th:s 



N. LUND. 39 

subject in the mission field where they v/ere laboring — to testify of that grand rran and his mission to the earth. I have always maintained, and still maintain, that the most important thing for this generation to know is that God raised up the Prophet Joseph Smith and endowed him with the power, authority and keys to proclaim the Gospel to the world for the last time, and that through him Christ's Church was restored in its original power and wth all its blessings. No greater message was given to man since the days of our Lord and Savior upon the earth 1 rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be numbered with you, and I thank G'<d with all my heart that He searched me out in the land that gave me birth and enlightened my mind with the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and that He brought me here. When I first came here and entered the largo tabernacle for the first time, I felt that the inspiration of God was there. I saw then for the first time that mighty man who then stood upon the earth as the mouthpiece of God to His people, President Brigham Young. I feH that never before, or since, for that matter, had I heard a man speak who possessed greater power than that man. Although I could understand but very little of what he said, yet I felt that he was indeed a Prophet of God to that generation, as well as Joseph Smith had been. I feel that all the men who have stood in that position since have been prophets of God to. this generation; and I feel that the great man who stands at the head of the Church of God today, in whose veins flows the blood of the great prophet of this generation, is indeed a Prophet of God unto this people. 

May God bless Zion; may His peace and His Spirit be and abide with us, and may we enjoy its blessings and its inspiration, that we may know what to do in all things. Brethren End sisters, we are working for a great cause. During this conference I have been struck with the magnitude of this great work in which we are engaged, it is growing and increasing in power, and we can realize the truth of Daniel's saying, that the little stone should, in lime, fill the whole earth. It will be accomplished, and God grant that it may, and hasten the triumph of truth and right in the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MOSES W. TAYLOR. 

(President of Summit Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I desire an inteiest in your faith and prayers, that I may be inspired to say those things that will be for the best good of all of us. 

A little over a year ago the Prophet, Seer and Revslator of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sent T o my office in Salt Lake City, for ma. lie said to me, "We want you to leave your home in this city and go out and live in the Summit Stake of Zion. A few day.; afterwards three of the Apostles and I boarded the train, and we landed in Coalville, Summit county. When we got there we went to a Priesthood meeting, at which there was a fair representation of the Priesthood of the Stake. At this meeting these three Apostles disorganized the whole Stake, leaving out of office all the Bishops, with their counselors, the High Councilors, the presidency of the Stake, and all the other officers of the Stake. Although I was a stranger in a strange land, apparently, after the Priesthood meeting, the same evening, before these three brethren boarded the train for home, they said to me, "Now, Moses, fix it up. You have got to stay here and fix it up." 

I did not feel that I was altogether alone; I went to the Lord and told Him that He and I were the only officers in the Stake now. I thought it was a good thing to go in partners with the Lord; He has been good partner to me — the best I have ever had. He has blessed me in my labors; for out there in the tops of the mountains, on the little streams in Summit county, I found some of the best people I ever met in my life. We have been trying to raise some apples out there in that cold country, and at our Priesthood meeting, held a week ago, we made such a fine showing that  that tasted them said they were better than any they had ever eaten. I said the apples were like the land, and water and the air.that everything w r as good there, even the people. With the aid of Apostle Smoot and the inspiration of the Lord, we went through the Stake and selected a Bishopric for each of the eighteen wards; we also selected a High Council. Our main desire in choosing these brethren was that they should be men who set a good example. When I went out to select counselors for myself my first thought and my prayer to my heavenly Father was that I might be led to men that set an example worthy of emulation. I was led to the homes of two brethren who, with their families, w T ere observing the Word of Wisdom and paying their tithing. This requirement was made of all the brethren; so, when we got through we had men who weie observing these principles and who knew that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Of course, we had to take some men who w^ere using tobacco and tell them to stop it; and I bear testimony to the people assembled here in conference that out of the hundreds of officers chosen to preside in any capacity in that Stake, of whom the requirement was made, it has not been impossible for any one of them to keep the Word of Wisdom. Those who have been in the habit of breaking the Word of Wisdom, all the way from six to ninety-two years of age, have been able to quit that course. They have said to me that the Lord had taken away from them the desire for such things. I wanted to bear my testimony to you with regard to this thing, because wherever we go among the Latter-day Saints we find people who say they cannot quit tobacco, or "I cannot quit tea and coffee, as I would have a headache all day long if I did," and all such excuses. Hundreds of the people of the Summit Stake could bear the same testimony — that they have been able to leave off the use of these unwholesome things and observe the Word of Wisdom. The reason they have been able to do this, brethren and sisters, is because they have taken the Lord In as a partner with them. They have all said that.  the help of the Lord, they would do this thing. 

Now, I believe that the people out there area good people to make sacrifices; I can testify to this. Some people get the notion that the ward they live in is the only ward in the Church. We have been endeavoring to get the people to discard this selfish idea and to be more liberal and broadminded. 

We went after some of the Stakes adjoining us last summer, and, with them, got together on the water question. We decided to aid and assist one another in our distress. During the dryest part of the season the people of the lower counties sent word to the Saints of Summit Stake asking if they would not turn down the water. They said they realized that it was the driest part of the season and that the people of Summit Stake needed the water for their own lands, but that they felt to appeal to them for aid. In response to this appeal every ditch in the county was closed for eight days, and immediately afterwards the Saints of Morgan county did the same thing; so the people below were blessed. Later in the season some of the Bishops, and other prominent men of our Stake, came to me and said, "Brother Taylor, though the water was taken from our lands, still our crops are abundant. The Lord has blessed us for our sacrifice." Brethren and sisters, I tell you that where a spirit like that is exhibited the Lord cannot withhold His blessings. 

While on this subject I should say that grain, cows, horses, sheep, money, and all those things, are not always blessed. There are two kinds of money, one kind carries with it the blessings of the Lord, the other carries with it the blight of the prince of darkness. A man came to me recently and said that he had sons who, in their youth, worked faithfully with him; the Lord blessed him with means, and these sons grew up* and became good and honorable men in the community. "Now," said he, "I have other sons growing up; they are different from the first; they are ungovernable, and I can do nothing with them." I could have told him the  of the difference between these sons: When his older sons were growing up he was paying his tithes and offerings, attending his meetings and performing his other duties, and these sons grew up under a good influence; his money and increase had the blessings of God UDon it. But conditions changed. He got into trouble with his Bishop and the president of his Stake, and finally left the Church. His other sons came along, but they grew up under a different influence. They were proud of their gain, and were using this money, which looked the same as the other, but which had the blight upon it and was a curse to them; while, on the other hand, it had been a blessing to their father and their other brothers. May the Lord add His blessings to all, which I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder Melvin J. Ballard, of Logan, then sang a solo, the choir joining in the chorus. 

ELDER JAMES W. PAXMAN. (President of Juab Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I feel very much in need of your faith and prayers and the assistance of the Spirit during the few moments I shall stand before you this afternoon. 

I deem it a great privilege to have the opportunity of meeting with the congregations of Israel in general Conference, and to hear the voice of in* spiration, which has been sounded in our ears not only during this glorious conference, but also during the conferences that have preceded it. I was thinking, in listening to the remarks of Brothers Seegmiller and Lund, that it had been my good fortune to meet with the Saints in Conference ever since I was a boy in my teens. I have not missed a conference of the Church, since my boyhood, except when I was out of the state. In\hese Conferences I can truthfully say that I have felt the influence of the Spirit of God. This conference has been no exception to the others in this regard; if there is any difference, I think I see more vigor and strength in the testimony of my brethren at this Conference. 

I rejoice to know that we live in a day and ag-e of the world in which the Gospel has been fully established in the earth in its primitive purity and grandeur, with men inspired of God and raised up to take charge of His work in the earth and to direct His people aright. I feel grateful that it has been my lot to have the still small voice in my soul, so that the cry of the shepherd has found a response. I felt thankful to hear the testimony of Apostle Reed Smoot this morning, when he said he felt that he was in accord with those that presided over him, and all the members of the Church, as well as the principles and doctrines of the Gospel. I thought that was a most happy state to be in. I feel to join with him in the joy and pleasure expressed by him in this glorious testimony. L. too, feel that the Lord has been kind to me and has been my friend. I know that He will be an everlasting friend to the children of men, inasmuch as they seek unto Him with full purpose of heart, and no one will seek Him in vain. I rejoice in the principles of the Gospel, because I see in them the virtue to redeem this fallen world. I rejoice in the testimony our Elders are able to bear, and are bearing, to the nations of the earth. I feel grateful and proud that the same spirit possesses all our Elders and mission presidents abroad in the earth. I rejoice that the Spirit of the Lord is being shed forth upon His people and that they are being made glad because of its effulgence. I feel that there is an abiding growth with the members of the Church; that those active and interested in the work are growing stronger and more firmly fixed in the faith; that the Church and kingdom of God has been established in the earth never to be thrown down or given Ho another people. I feel grateful that it has been my lot and privilege to be born and reared in Zion; that the Lord has given unto me a good parentage; that my father devoted his life, time and talents, as well as his means, to the building up of the kingdom of God; that he was willing to  sacrifices for the Gospel's sake. Though the world may consider as a sacrifice what he did, yet it was no sacrifice to him. 

I feel to testify to the words of my brethren, that those that pay their tithes and offerings will be blessed of the Lord. The blessings of heaven are more to us than the blessings of the earth. My admonition to the people lately has been not to measure the blessings of our Father in heaven by dollars and cents. If adversity comes upon us, as it has in our section of the country, on account of the continued drouth, and we are short in our crops, we should not attribute the shortage to a curse of the Lord; but, rather, we should feel grateful to the Lord for the Gospel and for the many blessings that we enjoy. 1 feel that the hand of God is over us when we are chastened and reduced in our jonditions, for then we are more humble and prayerful and devoted to the work of God. 

I feel proud of the little stake of Zion over which it has been my lot to preside, Four years ago this month my father met with an accident, and gave up the ghost shortly afterwards. Not long after I was called to preside over the stake. I can truthfully say that wt have had pleasure in our work there. Now, Brother Moses W. Taylor has told you of the goodness of the people of his stake and of the valor of the men that are associated with him. I can testify to like conditions in the Juab stake. I do not know of two better men in the whole stake than those who are associated with me as my counselors; and I can say the same as to the High Coun. cil. We are all united, and are paying our tithes and keeping the "Word of "Wisdom. The auxiliary organizations of the stake have never been in a better condition than they are new in. 

I testify to you that I know that Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet of God. I do not know this simply because my parents have told me so or taught me this, as President Ben E. Rich, of the Southern States mission, said yesterday, but I know it through that Spirit that comes from above, to which we are all entitled, providing, of , that we are living- right. I testify to you in all soberness, recognizing that I will have to meet my testimony before the judgment bar of God, yet I testify that, as I knew tht, sun would rise this morning when 1 saw the danvn of day approaching ovet the eastern horizon, so do I know that the Savior is coming. The Lord has said that He would come and dwell with His people a thousand years and instruct them in His word, and that it would be a reign of peace. I kno-w these conditions are coming; the Spirit of God, through the voice of inspiration, distills on my soul this great truth. 1 feel to rejoice that the Lord has given me this testimony, which came to me as a shaft of light, filling my whole being and fastening me to the rock of truth. May God enable us to endure to the end and receive His blessings, is my prayer, in the name .of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH MORRELL. (President of Cache Stake.) 

I have only one desire, my brethren and sisters, in standing before you at this time, and that is that the Spirit of the Lord will direct me in what I shall say, that we may be mutually edified. 

I have a testimony of the Gospel, which I bear to you this afternoon. I have always taken pleasure in upholding and sustaining the testimony that God has given me that Joseph Smith ib a Prophet of God, and that he was raised up in these latter days to bring forth the dispensation of the fulness ot times, and that he was an instrument in the hands of God in bringing forth those principles that are the power of God unto salvation. What desires 1 have had so far in life have been swallowed up in the testimony that I have received of the goodness of my Heavenly Father to me.I have been willing, in my weak way, to answer the callss that have been made of me, and therelore am I here this afternoon. 

In lisiening to the testimonies thai were borne this morning, I was thinking over xhe changes that had taken place in the Cache Stake of Zion since I have been connected with it. Our  ustd to be about the largest in the Church, extending from Paradise, in the south, to Cardston, Canada, in the north; but, piece by piece it has been divided up, and new stakes formed. To jay our stake is about ten miles long and eight or nine miles wide. But if our stake is small it is pretty thickly settled, and the people are good. They desire to do what they can to assist in building up the kingdom of our Father upon the earth. I can testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that my counselors, and the High Council of the stake, and all the other authorities, are faithful and energetic men. Our stake has contributed some of its best young men to assist in building up other stakes of Zion. Two of the brethren who spoke this morning were reared in our stake. They are now presidents of other stakes of Zion. The land has been taken up and so utilized that, in the past, it has been hard for our young men to get a home in our section of the country, as under the conditions that prevailed then it required quite a large farm to bring in anything. But, through the blessings of the Lord, we now have a sugar factory and the land can be utilized to greater advantage and profit, and, in consequence, we are enabled to keep our boys and girls at home. The girls go out in the field and help with the beets, which I think is a great blessing to them, as they can thus get plenty of fresh air and exercise. They are growing up puny; they are not as strong as their mothers were, who bore the heat and burden of the day. It will be a good thing for them to get out a little instead of sitting so much in the house. 

We have no very rich people in our Stake, as the farms are small; but some of the Saints are quite well to do. Since the beginning the land has been divided into small parcels, and there is not much chance for any one to own large tracts of land, as our Stake is so small. The last few years we have taken hold of manufacturing a little, as well as the raising of beets, and we have so divided our interests that if we should fail in one pursuit we would have another to fall back on. We have continually counseled the people to keep out of debt. It has been our experience, in associating- among the people, and in our own lives, that if we can get a few dollars ahead, and pay the tithing on it, and thus get the blessings of our heavenly Father to attend our investments, that that money went much farther than the money we borrowed, upon which we had to pay a high rate of interest. It nas been truthfully said here this afternoon that money and the accumulation of wealth is not the only blessing that God has in store for us. He has said that if we neglect to pay our tithes and offerings our names will be taken from the records of the Church, and the names of our children as well. I would rather lose every dollar and every piece of property that I possess than to have this calamity come upon me. Christ gave this parable unto His Disciples: 

"The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: 

"And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have nc room where to bestow my fruits? 

"And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. 

"And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou bast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. 

"But God said unto him, Thou foo 1 this night thy soul shall be required of thee: Then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided? 

"So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God." 

I feel well, my brethren and sister . I do not know what I ever did that the Lord should be so kind to me. I have Leen a weak instrument in His hands and have endeavored to put my trust in Him. I pray that His Spirit may be with us all, that in the end we may be saved in His kingdom. Amen. 

ELDER 'GEORGE C. PARKINSON, 

(President of Oneida Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I have listened with much pleasure to the re  marks of the brethren during this con. I rejoice in the testimony of my brethren, and that I have the priviT ege of associating with the Latter-day Saints at these meetings. 

The Oneida Stake is located in the northern part of Cache Valley, in the State of Idaho. It was organized over eighteen years ago, with eleven wards and about 3,000 souls. Since that time many changes have taken place. The people increased in number as the pos Abilities of the country became better known. We had a large tract of :and, and as the country was built up other wards were organized and several new Stakes were made. As the Stake exists today we have seventeen wards a id a population of about 6,000 Latter oay Saints. The presidency of the Stake are united and are laboring in hf rmony with each other. The members of the High Council of the Stake are good men. They all keep the Word of Wisdom, I think, and are devoting their time and attention to the ministry. They meet once a month, as a High Council, and attend to any business that may come before them. Most of them visit the various wards of the Stake on Sundays, and also on othe'* days, keeping up the organizations anJ encouraging the Saints in the work of T he Lord. I believe the wards are all thoroughly organized, and that the Bishops and their Counselors are all ifood, exemplary men, actively engaged in the midst of the people. We try 'o impress upon them the necessity of looking after those bearing the Lesser Priesthood, that they might be trained and prepared for higher and greater responsibilities as they grow in years and faithfulness. I believe the quorums of lhe Priesthood are pretty well taken care of. Of course, we also have some who are negligent and careless, as m^y be found in other Stakes and organizat.ons of the Church. Our Seventies are nearly all active men, engaged in the ministry. We ca!l them into service as home mission aries, to labor with the Elders and High Priests, in connection with the members of the High Council of the Stake, and they are seeking to edify the Saints and to encourage them in their duties. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the testimony which the Lord has given to me. I know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is His Son and the Redeemer of mankind. I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and that he was raised up of God to establish the Gospel of Jesus Christ upon the earth for the last time. He delivered the message, and it has gone forth to the nations of the earth, and it shall be proclaimed to all nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples upon the face of the earth. I know that Brigham Young was a Prophet of God, and that he was raised up to lead the people of God from the land of their persecutions and drivings to this promised place in the tops of the mountains, according to the will of God, made known through His Prophet Joseph Smith. I also have a testimony that John Taylor was a Prophet of the Lord, loved of God, and that he labored devotedly in the ministry for the establishment of the work of the Lord. I can bear the same testimony as to President Wilford Woodruff and President Lorenzo Snow, who were good and noble men, and Prophets of God. I know that, today, we have to preside over the Church as Prophet, Seer and Revelator, a noble son of God, one recognized of the Lord as His servant to preside over His Church in all the world; that these brethren who are associated with the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles, whose labors call them to the several Stakes of Zion and the different parts of the earth, are the servants of the Lord. I know that they enjoy the revelations of the Holy Spirit, and that they are special witnesses, traveling among the people and bearing a faithful testimony to the divinity of the work of the Lord as restored and established in our day. 

My desire is to go onward and upward, and to do what little 1 may be able to do, under the blessings of the Almighty. I desire not to grow weary or to become discouraged, but I feel like lifting up my voice in defense of the truth and the establishment of righteousness in the midst of the people. 

I am associated with a good people, who are devoted to the work of the 

Lord. We have an excellent school in our midst, at which within a month from now, perhaps, we will have about fifty young men engaged in the missionary class, preparing to go into the world and proclaim the Gospel. We have organized our auxiliary associations, and they are presided over by men and women who are devoted to the work in which they are engaged. 

In listening to the testimonies of Apostles Smoot and Woodruff this morning my heart warmed within my bosom, and I thank God for such men. I thank Him that His inspiration has been poured out, and is now being poured out, upon these young men, who have been called to this active position in the ministry. They are men of God, and I know it. I have associated with them to quite an extent during the past few years, and I know that they are true, genuine, and faithful, and that they live in the love and confidence of God, and that His blessings are following their ministrations in the midst of the people. May God bless them, and all who are engaged in His glorious cause, that it may spread abroad through the earth; that the honest in heart may be gathered out and assembled in the tops of the mountains and in other places appointed of the Lord for the gathering of His people, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Brother and Sister Ferrin of Ogden sang a duet. 

ELDER GEORGE J. CANNON. 

My dear brethren and sisters, it was a great surprise to me when Brother Woodruff called out my name; it was the last thing I expected. Nevertheless, I can testify to you, as I have to my brethren and sisters and others, when the opportunity has presented itself, that I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth again, and that we are the recipients of its blessings. Before leaving for my mission to Germany, I, with the rest, received instructions, and we were told that if we could not say anything else in arising to speak to the people, we were to bear our testimonies and something would come to us. Therefore, in addressing you this afternoon I begin with bearing my testimony. My brethren and sisters, I have a testimony, and have always had it, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. If we take the scriptures and compare the Gospel taught therein with the Gospel taught by the Latter-day Saints, we find that they are the same; that the Gospel taught by the Savior and His disciples in former days is identical with that taught by the Latter-day Saints. Those of us who have had the privilege of preaching the Gospel in the world have had numerous testimonies given to us, which have strengthened us in the testimony that we already possessed. I believe there is not a young man who goes out into the world to preach the Gospel that does not possess a testimony, although he may say he does not have one. He may not be aware of the fact, but the testimony is there just the same; it is born in him and only needs something to bring it out. We find that our young men, some of whom may have been careless at home, when they have reached their missionary field and, perhaps, have been put in charge of some branch, or placed to preside over a conference, and are obliged to explain the principles of the Gospel and to study them, are surprised and astonished to learn that they have had a testimony of the Gospel but did not know it. I would advise the young brethren and sisters to become acquainted with this testimony before they go on their missions, because they will then be just that much further ahead, and they will be better prepared to explain the principles of the Gospel. We are told, in the 130th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, a passage that I love to quote, that "Whatever principles of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection; 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience  another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

This should be an encouragement to us as Latter-day Saints — that through our obedience in this life,if we are more industrious and studious than another in seeking knowledge, we will have that much the advantage of him in the world to come. I trust that we, especially the young and rising generation, upon whose shoulders the furtherance of the kingdom of God, rests, will sense and appreciate the importance of this principle, and that, through our diligence, we will advance to a high de=*gree of perfection. 

I pray that the blessings of our Heavenly Father will rest upon us. I testify to you in all soberness and humility that we are engaged in the work of God, and that, if we are faithful in the performance of our duties, He will bless us. I can testify that the law of tithing and the Word of Wisdom are true principles. I have always observed the former principle, and have also kept the Word of Wisdom; I was taught to do so by my parents, and I appreciate the blessings to be derived therefrom, for I have experienced them. May the blessings of our Heavenly Father rest upon us all, I ask it in the name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

How to get out of debt — Economy a righteous principle — Admonition to save wheat. 

Perhaps the greater number of the people here this afternoon were in the Tabernacle this mottling, when I spoke upon the subject of keeping out of debt. Since that meeting a brother has asked me how to keep out of debt, and there may be quite a number of this congregation that would like to ask the same question. Brethren and sisters, I can tell you in a few words how to get out, and how to keep out of debt; it is in simple and is this: Stop the waste that so many people are practising-, save a little every day from your earnings, and it will not be long until you are out of debt, and if you will do this you will never get into debt. I consider it is a sin in the sight of God to waste anything that He has created, either in its original state or changed by the labor of man. The uld saying "Waste not, want not," is just as true today as it ever was. It is gratifying to read the history of the different nations and learn that many great men, by their personal examples and lives, demonstrated that they were enemies to waste in every form. In reading of Dante, who was the most radical against waste in his day, we find that he classifies the spendthrift in the same circle as the miser, thinking the mirer would surely go to hell and the spendthrift would be his close neighoor. Dante had the Middle Age idea of hell, not knowing the limited number of crimes that will keep a man there eternally. By revelation, we know that the only crimes man will be placed in hell for is committing the unpardonable sin, knowing the Christ and then denying Him; or shedding innocent blood. 

Man never will go to hell for saving means, even if miserly. No man ever lived that looked more carefully into household expenses than did George Washington, the father of our country. Many of his servants thought him penurious, and that he should give attention to greater matters, not be looking after small things and petty savings. My brethren and sisters, there are many who look upon a man that saves as stingy, and think that he is thus doing a wrong, but I assure you that is not true. I have always insisted that under all circumstances and conditions economy is necessary. You will find that it is necessary in every condition of life, whether the man be a millionaire or the humblest and poorest soul that walks the face of the earth; economy, not in dollars and cents only, but it also relates to the use of time, one of God's gifts that He will hold us all responsible for. Watch every expenditure, and see that nothing is wasted. I remember reading an inci in the life of Carlyle, the man who said he overcame the two jailors of the human family — "low birth and an iron fortune," — proving that he was indeed an economist. One day he was crossing a street in one of the large cities of Scotland, with a companion, and stooping down picked something from the mud. He stepped to the sidewalk, ai;d brushed the mud from a piece of bread, laid it on the curb, remarking to his friend that it might do a dog or bird some good. , I want to say, my brethi-:n and sisters, that the great Scotchman was an enemy to waste, and his life was an example of economy. He was taught by his mother never to waste a crumb of bread, said he, "mother impressed me with the fact that bread was to man what the mind is to the soul." I am indeed thankful that the mother who gave me birth taught r. >e that principle, and I earnestly wish that every Latter-day Saint had it impressed upon them so they will practise economy in their lives. Not long ago I was in one of the stakes of Zion, and a young man complained to me how hard it was to get along financially. He asked me to go home with him to dinner. I did so. On going co the back of his residence after dinner, I found enough good food thrown into a swill-barrel to feed another family; and yet he was wondering why he could not make ends meet. 

In the early days of Utah, the voice of President Brigham Young rang out warning the people to be saving, and not waste anything that God in His goodness had given them. I say the same to you, with all my heart; and I wish our people would stop and think about it, and use the intellect that God has given them. I tell you, if they would do this there would be less suffering from poverty among us. I was in the north a couple of weeks ago, and saw trainloads of wheat being shipped from the state. What does this mean? It means, if not stopped, that a great portion of the amount of wheat being shipped at the present time may have to be brought back into Utah, and the people thus have to pay freight charges going out and coming in, and a middleman's profit besides. Farmers of Utah, is this the way to do? Why, no! How often have we heard the Prophets of the Church, in times past, tell the people to store their wheat. Just as sure as we live the time will come when we will wish we had followed that advice, and stored at least enough to last us from one harvest to another. Brethren and sisters, for your own sakes, save enough wheat and keep it on hand so that we can have bread stuff in case of any unforeseen contingency that may arise. 

Suppose a great strike had occurred on all the railroads of the United States last year, every wheel tied up, and every avenue for carrying freight to this intermountain country had been stopped, either by strike or through any other cause, in what condition would we have been? Do you know that flour and wheat were shipped last year into Sanpete county, once called the granary of Utah? Do you think that such a thing could have happened if the Saints were following the advice of the Prophets of God? No, never! I ask the people to remember this, for I tell you, in the name of J.esus Christ, you will see the wisdom of it some day. God wants His people to be prepared for the coming judgments. Peace be to you all, 1 ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF, 

Blessing-i In disguise — Dogo.nl to all mankind. — Forbearance to the Ignorant and wayward. 

My beloved brethren and sisters. I tried to handle a subject this morning in five minutes, and there are about two minutes left this afternoon. I wish to say just a few words, and I will try to get through in time for us to get out of here by 4 o'clock. I not only believe in beginning our meetings on time, but in quitt'.og on time as well. 

Many sections of the country nvhere our people are located have been suffering greatly through drouth during the past few years. I have thought over this condition a great deal, and have come to the conclusion that, for my part, I feel to thank God for the drouth as well as for the many blessings which He tends to us that are not in disguise. If it had not been for the grasshoppers,  and drouth in early days the Latter-day Saints would have been crowded out of their strongholds and places by those who would have desired to locate in our communities. Now, I can see the hand of God even in these trials, which come to us as blessings in disguise. Those Latterday Saints who have faith in God will outwear the drouth and live to see their lands become fruitful, while those who are weak-kneed, who possess little faith, will be driven out by the drouth. Only those who are true to God and determined, through their faithfulness, to call down His blessings upon them, will bf there to see conditions change and their land become fruitful again; for it will become fruitful again just as sure as the Lord lives. 

Now. our mission, brethren and sisters, is to all mankind. We have heard much good instruction during this conference, and it will be of great benefit to us if we will put it into practice. Let us not be selfish and feel that it is our duty to devote our life and time to our immediate family circle and our friends and favorites only. We, as Saints of God, who have received the Gospel of +he Lord Jesus Christ, must be broad enough to let our life extend to all mankind. It does not lessen that Avhich we have to bestow upon our family and loved ones to extend a hand to all mankind, to those who are not of our faith; for there are many honorable men and women who have not been abie to see as you and I see. There is a place for every one. There is a place for the young people who have been born of Latter-day Saint parentage who have no testimony of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a mistake, when we see young men and young women who do not have a testimony of the truth, to point them out and say. or feel, that they have committed some moral evil and, as a consequence, have no testimony that this is the work of God. Those who possess a testimony of the truth have reason t.o be thankfdl indeed, for what a glorious thing it is. and how unhappy and uneasy are those who do not possess such a testimony and who are in doubt regarding the Gospel and the existence  God and the atoning blood of oui Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. We may fell thankful, my brethren and sisters, that we have this testimony, and we ought not to point our fingers at those who have no testimony and feel that they are to be condemned on this account. Probably the circumstances of their rearing differed from ours; probably the Gospel has never been presented to them with such force and spirit and in such plainness as it was to us. I realize that the Lord told His liEciples to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, and that those who would repent and be baptized r-hould be saved, and those who believed not should be damned; but it is the Lord's business to damn 5r to bless His sons and daughters and lot mine or yours. The Lord has commanded this people to forgive all nen for their trespasses, and He would iorgive whomsoever He would. Renember this in your troubles and dificulties in your dealings with your felowmen. 

May the spirit of this conference and )f this meeting go with you to the lomes of the Saints, and may we be nore determined to serve God and keep His commandments; I ask it in the lame of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang, "But in the last days t will come to pass." 

Benediction by Elder Nephi L. Morris. 


