Afternoon
04 10 1940

The second session convened promptly at 2 o'clock p. m., Friday, October 5. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

The time has come to begin our afternoon session. We are again blessed with the presence of President Grant, who is presiding at this meeting, and who has again requested that I conduct the services. 

The music this afternoon will be furnished by the Singing Mothers of the Bonneville, Cottonwood, Emigration, Ensign, Highland, and Wells Stakes. They will sing under the direction of Sisters Meryl T. Cardall, Permilla Bean, and Nellie N. Bennion. 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Day 

Congregational singing will be under the direction of Elder Richard P. Condie. The organist is Dr. Frank W. Asper. 

The Chorus and congregation sang "High on the Mountain Top." 

Elder Jesse W. Richins, President of the Twin Falls Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Singing Mothers sang Brahm's "Cradle Song," Sister Meryl T. Cardall directing. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

SUSTAINING THE AUTHORITIES 

We shall now sustain the General Authorities of the Church. 

For the benefit of those in the audience and those listening on the air, who may not understand this proceeding, I will make the following brief statement. 

CHURCH OFFICERS SUSTAINED BY ASSEMBLY 

In this Church all the General Authorities and other Church-wide officers are "sustained", — in a certain sense, "elected" — by the body of the Church in a General Conference, which is, speaking politically, a constituent assembly. 

NOMINATING POWER RESTS WITH PRESIDENT 

In this Church, the power of "nominating" or calling to office, is not in the body of the Church. This power is vested in the General Authorities of the Church, and in final analysis in the President of the Church who comes to his place under the guidance of inspired revelation. As a matter of fact, as our Articles of Faith — more or less the equivalent of the creeds of other Churches — declare : 

"We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." 

When the presiding authority has so "nominated" or chosen, or called any man to office, that man is then presented to the body of the Church to be sustained, in political language "elected." 

Thus the body of the Church has no calling or "nominating" power, but only the sustaining, or politically speaking, the "electing" power. 

When the presiding authority presents any man to the body of the Church to be sustained, the only power which the assembly has is to vote, by uplifted hand, either to sustain or not to sustain. 

MEMBERS CANNOT PROPOSE MEN FOR OFFICE 

Obviously, neither the body of the Church, nor any of its members, can propose that other men be called to office, for the calling of men is the sole power and function of the presiding authority. 

Therefore all debate, all proposals of other names, all discussions of merit and worthiness, are wholly out of order in such an assemblage. Any person attempting so to interrupt the proceedings would be a disturber of the public peace, amenable to the ordinary peace officers of the law and would of course be so dealt with. 

I ought to say that any person having any charge to make against any officer of the Church can do so before the regular Church tribunals established for that very purpose of affording means of carrying out the discipline of the Church. But this sustaining, constituent assemblage of the Church is not such a tribunal. 

We shall now proceed to propose the General Authorities of the Church for the sustaining vote of this great body of Priesthood and Church membership. 

This is a solemn ceremony. You members of the Priesthood are exercising one of your greatest privileges and highest prerogatives. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

President Clark then presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, and they were sustained by unanimous vote of the congregation, as follows : 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES FIRST PRESIDENCY COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Reed Smoot Joseph Fielding Smith Stephen L Richards 

George Albert Smith George F. Richards 

John A. Widtsoe Joseph F. Merrill Charles A. Callis Albert E. Bowen ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

TRUSTEE IN TRUST Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee in Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

THE FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy 

Richard L. Evans 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Richard R. Lyman 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. John A. Widtsoe 

David O. McKay Adam S. Bennion 

Rudger Clawson Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L Richards Franklin L. West Albert E. Bowen Franklin L. West 

SEMINARY SUPERVISER 

M. Lynn Bennion 

AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer 

Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett  

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 31 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE 

ADVISERS 

John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards 

Albert E. Bowen Marvin O. Ashton 

Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin 

John H. Taylor 

General Presidency of Relief Society 

GENERAL COMMITTEE 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman Harold B. Lee, Managing Director Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson 

Campbell M. Brown William E. Ryberg 

Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens 

J. Frank Ward 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMEN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Amy Brown Lyman, President Marcia K. Howells, First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, First Assistant Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 4 PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Green Hinckley, Superintendent Adele Cannon Howells, First Assistant Superintendent Janet Murdoch Thompson, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted 

At the conclusion of the foregoing presentation and voting, President Clark announced that the voting had, been unanimous in the affirmative. 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter dayMajestic rises on the world. 

A HIGH OBJECTIVE GIVEN 

I can think of nothing more expressive of the joy and gladness which came to our forebears as they contemplated the value and extent of this great work which we have the honor now to represent. We are engaged in a great and glorious enterprise, — the establishment of God's kingdom in the earth. I know nothing which is calculated more to keep our thinking right and our devotion firm than to keep that transcendent mission of the Church ever present in our minds. 

When I contemplate this high objective which is given to our people I recognize the need of applying our energy, our devotion, and our love to the accomplishment of this outstanding task, and I am almost overwhelmed at times with the tremendous responsibility, the obligation, and the opportunities which are entailed. I know nothing that would more help us to discharge this responsibility than to live in accordance with the principles of the Gospel of Christ. 

A CONCLUSION REACHED BY PRESIDENT GRANT 

I recall that some months ago — maybe it has been a year or more now — President Grant one morning came into our temple meeting and said in substance this: "Brethren, I have been thinking for a long time what I could best do in the closing years of my administration to advance the work of God and bless the people," and he said : "I have reached this conclusion that there is nothing I can better do than to persuade the people simply to keep the commandments of God." We all agreed with him, and upon reflection I think that all will concur that that is the  and most effective thing that we can do for the advancement of the great cause we represent. 

THE SOVEREIGNTY OF CHRIST MUST BE ACKNOWLEDGED 

In order that we may better keep the commandments I am persuaded that there must ever be stored in our hearts a deep and abiding love for our Savior Jesus Christ, who is the King of this earth, who is at the head of the Kingdom of God, and whose humble servants we are. We worship Jesus Christ as the divine Son of our Eternal Father. We are committed to the great philosophy of faith which He gave to the world. 

We are not inclined, for which I am grateful, to worship merely His attributes, however desirable they may seem to us. We do not deny the sovereignty of the King Himself. In my humble judgment one of the reasons why the Christian faith has not made more progress in the world and has not more effectively influenced the life and the conduct of men and of nations lies in the fact that men have not, deep in their hearts, acknowledged the sovereignty and the Lordship of Jesus Christ. It is true that many of them have advocated His philosophy of life; they have admired His great altruistic sayings, and the policy of the good neighbor, the friendship He has taught, His kindness, His mercy, but they have refrained from acknowledging Him as the divine Ruler with power to order our lives and provide for us the one true way by which we can best serve Him, establish His kingdom in the earth and win our way back into His presence. 

THE POWER OF GOD IS WITH HIS CHURCH 

My brethren and sisters, I realize that it seems indelicate and presumptuous to some of our friends to make the declaration that here and here alone in all this wide world is to be found the true commission coming from Jesus Christ to His servants; that here only is set up the Church which is the foundation of the Kingdom, in the extension of which is to be realized our Father's purposes for the redemption and blessing of all mankind. I am aware that that statement does seem presumptuous, and I make it only because I am constrained to do so by the revelations that have come from God, and by the deep-seated conviction that I have that every word of it is true; that the holy Priesthood which has been given to men in this dispensation is the authentic, veritable power of God, that it came from divine source, and that they who first received it have given a true accounting of their heavenly experience in its bestowal. 

I recognize the fact that most of us men are weak and frail individuals, and it may seem to our friends of the world that we are scarcely worthy or capable to exercise the functions of this divine power. I myself feel weak as I contemplate this investiture of power, and I constantly pray that God will give me more strength and more wisdom and discernment in the exercise of the functions of the holy Priesthood. I do know, however, that God will qualify those who truly keep His 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 4 First Dag 

commandments and in whose hearts is an abiding love and a resolution to cherish this great and holy power that God has given to us. That power is needed in the world today. Thank the Lord that it is here to speak to the children of men. While they may not listen to it nor heed it, as coming from divine sources, there will come a time when men will recognize its authority and its import in the direction of the affairs of this world. 

THE LORD MAGNIFIES HIS SERVANTS 

I am not discouraged because I recognize that our numbers are still relatively small. Some one has said that there is but one Latter-day Saint to every ten thousand in the population of the world. It would seem an almost impossible task to disseminate the principles of truth with such a minority. But I remember that old saying that "God and one man are a majority" and I have confidence to state that if we keep ourselves in line with our duties; if we fully live these principles of the truth that we are charged to teach, God will give us power, He will magnify our work, He will make our messages reach into the far corners of the earth. He will sustain His own. 

I recognize too that in our weakness and frailty we are not able to carry forward the work as expeditiously as we might like. I believe that every delinquent man who holds this Priesthood retards the progress of God's work. I wish it were possible to appeal to these thousands of men who have received this divine commission to mend their ways. I am convinced that they who will not use and magnify this Priesthood will in the end lose it. I am satisfied in my own heart that this power was given to us for service. I interpret it in terms of service; I am sure that the mere ordination is not sufficient, and only those will be ultimately chosen who make their lives conform to the principles upon which the Priesthood is founded. Then they will be vessels through which the Spirit of Almighty God may come to His children here in this earth. 

REPENTANCE A SAVING PRINCIPLE 

I trust that those who have been thoughtless, careless, and neglectful may repent of their ways. I deem it a great disaster for men who have had hands laid upon their heads in ordination to this divine power to forsake it. We hold out the hand of friendship and brotherhood and kindness and mercy and the principle of repentance and forgiveness to those who will repent. 

Of all the principles announced by our Savior, none has ever found a higher place in my affections than the principle of repentance and forgiveness. It seems that this kind and merciful provision of the Gospel is more adapted to human weakness than almost any other. I trust that our officers and all of us shall show the spirit of forgiveness and kindness towards those who do repent. I know of no parable that breathes more the true spirit of Christ than the parable the Savior told of the prodigal son, and I have always felt that he told the parable for the benefit of the father even more than for the benefit of the children. 

He had that wayward Son take from his father his heritage, his patrimony, and waste it, and go away from his home, to spend that which had been given him in dissipation and riotous living, violating all the laws of his father's household, committing every sin in the category, and then, in the story, the boy was subjected to the utmost misery in penitence for his wrong-doing. After he had spent his wherewithal and was reduced to starvation, he was required to beg work from a friend he had known in his better days, sent to his estate; and, finally he came to that ignominious position of swineherd, a keeper of the hogs. We are told that so abject was his degradation that he was forced to eat the husks with the hogs which he fed. And then the spirit of repentance came over him and he recognized his great wrong, and he cried out to heaven, "I am no more worthy to be my father's son," and he pleaded for forgiveness. Making a resolution founded upon his penitence he found his way sorrowfully back to his father's home. Under the old Jewish law the father' would have turned him out, but the Savior vested the father with a divine love, and when he saw his wayward son return in penitence he went forth to meet him. He raised him up and clasped him in his arms, and called forth to his servants to bring a robe and put on him and to bring a ring and put on his finger, which was the symbol of his restoration to his father's household, and cried out, "Bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat and be merry, for this my son was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is found." 

That is the way in which the Savior brought the spirit of repentance and forgiveness, and it becomes us, members of His Church, to carry that spirit in our hearts, and to exercise it toward our brethren and our sisters. To those who have made mistakes we hold out this glorious principle of repentance — come back, forsake your sins, and be received into the household of faith and the brotherhood of the Priesthood. 

JOY THROUGH FORGIVENESS 

I have never seen happier people than those who have repented. I remember one time — I do not know whether the President will remember it — taking a young man to President Grant, a young man who had made a grievous error, heartsick and broken he was about it, and he said to me, "Do you think I could ever be forgiven." 

I said : "I will take you to the President." 

We went to the President, and the President became convinced that he had truly repented, and he forgave him. Of all the joy and happiness that I have ever seen written on a human countenance I think I saw the utmost on the face of that youth as he appreciated this gift of repentance and forgiveness. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we know the great purpose of our Church. We know of the need of its glorious principles in this sad and torn world. God help us to live, so to keep the commandments, so to have the spirit of Christ, that we may establish His mighty work in the world, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Fridzy, October 4 First Day 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I have certainly been interested, my brethren and sisters, as you have been, in the very splendid remarks and counsel that have come to us so early in our Conference. 

ADMONITION TO PROVE ALL THINGS 

The other day I was reading the words of Paul where he gave us the admonition to "prove all things, and to hold fast to that which is good." 

When I was a young boy my Sunday School teacher gave us this information. He said, "The flies are God's scavengers. You have noticed that just outside of the kitchen door the flies collect around the dishwater and other materials that may be thrown onto the lot and if it weren't for the flies eating up the waste material, we would all get sick." Of course this information was undoubtedly as good as could be had by him, or perhaps others, in regard to this matter. The fact that this had been told to us in Sunday School and by a man we all very much loved was no indication that the thing was right. Later in life we found that we could not hold fast to it because newly discovered evidence had proved it untrue. 

If we follow the admonition of Paul and put sufficient time into proving all things we will be able to find the things to which we should hold fast. In the various scientific fields this has been followed extensively, and it is the only method that can be followed in order to arrive at the truth. I have this thought in mind : that we are very much concerned and we spend considerable time in proving scientifically whether things are right or wrong, eventually arriving at a basic truth, which always remains a truth and as such helps in arriving at other truths. 

In the things that have to do with the Gospel of Jesus Christ, I am quite sure that we are not using this method to the same extent as we might use it in proving all things, and then in holding fast to that which is good. I heard one of our speakers say that we were on very poor ground when we thought our testimonies were sufficient in regard to some of the things that we declared that we knew. He said that very frequently, even when it came to testimony, we should put it on one side so that we might prove it right again. I can see no more advantage in eliminating the truth and the testimony that God gives us in religious things than I can see in continually disregarding basic truths of science. In arithmetic we might say that two times two are four is always correct, we prove it daily by its use. We get no place, we are confused when, in order to re-prove this proposition, we say two times two are five. It seems to me that this is the thing we do every once in a while with the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

THE VALUE OF A TESTIMONY 

The Lord in His mercy gives to us a testimony and demonstrates  to us in such a conclusive way that we know that we do have a basic religious truth for our testimony. For example, we know and we testify individually and collectively that God is a personal being and that we are made in His image. If our experiences and investigations, and His inspiration to us have proved this to be a basic truth, we should hold fast to it because it is good. 

Men in the past have not been able to understand our conception of God. They cannot see that anything in the shape of man could be able to have the ability, the power, and the majesty that dwell in God the Eternal Father. As we move through life we do have men who in a measure assume the qualities and majesty of God, and feel that they are quite necessary to the affairs of life, but these men are gradually eliminated as was the house that was built upon the sand. Perhaps the only trouble is that they are able to do so many wicked and bad things before the waves come. 

We have the same proposition in relation to the Word of Wisdom. We know the fundamental truth of the Word of Wisdom is based on a truth that cannot be eliminated or removed by any type of argument or reason. For instance, in coffee we have caffein that is harmful, yet we sometimes reason that the same thing that makes coffee objectionable may not be so objectionable when it is used in some other way. It just indicates that we have not proven the thing so thoroughly that we have been able to hold fast to that which is good and make it a part of our lives. 

THE SCRIPTURES MAKE CLEAR THE TRUTH 

The Lord has said: "Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." Thus we have a way of finding the truth regarding God and His relations to us. ' We have a way of establishing the truth so thoroughly in our hearts that we will be able to hold fast to it. Perhaps if we had had the same interest and used the same time and the same thoroughness in searching the scriptures of the Lord as we have used in the field of science, we would find that we were growing in the ability to hold fast to that which is good, and not let it get away from, us. 

We have practically the same advice given to us in the Book of Mormon, but we seldom have a desire in our hearts to know whether this book is right or wrong. If we will go to this book, according to Moroni, and read it in a prayerful way, with faith, desiring to have a testimony and to find out as to its truthfulness, by the inspiration of God and the power of the Holy Ghost we shall know the truth. 

We who have taken this admonition, we who have accepted this way of proving the things of God, have readily found out, if we have done the thing sincerely, that the Book of Mormon is true, and that God gave it to His prophet, Joseph Smith. 

SAFETY IN KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS 

There are so many things in life that are vital to us. If we would 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 4 First Day 

go where we want to go, if we would have the blessings that we would like for ourselves and our loved ones, we must find out the things of God and then hold fast to them and never let them get away from us, either in times of tribulation or temptation, or times of joy and happiness. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to guard His word in that light and live sincerely the precepts and the admonitions given to us, for the Lord has said: "If ye love me, keep my commandments." Perhaps at the end of our lives we will have demonstrated how much love we have for God by the number of commandments that we have kept and held fast to. May He so bless us, I humbly pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

The Singing Mothers sang "Songs My Mother Taught Me," by Dvorak. Sister Permilla Bean directed the Chorus. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Since we are living at a time when wars of the greatest known magnitude are being fought between some of the most powerful nations of the world, very naturally we are wondering what the results are going to be and particularly what part our own country will play in this intense and most disheartening conflict. We are all extremely anxious to know whether or not our government is so constituted that it can endure indefinitely, or whether the time is now approaching when government of the people and by the people and for the people is to perish from the earth. 

Dr. Andrew D. White, great scholar, wise diplomat, historian, and the first president of Cornell University, said many years ago that since all the republics of the past have failed, he had made a careful study for the purpose of determining whether in our republic there is any element that did not exist in those republics which have not endured. His conclusion was that the only new and outstanding characteristic of our republic is its public school system and he expressed the view that if our nation is to endure indefinitely it will be because of the broad democratic training and education in our public school system that we are giving to all the citizens of our nation. 

PUBLIC EDUCATION NOT ENOUGH 

But there are those who have strong convictions that public school education alone is not enough to preserve indefinitely and in peace, the life, the liberty and the prosperity of this our beloved country, the United States of America. Many are of the opinion that other elements are necessary. Religion, morality, righteousness! These are elements which must be factors in the make-up of any nation, it is said, if that nation is to endure indefinitely. 

Experience has taught that morality is the life of a nation and religion is the life of morality. "Arming a country with guns and tanks and airplanes is not enough," says Roger W. Babson. Selecting men for the army, the navy and the air force on physical fitness alone will  suffice. "If our defense program is to succeed," he continues, "the entire country must experience a re-birth, for in the end, only righteousness can save a nation." 

REVELATIONS PERTAINING TO THIS LAND 

Our modern revelations, as recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants of the restored Church, (Section 58) declare that this is the land upon which the Zion of God shall stand. The faithful are to have this land as an inheritance for their children forever and forever. Here the poor and the lame and the blind and the deaf are "to partake of the supper of the Lord." But in this land, these revelations tell us, the law of the Lord must be obeyed, and here, the record says, no man is to be in bondage to any other man, and it declares that the Constitution of our country was prepared under divine guidance. The Prophet Joseph when dedicating the Kirtland Temple prayed that the Lord would have mercy on all the nations of the earth, and he appealed especially for the Lord to have mercy upon this our own government, so that the principles of freedom and justice for all men guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States might be "established forever." 

Then again, the inspired words of the Book of Mormon assure us that inasmuch as we live the righteous life and keep the Lord's commandments, we shall prosper here in America which the Lord says again and again is "a land choice above all other lands." The faithful, according to this divine record, are to enjoy this as a land of their inheritance and adds that this "land of promise" is for them and for their faithful children forever. Those faithful ones who have been "gathered here from other nations" are also to enjoy this as a land of liberty. The righteous inhabitants of this country, this inspired record continues, "shall never be brought down into captivity." Here "there shall be none to molest them," none to "take away this, the land of their inheritance." 

A LAND OF PROMISE 

It is gratifying and satisfying to us who have faith in the inspired words of this divine record, the Book of Mormon, to read further that "This land shall be fortified against all other nations," it shall be a land of liberty and upon it there shall be no king. This inspired book says further that God has preserved this country for a righteous people, and that whatever nation shall possess this land of America, shall serve God or else that nation "shall be swept away." "Whatsoever nation shall possess this land," the divine record continues, "shall be free from bondage, and from captivity and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of this land who is Jesus Christ." 

Our fathers came to this land of promise and under divine guidance, as we believe, they established our Constitution and government which guarantee freedom, liberty and justice to all men. Having been led and guided by providence very appropriately they adopted these words as the motto of our country, "In God We Trust," and it is fitting therefore that the people of our nation sing : 

GENERAL CONFERENCE 

First Day 

Our father's God to Thee, Author of liberty, To Thee we sing; Long may our land be bright With freedom's holy light, Protect us by Thy might, Great God, our King! 

COERCION IN GOVERNMENT NOT THE LORD'S WAY 

The Lord Himself has always favored government by the people. You will remember that in the days of Samuel the Prophet the Lord instructed him to let the people have whatever form of government they desired. They clamored for a dictator, a king, and because the Lord respected the right of free-will and human choice, because He recognized the right of men to govern themselves, and that it is better that humanity be self-governed, even though they are poorly governed, than to be compelled to obey even the divine law, He told the Prophet to let the people have a king, a dictator, since they insisted upon it. And the Bible tells us that after the decision of the Israelites to have a king, their dictatorial rulers wasted the substance of the people, they took away their personality and their freedom, and oppressed them with heavy taxes and other burdens. Instead of making a government for the people, as in a democracy, the people became the subjects of the dictators who did not rule for the good of the many but to bring power, wealth and idleness to a few. 

Our government is founded on the principle laid down by the Lord Himself : that a man is capable of self-government. This is in harmony with the divine intent expressed by the Creator when He said : 

Let us make man in our image, after our likeness and let them have dominion . . . over all the earth. 

This important statement of man's right and ability to rule is expressed in our Declaration of Independence thus : "Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." And no doubt those forms of government in which there is an assumption to rule without the consent of those who are to be governed are responsible for that forceful expression, "Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God." 

PROVISION MADE FOR THREE BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT 

Wisely did our forefathers organize our national institution with three different, distinct departments, each one to be entirely separate from and independent of the other two. These three departments are the Legislative, the Executive and the Judicial. These able and farseeing patriots and statesmen thus made these three separate and distinct departments the cornerstone of our republic and the guarantee that in our land there shall never be a dictator. 

Among those who created this great free government were Puritans whose ancestors had struggled for generations in England and in Holland to secure the right to think, the right to be free, and the right to ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

 God in whatever way they saw fit. In England, in those early days, non-conformity with the rules, regulations, beliefs and doctrines of the established Church was neither permitted nor tolerated. Puritanism contained the principle of true religious toleration. And doubtless the ultimate tendency of the views of the Puritans was to republicanism rather than to monarchy although in England the Church and the State were considered one and inseparable. 

Eight restless years the Pilgrims spent in Holland where they had gone to find religious liberty and free government. They discovered soon, however, that for them Holland could not be a permanent home. Bradford says that when they looked toward America they were actuated by a great hope and an intense inward zeal to lay a good foundation in those then remote parts of the world for the propagating and the advancing of "the gospel of the Kingdom of Christ." They struggled to prepare stepping stones, at least, to assist others in the accomplishment of this great and important gospel service. 

Thus were the Puritans inspired to come to America and here help to prepare a people and frame a government providing such religious tolerance that it was possible for God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ to come to these United States and here restore and establish the Gospel in its original fulness. Under these just and liberal laws it was possible for the ancient church to be established again with all its keys, rights and authority to teach, preach and proclaim the fundamentals of righteousness in preparation for the coming again of our Lord and Master who is to bring joy, happiness and peace to the world. 

TWO ANTAGONISTIC FORCES AT WAR 

These great present-day battles, to which I have referred, the greatest of all time, are contests between two forces which are utterly antagonistic. One of these is impelled by the despotic passion to rule mankind and rob human beings of their free agency, and the other has for its cherished ideal the right and ability of man to rule himself. The one contemplates government dominated by dictators; the other is the plan of the Almighty who created men free and equal and endowed them with the right and the intelligence to be their own sovereigns. The Creator never intended that a tyrant should assume the role of dictator and lord it over the sons and daughters of God under the despotic motto : "Might makes right." 

Our forefathers interpreted this great fundamental principle of freedom for mankind in these words: 

All men are created equal. They are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights. To secure these, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. Whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to abolish it. 

The aim of our patriotic fathers was to establish a government that would guarantee to them and to their descendants to the last genera42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 4 First Day 

tion freedom, security, and happiness. They expressed their feelings in the Declaration of Independence which says: 

Appealing to the supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, we do in the name and by the authority of the good people of these colonies solemnly publish and declare that these United States are and of right ought to be free and independent states. 

. And the exalted republican principles for which these great and mighty leaders stood are thus expressed : 

We the people of the United States in order to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America. 

JESUS PROMOTED THE RIGHTS OF MANKIND 

Christ Himself did not come to the great and to the mighty of the earth; He came to humble shepherds who were watching their flocks by night. But for His teachings, His announcement and defense of the sacred right of all men, you and I today might be the slaves of tyrants, the bondsmen of cruel masters. Clarence True Wilson said : 

From the scorching fires of every persecution there has arisen some leader with a tongue of fire who has been inspired by the love of Jesus Christ to call men to a higher, a purer and a better life. Jesus promoted the rights of mankind. He is the Creator, he is the Architect of the republican form of government. 

His Church stands on the principle of human brotherhood. He taught that he who humbleth himself shall be exalted, that this world of ours is for us all and not for a select few. No one ever chose for his followers and associates men less gifted, more simple, plain and humble than did Jesus when he selected his twelve Apostles. And yet see into what heroic, noble, able, death-defying characters they became. Thus the Savior Himself demonstrated that the humblest men may develop into the highest characters. He had high regard for the plain people. Every example He set, every doctrine He taught was, it seems, intended to show that genuine greatness is in the act of service. He taught the equality of men and the dignity of those who are poor and stricken. The longest sermon he ever preached was delivered, it is said, to a motley crowd of peasants and fishermen. To this audience of ordinary people he gladly gave those great ideas and ideals contained in that matchless religious appeal, the Sermon on the Mount. THE CHURCH AND THIS GOVERNMENT 

Our nation, our country and this Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, seem to conform to what was predicted and specified by the ancient prophets. We verily believe that in our present combination of Church and government we have what the Prophet Daniel said had been shown to King Nebuchadnezzar in his famous dream. The king was shown things that are to come to pass in these latter days. Many nations and many kingdoms are to be destroyed, but the God of Heaven is to set up a Kingdom which shall never be , a Kingdom that shall not be left to other people, a Kingdom that shall break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms, and, the Prophet adds, it is a Kingdom that shall stand forever. It is the stone cut out of the mountain without hands, the stone that is to become a great mountain; yes, the prophet says it is the stone that is to fill the whole earth. (Daniel 2) It is our belief that this refers to our own land, choice above all other lands, and to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with its principles of free agency and selfgovernment. 

PEACE ACHIEVED THROUGH UNSELFISHNESS 

And now, in the name of Him who is our only King, Jesus the Son of God, let us as members of the Church and as citizens of this great nation, unite in an appeal to our heavenly Father, with whom nothing is impossible, to bring to us and to all mankind that glorious blessing of peace, good will and understanding, for which righteous people all over the world these days are so devoutly praying. And when making these our heartfelt, prayerful appeals may we never -forget that only by living unselfish lives, by feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the fatherless and the widows in their affliction and extending to all men their God-given liberty, can we hope to secure joy and happiness and everlasting peace. 

By our faithfulness and devotion to these righteous principles may we bring to our beloved nation and to the distressed people of all the world these choice blessings, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER MARVIN O. ASHTON 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I have been impressed as you have by the services thus far this afternoon, and of course what was said this morning. I do not know what part of President Clark's talk impressed you most, but I know what gave me the most comfort. It was when he said : "I will now speak and take a hand in putting myself out of misery." Shocked as I was in hearing one of the Authorities make such an intimation, I thought, "Well that certainly helps some of the rest of us out." After all, as someone has said, "There is as much human nature in one of us as the rest of us." 

There are two things that a person prays for in trying to fill this speaking responsibility. One is, he prays that he will feel at ease to the extent that he might say what he would like to say; and, second, that what he does say may be tempered with inspiration from above that he will be wise in saying nothing that would be improper. I certainly pray that I may be blessed in these two regards this afternoon. 

VISITS TO STAKES BRING ENCOURAGEMENT 

The Presiding Bishopric have been going through the Church considerably lately. We see what is going on here, and what is going on 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 4 First Day 

there, and of course in some of these places we see what is not going on. It is a wise observation that we should not be pessimists. We are cautioned to observe the bread part of the doughnut as well as the hole. Now it is not my purpose in any sense to be a pessimist. I want to appreciate the food of the doughnut as well as the space inside. 

When you see two hundred lads of the Aaronic Priesthood take part in a chorus in a Stake conference, you begin to realize that somebody is at work with boys. When you see some Stakes do outstanding things you thank God for such leadership. The other day in one of the Stakes I called at a little home and saw sitting on the floor three deep — they had to sit on the floor to be accommodated in the house — about fifty-five to sixty young people, ninety per cent of whom having attended their sacrament meeting this night, now assembled in a Book of Mormon class, wholesomely conducted by themselves. You see those things and you are impressed. 

When you see a little Bishop stand up and say that he could account for every one of his Lesser Priesthood boys for the past ten years, and each one of them js wholesome, clean, and sweet, it makes you appreciate what some people are doing. Of course that sounds pretty much like the fellow they tell about crossing the plains, driving a swarm of bees. He contended he did not lose a bee. But I believe that Bishop. God bless him! 

THE OTHER SIDE OF THE PICTURE 

Now for just a minute let us look at the inside of the doughnut. You cannot ostrich-like put your, head under the sand and say there is no danger about you. You have to take facts as they are. There is a fact thrown out to you and to me that is a challenge, and I mention it. This is our work; I mean the Aaronic Priesthood. It is the work of the Presiding Bishopric. There are right now 36,733 adult Aaronics in this Church of record; men twenty years of age and above who are not Elders or hold the Melchizedek Priesthood. May I remind you that the average attendance at sacrament meeting of these men is five per cent. I have too much sense to condemn that group of men. The best gold we have, we' shall find in those men if we dig down deep enough and use the right process in "smelting the ore." Now there is a challenge to you. 

Another way of saying it is that out of ten boys from twelve to twenty you are really teaching or training only six the way you should. Now put that figure in front of us — 36,733. Look at it sideways, from the front and from the back, any way you want to look at it! It is there staring us straight in the eye. Someone has said, "Let us have the strength to face a fact though it kills us." Let us face the facts. 

Now what about your pedagogy, what about your human kindness, what about your boys' men — ability, and all the rest of the virtues that we of ttimes brag about ? I ask you the question, where is it all ? Where are those other four ? Why don't we touch their lives more successfully than we do? 

APPEAL FOR BETTER LEADERSHIP 

Sometimes I think we give the boys an acid test and a burning test. Let me explain what I understand that means: If you will take a bone that has stood on an anthill for three or more years, (I don't care how dry it is), and you soak it in muriatic acid, as dry as that bone is you can tie it in a knot. You have nothing but gristle or animal matter left. Now take what you have left and put the torch under it and you haven't very much left of that bone. The muriatic acid in one case eats up the mineral or the lime, and the burning eats up the animal matter. 

Now that is just what some of us do with boys. I am looking now at the inside of the doughnut. I am looking at those things we do not do. I am keeping in mind all the time some of the fine things that we do. You give the boy the acid test and then the burning test. Now let us see what we mean by the acid test. Here is one : — you give the boy improper supervision. Someone has said, "We are not shepherds, we are sheep herders." We "taketh" them not down into green pastures, but we "draggeth" them over cacti and rocks, and before we get through with them, their mouths are Heeding from briars and thorns we "suffereth" them to eat. Sometimes if you get a good boys' man for the boys, along comes a petty vacancy in the Ward and you let him go. Somebody suffers. There is not a bigger job in this Church than taking care of these boys. The boy of today is the man of tomorrow. When our deacon comes to his quorum meeting, too many times he is met with an unprepared program. He is met too many times with a leader who knows little or nothing about boy psychology or the first principles of getting his interest. We fumble him about with our clumsiness and lack of consistent follow-up until up his sleeve, while he respects us, his soul rebels against our promiscuousness. 

When you see these figures — just four out of ten — you may think of that poem, "The Charge of the Light Brigade," and say to yourself, "Someone has blundered." We'll have to wake up; we'll have to put more life into our stewardship, if you please, of these boys. I cannot think of anything that better illustrates what I want to say than a story that has been told before. I apologize for alluding to it again, but it may crystallize better what I am trying to say. 

A Scotch minister had trouble with a good brother in his congregation who would go to sleep. The minister stood it as long as he could.. Finally he called Sandy to him and told him he would have to stop going to sleep; he could not stand it any longer; that he was setting a bad example. The brother insisted he couldn't help it. Finally the minister's eyes brightened, and he thought he had some real inspiration. Said he : "When you come to Church next time, bring a little snuff in a can; and when you feel yourself getting drowsy, just apply a little bit of snuff in your nose." 

Then his good church patron had some inspiration and he came back with: "Wouldn't it be an awful good thing if you'd put a wee bit o' snuff into your sermons." We'll have to put more snuff in our teaching of boys. 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 4 First Day 

I wouldn't have a lad that wouldn't wiggle, and if you think the way some of you folks take care of this wiggling lad, the way you handle him is right, you are sadly mistaken. I hate to say it, but I do not hesitate for one minute. I have seen conditions that warrant my saying it. The leadership sometimes of these boys is dead on its feet. We do get into ruts, and boys that look for a little spark of animation from us are disappointed. 

In a lecture that was delivered before a hospital convention the other night, a wise observation was made by the speaker. He spoke in hospital terms because they understood them. He warned them against a disease altogether too prevalent. This ailment has afflicted too many men who are supposed to lead boys. The lecturer said : "If you get the disease there is no need of being vaccinated; that won't do you any good; they cannot operate; when you get this disease, the only thing you can do is to blast. Now here is the disease : it is metallurgic fever. It is the condition in the body where the iron in the body turns to lead and centers in the seat of the trousers." 

Here is another way of saying the same thing: 

Man was not made to sit entranced And press, and press, and press his pants, But rather with an open mind To circulate among his kind. So, my friend, beware the snare That lurks within the cushioned chair. To run the race it has been found Both feet must be upon the ground. 

THE TRUE STORY OF A BOY 

Now I say these things seriously. We ourselves are in a deep slumber and we expect to keep awake a wiggling, wholesome, American boy. That is an acid test. What may be another acid test ? — not putting the proper value on a boy. Do you look to the value of the heart that beats under his coat, or do you see only the outside of the coat ? Many a good mother misjudges a boy because he is not a Lord Fauntleroy. Because he doesn't keep his hair combed, you think he is on the road downward. Sometimes you do not . see him as he really is. He puts his worst foot forward; he is in the "ugly duckling" stage. But if he were treated anywhere near right, he would develop into a bird of - real plumage and grace. 

To illustrate : A little girl of the slums was found dangerously sick. There must be a blood transfusion at once. Her ragged urchin brother was accosted: — would he give his blood for his sister? "Sure," he thundered back. After they had worked on his arm for a few minutes, its whiteness, because of the wash, he had not witnessed before, almost frightened him to death. The pumping apparatus was set to work and his sister revived. When he learned that his sister fared well, notice the deep-seated surprise back to the doctor. (I hope you get it.) "Fine, Doc, but when do I croak?" 

Do you in judging look at the thread-bare ragged apparel, or are you  on discerning the sacrificing thump of the heart that beats deeper down in his soul? 

Christ said that no greater thing can any man do than to give his life for his fellows. That young lad thought that when he was asked to give his blood for his sister, it meant that he was giving his life. We in our civilization box the ears of the lad until his ear drums are numb and he is deaf the rest of his life, and that same fellow is the man who gives you your electric light today. We put a dunce cap on an Einstein, and our schools court martial the boy who may be the military general of tomorrow, who cuts through smoke and shrapnel to victory and makes this the "land of the free and the home of the brave." 

Not understood. Poor souls with stunted vision 

Oft measure giants by their narrow gauge; The poisoned shafts of falsehood and derision 

Are oft impelled 'gainst those who mould the age Not understood. 

Not understood. How many hearts are aching 

For lack of sympathy? Ah, day by day How many cheerless, lonely hearts are breaking 

How many noble spirits pass away Not understood. 

Oh God, that man would see a little clearer Or judge less harshly where they cannot see, 

Oh God, that men would draw a little nearer To one another, they'd be nearer Thee Not understood. 

With this boy is our vision stunted and do we measure him by our narrow gauge? Fathers and mothers, you make some mistakes. Teachers in schools, and we in the Church should see a little clearer and judge less harshly. 

TEACHERS MAY INFLUENCE BY EXAMPLE 

Now to the burning test to this lad : I mention it as the third test, but not the least. The burns that take place here go down into the bone. Now I am speaking of the example that we set as the teachers of this boy. What kind of men do your Bishops pick to teach these boys? what kind of life are we, whom the boy is supposed to look up to, living ? If you please, will our lives "hold water?" Do we have a long face on the Sabbath day and in holy places, and play a different tune in our conduct in the affairs of men in the ordinary business of life? In my judgment there is nothing doing more harm in this Church today than men who are trying to play a double game. The boy always finds it out. You can't fool him. By our conduct we often pull up by the roots the most precious sprouts of confidence ever germinated. 

To illustrate what I am driving at : Maybe some of you remember Deacon Jones, who is mentioned in the book, "David Harum." He was a sanctimonious, wonderful fellow on the Sabbath day, but during the week you had to hold on tight to your eyebrows or he would take them too — one of those two-faced "angelic" souls that grace this world; the 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 4 First Day 

kind Christ speaks of in his rebuke to the old Pharisees; a front as pious as apple sauce, but a trail on the sands of time of dead men's bones. He was on his deathbed; he was doomed to go. He had made quite an impression on some of the village who did not think very straight; but he did not fool the boys. The boys had his number. He began to sink, and sink, and finally he got so low that instead of answering the doorbell or the knock on the door by the inquirers, they had a blackboard put out in front of his abode. Every half hour the attending physician gave his temperature and his pulse. There was quite a commotion in the village, everybody was watching that blackboard. Well, the boys watched it, too, and they ~were waiting for an opportunity to express themselves. (If you ever want to get the proper value on yourself, ask the boys.) I think the last bulletin read, "8:05 a. m. — pulse 50, temperature 86." When nobody was looking, a bright lad, with mischief bent, who knew the Deacon, slipped up with a piece of chalk, and excitingly recorded : "8 :22i/2 a. m. Much excitement in hell; Deacon Jones not yet arrived." 

As Bobbie Burns put it, "The man of independent mind looks and laught at a. that." 

DISCIPLINE MOLDS CHARACTER 

Now I would not have you think for a minute that I want you to pamper this boy. Let him stand on his own feet. One man said : "One of the greatest crops that America is reaping today is the spoiled child." Some of you people who have worked all your lives are as guilty as the man of wealth. You say, "I have had such a hard time in my life that I certainly won't let my children go through the same thing." And the spoiling process goes on. I do not think that we appreciate to the full extent what this means. Does your girl or boy know how to spell "gratitude" ? Do you let your boy fight for what he gets, or do you hand him all his desires on a silver platter. 

I remember at our home, for years and years, we had a cow. (I won't forget the cow because of certain responsibilities I had connected with it.) Every time a calf would come to town, father would in the course of events send at the proper time for the butcher. But there was one little heifer that father said we would keep. When that animal was about nine months old, father came home one day with a big strap with spikes driven from the inside out. He said that it was to go over the calf's nose. In other words, the day had arrived when the calf must be weaned. I wonder sometimes if we parents use the same philosophy on our children? Do we wean them? I am speaking now figuratively. Many a boy becomes eighteen, or twenty, goes through school, and, if you please, remains not weaned. Many a boy is spoiled because you can't spank grandmothers. Yes, too, because you can't spank parents. Until the last few years, I have thought that the cow ought to have worn the strap and the spikes ought to center in that part of her anatomy that the calf was most interested in. But I have changed my mind entirely, I think that as far as the children are concerned, the strap still belongs over their noses with the spikes going out. Parents should be painfully  when the occasion arises that the weaning is in process. America will learn before she gets through that her children should know more than stepping on the gas, smoking Turkish blends, and ordering up chocolate eclairs and tutti-fruitis. Yes, and what's true of the children of Uncle Sam is doubly true of this Church. 

I took a piece of plastic clay And idly fashioned it one day, And as my fingers pressed it still It moved and yielded to my will. I came again when days were past, The bit of clay was hard at last; The form I gave it still it bore But I could change it never more. 

I took a piece of human clay 

And gently formed it day by day; 

I molded with my power and art 

A young child's warm and yielding heart. 

I came again when days were gone, 

It was a man I looked upon. 

The form I gave him still he bore; 

But I could change him never more. 

Now, may the Lord bless us in this boys' business. Don't forget while we are putting the acid test and the burning test on this lad, tobacco shoots her shrapnel, liquor drops bombs from the sky, and then you find indolence and bad habits walk arm in arm with the boy to destruction. 

Let's handle this boy more scientifically. Let's give him more attention. He's more valuable than our crops, our hogs, and our business. He is the man of tomorrow. Give him the right start. The boy is like a zipper; start him right and he'll come through. Don't jerk him, you might tear the meshes and then you haven't a track to travel on. 

May God help us to hold these boys, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The Singing Mothers Chorus, under the direction of _Sister Nellie M. Bennion, will sing: "The Lord is my light," by Allitson. 

I am sure that I express the gratitude of all the people here in conference, and those who have been listening in on the air to these Singing Mothers for their splendid music. 

Again I urge you brethren and sisters to drive carefully, and save your lives and the lives of others. 

The chorus sang "The Lord is my Light." (By Allitson) 

Elder Charles C. Heaton, President of the Kanab Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock a. m., Saturday, October 5, 1940. 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 


