Morning
04 10 1940

The opening session of the Conference was held Friday morning, October 4, at 10 o'clock. 

Every available seat in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was taken, being occupied by people who had come from the various Stakes and Missions of the Church. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The time has come to open the One Hundred Eleventh Semi-annual Conference. I am more grateful than I can say, and we here are more grateful than we can express, that President Grant is with us this morning and is presiding at this meeting. He has asked me to conduct these services. 

All official meetings of the Church are announced in the Conference Folders, which may be obtained at the entrance to the Tabernacle. Those who expect to attend any of these meetings should provide themselves with a copy. All other notices, such as reunions, etc., will be found in The Deseret News. 

The music this morning will be by the Singing Mothers of Bonneville, Cottonwood, Emigration, Ensign, Highland and Wells Stakes. They will sing under the direction of Sisters Josephine Brower and Olive N. Rich. The congregational singing will be under the direction of Richard P. Condie. The organist is Dr. Frank W. Asper. 

The Chorus and congregation sang the hymn, "Now Let Us Rejoice." 

Elder Joseph J. Cannon, President of the Temple Square Mission, offered the opening prayer. 

The Singing Mothers Chorus, Sister Josephine Brower directing, sang, "Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord," (by Evan Stephens). 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

The following changes in Church Officers, Stake, Ward, and Branch Organizations have occurred since last April Conference : 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE  

Special Appointments 

Thomas E. McKay, former President of the Swiss and East German Missions, has been appointed to take charge of affairs in the European Missions. 

Franklin J. Murdock has been appointed Church Mission Secretary and Transportation Agent to succeed Harold G. Reynolds, deceased. 

John D. Giles, field secretary for the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, appointed special National Field Scout Commissioner, his jurisdiction covering all units of the Boy Scouts of America affiliated with the Church. 

Lee A. Palmer appointed Associate Field Supervisor of Aaronic Priesthood and Y. M. M. I. A. youth program activities. 

New Mission Presidents 

Eugene M. Cannon appointed to preside over the Tahitian Mission to succeed President Kenneth R. Stevens. 

Wilf ord W. Emery appointed to preside over Samoan Mission to succeed President Gilbert R. Tingey. 

William P. Whitaker appointed to preside over Southern States Mission to succeed President Merrill D. Clayson. 

David F. Haymore appointed to preside over Spanish American Mission to succeed President Orlando C. Williams. 

James P. Jensen appointed to preside over the East Central States Mission to succeed President William Thomas Tew, Jr. 

Jay C. Jensen appointed to preside over Japanese Mission to succeed President Hilton A. Robertson. 

Nicholas G. Smith appointed to preside over Northwestern States Mission to succeed President Preston Nibley. 

George F. Richards, Jr., appointed to preside over North Central States Mission to succeed President David A. Broadbent. 

Gustave A. Iverson appointed to preside over the Eastern States Mission to succeed President Frank Evans. 

New Temple Presidency 

Mark Austin appointed to succeed Nicholas G. Smith as First Counselor to President Stephen L. Chipman of the Salt Lake Temple, and David A. Broadbent appointed to succeed George F. Richards, Jr., as Second Counselor. 

Charles V. Pugh appointed to preside over the Arizona Temple, to succeed President Charles R. Jones. 

New Stakes Organised 

The Washington Stake was organized June 30th from branches in the Eastern States Mission, and consists of the Arlington, Chevy Chase, Fairview, and Washington Wards, and the Baltimore and Greenbelt Branches. 

The Denver Stake was organized June 30th from branches in the Western States Mission and consists of the Cheyenne, Denver First, Denver Second, Englewood, Laramie, and Pueblo Wards, and the Barnum and Ft. Collins Branches. 

Stake Presidents Sustained 

John M. Homer chosen President of the Idaho Falls Stake to succeed President Leonard G. Ball. 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Day 

Thomas J. Brough chosen President of the Lyman Stake to succeed President H. Melvin Rollins. 

Willis A. Oldroyd chosen President of the Wayne Stake to succeed President William F. Webster. 

Robert O. Hatch chosen President of the Burley Stake to succeed President David R. Langlois. 

Douglas M. Todd chosen President of the newly organized Denver Stake. 

Ezra T. Benson chosen President of the newly organized Washington Stake. 

Leo O. Hansen chosen President of the Portneuf Stake to succeed President George T. Hyde. 

New Wards Organized 

Mesa Fifth Ward, Maricopa Stake, created by a division of Mesa Second Ward. 

Centinela Ward, Inglewood Stake, created by a division of the Inglewood Ward. 

Tooele Fifth Ward, Tooele Stake, created by a division of the Tooele 2nd Ward, and a small section of the Tooele First Ward. 

Center Ward, St. George Stake, created by a division of the three St. George Wards, 

Arlington Ward, Chevy Chase Ward, Fairview Ward, and Washington Ward, Washington Stake, were created from branches in the Eastern States Mission. 

East Glendale Ward and West Glendale Ward, San Fernando Stake, created by a division of the Glendale Ward. 

Cheyenne Ward, Denver First Ward, Denver Second Ward, Englewood Ward, Laramie Ward, and Pueblo Ward, Denver Stake, were created from branches in the Western States Mission. 

Independent Branch Made Ward 

Guff Ward, Summit Stake, formerly an Independent Branch. 

New Independent Branches 

Downey Branch, South Los Angeles Stake. Fruitland Branch, Duchesne Stake. Payette Branch, Weiser Stake. Durango Branch, Young Stake. 

Baltimore Branch and Greenbelt Branch, Washington Stake, were formerly branches in the Eastern States Mission. Oceanside Branch, New York Stake. Sun Valley Branch, Blaine Stake. 

Barnum Branch and Ft. Collins Branch, Denver Stake, were formerly branches in the Western States Mission. 

Wards Made Independent Branches , Strawberry Branch, Duchesne Stake, formerly Ward of same Stake. Cluff Branch, Summit Stake, formerly Ward of same Stake. 

Independent Branch Disorganized 

El Segundo Branch, Inglewood Stake, discontinued and annexed to Inglewood Ward. 

Those Who Have Passed Away 

Frank L. Ostler, First Counselor in the Granite Stake Presidency, and a former member of the Sunday School General Board. 

Orson P. Satterthwaite, Patriarch of the Logan Stake. 

James Ashton, Presiding Elder of the Burdett Branch, Lethbridge Stake. 

John B. Fairbanks, widely known Utah artist, whose murals adorn the interior of the Salt Lake, St. George, and Mesa Temples. 

Mrs. Manomas Lovina Gibson Andrus, Pioneer of 1847, died at the age of 98. Only one 1847 Pioneer survives her. 

Mrs. Delia I. Winters Booth, widow of Judge John E. Booth, well known Pioneer artist and leader of industry. 

Bishop John Hair, Jr., of the Vernal 2nd Ward, Uintah Stake. 

Sarah Ann Jenkins Cannon, widow of the late Apostle Abraham Hoagland Cannon. 

Arthur Winter, Chief Clerk in the office of the First Presidency since 1907; Secretary-Treasurer of the Church Board of Education since 1902. 

Eli Holton, Ogden Stake Clerk. 

James H. Wallis, patriarch of Emigration Stake and well known Church journalist, publisher and musician. 

Almon Thomas Butterfield, member West Jordan Stake Presidency, and Stake President until 1937. 

Lydia Kimball, a daughter of Edward Partridge, First Presiding Bishop of the Church. 

Samuel W. Hendricks, Benson Stake Clerk for 35 years. 

Alvin A. Beesley, member of Ensign Stake High Council, and one of the West's prominent musicians. 

Mary Rebecca Moyle Booth, widow of the late President Joseph W. Booth of the Palestine-Syrian Mission. An active church worker. 

Mrs. Jane Knowlton Kimball, widow of the late President J. Golden Kimball of the First Council of the Seventy. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

It is now my privilege to read a Statement by the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

STATEMENT BY THE FIRST PRESIDENCY 

The meeting of the Saints in this General Conference finds the world still war-torn. Millions of the Lord's children are suffering and mourning. All the woes and misery that attend armed conflict are spending their force upon them. 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 5 First Day 

From these afflicted peoples comes the prediction that the approaching winter will bring famine. If famine shall come, the history of the past shows it will likely bring plagues with it. 

Our brethren and sisters are found on both sides of this terrible struggle. On each side they are bound to their country by all the ties of blood, relationship, and patriotism. 

As always happens in such cases, each side claims to believe it is in the right. Each claims to feel it is fighting for its very existence. As the war progresses in its cruelty and horror, each may come to aim at the complete subjugation or extermination of the other. 

THE LORD'S WAY 

This would be an inhuman and unrighteous purpose. God's way requires that nations shall live in peace and amity, one with another. The Master's command was : 

Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you, Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you. (Luke 6:27-28) 

The Saints on either side have no course open to them but to support that government to which they owe allegiance. But their prayers should go up day and night that God will turn the hearts of their leaders towards peace, that the curse of war may end. 

God is not pleased either with war, or with the wickedness which always heralds it. When He uses war, it is to wipe out sin and unrighteousness. 

The hearts of all the Saints are torn with grief over the sufferings of their brethren and sisters who are taking part in this struggle. So, for the Saints this is a fratricidal conflict. They so mourn over it. Their prayers ascend to our Heavenly Father that the war may come to a speedy end. 

To those Saints who are stricken by this great tragedy, we say live righteously, pray constantly, and the Lord will answer as your faith and works and His all-wise purposes allow Him. 

To those whose wickedness has brought this strife and turmoil, we say repent lest the Lord shall smite you in His wrath. He will not hold you guiltless of the innocent blood of your f ellowmen. 

To all the nations, we say adjust your differences by peaceful means. This is the Lord's way. 

America's opportunity to be peacemaker To our nation we repeat the Master's admonition : 

Blessed are the peacemakers : for they shall be called the children of God. (Matt. 5:9) 

How infinitely greater it is to lead nations to peace, than to subdue a nation to chains. Let America put her house in order, forsake selfishness, greed, and avarice, abolish unrighteousness, wipe hate from  heart, hold in loyal friendship the good and upright of all nations and peoples. Then to her shall come the high destiny of the peacemaker. 

PRAYER FOR PEACE 

We humbly pray our Heavenly Father, that He will send to the earth His messengers of peace, that this terrible war shall afflict no more nations and spread no farther over the face of the land, that fear and frenzy shall be driven out from their place among the peoples, that hate shall be banished from the souls of men, for where hate abides, there righteousness cannot live; that sanity shall again assert its sway, and that love shall fill the hearts of men even to overflowing. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Taking advantage of the fact that I am conducting the meeting, and in order to put myself out of misery as early as possible, I wish now to say something to the Conference, and, as I wish to make it as concise as possible and be sure to say the things as nearly like I want to say them as possible, I have submitted it to writing. 

PAMPHLETS 

Reports come to us that pamphlets are being circulated among the people under circumstances that lead some to believe they are published and distributed under some kind of approval or sanction from the General Authorities of the Church. These pamphlets are said to contain extracts from early sermons delivered by the early leaders of the Church, the parts of the discourses printed having to do with world conditions which the compilers of the pamphlets apply to the situation existing in the earth today. 

COMPILATION AND DISTRIBUTION NOT AUTHORIZED 

The General Authorities have had nothing whatever to do with the preparation of these pamphlets nor have they sanctioned or approved their compilation or issuance. When the General Authorities shall wish to do anything of this sort, they will do it under their own names and will not hide their identity behind some Church member. 

It is also reported to us that in many cases, these extracts as appearing in the pamphlets are in effect garbled and that moreover when read in the full text in which they appear, they take on quite a different meaning from what they seem to have when torn from their context. A text should always be studied for its real meaning in connection with the full context. 

Furthermore, it is our information that these pamphlets are in some instances being surreptitiously merchandized even in the Temples, and also in Priesthood quorum meetings. This should not be done. The First Day 

Temples are holy places; they are not book stores; they are not places in which propaganda is to be carried on. The people are warned against all these perversive activities. Moreover, Priesthood quorum meetingsare not book-selling gatherings; they are meetings for the study of the Gospel and the carrying on of the regular Priesthood activities. 

, There are too many marriages of our young people that are mere civil marriages — marriages for time. This is much to be regretted. It is a situation that calls for remedy from every Bishop, from every auxiliary organization, and from every parent. 

After its absence from the earth for hundreds and hundreds of years, the Lord revealed in this Dispensation of . the Fullness of Times, the principle of the eternity of the marriage covenant, and He restored to the earth the divine authority to consummate it. This revelation and this restoration makes of marriage a holy relationship, out of which and out of which only, can come man's greatest glory and exaltation. 

You young people are trifling with your divine destiny, you are treating lightly a great commandment, you are casting aside as dross the greatest opportunity that comes into your life, when you fail or refuse to be married in our temples where husband and wife may be sealed for time and for all eternity by the men bearing the holy Priesthood of God. A civil marriage — and that is all any marriage is that is performed outside the temple — merely legalizes a marital relationship. It has none of the effects of a sealing for time and eternity. 

You young people, if you think enough of one another to marry at all, you should love one another enough to wish to perpetuate your association forever; if you do not think enough of one another for that, you may well hesitate long before you decide to go forward in life otherwise. The situation is not changed by having your Bishop or President of Stake, or some ex-Bishop friend, or like person, perform the ceremony for time. All these are civil marriages only. 

In his eloquent oration on the Pioneers last July, President Bryant S. Hinckley read the following statements made by Brigham Young : 

Talk about these rich valleys, why there is not another people on earth that could have come here and lived. We prayed over the land, and dedicated it and the water, air, and everything pertaining to them unto the Lord, and the smiles of heaven rested on the land and it became productive and today it yields the best of grain, fruit, and vegetables. . . . There never has been a land from the days of Adam until now that has been blessed more than this land has been blessed by our Father in heaven; and it will be blessed more and more if we are faithful and humble and thankful to God for the wheat and corn, the oats, the fruit, the vegetables, OPPORTUNITIES FORFEITED IN CIVIL MARRIAGE PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

 cattle, and everything He bestows upon us, and try to use them for the building up of His kingdom on earth. 

I can remember, and so can all you older brethren and sisters, when our lands were in the heydey of their productivity. We can remember when the snow drifted deep in the mountain gorges, when the run-offs of the springtime made our streams rushing torrents that watered our lands and spread out upon them the rich fertilizing sediments from the mountains, when our farmers and stockmen were prosperous, when we merited the symbol adopted for the State — a busy hive of industry, when our homes and fences and barns and corrals were in repair, when our farmers' words were as good as their bonds, and both were A-l. 

CHANGING SCENES 

The old time snows have not been falling in the mountains for many years. Our farms are run-down, many acres of them are idle, our fences and barns and corrals are falling down, our homes are unpainted, the roofs leak, our streets are full of weeds, too many of our meeting houses are shabby, we look too much like idling ne'er-do-wells. Another fifty years of this will almost return us to the desert. 

Again quoting Brother Brigham : 

You inquire if we shall stay in these mountains. I answer yes, as long as we please to do the will of God our Father in heaven. If we are pleased to turn away from the holy commandments of the Lord Jesus Christ, as ancient Israel did, every man turning to his own way, we shall be scattered and peeled, driven before our enemies and persecuted until we learn to remember the Lord our God and are willing to walk in His ways. 

There are other enemies than human persecutors. We can be our own worst enemies, and drive ourselves away from our most cherished possessions. 

LAND BLESSED THROUGH PRAYER AND EFFORT 

Would we not better pray again over this land and the air and the water and everything pertaining to them? Would we not better turn our reliance to our own efforts and their fruits as blessed by the Lord? Why should the Lord bless the land we do not farm? Why should He give us water for that land we are not using ? Why should He give us crops when we do not plant ? Why should He bless us with His blessings when our reliance is put not in Him but on government gratuities for not working, for not farming, for not doing the things that have been man's allotted part since Adam was driven from the Garden. 

The Lord cannot be pleased with shiftless idleness; those of us in default must mend our ways. 

The tragedy of all this is, that the innocent must as always suffer at least in part the punishments that afflict the guilty. The rain falls on the unjust as upon the just, and the lands of the just parch as do 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 5 First Day 

those of the unjust. Yet God will not forget those who serve Him and keep His commandments. Their reward is sure, in their happiness, in their blessings of contentment, of health, of the consciousness of a life well lived, in their salvation and exaltation. 

CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATORS 

As the press has announced, the grain elevator which has been under construction at the Church Storage Square has now been completed. Its capacity is 318,000 bushels. With what may prove to be a spirit of forecast, it has been named Church Elevator No. 1. The Church also has an elevator at McCammon, Idaho, with a capacity of some 80,000 bushels, and a small one at Sharp's Spur, Levan Ridge, with a capacity of 8,500 bushels — or a total wheat storage capacity of some 400,000 bushels. 

The Church has borne the cost of securing and building these elevators. The Relief Society Wheat Fund will be used by the Relief Society to fill the elevators with wheat. The Church will assume the upkeep, maintenance, repair cost, as also the cost of storage of and in these elevators. It will be necessary from time to time to replace this wheat so stored. The Church will absorb the losses incident to this operation, and if at any time such operation yields a profit, this will be applied towards the costs of running the elevator. 

So far as possible, all labor incident to this storage operation will be Welfare labor. 

A relatively small part of the storage space in these elevators will be used by the Welfare Committee for storing various grains in connection with their various operations. 

WHEAT DONATIONS RESTORED 

Thus we return to its original form the donations of wheat, made by the people to the sisters, and by the Relief Society sisters themselves, beginning back in the time of Brigham Young. These donations were made at the sacrifice of comforts and sometimes of necessities. In the beginning they frequently represented the result of gleaning the wheat fields by the sisters themselves, — a grievous toil ofttimes, but one that brought joy to their hearts at the time and a reward from their Heavenly Father in the hereafter. Our fathers and grandfathers, our mothers and grandmothers were fashioned in heroic molds; they were built of the virtues that make mighty empires. It is not too much to hope and pray that we of our day may measure to their stature. 

WELFARE PLAN 

The Welfare Plan is growing daily in its efficiency, thanks to the untiring devotion of the Welfare workers in the Wards, and Stakes, and at the central office. 

The Plan has now been in operation a little over four years. During  time it has helped an average of about 50,000 individuals annually. Experience has been gained that has enabled those in charge so to perfect their plans that, as was stated at the last April Conference, we feel assured that short of a great worldwide calamity that should affect the very foundations of our whole economic life, the Church will be able to care for the indispensable needs of its worthy poor, in time of want. This was our first objective, — to maintain life. 

TO REBUILD CIVIC, RELIGIOUS LIVES 

Co-equal with that was the rebuilding in those who had a temporary misfortune, of a full civic and religious life. It was the aim that no one of them should come to feel that because he had suffered a financial setback, he had had closed against him any social or spiritual activity or opportunity for progress and ultimate achievement. No Bishop has done his full duty, and no Ward Relief Society has met its full opportunity, that has left any needy Ward member in doubt on these matters. 

From the very beginning, the problem has been to keep away from ambitious and often ill-considered plans and schemes for remaking society and recreating our economic structure. It would have been a simple matter to begin visionary undertakings that would not only have bankrupted the Church but that would have broken the heart and courage of all of us by the greatness of our disaster. We have therefore gone slowly and watched each step taken. The Lord has been with us in this plan. 

EXPANSION OF PLAN 

As by-products of securing the necessaries of life for the needy, we have adventured into a few other fields where we felt we could help those who were near distress as well as those actually in need. We have created an organization that has made small character loans to men and women who could not borrow from financial institutions; we have set up a manufacturing establishment for the renovating and building of household furniture and fixtures, which gives employment particularly to willing but aged unemployables, and that provides cheap articles for the needy. We have set up an agricultural committee to help find farms for young men especially who wished to farm and whose training and experience gave some reasonable assurance they could farm successfully. We have now set up a committee whose business it is to investigate what, if anything, the Church may wisely undertake to do, consistent with its resources, to help by advice or otherwise in setting up cooperatives, both for production and marketing. 

MEASURES TAKEN TO PRODUCE WELFARE MATERIALS 

One of our aims has been to produce as fast and as fully as possible, within the program itself, all the materials we need to carry out our Welfare work. We are doing this first by making surveys of the needs 



12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Day 

of each Ward and Stake of the Church, then by making a budget of production covering these needs, and then by assigning these budgetary needs among the various Stakes able to produce them. The first year we were able to furnish only some 10% of what we used. This proportion has constantly risen each year until last year we produced approximately 58% and this year we expect to produce, in our better organized regions, substantially 70% of our needs, and we hope by another year to make it nearly 100%. There will always be a few articles, such as spices, for example, that we must buy. 

In doing all this, we have acquired and are operating a coal mine, we have helped in starting lumber mills, a plaster mill, we are now setting up a poultry farm, and are preparing to install a milk processing plant. Other things will be added as rapidly as consistent with a wise development. Lastly we have set up, as an experiment, a small revolving fund to be used in building very modest homes for those who are in a position to get some help from financial institutions. This can easily lead into such large outlays of money that we are going ahead very carefully and slowly. We never forget that the funds we are handling are stamped with the most sacred trust that can mark money, for they are the tithes and offerings given by the Saints to build up the Church and Kingdom' of God. Out in the Northwest they are carrying on locally such a housing program under most promising circumstances. The same sort of operations are going on in many other parts of the Church, principally under the direct sponsorship of Priesthood quorums. All this is most gratifying and encouraging. We are very hopeful that out of all these experiences we shall be able to work out a successful plan for such undertakings, but, I repeat, we are going slowly and cautiously, and here, as always, we must look primarily to the local groups themselves to carry on this work, not alone the work of supplying the labor therefor, but the burden of furnishing the finances, also. The Church cannot undertake, the undertaking would be too vast, to furnish the money for this and other like matters, the Church Wards and Stakes or Priesthood quorums furnishing merely the labor. These agencies must also look forward to furnishing the great bulk if not all of the finances as well as the labor for such special projects. 

WELFARE PLAN FOR MUTUAL HELPFULNESS 

As was expected, there are now appearing certain tendencies which unless we meet them squarely and correct them at once, will lead to the creation of a Church dole system, the very last thing the Church intends to do. From the foundation of the Church until now, idleness has been condemned as unworthy of Church members, as destructive of character, as violative of the true Christian life, as contrary to the command given to Adam as the law of this world "In the sweat of thy brow, thou shalt eat bread." The Lord has repeatedly spoken about it in our time. 

The task which the Welfare system has now most urgently to do  to provide work for those who receive help. We urge all of the people to cooperate with the Ward Welfare Committees to this end. It should be possible for plans to be worked out by which any man in a community having a job to be done could go to his bishop and state his need; that then the bishop, either directly or through the Stake or regional organization, could supply this man with the help needed for the job; the man having the work done would pay to his bishop, as a contribution to the Welfare Plan, the cash value of the labor at the regular wage values; to the man doing the work at the instance of the bishop, the bishop would give as compensation for his work, an order on the storehouse for the things which the man needed, or in some cases the man might be given part cash, the order on the storehouse and the cash to furnish sufficient to meet the needs of the one doing the work. Such an operation will give the Welfare worker something to do, it will enable the member having the work to do to get the work done as cheaply and as well as he could get it done otherwise and it will give to the member having the work done and to the Welfare worker joy and satisfaction over their mutual helpfulness. I want to say to the people of the Church that we have found these Welfare workers capable and industrious in what they undertake. They are not the kind of workers that the W. P. A.'s are sometimes described to be. Welfare workers are frequently men who from one cause or another are no longer employable in regular industry but who, like their younger fellow Welfare workers, can and will still do a day's work for a day's pay. We honor all such men and are grateful to the Lord for their integrity, industry, and devotion to their duty, and for their loyalty to the Church. 

"good times" 

By the present outlook, there will be for the next months a great increase in industrial activity, which may be expected to have a general reaction on all business, and if so we shall have a period, longer or shorter, of so-called good times. We members of the Church should not be misled by this. The great bulk of the money which is to be expended in this industrial expanse will be wholly unproductive from an economic standpoint. The nation will be billions poorer, not richer by these expenditures, in so far as our economic, commercial, and industrial national life is concerned. These billions must be raised either by increased taxes, which we must expect will increase the cost of living, or by further borrowings that will greatly increase our public debt and so add to our taxes, or the money may be raised by both means. As I said at another Conference, after the war with all this destruction of wealth — that is property — is past, we must be prepared to face anothei depression, the depth and duration of which we may not now know We shall hope that this temporary "prosperity," as we shall probably call it, that may come, will not lead the Welfare organizations and workers to relax any effort to perfect their organization so as effectively to carry 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Day 

on their relief work. I assure you we shall hereafter need all the help we can now plan and provide for. 

COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE INAUGURATED 

In saying this I am not passing any judgment upon or making any criticism of our preparedness program. We must be able to resist invasion. But I may point out that for the first time in our history we are inaugurating universal compulsory military service and apparently we are preparing to maintain a great standing army, both of which have been under a wise ban during our whole national existence, because they have been deemed dangerous to our Constitutional government and to our free institutions. 

INVASION A REMOTE POSSIBILITY 

It may also be observed that we have had built in our minds a sort of frenzy of fear of foreign and subjugating invasion. Responsible military opinion credibly reported, is to the point that while desultory air raids causing great damage and considerable loss of life, might, under more or less ideal weather conditions over the whole Atlantic, be made against some of our Eastern coast cities, yet an armed invasion by great foreign armies sufficient to conquer us, is such a remote possibility under existing means and methods of transportation as should not make us hysterical, and we are nearly so now. 

It does seem that if the navigation of a channel 20 miles wide can hold up a belligerent from making even an attempt at armed invasion for a period of weeks now ripening into months, that the navigation of an ocean 3000 miles wide might be a suff icient barrier to any great armed invasion at all, and we need not take too seriously threats by that belligerent to do so, or his brags either. One hundred thirty odd millions of free people, with unlimited resources and the highest industrial development in the world, will give some pause to the most ambitious ruler. Nevertheless, until the world quiets down and sanity comes back to men, we should be prepared to repulse such an invasion if it came. Our preparation should be solely to repel invasion, not to conduct an aggressive war nor to make conquests. But let us not fall into a panic of fear. 

WAR 

In the hope that it may tend to mitigate some of the hate now rising that threatens to engulf us, as well as for our peace of mind and our ability to gauge future happenings, it seems well that we should be under no misapprehension as to the present status of the United States in the existing European conflict. By all the rules and principles by which nations have governed their conduct in the past, the United States has already committed several hostile acts and we are in fact now at war, 

It is the settled law of war, that the private citizens of neutral states may, without in any way jeopardizing the neutrality of their sovereign, carry on commerce with either or both belligerents subject to certain rights of search, seizure and confiscation by the belligerents in cases of trading in contraband of war or in case of violating a legal, effective blockade; but it is just as well settled that no neutral state can itself supply one belligerent with the materials of war, without thereby losing its character as a neutral and becoming itself a belligerent. 

The nations of the earth in their last voluntary and near unanimous statement of the law on these matters, declared : 

The supply, in any manner, directly or indirectly, by a neutral power to a belligerent power, of warships, ammunition, or war material of any kind whatever, is forbidden. (Hague Convention XIII, 1907) 

U. S. NEUTRALITY VIOLATED 

There seems no question but that we have supplied to one of the belligerents, our own secret inventions for waging war, our own air armament, and now our own armed vessels of war, fully provisioned and in every way equipped for immediate belligerent service. Opinions differ as to whether or not Congress authorized the last transaction, but Congressional approval would not change the international character of the act but only give relief from the violation of our own law. 

We have been the victims of a similar act upon the part of Great Britain. In 1863, the Confederates were fitting out at Birkenhead, opposite Liverpool, two iron-clads for use against Union commerce. Our Minister in London repeatedly called the situation to the attention of Earl Russell, who replied that the British Government "could not interfere in any way with these vessels." Mr. Adams, answering, expressed "profound regret" at this conclusion of the British Government, and added : "It would be superfluous in me to point out to your Lordship that this is war." The British Government then acted. 

As the result of other and many acts of the sort threatened here, we demanded arbitration as to whether or not Britain had violated her neutrality. Britain, be it said to her eternal credit (for our charges touched really her honor) consented. The result of the arbitration was the largest single award of damages in our favor ever rendered by any arbitral tribunal. 

HOSTILE ACTS 

Again there seems no doubt but that we now have made some kind of an alliance with one of the belligerents, Canada, that if her enemy shall attack her, we shall join in Canada's defense. Thus agreeing to give aid and succor to one of the belligerents against the other, if it is attacked by the other, and such attack is of course the normal course of war, is on our part a hostile, belligerent act against Canada's enemy. So we are at war also on that score. 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Day 

Finally, while the details are not known, we are said to have leased some naval or air bases from one of the belligerents without, it is assumed, consulting the other belligerent. These leases are probably in such form and made for such purposes as also constitute hostile acts, for it is inconceivable that Britain, following her centuries-old policies, would lease to any power any of her territory for military use and occupancy, except she was to receive military aid as the result. 

So we are at war. We should not be misled as to the nature of ouracts, if and when Britain's enemy strikes back at us. In such event, should we be told that Britain's enemy commits against us an act of aggressive, inexcusable warfare, we should know that this will not be fact, for under the rules and principles of war we have already in effect declared war against that enemy. 

As already stated, I have said these things in the hope that it may assuage a little the hate that will be piling up if and when that act comes. A Latter-day Saint cannot hate anybody. The hates of the last war are the moving cause of this one. So it will be to the end, unless we shall conquer hate. This the Gospel helps us to do. 

REGISTRATION 

Utah has an honorable record for its service and support of this nation in times of war. The people of the Church share in that record. The people of the Church are patriotic. In this time of preparation for eventualities which we all pray may not come to us, we people must do- our full share. We shall confidently expect that no young man member of the Church, will seek to evade his full responsibility. We feel assured that every young man will do his full duty, and live the precepts that guide the Church and its membership "in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." We ask our young men who go into training camps to remember always the teachings of their parents and of the Church; we ask them to keep themselves unsoiled, in body and mind; we ask them to remember that our faith requires that they be 'honest, true, chaste, benevolent, and to do good to all men, . . . and that if anything is virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, they should seek after those things.' If they shall do all these things we promise them the blessings of the Lord. 

FAMINE AND PLAGUE 

As has been already noted, both belligerents appear to have predicted famine for the other. One of the belligerents has, according to the press, predicted plague for the other. If this prediction means that the one making it intends to infect the other with plague, by some means or other, then it must be said that such infection would mark a degree of infamy and savagery for which the modern world holds no parallel, and against which all the instincts of humanity would cry out and all Christian principles adjudge condemnation. 

But war always brings plagues which seem to find their best breeding  in great groups of men brought together in armed camps. We may not confidently expect that plagues will not break out in Europe, nor that breaking out there, they will not appear amongst us. I have pointed this out before. 

Our hazard will probably be increased through our great training camps, which must also be manned by a great group of physicians, surgeons, and nurses that will be taken from their service to the whole people. 

We at home owe it as a duty to ourselves, to our country, and to humanity, to keep ourselves as free from contagion, as fully healthful, as possible. 

THE LORD'S DISEASE-PREVENTIVE LAW 

The Lord has told us how to do this. Many have not hearkened to His word, who would not deny its truth; others have not believed it was His word. But God will vindicate His commands, by blessing those who keep them, and by permitting the ordinary laws of nature to operate, uncontrolled, upon those who do not. 

President Grant has for half a century been preaching the Word of Wisdom to the people. If we had followed his counsel, we could now face the future fearlessly. If sickness and disease shall overtake us, we shall then remember. It is to be hoped that if disaster shall overtake any of us, we shall not be in such a situation that we must reproach ourselves for a failure to live the disease-preventive law of the Lord. 

How glorious are the blessings promised to those who do keep God's laws : 

And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones. 

And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. 

And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. (D. &. C. 89:18-21) 

THE PROMISE 

This does not say and this does not mean, that to keep the Word of Wisdom is to insure us against death, for death is, in the eternal plan, co-equal with birth. This is the eternal decree. But it does mean that the destroying angel, he who comes to punish the unrighteous for their sins, as he in olden time afflicted the corrupt Egyptians in their wickedness, shall pass by the Saints, who are "walking in obedience to the commandments," and who "remember to keep and do these sayings." These promises do mean that all those who qualify themselves to enjoy them will be permitted so to live out their lives that they may gain the full experiences and get the full kowledge which they need in order to progress to the highest exaltation in eternity, all these will live until 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Dag 

their work is finished and God calls them back to their eternal home, as a reward. 

These blessings will come to those who qualify as sure and certain as life itself. 

Whenever we are inclined to appraise the dealings of God with His children, we should remember that God's ways are not man's ways, and that behind what we see and understand, are the all-wise purposes of an All-wise God. 

May God bless us, preserve us, and help us to keep His commandments always, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation and Choir sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I do not remember any occasion in my life that I have been more deeply impressed with the remarks of Brother Clark than I have been today — timely, wise, prudent — and I wish that every American citizen could have heard them. When I see this vast audience, knowing that every soul here was deeply interested — f or I took particular occasion to see whether they were or not, — and I noticed there was no restlessness, I am convinced beyond question of a doubt that every word uttered received a hearty response in the hearts of the people, and created a spirit of testimony as to the wonderful conditions portrayed to us. 

QUOTATIONS FROM THE SCRIPTURES ON PRAYER 

I thought this morning that I would refer to Matthew, sixth chapter, (v. 5-13) in which we find the following: 

And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are : for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. 

But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. 

But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do; for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. 

Be not ye therefore like unto them; for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him. 

After this manner therefore pray ye; our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. 

* * * * 

Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you : 

For every one that asketh receiveth : and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. (Matt. 7:7-8) 

All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. (Matt. 21 : 22) 

Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. 

And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that you Father also which is in heaven may forgive your trespasses. (Mark 11:24-25) 

SERVANTS OF THE LORD BLESSED THROUGH PRAYER 

If you remember the time when Peter was imprisoned by Herod who was persecuting the Church, and prayer was made without ceasing by the Church of God for him. Peter was bound with chains and smitten between two soldiers, and the keepers before the door kept the prison. Behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison, and he smote Peter on the side and raised him up, saying, "Arise quickly," and the chains fell off from his hands; and the angel said unto him, "Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals." So he did, and he said : "Cast thy garment about thee and follow me." He went out and followed him, and he wist not that it was true which was done by the angel; though he saw a vision. 

When Paul the Apostle was preaching to his brethren in Asiaj they were very sick and despaired of their lives, but the prayers of the people restored him to health and strength. 

Have we in this day and age forgotten how to pray ? Are we drawing away from our Father in heaven with our hearts ? Let us remember the passage in James, chapter 1, verses 5, 6, 7: 

If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. 

But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. 

For let not that man think he shall receive anything of the Lord. 

STORY OF A WOMAN'S CONVERSION 

I heard a story of a woman, a fine woman of good family, who came through pain to the habit of drink and drugs. She fought against it with all the strength of her strong will and mind, but she could not conquer it. She went to a doctor and he helped her for a time. Then again she went under. She left her home and country and went alone to a strange land, hoping a new environment would put her on her feet, but she went down, and still further down. She met a Christian who talked to her of God. Her father and mother were intellectuals of their country; they had rejected God. She listened to the stranger who was a Christian, and longed to believe, but she could not, too deep was her conviction that God is only a wish fulfilment for weak people to hold onto. 

One night there was a terrific electric storm. She was so frightened for fear of the thunder and lightning that it made her almost like her ' nerves were shattered. She walked the floor in fear of the terror of the storm. Finally she fell upon her knees and cried out : "You! You! if there is a You! send me a sign; stop this storm — stop it!" She crept back into bed, shaking and sobbing. The next thing she knew it was morning; 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Dag 

the sun shining, and the birds were singing outside her window; not a cloud was in the sky. She had the feeling as though the world had just been made, and she with it, new and clean; life was new and holy. There was a God. The woman who had taken care of her came to see how she had stood the night through that awful storm; all night long it had rained. She stared at the woman unbelieving — the storm had been stopped — and then a smile and a light spread over her face. Never in all her life, not even when a child, had she slept through a storm. There was a God, and He. answered, but in His own way. 

She was won over instantly, she was cured. All desire for drink or drugs had been washed away. She became a power for good and gave her whole life to helping people find God. 

MISSIONARIES SENT IN ANSWER TO PRAYER 

I am thankful to my Father in heaven that He has answered my prayers and the prayers of my mother who prayed for the true Gospel to come to her while she was in a foreign country. He sent the missionaries of Christ's church with the truths of the Gospel to her in answer to her prayers. I am grateful that she taught me how to pray and to have faith that my prayers would be answered. St. John said : 

And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask anything according to His will, he heareth us : 

And if we know that He hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him. (I John 5:14-15) 

A PIONEER EXPERIENCE 

After the pioneers had been here nearly two years the harvest was going to be a bounteous one, and they were very happy and thankful to their Father in heaven. But myriads and myriads of black locusts swarmed the fields, mowing down all they could on their onward march; the crops seemed doomed. No food was there to carry them through the coming winter; the nearest food was a thousand miles away, and it could come to them only by ox-teams. Famine itself came in its form over the ground. It smote the hearts of brave men with fear; not for themselves, but for their wives and children, dearer to them than life itself. Every effort to stop the plague of insect hordes failed. Desperation seized the people, and in this hour of trial and threatened tragedy there came to them the faith that God was their sole refuge. They prayed for help. Out of the sky came great winged clouds of gulls. They settled down on the fields. At first it looked like they came to help the crickets destroy. But their real purpose was soon apparent; they came to prey upon the destroyers. All day long they gorged themselves, disgorged, and feasted again. The white gulls fell upon the black crickets like hosts of hell until the pests were banished and the people saved. The birds then returned to the lake. Kneeling, the grateful settlers wept tears of joy over their temporary deliverance, and thanked their God for this answer to their prayers. 

My father passed through that experience. I have heard him repeat it to his family many many times. The first time I heard it I was a small boy and it is too long for me to tell the story that he told me. But I want to say to you that there never was, as I know or have read about, a divine blessing from God when the people had to depend upon Him entirely, greater than on the occasion referred to. 

Prayer is practiced in the Kingdom of God. Part of our prayers should be devoted to our leaders; they have great responsibilities. Oh, so many of the people do not realize the responsibilities that fall upon the President and his Counselors these days. It has been so from the beginning and as long as there is life it will continue to be so. Let us pray for our leaders at all times instead of criticizing them; pray that they may be given courage to continue with unflagging zeal from year to year; pray for the power of God to be upon them. 

FAITH IN GOD SHOWN BY GREAT MEN 

There is on the Sub-Treasury building in New York a fine piece of statuary of George Washington at Valley Forge, kneeling down in prayer in the woods. That figure explains a great deal the strength of Washington's life. It is no accident that the two greatest Americans to whom we all look up and most admire — Washington and Lincoln — were men of prayer and men of faith in God. Their strong belief in God was the rudder which guided the ship. Abraham Lincoln on one occasion said to his physician: "One rainy night I could not sleep. The wounds of the soldiers and sailors disturbed my very bones, pierced my heart, and I asked God to show me how they could have better relief. After wrestling some time in prayer he put the plans of a sanitary commission in my mind and they have worked out pretty much as God gave them to me that night. You ought to thank your kind heavenly Father and not me for the sanitary commission." 

Benjamin Franklin said: Conceiving God to be the fountain of wisdom, I thought it right and necessary to solicit his assistance for obtaining it; to this end I formed the following little prayer, which was prefixed to my tables of examination, for daily use : 

O powerful Goodness! bountiful Father! merciful Guide! Increase in me that wisdom which discovers my truest interest. Strengthen my resolutions to perform what that wisdom dictates. Accept my kind offices to thy other children as the only return in my power for thy continual favours to me. 

William DeWitt Hyde wrote "A Boy's Prayer"; 

Give me clean hands, clean words, and clean thoughts. Help me to stand for the hard right against the easy wrong. Save me from habits that harm me; teach me to work as hard, and play as fair in thy sight alone as if all the world saw. Forgive me when I am unkind, and help me to forgive those who are unkind to me. Keep me ready to help others at some cost to myself. Send me chances to do a little good every day, and growmore like Christ the Savior. 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Dag 

George Careless wrote the music of one of the most beautiful songs we have in my opinion : 

Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Uttered or unexpressed; The motion of a hidden fire That trembles in the breast. 

Prayer is the burden of a sigh, The falling of a tear, The upward glancing of an eye, When none but God is near. 

Prayer is the simplest form of speech That infant lips can try; Prayer, the sublimest strains that reach The Majesty on high. 

Prayer is the Christian's vital breath, The Christian's native air; His watchword at the gates of death; He enters heaven with prayer. 

One who prays to his Father in heaven will not go far wrong. God will be mindful of him. God bless you all, and may we not forget to pray, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH L. WIRTHLIN 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I might enjoy the inspiration of the Lord's Spirit the moment or two I stand before you. 

It seems that the minds of some of us run in parallel channels. Brother Smoot has addressed you on the subject I had in mind. 

BLESSINGS ENUMERATED 

I am very grateful for membership in the Church; I am grateful for my forbears who made it possible, by accepting the Gospel in Europe and coming to the Promised Land, for me and mine to enjoy peace and plenty. I am particularly grateful for the Priesthood of God which has been restored in these the last days, through the instrumentality of a prophet. I have only gratitude in my heart for the leadership in this Church, who have and are continuously advising and counseling people as to their spiritual and temporal needs. This advice and counsel is motivated and inspired from divine sources. 

As parents a wonderful opportunity is ours, particularly in that everyone of our sons can hold the Priesthood of the Lord and receive all the blessings attached thereto. The Priesthood is a shield against temptation; it motivates and inspires young men to the highest and noblest of deeds, and every young man, whether he holds the office of Deacon, Teacher or Priest, is a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. In accepting the Priesthood, young men, in all reality, enter into a contract with Christ whereby they will serve him faithfully and loyally when called upon to do so by those who are in authority, and the Redeemer will bless them, magnify them, and sustain them in their Priesthood work. All of these young men perform the various functions of their offices not in and of themselves as individuals, but, as I have said, as servants of the Lord Jesus Christ each one of them being commissioned to perform the duties of his particular office. 

It is a wonderful thing to contemplate that John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Redeemer who held the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood in the days of the Lord Jesus Christ, returned to earth, bestowing this divine gift of authority upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, giving them the right to preach the Gospel of repentance, to baptize for the remission of sins, and to enjoy the ministering of angels. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR BOYS IN PRIESTHOOD 

Elbert Hubbard declared, "Be patient with boys. You are dealing with soul stuff; destiny awaits just around the corner." I am not hesitant in declaring there are no boys the world over where destiny is awaiting around the corner as it awaits with glorious opportunities for the young men who hold the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Among them will be found the leaders of tomorrow : Bishops, Stake Presidents and General Authorities. With this future lying ahead of our young men, every parent must realize his and her responsibility in the task of guiding and directing these boys in thought and deed and qualification, in order that they shall be worthy and fully prepared to assume the duties and obligations of tomorrow. 

May I say to those of our brethren who have the honor and privilege of associating with these boys in their Priesthood work, there is no work that can bring a higher degree of pleasure and satisfaction. Only a little time is required to get the confidence of a boy, and there is no confidence that is more implicit, and no friendship more loyal and devoted than that of a boy. 

STORY OF A BISHOP'S SUCCESS 

There was once a Bishop who had the high honor of ordaining 26 young men to the office of Deacon. The experience of ordaining so many young men made a deep impression on his mind, and he asked himself the question, "What obligations have I assumed now as the Bishop of this Ward in bestowing this Priesthood upon these young men?" And after careful and prayerful thought he arrived at the conclusion, there rested upon him and his two associates in the Bishopric, the responsibility of so guiding and directing the activities of these Deacons that when the time should arrive for advancement each and every one of them would be worthy and fully qualified to receive the office of a Teacher. 

The first step in this program was to get the confidence of these young men. They were encouraged to present their problems to the 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Day 

Bishopric; problems of work, school problems, and the multiplicity of problems that boys of this age generally have. The boys responded, and these three magnificent men were always willing and prepared to render counsel and advice. Social activities were encouraged, the homes of the Bishopric, were frequented by the boys. Eventually these young men were ordained Teachers, and later the office of Priest was bestowed upon them. Eventually the day arrived when the young men reached the age of prospective missionaries. All of them were called; twenty-five responded, the other one having a physical ailment which prevented him from accepting a call. These young men were ordained Elders, went out in the world, and with the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, preached His plan of salvation with vigor and force. These young men were honorably released, returned home, and all of them are now married and rearing fine Latterday Saint families. In addition to this they are considered among the outstanding citizens of their communities. I am sure you will agree with me that this is an outstanding achievement. And why? Simply because three men took a little interest in some boys. The achievement of these good brethren can be the blessing and accomplishment of any one man or group of men that will manifest interest in the young men of the Church. 

a boy's prayer answered 

I was deeply impressed by Brother Smoot's address on prayer. May I say there was never a time in all history when the habit of praying should be encouraged as now. Young men who hold the Priesthood of God are more inclined to call upon Him for assistance than the young men who have failed to receive the glorious blessings of the Priesthood. I recall an instance that occurred during the darkest days of the depression. 

There was a poor widow and her family struggling against great odds to sustain and maintain themselves. In this family group the oldest child was an 18 year old son who was deeply touched because of the family situation and the terrific struggle his Mother was having in solving their economic problems. One day he declared to her, "Mother, if you will permit me to go to California I can secure employment and at least render some small assistance to you." The mother replied and said, "Son, permit me to think this over for a day or two." After two or three days she called her son to her side and said, "I give you my consent; you may go to California upon one condition, and the condition is that you will always pray as you know we have prayed in this home morning and night, and although we have had our problems, the Lord has blessed us and assisted us in many ways." 

With his mother's permission, this young man gathered his few clothes in a bundle, took some food and water, and went on his way. He had planned to secure a ride across the barren wastes of the American desert from some passing motorist, but during these dark days of the depression very few people were traveling, and consequently he trudged for two days over the desert, at the end of which time an inventory of his  and water indicated that unless someone picked him up he would soon find himself in a very precarious situation, and in addition his shoes were about worn out. 

As he analyzed his condition there came back to him with a flash the advice of his mother — to pray regardless of where he might be. Looking up he saw in the distance a building, which proved to be a deserted service station. Standing by it was a dilapidated bill board. Arriving at the old building he went around to the rear of the billboard, knelt down and poured out his soul to the Lord, telling Him that unless someone came to deliver him, the possibilities were that he would perish. 

That day a friend of mine was traveling across the desert, his destination a large city in California where a convention of his company was to be held. As he sped across the desert he was cognizant of the fact that he had passed an old deserted service station. Going on for some distance the impression came to him which seemed to convey the message that he should turn around and go back. At first he thought little of it, but the impression came the second time stronger than before. Finally he turned to his wife and said, "Mother, I have had two rather peculiar experiences. Something tells me we should turn around. Do you know of any reason why we should ?" She replied, "No, but if you have had an impression I suggest that you turn around." He turned his car around in the middle of the desert, and upon approaching the old deserted service station and the dilapidated billboard, was hailed by the boy. The good man stopped and the boy asked if he might have a ride. Of course the reply was "yes." 

The man, his wife and the boy again started on their way toward California. Naturally the boy and the man became very friendly, the boy declared to the man, "You are an answer to my prayer. I had neither water nor food, my shoes are worn out, and I knew that in and of myself I could do nothing, and so I went back of the billboard and asked the Lord that someone be sent to deliver me." The full significance of the impressions that the man had experienced now dawned upon him, and with a tear in his eye he said, "Yes, son, I know that I am an answer to your prayers." 

Brethren and sisters, in this great Church many of our boys and girls could well afford to follow the example of this young man in being prayerful, and without doubt the Lord will hear and answer their prayers. We should teach them to pray; teach them to be loyal to the leadership of this Church and particularly to follow the admonitions of the men who have been selected and appointed by the Lord to guide and direct the destiny of this people. I challenge anyone to point out one instance where the President or his counselors or the Quorum of the Twelve have ever given any advice but what it was for the good and benefit of the people. 

THE AUTHORITY TO BAPTIZE 

As parents we should impress upon our young people that as servants of God they act in their Priesthood capacities because the authority they 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 5 First Day 

hold has been restored to earth from a divine source. Teach them that the Priesthood is the divine right bestowed upon men whereby they act as His servants and agents in performing the ordinances of the Gospel and in building up the kingdom. This thought was impressively demonstrated to me while laboring as a missionary in the State of Missouri. A lady presented herself to my companion and I, applying for baptism. The time appointed was a Sunday afternoon on the banks of the Spring River, outside of Carthage, Missouri. Upon arriving at the appointed place we discovered that another minister and his group had preceded us, and the ordinance of baptism was being performed. 

We listened with a good deal of attention and interest to the baptismal prayer uttered by the minister. These were his words : "Under the great commission I baptize you in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, Amen." The term "Under the Great Commission" stimulated some thought on my part. Returning to our room we opened our Bibles to see if we could discover what the minister presumed to call "The Great Commission." We found in the last few verses of the last chapter of the book of Matthew what is commonly known as "the Great Commission." As you will recall, the Savior was bidding farewell to his disciples for the last time, admonishing " them in the following words, "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost : Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." 

These verses the Lord spoke but to eleven men, commissioning them to go into the world preaching the Gospel of repentance and performing the ordinance of baptism for the remission of sins. Consequently he did not designate anyone who might have the desire to preach or baptize, which brings forcibly to mind the words of the Apostle Paul when he declared, "And no man taketh this honor unto himself but he that is called of God as was Aaron." 

What a glorious thought it is to contemplate that the Priests of the restored Church of the Lord Jesus Christ have been called as Aaron to perform the ordinance of baptism or any other Aaronic Priesthood duty because of divine light. The young men who perform the ordinance of baptism under no condition or consideration ever have to beg the question of authority, using such terms as "Under the Great Commission." But they declare emphatically and with full knowledge, "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen." And may I add they are the only group in the world who have the right to declare "having been commissioned of Jesus Christ." 

SERVICE BRINGS ITS REWARD 

I humbly pray that the Lord of Israel will bless, guide and direct us in our responsibilities of leading the youth of Zion in paths of righteousness. When the day of responsibility comes, they will be willing,  and worthy to serve in any capacity. Such service will bring to them the greatest of heavenly rewards, a reward that cannot be stayed by the hand of man or the evil one, a reward predicated on obedience to the Lord, for He always keeps His promises and rewards them that serve Him. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith declared, "For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying of their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies. 

"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the Church and Kingdom, and the elect of God." 

May I earnestly suggest to you, there is nothing in this world that is of greater value than to achieve a place in the Celestial kingdom, wherein your sons and daughters may become the very elect of God, which I pray will be the blessing of everyone of them, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Singing Mothers sang the anthem, "Holy Art Thou," Sister Ruth Jensen Clawson, soloist, Sister Olive F. Rich directed the singing. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I would like to repeat my slogan of last Conference : Brethren and sisters, "Drive carefully." There is no reason why we should have a tragedy of death at almost every Conference which we hold. Brothers and sisters, if you will just take a little more time to get home or to get here, we will excuse you for being late at the meetings if you do so, and then we will not have these tragedies. 

Elder Joseph T. Finlinson, President of the Deseret Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


