Afternoon
06 10 1940

The concluding session of the Conference convened Sunday, October 6, at 2 p. m. 

Once more the Tabernacle was crowded to capacity, and again the large Assembly Hall was filled with listeners, and thousands of others congregated on the Tabernacle Square, where, by means of amplifiers, they listened to the Conference proceedings as given in the Tabernacle. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We are again happy that President Grant is present and presiding. He has asked me to take charge of the meeting. 

This afternoon the music will be by the Tabernacle Choir, under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall. Dr. Frank W. Asper at the organ. 

The choir. and congregation sang, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 1 1 3 

The opening prayer was offered by President Thomas E. Towler, of the Wells Stake. 

The Choir sang "Lamb of God" (Haydn). 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

And again this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come, or the destruction of the wicked. 

THE CALL TO REPENTANCE 

These words were spoken by our Savior to His disciples shortly before his crucifixion. They have reference to the day in which we live. In fulfilment of -that prediction the Elders of this Church have been preaching the Gospel in the nations of the earth for one hundred and ten years, they have been raising the warning voice and crying repentance. It was not only expedient, but it was inspirational that the Presidency of this Church, at the opening of this Conference should send forth a petition or an epistle not only to the Latter-day Saints, but to the people of the earth, calling them to repentance and giving unto them a warning. 

From the very beginning the Lord has called upon the Elders of the Church to raise the warning voice, and we read : 

Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of Him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

That is the call from the Lord to every soul upon the face of the earth, to give heed to His warning. Then continuing He says : 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

And so they have gone forth, bearing witness of the restoration of the Gospel, preaching repentance, warning the people of the calamities that were to follow their preaching. 

A WARNING TO THE WORLD 

Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them — (that is, in the Elders) — shall be fulfilled. 

And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 6 Third Day 

Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure — 

Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear : 

Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh. Then again the Lord gave this instruction : 

Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jr., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets — 

The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh —  

But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

That faith also might increase in the earth; 

That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

That the fulness of my Gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

That proclamation was given in the very beginning of this Church; it is found in the Preface which the Lord Himself wrote to this book of commandments. 

Further, again the Lord says : 

For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power of his own dominion. 

And also the Lord shall have power over His saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

That was said more than a hundred years ago. Peace has been taken from the world, the devil does have power over his own dominion today, and the Lord has not yet come to dwell with His Saints, but that also shall be fulfilled. 

THE JUDGMENTS TO COME 

Let me present another petition to the nations of the earth and to the Elders of the Church: 

Hearken ye, for, behold, the great day of the Lord is nigh at hand. 

For the day cometh that the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven; the heavens shall shake and the earth shall tremble, and the trump of God shall sound both long and loud, and shall say to the sleeping nations : Ye saints arise and live; ye sinners stay and sleep until I shall call again. 

Wherefore gird up your loins lest ye be found among the wicked. 

Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord; For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, and ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying — Repent, and prepare for the great day of the Lord? 

Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words — Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come? 

And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying: Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you. 

O, ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not! 

How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of f amines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory and honor and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an everlasting- salvation, but ye would not! 

Behold the day has come, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation is full. 

Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God. 

Wherefore, labor ye, labor ye in my vineyard for the last time — for the last time call upon the inhabitants of the earth. 

THE WORD OF THE LORD TO THE MISSIONARIES 

Again speaking to the missionaries in an early day the Lord said : 

Behold, I sent you out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned to warn his neighbor. 

Therefore, they are left without excuse, and their sins are upon their own heads. 

He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken. 

Therefore, tarry ye, and labor diligently, that you may be perfected in your ministry to go forth among the Gentiles for the last time, as many as the mouth of the Lord shall name, to bind up the law and seal up the testimony, and to prepare the saints for the hour of judgment which'is to come : 

That their souls may escape the wrath of God, the desolation of abomination which awaits the wicked, both in this world and in the world to come. Verily, I say unto you, let those who are not the first Elders continue in the vineyard until the mouth of the Lord shall call them, for their time is not yet come; their garments are not clean from the blood of this generation. 

Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes. 

For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and the stars shall become exceedingly angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that f alleth from off a fig-tree. 

And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Day 

For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand. 

And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people. 

And angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying: Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the judgment of our God is come. Behold, and lo, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet Him. 

These are the words of the Lord to His servants, and to the nations of the earth. As I look into your faces I see before me hundreds, thousands, who have been gathered out from the nations of the earth, either you or your parents, but you heard the Gospel in foreign lands. In obedience to this call you are here today. Nations have refused to hear the testimony of the Elders of Israel as it has been proclaimed, and the Lord has withdrawn them from among the nations, that is, many of them. He has done that because they have rejected the truth, and because of their wickedness. War comes because of wickedness; it never comes because of righteousness, but through the violation of the laws of God. 

THE WORD OF THE LORD HAS GONE FORTH 

Now, the Lord has predicted all these things. We have known this; it has been taught to us for a hundred years. We have been informed that it is necessary to keep the commandments of the Lord, for us to repent of our sins, for us to walk in ways of righteousness, and do the thing that the Lord would have us do. The nations have had proclamations made to them from time to time. In the early days of this Church it was very customary for the Presidency of the Church to send forth a proclamation, not only to the Saints, but to the inhabitants of the earth, calling upon them to repent, to turn from their ways of wickedness to ways of righteousness, accepting the fulness of the Gospel as it has been revealed. 

It is nothing new — should not be — to us to see these calamities and these destructions taking place upon the face of the earth. We have been warned; the Authorities of the Church have spoken from the very beginning calling attention to these things. We have seen and we have read in the records the Lord has given us, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price, that all these things were due to come in the dispensation of the fulness of time. 

Now let me read this other scripture : 

Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion— THE PURE IN HEART; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn. 

For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it ? 

The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come; 117 

For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works. 

Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. 

But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works, with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire. 

THE WAY OF ESCAPE 

Nevertheless, let it be read this once to her ears, that I, the Lord, have accepted of her offering; and if she sin no more none of these things shall come upon her. 

We have the means of escape through obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Will we escape ? When I see, even among the Latter-day Saints the violation of the laws of the Lord, I fear and I tremble. I have been crying repentance among the Stakes of Zion for thirty years, calling upon the people to turn to the Lord, keep His commandments, observe the Sabbath Day, pay their honest tithing, do everything the Lord has commanded them to do, to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. 

By doing this we shall escape the calamities. 

I am going to repeat what I have said before, for which I have been severely criticized from certain quarters, that even in this country we have no grounds by which we may escape, no> sure foundation upon which we can stand, and by which we may escape from the calamities and destruction and the plagues and the pestilences, and even the devouring fire by sword and by war, unless we repent and keep the commandments of the Lord, for it is written here in these revelations. 

So I cry repentance to the Latter-day Saints, and I cry repentance to the people of the United States, as well as to the people of all the earth. May we turn to live in accordance with divine law, and keep the commandments the Lord has given, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the TvOelve Apostles The blessed Savior said : 

Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me. John 14:1. 

Again 

For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand. 

(Doctrine & Covenants Section 29 :11.) 

BLESSINGS TO FOLLOW JUDGMENTS 

The earth, in spite of these dark, gloomy days, is moving forward to a glorious ideal. The good that seems imprisoned is working toward 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Day 

deliverance and triumph. "We believe that Christ will reign personally upon the earth, and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisaical glory." 

The judgments that are raging in the earth are testimonies to the Latter-day Saints that God's blessings will follow, for He loves mercy more than judgment. 

STRENUOUS WORK NEEDED 

If Paul were to return to the earth now would he say to the American people what he said to the people of his day ? 

The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. 

I think that America stands in need of the gospel of strenuous work. We are becoming a soft people; we like our nights of pleasure and our days of loafing. There would not be nearly so much sin in the world today if men and women would work more and play less. It is becoming a practice to talk much of our rights. These rights of course are sacred; they are God-given, but if we neglect to use them they become a curse, as it were, and God will take them away. 

Why not talk more about obligations to man, to country, and to God ? We are under deep obligation to care for our fellow-creatures. Think of this wonderful truth in the Book of Mormon : 

When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God. 

god's purposes to be fulfilled 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the mother of men because it has given so much. This heaven-inspired Church Welfare Plan creates in us a fine desire to be sympathetic and to work, and to help others to work. The joy that we gain from service to men is not easily measured. 

Wars may come, and they will go. I do not believe the Millennium is imminent; this Church is consecrated to the task of preaching the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We have scarcely scratched the surface. Where we are baptizing one today, in the not distant future we are going to baptize fifty, aye, a hundred, for God's purposes are sure to be fulfillled. He does not delight in the death of the wicked. He loves His children and through His servants, He is pleading with them to come to the light, which results in obedience to Him. 

ETERNAL RICHES REMAIN 

The days are dark; we suffer temptation, we suffer hardships of various kinds, but there is one thing that depression and war cannot take from us. I refer to the gift of eternal life. We should put more trust in the spiritual values of existence. The things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal. Wars may rage, famine may come, earthquakes and the like, and depressions, but these things cannot take away the eternal riches of Jesus Christ. Some of these riches 119  the glorous atonement, salvation for the dead, the second coming of the Son of God, the glorious resurrection and the eternity of the marriage covenant by which we are united in marriage on earth and in heaven by the power of the holy Priesthood. Thieves and misfortune cannot take these things from us, for they are immortal, God-given, and shall survive death and destruction. The Apostle Paul sings this glorious refrain of gratitude : 

It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. 

THE LOVE OF THE SAVIOR 

What a wonderful thing it is to have a mediator, the Lord Jesus, who intercedes for his brethren. And Paul continues: 

Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine or nakedness, or peril, or sword? 

* * * * 

Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. 

For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, 

Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ our Lord. (Romans 8:34-39). 

For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. (Romans 8:18). 

Ere long the skies will rend and Jesus Christ shall descend in glory with all his holy angels. Then will begin the long foretold Millennium, for which women have wept and for which men have prayed. Christ shall reign upon the earth in glory and in power from the rivers to the end of the earth. In that glorious Millennium we shall have good government, freedom from corruption; we shall rejoice in the divine reign of Him who is Prince of Peace and King of Kings. 

When He comes 

He will rule the world with truth and grace, And make the nations prove The glories of His righteousness And wonders of His love. 

Even so, blessed Lord Jesus, come quickly. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am delighted, my brethren and sisters and friends, to greet you upon this occasion, and to feel the impressions of the holy Spirit of God that have been manifest all through this great Conference. It is always an inspiration to see the large congregations of the Church gathered together as we see them during the periods of our Annual and SemiAnnual Conferences — people who have come from great distances, people 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Day 

who have in their hearts the testimony of Jesus, who are led to do the things they know are right, and who desire to walk in the path of God. 

EVIDENCES OF A MARVELOUS WORK IN THE EARTH 

This is an evidence of the marvelous work and wonder that our Eternal Father is performing in the earth. He has gathered out from among the nations the progenitors of those who are here in the Church at the present time; and those who are here have accomplished the things that He intended. But the power of the adversary has been so violent that it has curtailed free agency among the children of men. I say unto you, my dear brethren and sisters, that the free agency of men is limited; there are not many peoples in the earth today who enjoy such freedom as can be enjoyed in a great democracy like this. Our Eternal Father has established this country for the work that He has designated to take place in these latter days. 

MESSAGE TO BE TAKEN FROM PRIESTHOOD MEETINGS 

When I looked upon the congregation of men last night in the Priesthood meeting I was deeply impressed. I saw in the faces of those men a firm determination, a resolution to carry out the plan of God. It will be but a few hours before they go back into their fields of labor in all the Stakes of Zion, and there they will teach the Gospel to the children of men, and testify to those who belong to the Church that this was and is the Church of Christ our Lord. They will admonish them that the time has come for men to measure up. They will encourage them to gather out from among the communities where they live those who might receive the truth. How many of us know our neighbors How many of us think about the men or the women who may be living near us, who are not members of the Church? I take it that this great body of Priesthood is concerned about these, our brothers and sisters, and that their desire is to carry to them the Gospel message. 

OUR DUTY TO THOSE WHO COME HERE TO LIVE 

There are many people who come into the Stakes of Zion who do not really know why they come here, take up their abode and live among us. But we may well believe that they have been directed here for the purpose of baptism, for the purpose of hearing the voice of their Redeemer. We pray constantly for our missionaries who go abroad, that they may search out the honest in heart, but we little think about those in our midst who have been moved upon by the spirit and power of God to come into this land where they may receive the blessings that are theirs by right. For in the great plan of our Eternal Father, established before the foundations of this earth were laid, all men who would believe, all who would be valiant for the testimony of Jesus, were given the opportunity to hear the truth. It was ordained that they should be made partakers of these great blessings- — the blessings that were to be theirs here and in eternity. Of such are the congregations of the Latter-day Saints composed. 121 

But there are thousands of men yet to hear the Gospel, there are thousands of women who might be turned into the channels of real service for which there is such an abundance of opportunity, under the leadership of the women's organizations of the Church. There is a great work for us to do, and there is no time for us to wait, for this is the work of God, this is the great day which our Eternal Father declared through His holy prophets, centuries ago, He would establish in the last days. This Church is never more to be thrown down or given to another people. This is the day of salvation. We invite the children of men everywhere to investigate the doctrines we believe. I invite my friends who may be listening in to take time to read the doctrines of the Church, to read the things that the Lord has revealed, and become acquainted with them. Let me repeat that there are many fine men and women in this world, many of whom live within our gates, who might become members of the Church, if they could be made to see the great plan of our Redeemer. It is our responsibility and privilege to carry this message to them. 

A TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I know that this is the work of God. There is no doubt in my mind that the Lord lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, that Joseph Smith was the prophet whom the Lord selected before the foundations of this earth were laid, to bring about His righteous purposes in your day and mine. That great plan of God shall continue as long as the earth shall stand. And it will be carried to the children of men through the guiding leadership of the Holy Ghost. 

A great miracle has taken place among us. Our Father's prophet, our leader, the man that we love, has been partially restored to health and is able to be here and speak with power and influence. May we sustain him, may we sustain each other, sustain the things the Lord has revealed to us, that His work may become stronger, and that His plans may be carried out as He would desire them to be, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang, "Lead Kindly Light," by Jenkins. The soloist was Elder Harold H. Bennett. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

President of the Council of the Twelve 

My brethren and sisters: You see here on the pulpit a movable platform that can be raised up and let down to suit the speaker. It is not a Republican platform; it is not a Democratic platform; (Laughter) it is a Church platform and I can hardly reach up to it. (Laughter) 

AN INSPIRING CONFERENCE 

Brethren and sisters, I feel that it is a high honor to be asked to stand here and address this wonderful congregation of Latter-day Saints. 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October b Third Day 

This is a marvelous attendance, a marvelous work and a wonder, to have a building here that will accommodate between 8000 and 9000 people. "That was the attendance last night at the General Priesthood meeting. It was a very inspirational and instructive meeting as were all the meetings of the Conference. And haven't we had a wonderful day today? Think of the beautiful music that is furnished by the Tabernacle Qioir. Their voices go out to all the country around, to all the world, as it were, and yet they remain with us. The Choir is entitled to great credit for the wonderful work it is doing. 

I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that you feel as I do, that we are very happy indeed to have the President of the Church, who has been ill, with us on this occasion and at this Conference. It is fitting that he should be here, and we could not be fully satisfied without him. But he is here. He is looking pretty well and he feels well. I heard him say that he is feeling fine. 

Now there is hardly anything lacking, but if there is one thing above another that I would like it would be the gift of eloquence to express myself before this congregation. You know some of the brethren of the Twelve, if not all of them, except myself, have the gift of eloquence; and it helps to stir up the congregation, and it is restful to have a little eloquence punctuate one's remarks when speaking. 

Let me tell you at this point that I forgot to look at the time when I came to the pulpit so I shall ask President Clark, when I have talked about twenty minutes, to let me know without your knowing it. (Laughter) 

THE GOSPEL FURNISHES TEXTS 

Permit me to say this : There is a wealth of material in the standard Church works sufficient to furnish texts for our brethren who speak from the pulpit, and also the sisters when they speak. I think we should be pretty careful in our religious gatherings to preach the Gospel. That's the important thing. Lectures, in many instances, are very fine aids in their place, and there is a place for them — particularly scientific lectures and historical talks. The Lord has intimated that we ought to read good books and become acquainted with the things of the world, but in our special gatherings of the Saints we ought to be sure to preach the Gospel. It is an elaborate subject, it is very comprehensive. The Gospel covers a wide range, and the principles of the Gospel are most important, and therefore I am to tell you right now that I would like to say a few words upon two great movements in the Church. 

TEMPLE WORK FOR THE DEAD 

One is the missionary movement which was mentioned by Brother Joseph Fielding Smith in his talk. That is one of the subjects that I wanted to bring before you, and the other subject is the work for the dead. These are two highly important subjects, because we are under 123  of the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith to look after the matter pertaining to the dead. The living can take care of themselves if they will, the opportunity is before them. We have the temple and they can go into it and get their endowments, their blessings and sealings but the dead cannot do that. I am speaking now of our ancestors in the spirit world, because every man here has a line of ancestors behind him, and every woman here has a line of ancestors and it is our business to look up our ancestors and get what information we can. 

Now upon my mother's side we have done a very good work because we have had the names to do it, but on my father's side we have been stopped because of a break in the line somewhere, and we have not until lately been able to get back very far. The names we did get we have done the work for and that is very fortunate. I hope the Lord will open up the way and give us some more names. I would say to you, my brethren and sisters, do not forget your dead, because you owe them this much effort to do something for them. They lived in a day when the Gospel was not upon the earth; they certainly have a claim upon us and I am prompted to say that if we refuse to recognize our obligation to do the work for our dead the Lord will reject us as a Church, because you know that souls are very precious unto him and we cannot afford to neglect this matter. 

With some people it is difficult to get to the temple because they live some distance away, but they should make an extra effort to do so, and some people living very near to the temple have not done their work for the dead, and yet they have means but they have overlooked it. We cannot afford to go to sleep over this matter. 

Perhaps my time is up, but I have not heard from President Clark yet. (Laughter) A person sometimes gets more interested in his own talk than does the congregation. (Laughter) So we have to ask the man in charge to notify us when to stop. I am rather glad it is that way because if we did not feel an interest in what we were saying ourselves, who would feel an interest in it? (Laughter) 

MISSIONARY PREPARATION 

I am very much interested in the missionary work that has been going on in our Church for a hundred years. It is brought down to a fine point because one of the Presidency of the Church, Brother David O. McKay, has a hand in it. A committee looks after the groups of missionaries who come up to Zion for a little training; they have to have a little teaching before they can go out and preach the Gospel. They ought to have a good deal, but they will get some experience in the mission field. It is wonderful what the Lord can do with these young men who are going out; and mark you, these young men who are going out as missionaries could not do very effective work without divine authority, so they come up here and get it. They go to the Temple and get the Temple blessings, and they go into the study room and listen to lectures on the Gospel, after which the hands of the Council of the Twelve Third Day 

Apostles and First Council of Seventy are laid on their heads conferring the authority to preach the Gospel. The result is that there are hundreds of thousands of people in the spirit world who benefit from the work of these young men. 

I think I might have time to read just a -stanza or two in relation to this subject. The Lord said in Section 18 (I have heard President Grant quote this section — it is a very important matter) : 

Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore He suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto Him. 

And He hath risen again from the dead, that He might bring all men unto Him, on condition of repentance. 

And how great is his joy in that soul that repenteth!_ Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto Me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of our Father! 

When I was at law school, I was made one of the editors of the Law Review. The boys who were working on the Review came to call me "Simon Legree — the slave-driver." It looks as if I were building a reputation here in the Church along the same lines. 

There is much concern today about the cause of liberty in the world. People are anxiously asking, "What is going to be the outcome of this war, and what will happen to the world if the dictators win?" I do not know the answers to these questions. It is not necessary that I should know, nor that you should know. 

It is important, however, that we do not permit ourselves to be unduly distracted when the hidden purposes of events and their end are not immediately clear to our perception. The lifetime of an individual is but a short span when reckoned against the stretch of history. Whatever the present may forebode, or the immediate future may bring we shall be better able to maintain our composure if we are fortified by an abiding "faith and confidence in God and in the triumph of His work" if, in the phrase of Bancroft we can say, "Eternal wisdom marshals the great procession of the nations, working in patient continuity through 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles ELDER ALBERT E. BOW EN the ages, never halting and never abrupt, encompassing all events in its oversight, and ever effecting its will . . . . " 

man's power fades 

Alexander conquered the world but the great general was scarcely dead when his vast empire crumbled and soon was no more. Cromwell made himself a mighty ruler but his power passed away with him. Napoleon startled the world by the brilliancy of his achievements, but he was so unfortunate as to live to see the mighty empire he had welded fall apart before his eyes. 

Those who now are turning the world upside down will also die. The mischiefs they have wrought will then, if not sooner, by degrees be undone. The peoples of conquered nations, and of the conquering nations, too, for that matter, are not going to be content perpetually to submit to the stifling oppression under which they now suffer nor to the smothering of their instincts of freedom. It has always been the case that when tyranny becomes oppressive enough people revolt against it and shake it off. 

CALMNESS COMMENDED 

But all this does not mean that nations or peoples should resign themselves to the fate of being subdued. The struggle back out of the thraldom of tyranny is always waged through blood and sacrifice and heart-breaking rigors and disciplines. Bitter suffering must be endured before the will is steeled to the endeavor. 

It is infinitely wiser and safer to preserve the good one has than to suffer its annihilation and then have to go over the toilsome, grueling and thorny way of getting it back again. But the process of preservation is not facilitated by hysteria. The hysterical mind does not conceive rationally, nor plan coherently nor execute effectively. Let us try in these difficult times to sift the truth out of the welter of confusion, to view it calmly and to decide with sobriety. 

LIBERTY A PRINCIPLE OF LIFE 

Of this we can be sure: Liberty is a thing of the spirit. A man must nourish it and cherish it in his heart as he does love for his wife and children. Except for its manifestation as a quality in human life it has no existence. Governments cannot confer it; they can only protect the individual in the enjoyment of it. Navies and armies cannot bestow it; they can only defend its exercise. No people can possess it unless they make themselves worthy of it. 

The lessons of Europe are fruitful for us if we will but read them. We are amazed at the ease with which some heretofore great nations have been subdued. The superficial explanation is lack of proper military armament. The true reason lies deeper and is the cause for the lack of preparation. 

Whether their undoing came from disloyalty, treachery, sedition, 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Dag 

resulting in betrayal, or whether it came from taking into their family bosoms designing aliens and falling prey to their seductive propaganda, or from the indolence and love of ease, and craving for the flesh pots which made them unwilling to subject themselves to the necessary exertion and discipline and self-denial to protect their heritage does not much matter as it all comes to the same end anyway. 

The question forced upon us is, why should the people of a great nation become disloyal and seditious, why should they be beguiled by seductive portrayal of alien ideologies, why so flabby and soft and indolent and comfort-loving as to be unequal to the exertion of protecting their birthright ? 

CAUSES OF DOWNFALL OF NATIONS 

A building does not crash when the first termite begins to bore into its supporting beams. But when these have been allowed to multiply and continue their burrowing and tunneling and eating there comes a day when the fiber of the wood is so thoroughly destroyed that under the impact of some shock or addition of weight the support gives way and the structure comes tumbling down. It would be absurd to say that the new weight or the shock caused the structure to fall. We sometimes are bewildered at the sudden collapse of a man's character which theretofore had been rated high. It will generally be found that the degenerating process had been working in him a long time before the crash came. 

Strong nations, commanding great resources, do not fall in the days of their strength before an invading enemy. They first disintegrate from within. When their vital internal structure has been eaten away then the hollow shell collapses before the first onslaught of a virile foe. 

What we have been witnessing in Europe is not so much the conquering might of an organized power, great as that is, as the mere pushing over, with some minor and notable exceptions, of the hollow frameworks of governments whose sustaining spiritual integrity had already gone into decay. 

CONDITIONS IN AMERICA 

Now what of ourselves ? We know that we harbor here large numbers, alien as well as native born, who openly advocate the superiority of alien principles of government over our own. Others there are who devote themselves to coddling the sowers of seeds of sedition and disloyalty. And with a discouraging universality we see the evidences of calculating self-interest, greed, indifference — a materialistic, grabbing, senseless scramble for the things which it is so mistakenly supposed will give a sense of security or satisfy the restlessness that is our very plague. 

We are saying that we face a great crisis, that the very existence of our nation is at stake. And yet one class of people is being told and is telling itself that it will not give up one whit of certain alleged gains it has made. It is willing to prepare for the emergency provided that it is not called upon to sacrifice anything. Another class is demanding assurance against loss, and still another as a matter of self interest and 127  is willing to let vital things wait. By sections and communities we are joining in the mad scramble. I read that the defense commission is being harassed and hampered by the clamors of localities, chambers of commerce, pressure groups, and politicians for the location of this or that industry in this or that place without regard for military requirement or efficiency of the whole program. We want to save our country if we can conveniently, but if it goes down we want to be able to say that our congressman got us a liberal part of the public funds and be sure that we hand ourselves over to the conquerer with plenty of public works on hand and our local vanity satisfied. 

Concerted action is required but jealousies and envy divide us. Our appraisals of value are inconstant and bewilderingly shifting. While in truth the interests of all classes are inseparably bound up together we have driven great wedges separating the industrialists from the laborers, and the agriculturists from both and the consumer from all the others. For a long time we have been stigmatizing large industries and denouncing them as baleful. Now we are frantically urging them to grow bigger and are offering capital for that purpose. What we have heedlessly decried as evils we now recognize as being our only hope for a speedy and large armament. One of our largest industrialists was within the year denounced as a national menace. Now we are dependent upon him in an inordinate degree to make us the defensive implements we need, all of which shows the folly of our periodic surges and revulsions of feeling toward the integrated elements of our nation. 

SPIRITUAL STRENGTH NEEDED 

This is all contrary to the spirit of universal brotherhood taught by the Savior of the world, and is our most alarming portent of danger, far more alarming than the power of any foreign foe. In recent years we have heard much over our country about economic security and about various notions for material betterment. Greater ease, more comfort, less toil have been flashed before us as symbolizing the highest ideals of human attainment. But we have heard almost nothing about spiritual strengthening, tightening of moral disciplines, subordination of personal desires or the development of the wholesome spirit of give and take which make for a greater national unity and a more healthy and trustful and confidence-begetting relationship. Here is a task for the Church. 

I have noted with keen interest for a number of years now that from this pulpit in these Conferences, with growing emphasis there have been voiced persistent and reiterated pleas for a greater devotion to and cultivation of the spiritual values of life which ought to flow from our belief in and acceptance of the divine mission of the Savior of the world. The people have been begged to discipline themselves to the virtues of kindliness, unselfishness, self-denial, humility, reverence and justice; to be abstemious, industrious, thrifty and self-reliant. Apparently thoughtful men among the laity are being shocked by world events into a realization of the perils which lurk in neglect of these bulwarks of strength. 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. Octobet 6 Third Dag 

About two years ago some observant British leaders sent out the warning to the people of the realm that the great issue which divides the world is at bottom a spiritual conflict in which good and evil spirits are working through mankind. "When the evil spirits conquer," said they, "the collapse of private and public morals sets in, the spirit of discipline and sacrifice dies," and they warned that Britain must make its choice between spiritual restoration and annihilation. How prophetic those words were stands now revealed. It might have been better for England if she had given earlier heed to them. 

winston churchill's notable words 

I am sure every listener must have thrilled to the appeal of Winston Churchill when upon his assumption of the premiership he warned his countrymen that he could promise them nothing but blood and tears and toil and sweat. That was, at the time of his speaking, a new note in the utterance of a modern public man, strange to our ears. And how magnificently Britons responded to the rallying call of their great leader who dared to tell them the naked unpleasant truth! 

INDOLENCE SAPPING STRENGTH OF THE NATION 

I wish every man and woman in America might read and ponder an article by Dr. Alexis Carrel appearing in the September issue of the Reader's Digest. "Amusement" said he "has been our national cry; 'a good time' our chief concern. The perfect life, as viewed by the average youth or adult is a round of ease or entertainment, of motion pictures, radio programs, parties, alcoholic and sexual excesses. 

"This indolent and undisciplined way of life has sapped our individual vigor, imperiled our democratic form of government. Our race pitifully needs new supplies of discipline, morality and intelligence. Strange to say democracies have made no consistent effort to inculcate these qualities in their citizens. Although vast social betterment schemes have been projected, we have forgotten that these ultimately depend for their vitality upon the individual citizen. 'You cannot carve rotten wood,' says the Chinese proverb. Nor can you carve decayed character into the durable underpinnings of a better race." 

Forty men of prominence recently warned the people of America that "The democratic way of life, must be based ultimately on the religious principle of the Fatherhood of God, and the worth and dignity of man when regarded as a child of God. It must uncompromisingly oppose any effort at the deification of the State or the suppression of individual liberty and sense of moral responsibility." 

A FORCE FIGHTING AGAINST GOD 

So long as armed aggression is rampant in the world proceeding upon the principle that the only deterrent to the gratification of every rapacious desire is the limit of brute force, peaceably inclined peoples must prepare themselves to repel that force. But, cautions the warning 129 , unless a spiritual and moral resuscitation is worked and respect for religious values built up we shall arm in vain. 

We have used our freedom to renounce all discipline, and in the marvelous achievements of this industrial and scientific age we have grown arrogant and have discarded our ancient faith. The iconoclasts have been at work. — Those egotists who cannot rest happy so long as an unsullied name, eclipsing their own, Is allowed to stand untarnished, have been busy with their smear pots. They are called by the very ugly but very appropriate name de-bunkers. Nothing so much needs de-bunking as they themselves. Because they cannot dissect God and examine His parts they have denied that He is; they have scoffed at the divinity of Jesus and because His benignity and purity and unselfishness and allembracing compassion so far transcend their cynical powers of comprehension, they have characterized Him a pretender and notoriety-seeking rabble rouser. The Ten Commandments are ridiculed as a defenseless and untrue imposition upon a primitive, uncultured and migrant people. Washington and Lincoln and the other great characters of history they have with profane hands dragged down from their high pedestals and have dissected bit by bit, searched out and with malicious glee thrown upon the screen the distorted and magnified image of their every foible and blemish. The founders of our government, the f ramers of our Constitution are converted into self-seeking aristocrats bent only on preserving their advantages of station, while that great instrument itself is made the embodiment of palpably absurd and now outmoded eighteenth century philosophy. They are determined that nothing shall remain sacred or be revered. They have suceeded only too well. To maintain itself strong in the present a people must be sustained by the consciousness of a noble past and the hope of a glorious future. Too much of the nobility of the past and the hope for the future has gone into eclipse. 

PRINCIPLES THAT LEAD DOWNWARD 

The gifts of this industrial age are mechanisms, gadgets, ease, luxury, diversions. These we have set up as principles by which we live in the place of faith in the nobility of man, reverence for his Maker and the discipline of our bodies, minds and spirits to the divine law. Our substituted principles we find not to be principles at all but merely incidentals. Put to the test of realism they come tumbling down about us and men stand bewildered by their own impotence and futility. They have lost the sustaining power of great convictions. As for our government they are not convinced it is better than some others; they do not really believe in our freedom, nor that it is in peril both from within and without, nor that its loss would be calamitous. They are not sure why they live in the earth at all, what life's purpose is nor what it is they want to do. 

TEACHING THE TRUTH NOT AN EASY TASK 

There must be a new cementing of shattered convictions, a re-establishment of wavering faith, a calling back to basic principles. This again 

130 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Day 

is a task for the Church. It is a work for you Presidents of Stakes, and Bishops of Wards and other leaders. In its fulfilment you will have large need for moral courage because your leadership will involve your telling people unpleasant truths, things they would rather not hear. It will require you to lead them in hard ways. 

As I read the history of the ancient prophets they were more often than not the bearers of unpleasant messages. It fell to them to tell kings, judges, rulers and people that the courses they were following portended disaster and to admonish them against persistence in such courses. It was not an easy nor an inviting labor. It did not make them popular, but frequently jeopardized their lives and drove them into hiding. 

Jesus himself passed through the same experience. The next day after He had miraculously fed the multitude the crowds sought Him on the opposite side of the lake whither He had gone in the night time. As they pressed upon Him He said to them, "Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled." Then He proceeded to unfold His doctrine which imposed high requirements upon any who would be His followers, stressing the preeminence of spiritual values over material satisfactions. 

"It is," said He, "the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh prof iteth nothing; the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life." His listeners complained that His sayings were hard, and began melting away. Sorrowfully and pathetically the chronicler records : "From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him." So long as they were the recipients of gratuitous benefits they were eager followers, but their ardor turned cold when they found that the price of discipleship was renunciation and reformation. But that alone was then and is now the way of salvation. 

The Choir and congregation sang "Come Let Us Anew." PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Partly for the benefit of those who are on the air, and who cannot see us here, I wfsh to say that it is with profound gratitude and joy that we now turn the balance of the time over to President Grant. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is needless for me to tell you good people how grateful I feel that I am able to speak to you at the close of this Conference. As a rule I never put my remarks on paper, but my mind is not working as well the last five or six months as usual, and I therefore asked my secretary, Brother Anderson, to copy quite a number of things that I know off by heart, at least I did before my illness, but I do not know whether I know them today or not, so I am going to read to you. 

QUOTATION FROM "THE POWER OF TRUTH" 

There is nothing in all the world for which I am so grateful as an 131  knowledge that we, the Latter-day Saints, have the true Gospel of Jesus Christ. I read from William George Jordan's book "The Power of Truth." There are eight articles in the book. One year I distributed 7,500 copies of the first article, autographing them all, to friends. The author says : 

Law is the eternal truth of nature — the unity that always produces identical results under identical conditions. When a man discovers a great truth in Nature he has the key to the understanding of a million phenomena; when he grasps a great truth in morals he has in it the key to his spiritual re-creation. For the individual, there is no such thing as theoretic truth; a great truth that is not absorbed by our whole mind and life, and has not become an inseparable part of our living, is not a real truth to us. If we know the truth and do not live it, our life is — a lie. * * * 

In exact proportion to the basic truth they contain do religions last, become permanent and growing, and satisfy and inspire the hearts of men. Mushrooms of error have a quick growth, but they exhaust their vitality and die; but truth still lives. 

The man who makes the acquisition of wealth the goal and ultimatum of his life, seeing it as an end rather than a means to an end, is not true. Why does the world usually make wealth the criterion of success, and riches the synonym of attainment? Real success in life means the individual's conquest of himself; it means "how he has bettered himself," not "how has he bettered his fortune?" The great question of life is not "What have I?" but "What am I?" * * * 

Truth is the sun of morality, and, like that lesser sun in the heavens, we can walk by its light, live in its warmth and life, even if we see but a small part of it, and receive but a microscopic fraction of its rays. 

Which of the great religions of the world is the real, the final, the absolute truth ? 

It is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, again restored to the earth by personal administration of our Father in Heaven and His Son Jesus Christ. 

I shall now read what the Lord says — not what I say. It is not what Joseph Smith said, but what the Lord said to him : 

How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

FEW ARE CHOSEN 

Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lessonThat the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood or the authority of that man. 

132 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Dan 

Behold, ere he is aware he is left unto himself to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. 

LEARN BY EXPERIENCE 

We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — 

Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. 

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

A CONSTANT COMPANION 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. 

These words coming from God I appeal to you people to read and reread. I have read them hundreds of times. They are from Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and are among the greatest words ever given to the Prophet Joseph Smith as recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. They were given to him in Liberty Jail shortly after he had been tried and sentenced to be shot, in connection with his brother Hyrum and others, by the State Militia. Thank the Lord for raising up General Doniphan, who declared that he would have nothing to do with such cold-blooded murder, and that he would withdraw his brigade. His remonstrance so alarmed them that they dared not put the decree into execution. 

I now read again — not the words of Joseph Smith, but the words of the Lord given to Joseph Smith : 

NONE TO ESCAPE 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken from the housetops and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

Wherefore fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled. 

TO ENDS OF EARTH 

And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure —  

Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear; 

Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; 

And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and His sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth. 

And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of His servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people; 

BROKEN COVENANT 

For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; 

They seek not the Lord to establish His righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon the great, which shall fall. 

Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Tun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets— 

The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh — 

But that every man might speak in the name of God, the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

That faith might also increase in the earth; 

That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

PROCLAIM FULNESS 

That the fulness of my Gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding. 

And inasmuch as they erred it might be made known; 

And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed;_ 

And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent; 

And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time. 

And after having received the record of the Nephites, yea, even my 

134 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 6 Third Day 

servant Joseph Smith, Jun., might have power to translate through the mercy of God, by the power of God, the Book of Mormon. 

And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this Church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living Church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the Church collectively and not individually — 

ALLOWS NO SIN 

For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; 

Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; 

And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received; for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts. 

And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth; I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; 

For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. 

And also the Lord shall have power over His saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

TRUTH ABIDES 

Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. Amen. 

LEAVES BLESSINGS 

I know as I know that I live, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of mankind. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, and the instrument in the hands of God of again restoring to the earth the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation. I leave my blessing upon the righteous people of all the world. I bless the Latter-day Saints at home and abroad, those holding positions of trust, and those that have gone forth to proclaim the Gospel. I promise them that the Spirit of the Lord shall attend them if they live clean and pure lives. 

I thank the Lord for this privilege of bearing my testimony again and making this declaration to the Saints in this Conference assembled. May God's blessings attend you through time and all eternity, is the earnest and sincere prayer of my heart. God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We all acknowledge the blessings of the Lord in permitting President Grant to come and re-deliver and make his own, the messages of the Lord which have been declared in the past. We thank him for his blessing and his assurance that the Lord will prosper His work. 

The choir will sing in closing, "O Great is the Depth," by Mendelssohn, after which we shall ask Governor Henry H. Blood to pronounce the closing prayer. 

We must not let this Conference close before expressing our gratitude — not only my gratitude, but the gratitude of all of us — for the wonderful work of this Choir, for their great devotion to their service; to the conductor, the assistant conductor, the organists, and of course to Brother Richard L. Evans in connection with the broadcast. 

Drive carefully; pedestrians, walk sensibly. 

After the benediction this Conference will adjourn sine die. 

The Choir sang, "O Great is the Depth." 

Governor Henry H. Blood pronounced the benediction. Conference adjourned. 

The musical exercises at the Friday sessions were furnished by the Singing Mothers, under the direction of Sisters Josephine Brower, Olive N. Rich, Meryl T. Cardall, Permilla Bean and Nellie N. Bennion. The music at the Saturday afternoon and Sunday sessions was furnished by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Director. The congregational singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall and Richard P. Condie. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper. Organ acompaniments and solo presentations for the Tabernacle Choir and Organ broadcast Sunday morning were played by Alexander Schreiner. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

JOSEPH ANDERSON, 

Clerk of the Conference. Ashton, Elder Marvin O 43 

Visits to Stakes bring encouragement, 43 — The other side of the picture, 44 — Appeal for better leadership, 45 — The True story of a boy, 46 — Teachers may influence by example, 47 — Discipline molds character, 48. 

Authorities Present - 1 

Authorities Sustained 28 

Sustaining the Authorities, 28 — Church officers sustained by assembly, 28 — Nominating power rests with President, 28 — Members cannot propose men for office, 28 — Cttarges to be preferred in regular way, 29 — General Authorities of the Church, 29 — General Officers of the Church, 30 — Church Welfare Committee, 31 — General Auxiliary Officers of the Church, 31. 

Auxiliary Officers of the Church 31 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O .....119 

Evidences of a marvelous work in the earth, 120 — Message to be taken from Priesthood meetings, 120 — Our duty to those who come here to live, 120 — A testimony of the truth, 121. 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 124 

God's plans will triumph, 124 — Man's power fades, 125 — Calmness commended, 125 — Liberty a principle of life, 125 — Causes of downfall of nations, 126 — Conditions in America, 126 — Spiritual strength needed, 127 — Winston Churchill's notable words, 128 — Indolence sapping strength of the nation, 128 — A force fighting against God, 128 — Principles that lead downward, 129 — Teaching the truth not an easy task, 129. 

Broadcast, Choir and Organ 99 

Callis, Elder Charles A 117 

Blessings to follow judgments, 117 — Strenuous work needed, 118 — God's purposes to be fulfilled, 118 — Eternal riches remain, 118 — The love of the Savior, 119. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 86 

Human and divine government, 87 — Covenants in this dispensation, 87 — The covenant of eternal marriage, 88 — A principle with promise, 88 — Marriage and divorce, 89 — Causes of divorce, 89 — Statistical comparisons, 90 — What others say about us, 90. 

Changes in Officers 2 

Church Officers, Presentation of 30 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 2 

Opening the Conference, 2. 

138 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 7 

Pamphlets, 7 — Compilation and distribution not authorized, 7 — Exaltation through temple marriage, 8 — Opportunities forfeited in civil marriage, 8 — Our lands, 8 — Changing scenes, 9 — Land blessed through prayer and effort, 9 — Church grain elevators, 10 — Wheat donations restored, 10 — Welfare plan, 10 — To rebuild civic, religious lives, 11 — Expansion of plan, 11 — Measures taken to produce welfare materials, 11 — Welfare plan for mutual helpfulness, 12 — "Good times," 13 — Compulsory military service inaugurated, 14 — Invasion a remote possibility, 14 — War, 14— U. S. Neutrality violated, IS — Hostile acts, IS — Registration, 16 — Famine and plague, 16 — The Lord's disease-preventive law, 17 — 

The promise, 17. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 27 

"Drive carefully," 27. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 27 

Introduction to second session, 27. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 28 

Sustaining the Authorities, 28 — Nominating power rests with President, 28 — Members cannot propose men for office, 28 — Charges to be preferred in regular way, 29 — General Authorities of the Church, 29 — General Officers of the Church, 30 — General Welfare Committee, 31 — General Auxiliary Officers of the Church, 

31. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 49 

Gratitude to "Singing Mothers," 49. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 50 

Introduction to third session, SO. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 71 

Mission Presidents to speak, 71. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 73 

Drive carefully, 73. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 73 

Introduction to fourth session, 73. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 91 

Mission Presidents to occupy time, 91. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 94 

Regarding the singing, 94. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 95 

Introduction to fifth session, 95. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 97 

Gratitude for President Grant's presence and message, 97. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 105 

Appreciation of President McKay's address, 105. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 112 

President McKay's report, 112. 139 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 112 

Introduction to closing session, 112. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 124 

Building a reputation, 124. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 130 

Balance of time given to President Grant, 130. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr .....134 

Gratitude for President Grant's presence, 134 — Expresses gratitude for work of the Choir, 135. 

Clawson, Elder Rudger .121 

An inspiring Conference, 121 — The Gospel furnishes texts, 122 — Temple work for the dead, 122 — Missionary preparation, 123 — The worth of souls is great, 124. 

Evans, Elder Richard L 58 

The need felt for true leadership, 58 — The search for truth, 59 — Strength comes through prayer, 60 — Safety in following true leadership, 61. 

Evans, Elder Richard L 100 

Choir and Organ Broadcast, 100. 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 27 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Presidency Statement 5 

The Lord's way, 6 — America's opportunity to be peacemaker, 6 — Prayer for peace, 7. 

General Authorities of the Church Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church sustained 28 

General Auxiliary Officers sustained 31 

General Officers sustained 30 

Grant, President Heber J : 95 

Gratitude for faith of people, 95 — Kindness acknowledged, 96 — The film "Brigham Young" commended, 96 — The Church making friends, 96 — Blessing and prayer for peace, 97. 

Grant, President Heber J 130 

Quotation from "The Power of Truth," 130 — Few are chosen, 131 — Learn by experience, 132 — A constant companion, 132 — None to escape, 132 — To ends of earth, 133 — Broken covenant, 133 — Proclaim fulness, 133 — Allows no sin, 134 — Truth abides, 134 — Leaves blessings, 134. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 55 

The liberty bell, 55 — Free agency a gift from God, 56 — Light and understanding to be striven for, 56 — Leadership through service, 56 — God's word given to His people, 57 — Success in local missionary work, 58. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 

Pessimism and optimism, 97 — Faith in missionary work, 98 — Love of neighbor in welfare work, 98 — Melchizedek Priesthood percentages, 99. 



Jacobs, Elder Joseph 

Lyman, Elder Richard R. 





Public education not enough, 38 — Revelations pertaining to this land, 39 — A land of promise ,39 — Coercion in government not the Lord's way, 40 — Provision made for three branches of government, 40 — Two antagonistic forces at war, 41 — Jesus promoted the rights of mankind, 42 — The Church and this government, 42 — Peace achieved through unselfishness, 43. 

McKay, President David O 2 

Changes in Church Officers, 2. 

McKay, President David 5 

Statement by the First Presidency, 5. 

McKay, President David O 101 

Fundamentals in discard, 102 — The perfect guide, 102 — Improvement in morals, 103 — A rededi'cation to principles of unselfishness, 104 — Upholding the Constitution, 104 — Conclusion, 105. 

Observance of laws of Church wins respect, 74 — Characteristic doctrines of the Church, 75 — Satan's influence in the world, 75 — Free agency a blessing from God, 76 — Attributes of God inherited by His children, 76 — Responsibility for our own acts, 76 — Intelligent voting commended, 77. 

F'aithful Latter-day Saints commended, 50 — Internal and external evidences of the Gospel, 51 — The companionship of the Holy Ghost, 51 — Men known by their fruits, 52 — The prophet Isaiah quoted, 53 — -The prophecy fulfilled, 53 — Organization perfected, 53 — Development of Church under present administration, 54 — Duty of membership of the Church, 55. 

Richards, Bishop LeGrand 82 

The Priesthood as a means of bringing peace, 82 — Tolerance in politics commended, 82— Safety in following advice of Church leaders, 83 — Warning of Dr. John M. Reiner, 84 — A prayer answered, 85 — A lesson in the Savior's words to Peter, 85. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 32 

A high objective given, 32 — A conclusion reached by President Grant, 32 — The sovereignty of Christ must be acknowledged, 33 — The power of God is with His Church, 33 — The Lord magnifies His servants, 34 — Repentance a saving principle, 34 — Joy through forgiveness, 35. 

McKay, Elder Thomas E. Merrill, Elder Joseph F. ... 

INDEX 141 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 50 

Smith, Elder George Albert 105 

Sabbath observance uplifting, 106 — Prophets have raised a warning voice, 106 — A prophecy fulfilled in latter days, 107 — Promises made regarding American continent, 108 — Modern prophecies, 108  — Responsibilities of Church members, 109. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 113 

The call to repentance, 113 — A warning to the world, 113 — The judgments to come, 114 — The word of the Lord to the missionaries, 115 — The word of the Lord has gone forth, 116 — The way of escape, 117. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 18 

Quotations from the scriptures on prayer, 19 — Servants of the Lord blessed through prayer, 19 — Story of a woman's conversion, 19 — Missionaries sent in answer to prayer, 20 — A pioneer experience, 20— Faith in God shown by great men, 21. 

Statement by the First Presidency 5 

The Lord's way, 6 — America's opportunity to be peacemaker, 6 — Prayer for peace, 7. 

Taylor, Elder John H 36 

Admonition to prove all things, 36 — The value of a testimony, 36  — The scriptures make clear the truth, 37 — Safety in keeping the commandments, 37. 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 112 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 95 v 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 66 

Plan of salvation of divine origin, 66 — Man's three estates, 66 — Covenants made by the Lord, 67 — Abraham shown some of the Lord's work, 68 — The covenant re-established by the Savior, 69 — Many dispensations given to GodVchildren, 70 — The last dispensation, 70. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A. 61 

Preparedness a part of the Gospel plan, 61 — True education a protection against evil, 62 — The duty of schools, 62 — Religious training must be encouraged, 63- — Importance of practical education, 64— Opportunities lie ahead, 65 — Moral and spiritual training are factors against evil, 65. 

Wirthlin, Elder Joseph L 22 

Blessings enumerated, 22 — Opportunities for boys in Priesthood 23 — Story of a Bishop's success, 23 — A boy's prayer answered, 24 — The authority to baptize, 25 — Service brings its reward, 26. 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 78 

Labors of missionaries praised, 79 — A tribute to the people of New England, 79 — American ideals corrupted, 79 — Honor done to C. E. Dallin, 80 — An appeal for loyalty to the constitution, 81— Faith overcomes fear, 81. 

(BooL dimdquWd&hA. 

The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here: 

Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

Unto the Hills (The Spoken Word) 

by Richard L. Evans $1.50 (postpaid) 

A Rational Theology 

by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

Priesthood and Church Government 

by John A. Widtsoe - $1.75 

Prepared as the text book for the members of the Church holding the Higher Priesthood. This book will be used during the year 1941 as the official text book. 

Special price to Priesthood members — $1.50 or $1.35 if cash accompanies the order. 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain,  Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by Josiah E. Hickman. $2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man, 

by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. 

Prompt Service by Mail. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith 

Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days of the Prophet's ministry 

Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Many of these discourses and writings appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the early publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications are not accessible for general use. 

SPECIALLY PRICED AT $2.00 

Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns 

(Their Authors and Composers) 

GEORGE D. PYPER 

"The Latter-day Saints have always been a singing people. Some of their greatest sermons and messages have come through the avenue of song." 

So writes the author, George D. Pyper, in this fascinating story of an essential feature in the lives of a culture loving people. 

Well illustrated throughout, this work will take a high place in literary circles, and will win a permanent spot in the hearts of all lovers of great and good music. 

PRICE— $2.00 

VISUAL AIDS 

To be visually prepared is one of the greatest of assets to a teacher. 

For particulars and descriptive literature we invite you to communicate with us. 

We are prepared to give demonstrations in all types of equipment and to offer our Three S plan: SURVEY, SUGGESTIONS, SERVICE. 

DESEHET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 







