Afternoon
05 10 1940

The fourth session of the great Conference convened Saturday afternoon, October 5, at 2 p. m. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We are again blessed with the presence of President Grant at this service, and we are grateful to our Heavenly Father for this blessing. President Grant has asked me to conduct the services. 

The music this afternoon will be furnished by members of the Tabernacle Choir. Not all of the members can attend, owing to their being employed in places from which they cannot be excused, but those who can attend are here. While we sang very well this morning, I suppose we will have to admit that they can sing better than we did. 

The choir is under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall. Elder Alexander Schreiner is at the organ. 

The choir and the congregation sang the hymn : "O Ye Mountains High," by Charles W. Penrose. 

The opening prayer was offered by President Joseph R. Christiansen, of Moroni Stake. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang "Holy Spirit, Truth Divine," by Handel. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My Brethren and Sisters : We Latter-day Saints are certainly a peculiar people, due in part to our characteristic religious beliefs and claims. Yet we are a very practical people, combining religious faith and the affairs of daily life into what we may call a "way of life." It is to some phases of this "way of life" that I wish to call your attention. 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Dap 

We gladly accept the view of the Psalmist, declared in these words : "What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him ? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour." (Psalms 8:4, 5) 

OBSERVANCE OF LAWS OF CHURCH WINS RESPECT 

A few weeks ago I heard President Clark tell a factual story of the failure of a fine upstanding young man to be employed by a large financial organization. The young man possessed ability, a fine personality, a good education and excellent initiative. He had been a valiant worker in the Church. The opening with the organization was intended to lead to an important executive position. Our brother failed of employment because he was found to be smoking. 

His prospective employer knew the Church teaches the Word of Wisdom, and further, that the young man in question had formerly both taught and practiced the Word of Wisdom. So why did he take up smoking ? President Clark did not say. But was it not because he lacked moral courage and foolishly thought smoking would help him to succeed in the business world? 

President Clark's statement reminded me of a conversation I had 28 years ago with our late lamented Simon Bamberger, former governor and long a prominent business man of Utah and a non-Mormon. At the time of our chat Mr. Bamberger said he personally interviewed the applicants for important jobs with his companies. "If a Mormon applied we preferred that he be a returned missionary," he said, "but never employed him if he admitted that he even occasionally drank coffee or liquor, or smoked a cigarette." To my question "why" Mr. Bamberger answered, "I know these young men taught your Word of Wisdom while missionaries. On coming home if they fail to live the Word of Wisdom, I believe the answer is one of two things — they are either weaklings or hypocrites. The Bamberger Company wants neither weaklings nor hypocrites in its employ." Neither did the great organization of which President Clark spoke want a weakling or a hypocrite in its employ. 

All the world who have heard of the teachings of Mormonism know that the Church stands for total abstinence from the use of narcotic drinks and drugs, including tea, coffee, liquor and tobacco. But there are some members of the Church who admit they took to the use of one or more of these forbidden things in the belief that it would help them socially, professionally or in business. Was and is this a mistaken belief ? Certainly very many desirable opportunities have been lost by our people, as indicated by the examples just mentioned, because they lacked the moral courage or the good judgment to say "no" when they were tempted. 

A little study of the matter will convince us that the weak always admire the strong, the unclean delights to see the clean, the foolish envy the wise. In this drifting, sinful world a clean, high type, beautiful character is beloved by the multitude even though the vast majority of them do not attain to his high moral plane of living. No member of the Church,  or old, male or female, will ever handicap himself or herself in the association with decent people by maintaining the high moral standards of living advocated by the Church. On the contrary, smoking and drinking by reputedly good Mormons will always hurt them, never help them, in gaining respect from worth-while non-members. They may succeed, but it will be in spite of their lapses rather than because of them. 

CHARACTERISTIC DOCTRINES OF THE CHURCH 

But let us go further and be reminded that "unto whom much is given much is required." The Latter-day Saints make many more religious professions than do ordinary Christians. We have many characteristic doctrines, among which are those relating to the personality of the members of the Godhead, of the divine calling of Joseph Smith, of the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon, of the universality of the resurrection of the dead, of salvation for the dead, of the eternity of temple marriages, of personal pre-existence in the spirit world, and several others. The God whom we worship is a real personal being having the very form in which we ourselves are made, a God who hears and answers acceptable prayers and gives revelations to those worthy of and entitled to them; a God who said "this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39) 

Another characteristic and basic doctrine of Mormonism is that of eternal progression. We are spirit children of our Father in heaven and were conscious, intelligent, spirit-body personalities in the forms we now possess at the time of the great rebellion in heaven when Lucifer, the Son of the Morning, fought with the Father's loyal hosts, among whom we were numbered, in order to establish force as the dominant factor in man's salvation. Lucifer (Satan) and his rebels were overcome and cast out, coming down to earth where they have been ever since. 

satan's influence in the world 

These things are well-taught among us so that we understand them in outline, at least. My purpose now in reminding you of them is to call your attention to the fact that Satan, a spirit brother of ours, is a real existent personal being with a spirit body and is here among us with a multitude of helpers. He is infinitely more than a mere idea, a thought, or figment of the imagination. Now a thing sad to see is that Satan has enormous influence and power among men which he exercises to their hurt, sorrow and death. What makes this particularly sad to see is that it is wholly unnecessary for men to yield to Satan's power. God has given each one of us the strength, with His help, to put Satan behind us. In yielding to him men do not live up to their high privileges. They seem not to remember who they are — sons of a royal Father, the supreme commander of the universe, a Father who loves them so much that He gave Jesus Christ, His greatly beloved, first-born and only begotten Son in the flesh, to die a tortuous, ignominious death that they might 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

^'Saturday, October 5 Second Dag 

have the opportunity of being redeemed and live again forever in His glorious presence. Yes, brethren and sisters, God has given us the power and Clearly indicated the way to overcome Satan. 

FREE AGENCY A BLESSING FROM GOD 

But let us ever remember, in this connection, one thing more — God has given us our free agency. In this connection it is also well to remember the truth expressed by a beautiful hymn in these words : 

Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven. 

He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love and light; In nameless ways be good and kind; But never force the human mind. 

Freedom and reason make us men; 

Take these away what are we then ? People often complain that God is either non-existent or merciless and devoid of love, otherwise He would not permit such a monstrous and inhuman tragedy as is today being enacted in Europe and elsewhere. But no one who understands the Father's doctrine of free agency can ever give any sympathy or support to such complaints. But time does not permit me to give further attention now to this point. 

ATTRIBUTES OF GOD INHERITED BY HIS CHILDREN 

I wish to give emphasis to the fact that since we are spirit children of our Father in heaven it is perfectly natural that we should possess at least in embryo and microscopic quantities the attributes of our Father. And looking at these attributes as they are developed in our finest characters — as they were beautifully exhibited in the earthly life of Jesus, for example, we may get concrete ideas about the nature of God who possesses these attributes in perfection. 

One of these is intelligence. Indeed, intelligence is His glory. Intelligence governed by wisdom is also the glory of man, the attribute that chiefly sets him apart from the mere animal. Possessing this attribute it is easy to understand why it is right for him to be given his free agency. We are therefore entirely in accord with the doctrine expressed in the Declaration of Independence at the birth of our nation — that man is endowed by his Creator with the inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 

RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR OWN ACTS 

But free agency entails upon man a weighty obligation — that of being responsible for his conduct. And particularly is this the case in full measure in our land of liberty. As residents of America and as members of the Church, privileged as we are with an understanding  or less complete of who we are, of our relations to one another, to our fellow-men, to our country and to our God, we have indeed been given much — are more highly favored than nearly all other men. But we say this humbly and thankfully, not boastfully. We say it also in full realization of the fact that because the Lord has given us much He will in justice exact much at our hands. He will hold us accountable for all that we do. 

And here let me particularize a little, indicating a few of our obligations. The Lord requires us to develop the attributes with which we were born. We cannot be saved in ignorance. The law of growth is activity. No one is exempt from this law. But to grow properly the activity must be suited to the growth desired. Playing foot-ball may develop an athlete but it will not make a musician. An intellect governed by wisdom is man's proudest possession. Conduct actuated by the golden rule yields him the greatest happiness. Responsibilities fully met contribute most rapidly to God-like growth. 

But in all of these things let us remember that Satan is ever near to handicap us if he can. It is easier to drift than to row. So Satan always prompts us to drift. To grow strong in body, mind or spirit, one or all, self-discipline is absolutely essential. But if we please our Maker we must grow; therefore we must discipline ourselves, that is, we must bring our conduct into harmony with the inexorable laws of divinity that govern growth. I have already indicated a rule of conduct that is in complete harmony with the great law of moral growth — the golden rule. 

Now to particularize still more. We Latter-day Saints profess so much that logic, reason, and consistency require us to demonstrate our honesty and sincerity by living according to our teachings, e. g., observe the Word of Wisdom. But this is not all. The Lord requires us thus to live in order to win His favor. And He cannot be deceived. He knows our hearts and our thoughts. 

Are we reasonable and wise in what we do ? To know what is best to say, what is best to do and to know how best to do it is to possess inspired wisdom, probably our greatest gift. If we live worthy of divine guidance, as we are privileged to do, we shall not go very far astray. We spend great sums and send thousands of missionaries forth to preach the Gospel. Do we so live that our lives are sermons in harmony with the teachings of our missionaries? If not, why not? If not, we shall certainly be condemned. Let us not forget it. 

We live in this land choice above all other lands. Are we worthy to enjoy its incomparable blessings? Do we discipline ourselves, selfimposing upon us whatever struggles and sacrifices may be necessary in order that we shall preserve inviolate the principles bequeathed to us by the fathers of our country, many of whom spilled their blood and gave their lives that their descendants might be free? 

INTELLIGENT VOTING COMMENDED 

Brethren and sisters, the obligations of American citizenship are 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

numerous and sometimes heavy. But to a genuine Latter-day Saint, diligently trying to keep the commandments of God, it is a real pleasure to bear these responsibilities. May I remind you that among the greatest of them is the duty of wise voting. Perhaps few, if any, of us fully meet this responsibility. To do so we must keep ourselves informed of the necessary pertinent facts relative to candidates, remain free from the influence of prejudice and all deceptive propaganda, give no support of any kind to demagogues and their deceptive promises, but be willing to labor and to sacrifice as much as necessary that our government and our country shall be kept free from the hands of those who would despoil them. , 

To refresh your memories of the attitude of the Church in these matters please re-read Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants on "A Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws," adopted by a unanimous vote at a general assembly of the Church held at Kirtland, Ohio, August 17, 1835. 

The following taken from the Declaration is a key sentence : "We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life." The Church cannot look with any degree of favor upon any proposition whatsoever that would oppose to the slightest extent this statement. 

Brethren and sisters, our free America, the America of our fathers, is gravely in danger, not from enemies without but from enemies within. It is the duty of all Latter-day Saints, living under the stars and stripes, as well as of all loyal citizens, to forget their petty differences and their ignoble personal selfishness, and rally to her support. This may best be done by holding inviolate the Charter of our liberties — the Constitution of the United States and all good laws made in harmony therewith. This certainly requires that we shall be careful and elect to make and administer the laws only people who are wise, patriotic and morally worthy — only men 'and women of high character. 

God bless America, God bless His faithful children, and give them the strength, moral courage and wisdom, through their desire and worthiness, to keep His commandments I humbly pray in Christ's name. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the New England 

Mission 

I am happy to come from Boston to attend this Conference, and to report to the parents of the missionaries laboring in New England that they are a noble band of young men and women, and we are proud of them. They work very hard and it does not take long for them to prove themselves true servants of God. 

LABORS OF MISSIONARIES PRAISED 

New England is a difficult mission because we have so few members of the Church, but what we have are as true and noble as ever lived. If we have a branch of six or eight or ten members that have been converted in New England, we call it a large branch, and your sons and daughters go into these districts and sometimes far out on the borders of Canada, for we have Saints in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. It is a fine people that we labor among. Boston is said to be the hub of America and the center of culture, and there are some twenty universities and colleges in Boston alone. So you see we are among a people who have always believed in education. You would be happy to see your boys and girls laboring, and could you be in the city of Lynn, a manufacturing center, at a Sunday morning meeting, you would find ten or fifteen young girls and boys, from the Methodist Church, singing in our choir there, and our Elders sitting in the Methodist Church of a Sunday evening taking part in their choir. 

A TRIBUTE TO THE PEOPLE OF NEW ENGLAND 

You would like New England people. Many of them are descendants of the old Puritan stock; that stock that was represented in England by such men as Oliver Cromwell and John Milton. They came to America to build new homes and to be free to worship God as they wanted to worship. We speak unkindly sometimes of those people because they were very strict in their habits. They were Calvinistic and though they had their faults, they had their strong characteristics. They would not tolerate immorality. They would not tolerate impurity in politics. Said John Milton on one occasion: "Politics is the science of government and no politics can be pure until there is brought to bear on this great science the ideals that God governs in the affairs of men.." We do misunderstand them, it is true, but they were strict in their home life. I wish that today in the world we had more of the iron men like Cromwell, Admiral Coligny, and Governor Bradford of Plymouth Colony. 

AMERICAN IDEALS CORRUPTED 

One of the great wrongs going on in America to-day is the idea held by millions of people that they have the right to enjoy the things of life which they have never earned. It is a form of dishonesty that is corrupting the youth of to-day, it has already corrupted millions. It has produced an aversion to hard work. Idleness and the love of pleasure have taken away many of our American ideals given to us by the fathers of this nation. The hate of man for man has grown in this country as it has grown in the lands across the seas. These forces have torn down religious ideals, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord finds little lodgment in the hearts of men. Our civilization is suffering from a breakdown in character because our teachings have not had a sufficient effect on the actions and lives of individuals. We speak of reforms, 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

Human nature can only be reformed by a strengthening of prophetic religion. A new day for social betterment can come only through the revelations of God to his people — the pure Gospel of Jesus Christ. Benjamin Franklin warned us in the Constitutional convention at the very birth of this nation that our government will end in despotism if the people become corrupt. This nation must turn back to God. 

HONOR DONE TO C. E. DALLIN 

I should like to tell you about a lovely thing that happened in Boston two weeks ago to-morrow. It concerns the unveiling of the "Paul Revere monument," created for the city of Boston by our well known sculptor, Cyrus E. Dallin. The monument was inspired by the poem of Longfellow's which runs: "Listen, my children and you shall hear of the mid-night ride of Paul Revere." In 1884 Dallin entered his model in competition with ten other sculptors, the country's foremost. He won over men like Andrew O'Conner and Daniel Chester French. Dallin was told by the committee to execute his statue and it would stand in Copley Square. Then a sculptor named Trueman H. Bartlett wrote to the Boston Transcript : "It is the most outrageous piece of effrontery and lack of intelligence on the committee's part to have selected that model — a model of an impossible man on an impossible horse — ." These words had their effect, and the appropriation promised was never made. Dallin sought at intervals for fifty-five years to induce various mayors to appropriate funds for the statue, and a few years ago, he appealed to the Legislature of the State of Massachusetts, also without success. Several months ago, he presented his case to the five trustees of the George Robert White fund, who have the income of some $6,000,000 at their disposal for the erection of works of art. An appropriation was made for the statue and Dallin came into his own. The wrong done over half a century ago to a struggling art student of 23 was righted. There are compensations in life for long waiting when ideals are at stake. 

The statue stands in the north end of Boston near Paul Revere's old home and on the mall near the old North Church, from the tower of which hung the lanterns on the night of the nineteenth of April, 1775. 

I was present at the unveiling of the monument and heard Mayor Tobin of Boston say : "This day, I have the honor in behalf of the city of Boston to right a wrong that was done over a half a century ago. ... I have the honor of introducing to you Mr. Cyrus E. Dallin, the sculptor of this beautiful statue." Mr Dallin arose, bowed to the crowd and sat down again. He had won at last and his noble heart was filled with gladness. 

Dallin's "Massasoit" the Indian who made peace with the Pilgrim Fathers, stands overlooking the sea at Plymouth Rock, and his "Appeal to the Great Spirit" stands in front of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. What, pride we all have in the beautiful Angel on the cap-stone of our Temple here, which was also made by Dallin. It is possibly his masterpiece. Dallin's story of how he came to make the statue at the request of President Wilford Woodruff is one of the loveliest things I ever heard. 

AN APPEAL FOR LOYALTY TO THE CONSTITUTION 

That Sabbath day after the dedicatory exercises of the monument of Paul Revere, an old priest stood before hundreds of Italians in the old church near by and spoke on the "God-given Constitution of the United States." It did my heart good to see those alien people pay deference to our flag and to Paul Revere. Herein is a lesson. You Italians, you Germans, and French, you Scandinavians and all other foreigners who have joined the Church and come to America have found freedom and liberty as you have never known before, and you may rest assured that this is a country blessed of God, and its Constitution was written by men who were God-inspired. Be true to your country and its Constitution which is for all time, for never can anything better take its place. The ideal of America was stated by President Grover Cleveland in! Philadelphia at the centennial exercises in honor of the drafting of the Constitution in 1887. Said President Cleveland : "When we look down one hundred years and see the origin of our Constitution, when we contemplate all its trials and triumphs, when we realize how completely the principles upon which it is based have met every national need and every national peril, how devoutly should we say with Franklin, 'God governs in the affairs of men,' and how solemn should be the thought that to us is delivered this ark of the people's covenant and to us sealed with the test of a century. It has been found sufficient in the past, and it will be found sufficient in all the years to come, if American people are true to their sacred trust. Another centennial day will come, and millions yet unborn will inquire concerning our stewardship and the safety of the Constitution. God grant they may find it unimpaired; and as we rejoice to-day in the patriotism and devotion of those who lived one hundred years ago, so may those who follow us rejoice in our fidelity and love for Constitutional liberty." 

FAITH OVERCOMES FEAR 

My brethren and sisters, let us grow in faith; that faith which will regenerate our lives completely. If we have the enlarged faith in the living God that was taught us by the Master, nothing can hurt us. Do you recall the story of the three men who were thrown into the fiery furnace because they would not bow down to the golden image erected by Nebuchadnezzar and give up their knowledge of the Living God? The Jews were in the furnace of affliction, but they were not afraid. When the three men — Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego stood before the priests of Babylon, they answered : "If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace; but if it be not according to His plan, be it still known unto thee, O king, that we will not worship thy gods nor the golden image. 

"And the fire had no power upon their bodies, nor was the hair of their head singed, nor had the smell of fire passed upon them, for there was with them in the furnace a fourth whose aspect was like unto the Son of God." 

What a lesson for the martyrs of the day in which we live! 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

I pray for the blessings of God upon us all, that we may be unto all people a light and life and a help in this darkened world, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

BISHOP LEGRAND RICHARDS 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

As has been expressed during the meetings of this Conference, this is a great Church, a great people, and great have been our accomplishments. I was impressed as my father, Elder George F. Richards, opened the meeting this morning by his enumeration of some of the great things the Church has achieved up until the present time. I believe that we are only in the process of preparation for far greater achievements and accomplishments, for the Lord expects it at our hands. This is His Church and it is His Kingdom. Its destiny has been decreed and proclaimed by the prophets of old, and ultimately it is the Kingdom that shall fill the earth. With that thought in mind we should seek to prepare ourselves for every event of the Lord's providence concerning us and be prepared to carry on His Kingdom. 

THE PRIESTHOOD AS A MEANS OF BRINGING PEACE 

Brother Clark expressed in his opening remarks not a great fear that we should be attacked by any foreign foe, and I have felt that way in my own heart f or some time. But in analyzing the prophecies of the scriptures it seems to me that we are in some danger lest there should be people arise against people, and this in our land, as well as nation against nation, and I have always felt that if we could live nearer to one another, love one another as the Lord intended we should do that this brotherhood that is being built up through the Priesthood that we bear would be the thing that would preserve us against bloodshed. In the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants we are told that the day will come when every man who is not willing to take up his sword and fight against his neighbor should flee to Zion for safety, but if we keep close to the spirit of this great Priesthood that we bear, this brotherhood, we should be able to live at peace with one another and not have to take up the sword against our neighbors. 

TOLERANCE IN POLITICS COMMENDED 

With the wonderful achievements of the Church I feel there are some weaknesses that we should have pointed out. You will remember that Paul, in indicating the purpose of the organization of the Church, said that among other things it was for the perfecting of the Saints. Ever since I was a young man there has been one thing that has not been pleasing to me. It seems to me that it is a disturbing influence and probably the most disturbing of all influences in the midst of the Latterday Saints, and that is this political discord. I know I am stepping in where angels fear to tread, but since I am not a politician I think I might be privileged to say a word or two on this subject. Notwithstanding the  we bear to the Church, and all the service we render, somehow our minds become darkened when we talk of political things, and those who otherwise should be the best of friends and the best of neighbors become at variance with each other. I have heard President Grant tell in years gone by of some of the brethren who went Ward Teaching together and before they separated they were fist-fighting because they got into arguments over politics. I was with a group of brethren one day, when the discussion became so hot that one brother said, "If the Savior should come back to the earth and He was a member of the other party I would oppose Him." I could understand this statement, but I did not believe the brother meant it. He saw me walk away in disgust so he hunted me up the next day and apologized for what he had said. 

This extreme attitude has always annoyed me. My family has sometimes said, "How is it that you do not take a more active part in politics ?" And I have said, "Because I love my friends too much, and I have seen too many men lose their friends because of their activity in politics." I do not see, brethren, why we cannot stand for correct principles and not have to. "haul through the mire," so to speak, each other just because we go out after a political position. I sometimes wonder if our brethren realize how much they do to destroy the faith of the youth of the Church and cause unfavorable criticism and comment by those who are not of the Church when they assail each other as has been the practice for all the years since I have been old enough to remember. We ought to feel that we owe our allegiance to the Church and to the Priesthood and to our brethren. We should love our brethren until the love that binds us together will be stronger than the cords of death, and this ought to cause us to sustain and uphold each other under all circumstances and not permit the evil one to get an inroad into our midst because of these disturbing influences. 

SAFETY IN FOLLOWING ADVICE OF CHURCH LEADERS 

Another word about politics, if you will permit it. We have had testimonies today from some of the brethren. I was particularly impressed with what Brother Evans said, that he believed in following the Prophet of the Lord even though he did not think he was right, because' he found he always was right, and he said those of us who are not willing to follow him when we do not think he is right do not believe that he is a Prophet of God. This accords with my feelings along this line. I have had the privilege for the past two and a half years, with my counselors, of meeting weekly with the First Presidency of this Church, and I want to testify to you here today, my brethren and sisters, that they are in very deed prophets of God, and I am willing to follow them when their judgment is different from mine because to me they are more than ordinary men; they are men clothed upon by the power of God. When we raise our hands to sustain them as prophets, seers, and revelators, we ought to think twice before we criticize their judgment and their recommendations. 

A report came to the office the other day from one of our brethren 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

who said, "Well, if the President expresses his opinion on these political matters, the people will do just the opposite to what he says." We would not like to believe that this is true among the Latter-day Saints, but if there are any of us who feel that it is true, we ought to search our own hearts and see if that is the kind of faith we have in the leaders of this great Church. There are those all over the world including religious leaders today who are looking with despair upon the present conditions of the world and they are wondering how we are going to find the way out. While I was in the South, I read in one of the largest newspapers in Atlanta a long article written by Bishop Candler of the Methodist Church of Atlanta, a man who is respected all over this nation, and one of the great leaders of his people. After decrying the conditions, the lack of faith and the lack of leadership in the world, he closed his article with these words, 'We need the reappearance of prophets sent of God." When even religious leaders feel the need of prophets sent of God why shouldn't we feel the need of following the prophets who are in our midst who are sent of God ? Shortly after that, in the city of Atlanta, in November 1936, Bishop Ainsworth addressed a conference of Methodists relative to alarming conditions observed today and urged the people of all faiths to engage in a crusade to save civilization from moral decadence. And then the Bishop added : "Never in the nation's history was the arresting voice of a prophet of God more needed than it is today. Tremendous forces of reconstruction are at work and their mighty currents are changing the shore lines of our civilization. Millions of our people have lost their moorings. Civilization has reached the crossroads and the more serious minded leaders of the race are wondering where we are going." 

If this be the opinion of religious leaders of the world and they openly acknowledge that never in the history of the world has the arresting voice of a prophet been so needed as it is today, why shouldn't we pray for faith and courage to follow the prophets the Lord has given us? So far as I am concerned I wish we as Latter-day Saints had the faith to follow these men whom God has chosen to lead us, endowed with the inspiration and revelation of heaven, so that their voices and their judgments and their instructions and their advice would have first place in our lives regardless of any political party or political doctrine. It seems to me that it has almost come to the point in our Church where even if they express their thoughts on some of the very fundamentals for which the Church has ever stood, for which every prophet in this great Church has stood, they are criticized by some of the brethren on the grounds that they are meddling in politics. 

WARNING OF DR. JOHN M. REINER 

There stood in this pulpit in January 1898 Dr. John M. Reiner, a Roman Catholic Priest of New York, who had been attending the meetings regularly for some time, and President Woodruff and Brother Penrose were on the stand. President Woodruff called him up to the pulpit. He stood here, and after giving the reasons why he had found it necessary, impelled by the reports he had heard, to make investigation  our claims, he made this statement : "The Church of God need never fear an enemy from without, but the enemy within your walls, he who walks with you side by side into your tabernacle, or into your temple, he who makes the same profession, he who speaks the same language, he who pretends to have the same religion and believe in the. same revelations and to be guided by the same authority, but whose heart is far from God and who lives an ungodly life. He is the worst enemy you have and in due time if you do not clean out your house from such people, God Himself will smite you with pestilence." 

I believe, my brothers and sisters, that our greatest danger as a people is from within, and I would like to believe that the Latter-day Saints believe in the leaders of this great Church to the point that they are willing to accept their counsel and advice. I think sometimes we almost bind them so that when they have the inspiration of Almighty God and would like to speak to us they hesitate for fear some of us will feel that they are interfering with political affairs. If I had my way I would weclome the day, come it as soon as God may grant, when these men with whom I am associated so intimately and whose very intimate thoughts I know and their desires for the welfare of this people and the welfare of the Kingdom of God, might not only be issuing instructions to this great Church but to this great nation, which we are told is a land choice above all other lands and over which Christ our Lord, as decreed, shall reign, as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, because in this land it is decreed that the new Jerusalem of the Lord our God shall be established. 

A PRAYER ANSWERED 

I heard an experience the other day of one of our Stake Presidents, a grand and noble man, and I respect him, and I am going to take the liberty of repeating it here without mentioning names because it illustrates the kind of faith I think we ought to have in these leaders of ours. Sometime ago an article was published over the signature of the First Presidency and it seemed to irritate him and it irritated others because it dealt with some political measures, and he thought it was not right for the Presidency of this Church to express themselves on such matters. He went into his office to think it over, and he went into his private room and prayed about it. When he came out from that moment of prayer, he decided that if these men were prophets of God they had a right to speak, and it was his place and his responsibility to follow them and to respect their counsel and advice. That is the kind of faith I like to see in this Church. 

A LESSON IN THE SAVIOR'S WORDS TO PETER 

I think sometimes as I listen to men criticizing the leaders of the Church, and we have some among us who do that, of the words of the Savior to Peter of old. You will remember that constantly Peter was checked on by the Master, and shortly before His crucifixion, He said, "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat; but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not; and 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren." Peter was sure he was converted and so he answered. "Lord, I am ready to go with Thee both into prison and to death". And He said, "I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me." 

And so I feel sometimes when we are not willing to follow the counsel and advice of our leaders, in substance, we, as Peter of old, deny that we know them; for surely we know them not in their true positions and in their true work as prophets of the Lord Jesus Christ except we be willing to follow them even though it be unto death itself. 

The Master said," They have Moses and the prophets ... if they hear not the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead." 

God grant that ye may stand as united brethren and that we uphold those whom God has appointed to preside over us, and if we do this, my brethren and sisters, I have no fear but that this Church shall hurriedly and speedily take its place as God has decreed. God bless you all I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang "Still, Still With Thee" by Shelley. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is a source of great joy to me, my brothers and sisters and friends, to meet with you in the sessions of this Conference and to partake of the spirit of these gatherings. I rejoice greatly in the presence with us today of President Heber J. Grant in the measure of health and strength that he enjoys. I pray with you that he may continue to enjoy vigor and life and accomplish the mission which he has before him in great measure, as long as he desires. I pray for the blessings of the Lord to attend his Counselors. I sustain them fully and wholly, and I sustain all of the General Authorities and all the local authorities; all the Stake Presidencies and Ward Bishoprics and Mission Presidents; and all who have part in this work. I realize how great and responsible this work is, and what a joy there is in the accomplishment of righteous deeds. I pray that the Lord may bless me in the things I may have to say this afternoon. 

There have been many important messages presented to us today and yesterday. I sense all that has been said as being of great importance and welfare to us, and I desire that I may sustain in every respect the responsibilities that rest upon me, in common with you, to measure up to every duty and labor to the very fullest extent possible. I have in my heart nothing but great rejoicing in the work in which I am engaged with you and I desire to qualify in the fullest measure for every undertaking, responsibility, and blessing that the Lord has given me. I realize that the blessings of the Lord are with us. I realize that His desire is for our progress, our salvation, and our exaltation in every respect, to the extent that we will fulfil every commandment that He has given us. And so I say that I am prepared, and desire to measure up to every responsibility that the Lord has given. I have great joy and satisfaction in consideration of the kindness shown to me by my brethren, and by all of you, my brethren and sisters. 

My mind has rested to some extent on the responsibilities of the Priesthood, but this subject has been touched upon by some who have spoken, so I have decided to speak of other things. 

HUMAN AND DIVINE GOVERNMENT 

There are many principles revealed and many covenants made by the Lord with His children who have taken upon them His name to serve Him. There are other agreements or covenants made by men one with another which are to do with civil affairs, and are intended to be honorably complied with. We call these agreements or covenants. The agreements or promises made to mankind by the Lord are in the nature of divine covenants, or divine understandings, and these the Lord has made to His children, through His faithful servants. To the extent that mankind has fulfilled the conditions they have received the blessings and the promises the Lord has made. 

I might relate a number of these things. You are familiar with them in the history of the world and the hand-dealings of the Lord with His children. He made promises to Adam that he should have dominion over every living thing. Adam was true to his covenants and he fulfilled his part. And so it has been with Enoch and with Noah. When Noah received the commandment of the Lord he fulfilled that covenant faithfully and received a blessing. So with Moses and other ancient prophets. Coming down through the various dispensations we find that John the Baptist received the authority and followed the instructions of the Lord to preach the Gospel. To him was given authority to perform the ordinance of baptism upon those who manifested repentance; who first had faith in God, and who had grown in the spirit of repentance and the desire to be forgiven of their transgressions or shortcomings. John the Baptist received the keys of that authority and held them in all the centuries from the time of the Savior until the nineteenth century. And the Savior himself gave to mankind the promise that through faith in God and through repentance they could be baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, whereby they should receive the confirmation of the baptism by fire and the Holy Ghost. 

COVENANTS IN THIS DISPENSATION 

In this dispensation the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph many things and gave him instructions, and among other instructions which were given and blessings which he received was the restoration of the holy sacrament of the Lord's supper; and in like manner the eternal covenant of marriage, — one of the greatest promises made to men in earlier days which has been restored again in these days. 

How sacred and important it is that men and women should qualify 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

— those who have accepted the truths of this Gospel of Jesus Christ, and have received authority of the holy Priesthood by divine restoration — to partake of the spirit of this responsibility and this covenant, and to enter into that promise and that blessing. We and our children are entitled to receive these blessings if we live for them, and observe them with all our hearts, in love and kindliness, in justice and righteousness. 

THE COVENANT OF ETERNAL MARRIAGE 

Now my brethren and sisters, I consider this quite important. I felt I would like to talk briefly about this particular covenant the Lord has given. In earlier days, in the early history; of mankind, we are told that for this cause should a man leave father and mother and cleave unto his wife, and they twain should be one flesh. We are intelligent beings. We are eternal beings, and inasmuch as we try to do the will of the Lord and keep His commandments He will bless us and fulfil His promises to us. And so, in this latter day, He has given this covenant through the authority of the holy Priesthood, restored again in these days, whereby His sons and daughters who have observed to do His will and have received the authority and fulfilled the covenants shall be entitled to go forward and be united for time and for eternity, and that that covenant should be binding upon them to the extent that they live for it throughout all time. It is a remarkable thing to think about, to realize what eternity means. It sobers one considerably when one thinks of entering into a covenant of this kind, not only for this life, but for the life to come. It justifies very careful consideration on the part of those who enter into it. The man and the woman should be worthy; they should exemplify in their lives every principle of the Gospel to the very best o E their ability, and they should strive to grow in patience and in kindliness, in good-will and love towards each other, and especially try to exemplify the finest and highest principles of the Gospel and of the Priesthood they have received. 

A PRINCIPLE WITH PROMISE 

The Prophet Joseph Smith received many instructions in this last dispensation of the fulness of times, and among them were other commandments and other instructions given of the Lord, one of which was the principle of tithing, which is the Law of the Lord, given to mankind that through their faithful observance of that principle they should grow in righteousness and in truth, and be prospered. It is a principle with a promise, and all Latter-day Saints who have undertaken to observe that principle are blessed, blessed particularly spiritually, but also prospered temporally, so that they are able to meet their obligations. I testify to the truth of this, because I know the Lord is a loving Father. He has given us great blessings in the observance of this as well as of every other commandment. 

MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE 

With regard to the matter of marriage and divorce, not only in this nation, but in all the nations of the world, I would like to say that scandalous conditions prevail to a large extent. People have neglected eternal marriage; they have done away with the eternal covenant and have substituted therefor civil covenants which endure only until death. 

Conditions throughout the nations referred to are far from what they should be. Instead of marriage being recognized as a sacred covenant, as given by the Lord to mankind, it is too often a temporary tie between man and wife, subject to divorce. Such conditions I say are too prevalent in the world. Men and women are too illy situated to sense the seriousness and the vitality, importance and righteousness of the eternal covenant. 

CAUSES OF DIVORCE 

In going over some of the causes of divorce in this nation I find that there are three main causes: First is cruelty. Generally speaking that is more prevalent in the case of the woman, who feels she is unfairly treated by her husband. Thirty-two per cent of the cases of divorce are for cruelty; twenty-eight percent are for the cause of desertion; and seven and one-half per cent for adultery, which is a very serious charge. These are some of the causes which bring about divorces and are obtained by women, which would indicate that the women are more badly treated by their husbands than the husbands by the wives. 

There are more legal causes for divorce on the part of the wife than the husband. One-third of the divorces occur after four years or less of marriage. One third of the divorces are from five to nine years; and one-third of divorces are for over ten years. That indicates something of the conditions with regard to that principle. 

The Ladies Home Journal, about a year or two ago, made a survey of the causes of divorce. They found that sixty-nine percent of the women believe in divorce. Money, they say, is the chief cause of friction. Young people, they find from the conclusions, should be taught more about sex before they are married. Sex instructions, they say, should be given by their parents. 

Now, these are some of the conditions which prevail in the world. The Latter-day Saints generally believe whole-heartedly, thoroughly, loyally, truly and eternally, in the principle of eternal marriage — marriage for eternity as well as for time — and yet there are many young people in the Church who are not subscribing to this condition — this eternal covenant. They are missing a great opportunity. Too many hasty marriages are very often the occasion for hasty divorces. But those who enter into the covenant of eternal marriage, in my judgment, are those who carefully consider what they are doing, wisely, prayerfully, and earnestly striving to be led and guided into righteousness, so that they resist hasty marriage and every influence that is not in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord. 

As an example of what has been achieved by the Latter-day Saints 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

in overcoming- this condition of hasty marriages and divorces, and the tendency to disregard the covenants that are made, I want to call your attention to the records, because the Church has kept a record for years with regard to these statistics which are of concern to us. They have been kept as accurately as they could be obtained. 

STATISTICAL COMPARISONS 

I should like to refer you to certain results which indicate some of the comparisons of marriage and divorce in the nation of the United States as compared with those of the Latter-day Saints. The last year of which we have records was in 1938. The marriage rate of the United States as a whole was 10.41 per thousand population, as compared with 17.5% per thousand population of the Latter-day Saints, which is 70% greater. The divorce rate was 1.71 per thousand population as against 1.04 for the Latter-day Saints. This was about 40% less. But that result was obtained from the record of civil marriages, and not from those performed in the temples of the Lord. In the Latter-day Saint Temples where such ordinances are performed the result was, for those who entered into marriage for eternity .28 per thousand population, or about 83% less. That indicates something of the difference where people observe this covenant that the Lord has given for our eternal welfare. 

It is a matter of great importance to every Latter-day Saint. Worthy parents sense the importance of teaching their children this eternal principle. Stake Presidencies, Bishoprics, and all the officers throughout the Church realize that in teaching this divine principle they are instructing worthy young people in the proper observance of an eternal principle of great promise and blessing to all who righteously observe it. 

This is one of the great things to think about, that the covenants they make in this life will endure for eternity, if they live in harmony therewith. The blessings of God will attend those bonds if worthily observed. The conclusions are that those who do these things through their willingness and righteous desires to observe these commandments, grow in virtue and regard the sacredness of the covenants and generally are more faithful and dependable and worthy than those who marry for time only. 

WHAT OTHERS SAY ABOUT US 

Now I would like to say another word. Some time ago I noticed a newspaper article coming from the Coast with regard to eugenics and marital conditions among the Christian peoples of this nation. This briefly states that Dr. Paul Poponoe, social expert and director of the Institute of Family Relations, addressing the California division of the American Eugenics Society, referred to an investigation made by Dr. Ellsworth Huntington of Yale University in the following words : "Dr. Ellsworth Huntington at Yale University has calculated the number of great grandchildren likely to represent the present day leaders in the 

United States. This is based on a study of persons listed in 'Who's Who,' and therefore represents the fertility only of eminent persons, not of the rank and file. He finds the Mormons have a prospective advantage of more than 400 per cent over their nearest competitors. Jews are almost at the bottom of the list. 

"From the sample in 'Who's Who,' 1000 leading adherents of the Mormon faith at the present day will be represented by 10,200 great grandchildren. 

"A thousand Lutherans will have only 1950 great grandchildren; Baptists 1560; Methodists 1458; Roman Catholics 1310; Congregationalists 1125; Unitarians 1025; Episcopalians 910; Jews 755; and Universalists 500. 

"The low birthrate of the modern Jew is almost world-wide." 

Now, that is a challenge to mankind as to what the Latter-day Saints, who are faithful in the observance of this eternal covenant, represent in comparison with mankind generally. Prominent people in other churches, because they have not observed to do these things which make for greater stability, greater love, greater patience, greater consideration, and every other quality, are not able to measure up to the same standards as the Latter-day Saints have achieved. 

May the Lord bless us and help every one of us to strive to harmonize our desires with our families to these fine standards that we have referred to that the Lord has established. He is blessing mankind to the extent that we live and keep His commandments, and I testify to you that these principles are true. The Lord is kindly towards His people. May His blessings continually attend us. I testify to you that this is His work, the restoration of the Gospel in these days. These brethren who preside over us are men who are guided by the inspiration and power of the Lord. I pray that we may desire to live in such a way that we may be worthy of the trust vested in us, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. First Counselor in the First Presidency 

You brethren, returned Mission Presidents, we shall now turn to you to give us the balance of the afternoon. Again I suggest to you that we should like to hear as many as we can. We can hear more if you will speak five minutes and quit than if you speak ten minutes, and anything under five minutes is five minutes. 

Will Brother William T. Tew, Jr., formerly president of the East Central States Mission please come to the stand. 

ELDER WILLIAM T. TEW, JR. 

Former President of the East Central States Mission 

I am very happy to be here this afternoon and to take the place of my old friend, A. Richard Peterson. We were together in school, preparing for our missions abroad. In years past we both filled missions 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 5 Second Day 

in foreign lands, and we have also been in foreign lands and at home presiding over missions during the past few years. 

I am happy to be here today to mingle with my brethren and sisters in this great tabernacle. We have been thrilled today listening to this great choir — the harmony, the volume, the fervor, the enthusiasm, the inspiration that seems to fill these singers has in turn thrilled this audience and the unseen audience that perhaps numbers hundreds* of thousands. 

Since returning home about five or six weeks ago I have been asked many times, "Are you glad to be home?" I can honestly say to my brothers and sisters that I am glad to be home. I was glad when I was in the mission field, but when my mission was completed and I was released, why shouldn't I be glad to be back among my brethren ? I believe that when one puts his whole soul into the missionary work for a period of three years or more, he deserves a release. If he doesn't put his soul into it, he deserves a release long before the three years are up. 

We have had great joy in our mission. The Lord has blessed us with health and strength, and He has increased our testimonies of the Gospel. We have had great joy in mingling with our Saints abroad, many of whom are here today at this great Conference. We have enjoyed the companionship, the loyalty and love of your boys and girls who have been sent there as missionaries. I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is nothing in the world more dear to me than the love of these young people who have filled honorable missions in the mission field. They are an inspiration to those who labor among them; they are the stalwart defenders of the faith; they are the "hope of Israel" because the "hope of Israel" is the youth of Zion. The future of this Church and the salvation of our Church rests with the youth. 

My brethren and sisters and friends, I have been impressed very much within the last few days studying things regarding our Savior's life. One of the things that occurred to me last evening as well as this afternoon is the experience of our Savior as a boy of twelve in the temple of the Lord. When His mother sought Him she found Him both asking and answering questions among the wise men and lawyers of the temple. His question to her was, "Wist ye* not that I must be about my Father's business?" I do not know any greater ideal, any greater goal or objective in life that you and I can have, or that young people can have in their souls than the one embodied in that question. We should be about our Father's business, and the question arises in turn, "What is our Father's business ?" 

We have been told that the Lord's work and the Lord's glory is to bring to pass man's immortality and man's eternal life; and eternal life we are told is a quality of life, the kind of life that God Himself lives, that kind of life that Jesus, the Christ, came to give — life abundant, rich and full and joyful. That is the Lord's business; that is my business as one of His children; that is your business, my brethren and sisters, as the children of the Lord. Though we grant the fact that the Lord is Omnipotent, it seems to me that in this realm of His work, bringing  pass man's eternal life, the Lord does need you and me, because I claim — I may be wrong — but I claim the Lord cannot give me eternal life, that quality of life, that degree of joy which is celestial, unless I am willing to do my duty and keep His commandments, assist my fellow men in learning His commandments and encouraging them in keeping those commandments. 

I am sure the Lord spoke a glorious truth when he said to Oliver Cowdery and others : "If you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father!" 

And so we have rejoiced in the mission field in devoting ourselves to the service of the Lord. We have brought into the Church in the last three years between twelve and thirteen hundrd souls, converts and children. We have traveled over a hundred thousand miles. I have attended and preached in more than a thousand meetings. How much good has been done rests of course with the future. 

My brethren and sisters, we have increased in testimony. We bear our testimony to you this afternoon that this is the work of the Lord, and the only way to bring peace and joy to the world is by knowing the Lord's commandments and by keeping them. 

My five minutes are up. From the bottom of my heart, I want to ' thank the parents of those boys and girls who have served in the mission field. I do thank them and am grateful for their lives, for their devotion and for their service. May the Lord bless these young people at home that they may keep in the harness, that they may be kept in the faith, that they may be an inspiration to all those with whom they associate, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER PRESTON NIBLEY 

Former President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I desire to take this occasion to express the gratitude that Sister Nibley and I feel for the opportunity we have had to serve as missionaries in the Northwestern States Mission. This was my second mission, and it was her first. I can say that we enjoyed every minute of our time. 

We were sent out, according to President McKay, for two and a half to three years, but we remained there three years and eight months. 

Oregon was not a new country to us, as my father had been there many years previously, and I had been there as a child. We have thousands of Latter-day Saints in the northwest, and many more are migrating out there on account of business and other opportunities. Besides the Portland and Seattle Stakes we have some ninety-two branches and Sunday Schools. We left 130 missionaries, whom we dearly love. 

When I received my release from the First Presidency, I did not know whether I wanted to come home or not, I felt so interested in my work. I remembered what my father told me about his mother when she was dying; she turned to him and said : "Charlie, this dying is no doings of mine." (Laughter) 



94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

One of the things which has pleased us has been the fine leadership we have had from President Grant and his Counselors. As Bishop Richards said, so I say, that the Latter-day Saints have the finest leadership in the world, our First Presidency. I express my loyalty to them. No one wrote me more frequently than President Grant, kind, loving, encouraging letters. I received many from him. When I opened his letters and read : "Dear Preston," and found that they closed, "Yours affectionately, Heber J. Grant," I felt close to my President. He was my President thirty-five years ago when I was a missionary in Europe, and now he is nearing his eighty-fourth birthday, and I thank my Heavenly Father that he has been preserved to us. 

President McKay has been all that a brother and leader, could be, and we have loved him and his leadership, and we love him now. I did not hear from President Clark so frequently, but President Qark, I always knew you were there, and I knew you were back of us. 

Brother and sisters, we tried to look after your missionaries. We never took our eyes away from them; we watched them by day and by night, and encouraged them so that they would return home and be an honor to you. We watched their health, we watched everything pertaining to them. 

I think our converts are being made in the northwest principally through the Latter-day Saints who reside there. They bring their neighbors to Church, and we are baptizing the neighbors of our Saints. Many hundreds have joined the Church. During our presidency over 2,000 were baptized in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Now, with the other mission presidents here, I do not know whether I should say it or not, but during the first six months of this year the Northwestern States Mission led the Missions of the United States in tracts distributed and Gospel conversations, and in baptisms per missionary. 

I am grateful that we received an honorable release from the First Presidency. We are happy to be home, and we shall continue to serve in any capacity to which the Brethren call us. 

I bear you my testimony that this is the work of God, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, sent to restore the Gospel in this last dispensation. I leave you this testimony, and I do it humbly, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang "I Will Give Thanks Unto the Lord," by CampbellTipton. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

I am afraid, my brethren and sisters, you will have to say that this choir is better than we were. I thank them, and I thank their employers who permit them to come and sing for us so beautifully this afternoon. 


