5
Morning
04 04 1936
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon 
5
20-24

None

None

I rejoice, my brothers and sisters, in the splendid spirit that has been evidenced in this first meeting of this conference; and am happy with the splendid report that has been presented of Church progress in 1935. It is stimulating to know of the very favorable conditions that prevail throughout the Church, and toward the Church by our fellowmen in this nation and in other places throughout the world. I realize that, after all, the progress that we make as a people depends in large measure upon our actions. I was interested in the expression of the President that "Zion is growing" and is spreading abroad. 

WHAT AND WHERE IS ZION 

What is Zion and where is Zion? I would like to read to you a few things that President Brigham Young stated about that very thing. He said, "Where is Zion? Where the organization of the church of God is. And may it dwell spiritually in every heart. And may we so live as to enjoy the spirit of Zion always." Further he said, "When we conclude to make a Zion we will make it; and this work commences in the heart of each person." Again, "This is the land of Zion. West of us is a body of water that we call the Pacific, and to the east there is another large body of water which we call the Atlantic, and to the north is where they have tried to discover a northwest passage. These waters surround the land of Zion." Again, "What is Zion? In one sense Zion is the pure in heart. But there is a land that will ever be called Zion. It is North and South America." Finally, he states "Zion will extend eventually all over the earth. There will be no nook or corner upon the earth but what will be Zion. It will all be Zion." 

ZION WHERE VIRTUE AND RIGHTEOUSNESS PREVAIL 

Now, as I read these statements I conclude that Zion is a place where virtue and righteousness are practised, and where the love of the Lord prevails. Wherever the Latter-day Saints settle and practise the principles of the Gospel — unity, faith, righteousness, and diligence both in spiritual and in temporal affairs, — there is Zion; where the organizations of the Church are established, and where the members of the Church take part therein. So that Zion, as has been expressed this morning, is growing and spreading abroad throughout this nation and throughout other nations. It is our privilege and responsibility as Latter-day Saints, as parents, and as leaders in the stakes and wards and missions to encourage every member of the Church, whether young or old, to endeavor to live in such a way as to partake of the spirit of Zion, which is the spirit of the Gospel; to give of our service to the advancing of the interests of the Church; to qualify as men and women who are able to do things m a temporal way for the progress of the communities in which we live; to take advantage of the opportunities that may be afforded us to grow temporally as well as spiritually and exercise a powerful influence for good among all of our fellowmen. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 

I am interested, as I am sure all of us are mutually, in the welfare of all members of the Church, both young and old. I realize that, under the conditions which have prevailed during the last four or five years, opportunities for the welfare and progress of our young people particularly have been limited. Our young people are seeking opportunities to work and to get forward in the field of life. Everything that can be done by all of us toward obtaining placements for our young people, and our older members also, should be done. Those who are able to furnish employment should strive to secure those who are upright, trustworthy, dependable and diligent. There is some improvement manifest in economic conditions at the present time, and it appears that there are greater opportunities coming for all young people who are out of employment. But, if they will seek to qualify for life in the largest measure, it appears to me that there are going to be splendid opportunities for our young people to live their lives, to grow in capacity, and faith, and to give, not only of their service for their personal welfare and progress in a financial way, but also for the advancement of the work of the Lord. 

CARE IN PLANNING FUTURE 

They must realize that the land of Zion comprises this entire western hemisphere; and that the spirit of Zion, cherished in the heart of any Latter-day Saint, will help him, wherever opportunity may offer for bettering his economic condition, to carry on with the greatest peace and satisfaction. It is, of course, ordinarily a natural desire to reside in the community in which one is raised. It requires courage to go elsewhere to become established. Wisdom and foresight and careful investigation are needed in all such cases. They must be careful to resist the attitude of looking for "greener pastures" farther away, when actually there are good opportunities at home. When desirable opportunities do offer, and when the proposed location affords established Church organization, their determination should be to affiliate with the Church organization; and take active part in such service along with their employment. Such activity will enable them to resist all influences that are harmful to their real progress in life, and to become "builders of Zion." 

Now, it seems to me that in order to be prepared to take advantage of larger opportunities, both temporal and spiritual, our young people should carefully develop certain specific objectives: 

First, to widen their material horizons to include all localities where the organizations of the Church are established. To realize that in all this broad land, where the Church is functioning and where opportunities are offered them of suitable means of livelihood, there is no good reason why they should not establish themselves. To broaden their spiritual horizons so that they gain a genuine testimony of the Gospel, and, at the same time, respect the beliefs of others who have different creeds, or no creeds. Even if their occupations should take them to localities not provided with church facilities, they should take the spirit of Zion with them, and, as President Young states, "make a Zion." 

COOPERATION IN COMMUNITY WELFARE 

In connection with this matter, I think that there are opportunities in the communities of this state and other states of this intermountain country for economic improvement. It is evident that, particularly in this state, one of the requisites for growth in various settlements, is the conserving of all possible flood and waste waters. Another is the cultivation of the spirit of true cooperation in the development of local enterprises that will yield the maximum of financial returns and of employment to the local people. This matter deserves the careful consideration and initiative of the leaders in all our communities. Such undertakings will help to provide further opportunities for the young people. 

PROPER HOME TRAINING AND CHURCH ACTIVITY 

The second objective that I think our young people should gain is proper home training, thorough Church teaching and spiritual activity. This is a challenge to all parents and Church officers. Thereby they will become established in the faith of the Gospel, and bring forth the works thereof, by living clean lives, by practising all the splendid virtues, such as straightforwardness, reliability, industry, initiative and kindliness, and by exemplary service in the Church wherever they may be. Such examples prove to be a very powerful means of missionary work. 

LEARNING A TRADE OR PROFESSION 

The third objective for which, I think, every boy and girl should strive is to be sure to get a good secular education which will give them a proper foundation upon which to grow in knowledge and understand. And that education should be coupled with sound religious training that will give proper balance to their thoughts and actions, and develop a high standard of character and morals. Likewise, they should be able to apply that knowledge in a practical way in the affairs of life. Every one should learn how to do at least one thing well — that is to specialize in a trade, in agriculture, business or a profession. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF CHURCH OFFICERS 

I think also in a larger measure we as general officers of the Church, stake, ward, branch and mission officers, and members of the priesthood, should consider and inquire after the welfare of all the young people who are in our midst, and make systematic effort to encourage them to take part in the Church activities, as well as to aid them, where necessary, to secure employment for which they are particularly fitted. There is so much work that needs to be done for the advancement of the Church in every locality that every one who is willing can properly be assigned to do that which will be for his spiritual progress and the welfare of others; and at the same time whereby he will not need to neglect either his secular affairs nor his family. Thus he will thereby develop that proper balance which promotes stability and peace and happiness. 

UNITY AND ACTIVITY BRING PROGRESS 

Now, wherever the Latter-day Saints may live, whether they be in the heart of what we call Zion, where the organization of the Church is most complete, or whether it be in other localities, where there are few in number, it appears to me that through the unity and helpfulness which the Gospel teaches, they can help one another to live better lives by example and by kindly influence, and thereby promote greater spiritual strength among all members, as well as to interest those who are not members of the Church. 

Another important factor in the welfare and safety of our young people everywhere who take part in Church affairs is that they are thereby safeguarded from evils, temptations and dangers to which many others succumb. Attendance at church services and giving service in church organizations brings one in contact with ward officers who are interested in the welfare of members. Thereby, young men and women can obtain wise counsel and be protected from despondency and rash actions. 

UPRIGHT LIVING PRODUCES CONFIDENCE 

Experience proves that the standards by which true Latter-day Saints live are powerful means in enabling them to secure positions of trust. Right living, high principles, faith and good works, loyalty, industry and integrity, coupled with particular aptitude in any direction, are all greatly in demand in the world of affairs. I have recently had occasion to learn of many instances of young people who are recognized where they are employed, because of their religion. And, because of their habits and qualifications, which follow observance of principle, are valued as employees in the particular lines for which they are qualified. Intelligent employers today, who are engaged in all the various business affairs, desire and demand employes of good habits, alert minds, trustworthiness, willingness, persistence, and energy. There are many instances where young people have been employed simply because they are known as Latter-day Saints. What a wonderful tribute that is to the faith which we have espoused! How important it is that every one of us should measure up to these standards, and likewise encourage every other member of the Church to establish in his or her life those principles which will make them worthy of confidence everywhere. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the Gospel in which we are engaged. I realize that it is a means of growth in every way for every one of us; and that if we will live for it we shall be blessed in every respect. If we are active and diligent in the promotion of faith and righteousness we ourselves shall gain the benefit. I rejoice in the fact that this Gospel is divinely restored to us in these days; that through it we can gain so many opportunities and blessings. 

May the Lord help us, every one, to be appreciative of these things and to live for them. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
