10
Afternoon
04 04 1936
Elder Joseph J. Daynes 
174
33-36

None

None

I should like to express a word of appreciation to this marvelous musical organization. The rendition of the various numbers has been beautiful. I extend my compliments to the director, organist, and members; and likewise to those who have prepared the various numbers. 

The sight of this vast audience is indeed an inspiration, something which we do not experience in the mission field. I bring you greetings from the Western States mission, a very delightful place. For the benefit of those who know not the territory of which it is composed, may I say that it includes the states of Colorado, New Mexico, Nebraska, the major part of Wyoming, the Black Hills of South Dakota, and Council Bluffs, Iowa. Unlike some of the other eastern missions, we have but three million people in our territory, but in area it covers a vast field. A tour of the mission, which contemplates visiting each of the various branches and districts, would represent approximately ten thousand miles of travel. We have eighty-three missionaries at the present time, and I am happy to bring word that they are all well, and each and every one doing his full duty. We feel very proud at the reception that is extended us by the people living in those various states. Very little prejudice is found, but the glad hand is extended and we feel greatly comforted at the progress that is being made. 

May I say that we are keeping in close touch with the labors and activities of our missionaries, and rejoice in the splendid record of last year, showing an average daily service in the ministry, of twelve and one-half hours every day for every one of our missionaries. Our baptisms for last year were very encouraging. In fact, from what I have learned, we had the largest number of baptisms ever recorded in any one year since that mission was organized. Our tithes show a substantial increase. The faith and devotion of the people are marvelous and beautiful. We have eleven full-term missionaries out in the mission field. There are several others who are getting ready, and we feel comforted in the fact that the parents in our mission are able to provide this education for their boys and girls. We have had many unusual faith-promoting incidents. The sick, nigh unto death in many cases, have been marvelously healed. We have seen the casting out of devils on more than one occasion. The power of God has attended the ministry of the elders, who are doing their part to promote the glorious doctrines of Jesus Christ. As I think of this Church and its ideals and its accomplishments, it is nothing short of marvelous. To me, the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are one and the same, inseparable, indivisible, working hand in hand together. The people of the world today, many of them, are crying out aloud as they did on the day of Pentecost, "Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved?" 

The Gospel affords a happy retreat. It is the place where men and women can be comforted and their souls can be built up, where they can receive the manifestations of God Almighty. I thank my Father in heaven for this knowledge, limited though it may be, of the great truths as found in this Church. I know that God lives, and I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet, and may I say, I know that Heber J. Grant likewise is a prophet. 

There has never been a moment of time since this Church was organized, on April the 6th, 1830, that the power and the authority of the Presidency and the right to direct this great latter-day dispensation has not been with this Church. It has not been broken up. It has not been changed. It has been continuous. And it offers to the world today that same power, that same glory, and those beautiful privileges that were extended during the life of the Prophet. 

I want to tell you the people of the world are beginning to appreciate the fact that there is something to that Church called "Mormon;" in fact, the badge of Mormonism today is as the stamp of sterling upon silver. The word "Mormon" on our business cards is sufficient to give us entree into the highest circles of citizenship. 

Last Sunday, as has been reported by President Grant, there was dedicated at Laramie, Wyoming, a very wonderful and beautifully constructed building to be used for the education of the young people of the Church. The building was crowded, both morning and afternoon sessions. I was very much impressed with the remarks made by Dr. Crane, the President of the University. He made one statement that profoundly interested me. He said that he had been the president of that university for sixteen years, and during that time he had never had one Latter-day Saint boy or girl come before him for reprimand. There are three thousand students enrolled in that university, one hundred and twenty-five of whom are Latter-day Saints. We feel that with the completion of that building many more of our young people who are at the present time going to other places for education will remain in their own state. 

We have in our mission twenty-eight branches, and may I say that recently while in the southwestern part of Colorado, in one of these small branches in which we have fifty-five members enrolled, I was thrilled at the spirituality found. Of that number there are twenty-two male members over twelve years of age. Every one of them observes the Word of Wisdom. Not one of them uses profanity. Every one of them pays a tithe, — that is, those who are old enough and who earn money. Recently in making a survey for possible part-time missionary material in this small branch we found that of the twenty-one male members there were twelve who volunteered to do missionary work, among them the president, his two counselors and the branch clerk, the presidency and secretary of the Mutual Improvement Association, the Sunday School superintendent, one counselor and the secretary and two priests. The balance of the twenty-one were deacons. It is an indication that there is faith out in the mission fields. And when I go down there to visit these wonderful people I see instead of ten per cent or fifteen per cent, or twenty per cent of the population of that branch in attendance, one hundred and fifty per cent. They bring in their neighbors and friends, and they glory in the opportunity of hearing the truths as explained by the servants of the Lord. 

I love my work, my brothers and sisters. My life has been spent for many years in the commercial field, but with it I have undertaken to be active in the Church. Never have I experienced any activity in my life comparable with this call that has come, to preach the Gospel and to bring souls unto repentance. It is glorious and beautiful. And I thank my Heavenly Father that I have thus been counted worthy. 

I want to say to the parents and the bishops of any of our missionaries who may be here, that they send you their love. May I suggest to you bishops if you could occasionally write a letter to any of them, it would give them great comfort and joy. One of our elders who has been in the field nearly two years said, "I have had one letter from my bishop, and oh, how I prized it. If I could have had more I am sure I would have thought that he was more interested in my work." These elders and these lady missionaries, God bless them, are doing a marvelous and a wonderful work, and we are undertaking in our humble way to teach them true character and glorious ideals. 

Sister Daynes is doing a marvelous work with our Relief Society sisters. We have some six hundred women of the Church who are industriously undertaking to follow the ideals of the Relief Society work. When Sister Daynes goes into their midst she goes like an angel of peace, carrying her message of love and stimulation that builds faith and helps glorious motherhood. 

May God bless you all, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
