11
Afternoon
04 04 1936
Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 
154
36-37

None

None

It is never a commonplace task to speak in this historic house. I have spoken here before, but not as a missionary; perhaps my brief experience would not entitle me to speak as such now. Going away has given me a better appreciation of some things than I had before. 

During my brief absence I have seen thousands of people but I have never met any people who seemed quite so satisfied with their surroundings, with their homes, with their religion, as you seem to be. 

I have always been interested in missionary work. My interest in the past has been focused largely upon the effect this work has upon young people. In common with you I have seen a great many young men, undeveloped and inexperienced, untouched with the refining influence of the truth, go on missions, and return with a new light shining in their eyes, radiating a new influence, with something working in their hearts which has brought about a marvelous transformation in their lives. Missionary experience makes a contribution to a boy's character, to his faith, to his development, that nothing else seems to make. The ingenuity of man never devised a plan for the development of young men and women quite comparable to the missionary work of the Church. I doubt if the Church engages in any other activity that brings to it such a constant vitalization as the missionary work does. 

The Northern States Mission is made up of a section of the United States that is both rich and populous. The Church in its infancy was cradled in these states. The cradle was rocked so violently that only the hand of providence saved it. It is gratifying to know that the weary feet of our people never rested upon a spot that was not made greener thereby. 

One of the fundamental obligations resting upon this Church is to preach the Gospel to the world. This is indeed a high commission, a great and exalted calling, but the second obligation, that of living our religion, is still higher and greater. I recently heard a young missionary in one of the large cities of the East sketch in outline the organization of the Church, its plan for solving the social and economic problems that vex and distress the world. At the conclusion of the meeting a man said to me, "How does it work out? You must live in a marvelous community." That is the test to which the Church must be subjected. How does it work out? My brethren and sisters, if we have faith enough to live the plain principles of our religion, to practice what we have been taught all our days, we are destined to become the pride and glory of the earth. If we care for our poor a little better than other churches do; if the youth of this Church enjoy greater opportunities, if they grow up untouched by sin, uncontaminated with the wickedness of the world; if we are distinguished for our honesty, our sobriety, our industry; if we do actually live a little longer; if our lives are a little happier — then we have no need to fear! No bigotry can defeat us, no malice can stay our progress, no hatred can destroy us. Philosophers, educators, statesmen, and thinkers will come from afar to see how we do it. This is the day of demonstration. 1700 missionaries may preach this Gospel loud and long, far and near, but they can never preach it with the convincing power that we can do by living it. We belong to a great Church. God help us to honor it, to declare its message to the world and to vindicate in our daily lives its advantages, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen.
