18
Morning
05 04 1936
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
54-56

None

None

I hope to be able to bring to you a brief report of some of the things that are occurring in the Central States mission. I am sure they will be interesting at least to the parents of the missionaries who are laboring there. 

We are in the center place of Zion — a land that was dedicated by the servants of the Lord for the gathering of his people and from which the word of the Lord should go forth to all the earth. However, in the process of time and because the people were not able to live up to their responsibilities, the Lord decreed that his word should go forth from some other place. Today it is going forth from this place. Nevertheless, in one sense, the word of the Lord is also going forth from the very center place of Zion in that literally millions of tracts and pamphlets are being sent from the Zion Printing Company to missions all over the world. 

The thought that I want to express, if I can, the Lord helping me, is this: That the great and marvelous work in which we are engaged, and which is characteristic of every mission of the Church and is not peculiar to any one mission, is the work of the Lord — and not of man. He indicated many years before he came in the flesh that in the latter days there should go forth a book, and that in that time he would perform a marvelous work and a wonder, because the wisdom of wise men should perish, and the understanding of prudent men should be hidden; but the Lord himself should be exalted. 

I mention this because I have great comfort in the thought that even as great as our responsibility is in our mission, as in all the missions, we are not depending upon our own wisdom or our own strength to accomplish the work to which we have been called. I believe the parents of the missionaries will be comforted in the thought that their sons and daughters who have given themselves to the ministry of the Church go out under his inspiration and his protecting care. There are so many instances that indicate that God overrules all things for their blessing and benefit that might be related, but time will not permit. 

Here is an interesting experience: One of our missionaries, Elder Howard Wardle, broadcasting from a radio station in a small town in Arkansas, left his program after it was finished, picked up his grip and started for his next destination. Coming out on the main highway, he was invited by a gentleman passing by to ride in his automobile. As soon as he took his seat in the automobile, the man said: "I have just enjoyed a very interesting experience. I have a radio in my car and I have listened to a broadcast by a young Mormon elder. It was one of the finest and most delightful programs I have ever listened to." And the missionary replied, "Well, I am the one who did the broadcasting." 

You can imagine the pleasure they had in the conversation that ensued. The Lord does bring about some very unique things which indicate that his power and his blessing are over his people. 

May I say just a word about a remarkable incident "pertaining to the Book of Mormon. This, I think, is typical of many. 

Recently in one of our small Sunday Schools, a little boy whose mother was not a member of the Church came to enjoy the school. When he returned home he looked up into the face of his mother and asked: "Mother, who is Jesus Christ?" His mother was astonished and thought to herself, "Is it possible that I have never told my little boy who Jesus Christ is?" 

She asked: "Where did you hear about him?" 

"At the Mormon Sunday School," he replied. 

She decided she would go to the Sunday School. During the course of the exercises she heard something about the Book of Mormon. She asked the elders, "What is this book?" and they told her. 

"Do you allow people to read it?" 

"Yes, indeed, we welcome them to read it. Would you like to borrow one?" 

"Oh, I would like to," she said. 

She took the book home, read it and came back with this testimony: "I have never been able to understand the Bible and, therefore, have never been particularly interested in religion, but after reading the Book of Mormon carefully and prayerfully, I find that I understand the Bible." 

I have heard that testimony offered, in many forms, many times by different people — and so, my brethren and sisters, I have this thought to suggest to you: Read the Book of Mormon. You will enjoy the Bible more if you do. Let your neighbors read the Book of Mormon, and they will love the word of God. 

May the Lord bless you. He is greatly blessing us in the Central States mission. We are grateful for his watchful and protecting care, and we bear our testimonies with gratitude that we know this Church is the true Church of God and that the men who preside over it are his inspired servants and that we are, indeed, true messengers of his Church. 

God bless you. Amen.
