15
Morning
05 04 1936
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
6
46-48

None

None

FAITH, BELIEF AND KNOWLEDGE OF THIS CHURCH CONCERNING JESUS CHRIST 

I wish to state the faith, the belief, and the knowledge of the Latter-day Saints regarding Jesus of Nazareth. 

CHRIST, THE CREATOR OF THE WORLD 

We accept literally the words of John concerning the Christ: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." The Christ has declared in our own day: "I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn." 

We also accept John's declaration that Jesus Christ was the Creator of the world, that "all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made." 

We believe that in a great council in heaven held before the world was, Satan proposed one plan for creating and ruling the world and its progeny, and that Christ proposed another; that Satan's plan was rejected, as taking away the agency of man, and Christ's was accepted as keeping man's agency. 

We believe that in obedience to the Plan, Christ created the world and all that in it is, first spiritually, then temporally, and that in this work of creation he acted as one of the Great Trinity of three distinct personages, the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. 

PERSONAL APPEARANCES TO MAN 

We believe that following this creation, the Lord from time to time showed himself to man, either in person or in vision, or dream, or by speech, beginning even with Adam, and later to Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Samuel, Daniel, and others on the Eastern hemisphere, and to many prophets on the Western continents; that on this hemisphere, in one of the most glorious theophanies of all time, the Lord showed himself, before his birth, to the brother of Jared, the man of greatest faith to his time, saying: "Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood." "Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh." 

CHRIST’S BIRTH AND ATONEMENT 

We believe that in the Meridian of Time, Mary the virgin gave birth to Jesus, the Only Begotten of the Father, in very deed and fact the Son of God; that Jesus was crucified upon the cross; that he was buried and lay in the tomb till the morning of the third day when he was verily resurrected from the dead — that is, his spirit and his body reunited and he rose from the tomb a perfect, glorified, living soul, that thus Christ atoned for Adam's fall from which man is so redeemed, and that all men will by reason of that atonement be resurrected — that is, the body and the spirit of every person born into the world will at some time after death, and in the due course of the Lord, be reunited, thus fulfilling Paul's saying: "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." 

We believe that except for this atonement of Christ for the fall of Adam, man would, through all the eternities, have remained under the penalty of the mortal and spiritual death brought upon the human family by Adam. 

We thus believe Christ to be in the full, true, and most literal sense, the Creator of the world, one of the Godhead, the Only Begotten of the Father, the Son of God, the promised Messiah, the first fruits of the resurrection, the Redeemer of the world. 

A GLORIOUS MANIFESTATION IN THIS DISPENSATION 

We believe that some eighteen hundred years after the Son's death and resurrection, the Father and the Son, two glorified personages having human form, appeared to a boy fourteen years of age, even as the Lord came of old to the child Samuel in the Temple; that the Father, pointing to the Son said: "This is my beloved Son. Hear him;" and that the Son, responding to the lad's inquiry as to which of the many sectarian creeds were right, told the lad that none of them was right, and that he should join none of them. 

We believe that through the instrumentality of this same lad, Joseph Smith, grown to maturity, the Lord restored to earth the true Gospel and the priesthood of God which had been taken from the earth because of the transgressions of men. 

Hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints, living and dead, have proclaimed their absolute knowledge of the truth of every declaration I have made; some of them have sealed their testimonies with a martyr's blood. To the testimony of the humblest of all these, I wish in humility to add my own. 
