16
Morning
05 04 1936
President Heber J. Grant
10
48-50

None

None

FUNDAMENTAL BELIEFS OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

In thinking seriously of the economic condition of the world, I am convinced without doubt, that a revelation in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, known as the Word of Wisdom, given by the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth, to the Prophet Joseph Smith over one hundred years ago, would solve the economic problems not only of our country but of every other country, if it were obeyed by the people of the world. 

FOR OUR TEMPORAL SALVATION 

This Word of Wisdom teaches the Latter-day Saints to refrain from the use of tea, coffee, tobacco, and liquor, and part of it reads as follows: 

To be sent greeting: not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days —  

Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation — 

And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass them by, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen.

The Constitution Should Be Maintained 

Another thing that is needed is to maintain the Constitution of our country, and I now have pleasure in reading a declaration by Joseph Smith regarding the Constitution: 

The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is, to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a weary and thirsty land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. 

GOVERNMENTS AND LAWS IN GENERAL 

I read from a declaration of belief regarding governments and laws in general, adopted by unanimous vote of a general assembly of the Church over one hundred years ago: 

We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. 

We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied. 

THE PROPER EXERCISE OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

The leading officials of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been accused of exercising unrighteous dominion, because of the priesthood they hold. Joseph Smith was sentenced by a court martial to be shot the following morning, and General Alexander W. Doniphan refused to carry out the order of his commanding general, and said that it was cold-blooded murder. This frightened the general in command of the mob, who were expelling our people from the State of Missouri; so they imprisoned the prophet and others in Liberty jail, and while there he received from the Lord one of the most wonderful revelations ever given to our people, regarding the exercise of the Priesthood, and I have pleasure in quoting part of it: 

We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile —

Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. 

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity toward all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. 

QUOTES ARTICLES OF FAITH 

I quote the eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth articles of faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: 

We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. 

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul: We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy we seek after these things. 

I close my remarks by bearing my testimony to the world that I know, as I know that I live, that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Son, the Redeemer of the world, who came to the earth with a divinely appointed mission to die on the cross for the sins of mankind. And I bear my testimony that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God. 
