21
Afternoon
05 04 1936
President David O. McKay 
18
57-61

None

None

Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord. (Psalms 31:24.) 

A FAR-REACHING BROADCAST 

Before commenting upon the admonition expressed in this text, I desire to make brief reference to the Church-of-the-Air program rendered this morning. 

The first time that it was my privilege to stand on the brink of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, I was overwhelmed with a sense that I was not comprehending the magnitude of that great gorge. I had learned that it was over a mile down to what appeared to be a little winding stream, the mighty Colorado, and that the opposite wall was said to be 13 miles away, but I could not comprehend the majesty and sublimity of that mighty chasm. I think I had a similar feeling this morning when I saw over 10,000 people participate in the Church of the Air. I tried to visualize the potential audience that listened to your congregational singing, for there were probably ten million people in that potential audience. I am sure I cannot comprehend the significance of that great service. One thing though is clearly defined in my mind, and that is this: That we have greater responsibility than ever to learn and to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We have greater tasks before us. The final work is not all done yet. You and I have the responsibility of taking advantage of these new and great opportunities to preach the Gospel, of making real new visions, and of bringing into the lives of Latter-day Saints and members of the world more blessed opportunities to know the way of truth. 

COURAGE GIVES STRENGTH 

We need courage to enter into those new realms; we need courage to meet our present situations and conditions, and that is why I have chosen the text, "Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord." 

In this promise are two principles that should be cherished by every truly religious man— faith and courage. What is implied in this text? We know with assurance that the Lord is keeping faith with his people; therefore, let none despair, but take courage and their hope shall not be in vain. Faith in God, trust, confidence in our fellowmen, the courage of our convictions, will enable us eventually to achieve any righteous cause. Courage is that quality of the mind which meets danger or opposition with calmness and firmness, which enables a man to face difficulties that lie in his pathway to righteous achievement. It is different from fortitude. Fortitude enables us to bear, endure; fortitude is more of a feminine quality. Courage implies facing difficulties and overcoming them. He who is or should be the guide of our lives was the most courageous of all men. "In Jesus we find bravery at the best; courage at its loftiest; heroism at its climax." True heroism defends the right and faces disaster without cringing. In this regard the Savior was the personification of true courage and heroism. Illustrative of this I need only mention the cleansing of the temple; or his fearlessly speaking the truth when his home folk turned him from Nazareth; or when the five thousand in Capernaum was reduced to only twelve to whom he turned and said, "Will ye also go away?" Never once, however, did the Master despair or turn from his destined course. This is the kind of courage we need in the world today 

A CRITICAL PERIOD 

During the last few years practically all the world has been passing through a critical period of depression. People in this intermountain region have been hit, in some respects, more severely than others. Mining, farming, and stock-raising are our principal industries. When the mines closed, many men were thrown out of employment. When the springs and rivers dried, products of farms shriveled and died. Price of cattle dropped below the cost of raising them. As a result many people are worried and disheartened. They have lost not only their farms or business interests, but their homes. Day by day men have vainly searched for honest work. After fruitless searching and inquiry, they return home almost with bitterness in their hearts. Wives with a fortitude sublime encourage their husbands even though it is more difficult for wives to struggle continually to keep up appearances, and to supply food and nourishment for their children. It is embarrassing to such men and women, accustomed to independence, comfortable living and even opulence, to accept help either from the government or the church. What, then, shall we do? 

A RETURN TO THE FARM ADVISED 

With resolute hearts, with courage to meet disaster with a smile, let us accept conditions as they are, rebuild, and with united effort regain financial and economic independence. A recent survey of the conditions in the Church indicates that 3,200 farms have been abandoned within the last few years. That means that thousands of people have been deprived of that source of income and sustenance. With promise of ample water for the coming year, let us go back to these farms, retill them, and at least produce sufficient for our own needs. I know what some of you are thinking — that you cannot make farms pay, that you left them because you got only 4c a gallon for your milk, 50c a hundred for your potatoes, 60c a hundred for your wheat, and so on to a discouraging limit. 

Well we cannot go on this way always. Dr. Widtsoe expressed a profound truth last night in the Priesthood meeting when he said, "No country can prosper unless the men who till the soil succeed." I do not know of anything else that we can do. We haven't sufficient factories to employ people who are out of work, the mines are not running to capacity. We can go back and with help to buy a few cattle and some horses, we can retill our farms. Here in this intermountain country we have a great obligation. The eyes of the world are turned toward us, not only because of the message we have, but because there are scenic wonders here which attract men from far and near. When they drive past our farms and our houses, they should see the houses painted, the farms properly tilled and the weeds along the road cut. In this we have a bounden duty that travelers might see evidence of neatness, thrift and industry, fundamental principles of the Latter-day Saints. In these efforts toward rehabilitation all must cooperate. Let the amount of money that is being given as a dole apply on the purchase of a team, a cow, chickens or implements, and thus enable men and women to get back to a life of independence. Here is one field of endeavor in which I think our hearts need strengthening, and in which we can manifest that courage and quality of mind which will enable us to meet difficulties that are ahead. 

FAITHFULNESS TO DUTY 

Another way in which we can manifest true courage, and thus bring the blessing of God upon us, is in the faithful performance of duty. This is one of the best ways for a Latter-day Saint to keep his soul sweet. No matter where, let him perform his duty honestly, conscientiously. 

Do your duty, that is best, Leave unto the Lord the rest. 

STEADYING THE ARK 

In so doing, let us not interfere with another who is doing something in a different place. It is a little dangerous for us to go out of our own sphere and try unauthoritatively to direct the efforts of a brother. You remember the case of Uzzah who stretched forth his hand to steady the ark. He seemed justified when the oxen stumbled in putting forth his hand to steady that symbol of the covenant. We today think his punishment was very severe. Be that as it may, the incident conveys a lesson of life. Let us look around us and see how quickly men who attempt unauthoritatively to steady the ark die spiritually. Their souls become embittered, their minds distorted, their judgment faulty, and their spirit depressed. Such is the pitiable condition of men who, neglecting their own responsibilities, spend their time in finding fault with others. The truly courageous heart will say: 

Let me but do my work from day to day, 
In field or forest, at the desk or loom; 
In roaring market place or tranquil room; 
Let me but find it in my heart to say. 
When vagrant wishes beckon me astray, 
"This is my work; my blessing, not my doom. 
Of all who live, I am the one by whom 
This work can best be done in the right way." 
Then shall I see it not too great nor small, 
To suit my spirit and to prove my powers; 
Then shall I cheerful greet the laboring hours, 
And cheerful turn when the long shadows fall 
At eventide, to play and love and rest, 
Because I know for me my work is best. 

I am referring to the work in the Church, not one member of which who hasn't something to do even though it be only to attend to his quorum, auxiliary, and sacrament meetings. Whatever the duty let us do it faithfully and well. 

MAINTAINING IDEALS 

Courage to maintain our ideals is another field in which we can manifest courage, and merit the approval of God in whom we trust. These are times when men should keep their heads, and not be swept from their moorings by every will-o'-the-wisp theory that is offered as a panacea of our present ills. The times call for courageous youth to hold aloft the moral standard. In that field we can find the truest moral courage. It is said that heroism is concentrated courage. Well our greatest heroes are not always found on the battle field. I think we find them also among our youth. Young men and young women who, when put in social groups, will stand up fearlessly and denounce those things which we know sap the character, the very life energy of youth. "Never was there a time in the history of the world," says Mark Hopkins, "when moral heroes were more needed. The world waits for such. The providence of God has commanded science to labor and prepare the way for such. For them she is laying her iron tracks, and stretching her wires, and bridging the oceans. But where are they? Who shall breathe into our civil and political relations the breath of a higher life?" "The most important thing in the world," says a great scientist, "is not the discovery of Galileo, Faraday, and others, but a belief in the reality of moral and spiritual values." I appeal to youth to be courageous in maintaining the moral and spiritual values of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. After all, "What is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" 

COURAGE IN FACING DIFFICULTIES 

With faith in an over-ruling power, in the personal, intimate protection of our Father — and we like to consider him such, a loving Father — let us face our difficulties with courage. 

We are not here to play, to dream, to drift, 
We have hard work to do, and loads to lift, 
Shun not the struggle; face it. 
'Tis God's gift. 

Say not the days are evil — who's to blame? 
And fold the hands and acquiesce — 
O shame! 
Stand up, speak out, and bravely, in God's name! Be Strong! 

It matters not how deep entrenched the wrong, 
How hard the battle goes, the day, how long. 
Faint not, fight on! 
Tomorrow Comes the song. 

Brethren and sisters, "be of good courage, and he will strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord." God give us power so to do, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
