17
Morning
05 04 1936
Elder Melvin J. Ballard 
1
50-54

None

None

I have been inspired, as I am sure you all have been this morning, in the privilege we have enjoyed in these two broadcasts and the messages that have been delivered. I most earnestly desire that I may continue in the same good spirit. 

FULL SIGNIFICANCE OF EVENTS NOT ALWAYS REALIZED 

I have been deeply impressed by reason of recent visits to some of the missions of the Church that we are making history fast. I am also impressed that we are often so close to great and important events we do not always realize their full significance. I have been further impressed that it is impossible for one generation to pass correct judgment upon men or measures, for one generation has often been wrong, has condemned the teachers of truth, whereas the generations that have followed afterwards have vindicated those who have been so condemned. I have discovered however in my study of the past that time is ever on the side of right and truth, and the judgment of time is always correct, for time dethrones error and falsehood, and time elevates to their right place truth and the teachers of truth. 

TIME’S VINDICATION OF A COURAGEOUS MAN 

Let me give you a few instances that have greatly impressed me. It was my privilege a few months ago to stand by a monument in Richmond, Missouri, erected by the State of Missouri to this distinguished gentleman to whom President Grant has referred — Colonel Alexander William Doniphan. It is true that an official of the State of Missouri, acting undoubtedly under the instruction of the Governor of that State, issued an order for the execution of the Mormon prophet, and it is also true that General Doniphan defied his superior officer and refused to execute the order, saying that it would be nothing short of cold-blooded murder, and that if anyone else undertook to execute that order he would be a witness against him in the courts of justice. 

I have searched the records and fail to find that General Doniphan was ever court-martialed for defying his superior. He espoused the cause of justice, and time has vindicated him, for the State of Missouri whom he defied has erected on the public square at Richmond a magnificent monument to General Doniphan, and upon it are written these words: 

Colonel Alexander William Doniphan was of immense stature, noble appearance, brilliant parts, fearless, of great moral courage, sanguine, faithful, just, poetic in temperament, a champion of the downtrodden, eloquent beyond description, and without doubt entitled to be classed among the great orators and lawyers that ever lived. 

Time vindicated him. 

TIME’S JUDGEMENT UPON ANOTHER 

What did it do to the man whom he opposed, who inspired this persecution and who ultimately signed the exterminating order that drove the entire membership of the Church in the State of Missouri out of the State itself? You will find a marker erected over the grave of Lilburn W. Boggs, the man who lifted his hand against the Prophet and who drove the Church from the State of Missouri. It is erected in the little village of Napa, California, on an ill-kept and almost forgotten grave. In a small cemetery near the town of Napa, some forty-three miles north of Oakland, lie the remains of the Governor of Missouri who declared that the Mormons would perish on the plains, and naught but their bleaching bones would remain. He also in his exterminating order said: "The Mormons must be treated as enemies and must be exterminated and driven from the State, if necessary, for the public good." And time has passed judgment upon him, has relegated him into an almost unknown grave, and no honor or glory is attached to his name. 

THE CASE OF STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS 

I visited Springfield on a recent trip through the Northern States mission with President Bryant S. Hinckley, and was reminded again of the action of two of Illinois' famous sons. One of them while a candidate for the presidency of the United States was asked what he would do with the Mormon problem — for it was just at that time that the runaway judges from Utah had circulated their falsehoods and had stirred up prejudice against our people, which ultimately brought Johnston's army to Utah — and Stephen A. Douglas, the little giant of Illinois, said that if he became President of the United States he would "apply the knife to this pestiferous cancer on the body politic and cut it out to the very roots, and sear it over with a red-hot iron." 

He was reminded, when his speech reached Salt Lake City, of a conversation he had with Joseph Smith when Douglas was an almost unknown country lawyer, in which the Prophet told him that the time would come when he (Douglas) would be a candidate for the presidency of the United States, and he warned him that if at that time he lifted his hand against Joseph Smith or his people he would feel the hand of Almighty God; and he was warned to beware lest the judgments be fulfilled upon his head. But he did not desist. He went on in his own self-laid course to defeat, failing utterly. Though his own party's candidate for the presidency in the previous election had been eminently successful, Douglas was a miserable failure, and within a year died at the very prime of his life, a broken-hearted, disappointed man. 

I have failed to find in my search a conspicuous monument erected to Stephen A. Douglas. Time dealt with him. 

LINCOLN AND THE MORMON QUESTION 

His opponent was that wise, judicious, great patriot, Abraham Lincoln, who when asked "What would you do with this Mormon problem?" is reported to have said: "When I find in the field a tough stump, instead of spending my time trying to remove it, I usually plow around it. That is what I will do with the Mormon problem. I will just plow around it." He went to victory, to honor, to fulfil his mission, and not only the State of Illinois, but the nation itself has erected to the great Lincoln the finest monument ever built to mortal man. 

TIME A FRIEND TO TRUTH, AN ENEMY TO FALSEHOOD 

If there were time sufficient I could tell you the story of others, not only from among those outside the Church, but those who apostatized and left it and lifted their hands against it. Not one of them has won honor and glory through his efforts, but time has leveled him to his proper place. I could tell you the story of countless thousands of humble men who lent their hands to the building of this, God's work, and have been lifted up beyond the plane on which they and their ancestors have traveled for generations, to a place of power and influence and intelligence and understanding that the generations before them never knew. 

This is true today as it was when uttered long ago, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is a savor of life unto life to all those who subscribe to it, and death unto death to all those who oppose it. If, therefore, the testimony of Joseph Smith and the testimony of his successors had not been the truth, it would have been discovered before now, for time is moving more rapidly than ever before to pass its judgment upon men — for we live in the age of the greatest light and learning and knowledge the world has ever known, and error is detected much easier and more quickly than ever before. If these declarations that we make were not true, time would have dissolved this church, and it would have passed away before this day. Time is vindicating misunderstood men; time is vindicating their teachings and supporting them. And that the life and practices of the people who subscribe to these teachings are rising and shining in such a way that they attract the attention of the world elsewhere makes my heart rejoice. 

THE COURSE WE SHOULD FOLLOW 

My brothers and sisters, in the light of all this, what shall our course be from here on? There is a time in the life of every man, and nation, when we stand at the crossroads. We are today, many of us, uncertain where to go and what to do. My plea to every Latter-day Saint is: If you do not know it, get a knowledge and testimony in your heart that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and the living God. There is ample evidence to satisfy any honest investigator; no one needs to say it cannot be demonstrated nor discovered. And then I plead with you to have patience with your problems whatever they are, economic or otherwise; be patient and be faithful, don't be swept off your feet by every wind of doctrine that would lead you hither and thither. Don't imagine that the schemes of men that hope and seek to solve the economic problems of the world are a substitute for that which God has given, for that which he has given this Church will stand when all the theories and schemes of men will fail. 

THE PATH TO GLORY AND EXALTATION 

I know as I know that I live that God is still with this work; that it is the truth; that the light is in the ship; that the pilot is not asleep. The dogs have barked, but the caravan, the Church of the living God, has gone forward in the past as it shall go in the future grandly on to its destiny. God help us to stay on the ship; God help us to do our part and to keep from everything that would lead us from the main path, which if we continue to travel in shall bring us to glory and exaltation, and make the ends of the earth come to learn of your ways and walk in your paths, for time's testimony and judgment having been pronounced upon this Church approves it, applauds it, and it shall stand. God help us to stay with it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
