36
Afternoon
06 04 1936
Elder David A. Smith
95
101-104

None

None

To be eligible to occupy this position with no certainty that you will be called to speak is an ordeal that keeps one in a state of anxiety. In this, I see in a measure a likeness to the second coming of our Lord, for he tells us that when he comes he will come as a thief in the night and no man will know the day or the hour thereof. We have the further warning that those who are prepared will find that day to be a day of rejoicing, while those who have not been obedient to his laws will be overtaken with sorrow. 

I rejoice in having the privilege of raising my voice with my brethren during this conference. We are living in a wonderful time, an age of many marvels. Today we hardly dare think of what tomorrow might bring. It appears to me that with man increasing his powers there is less concern for God, for the world is troubled, and contention and selfishness are found on every hand. True, friends are being raised up to assist us in the great work in which we have been called to labor, yet there are those who profess to be priests of the Most High, who are not content to teach the doctrines of the Church they represent, but resort to spreading untruths about the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. For example, I recently read an article which was written by one who certainly knows he is stating untruths. 

I refer to this article as a reminder to us that in accepting the priesthood we assume a responsibility which carries an obligation to God and our Lord and Savior and our fellows who are the children of God. The time allotted to me will only permit of a brief statement concerning some of the falsehoods that I have culled from this article: 

First. "As a religion, Mormonism has the minimum of worship." With our sacrament meetings, Sunday Schools, our priesthood quorum meetings, and the meetings of the auxiliaries, I answer, in what other church can you find such devotion? 

Second. "It has no service of sacrifice." What is sacrifice? From Adam to the coming of our Lord its purpose was to keep the children of God reminded of the great sacrifice in which the Lamb of God should be slain and offered as an atonement for the transgression of Adam. 

For even Christ our passover is sacrificed for us: 

Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. (I Cor. S :7, 8) 

Third. "It has lost completely the original and Christian idea of priesthood, etc." I answer: What was the original idea of priesthood as outlined in the New Testament? The Bible clearly describes the Church as having apostles, prophets, seventies, elders, bishops, priests, teachers, deacons, and evangelists. In what church today are such officers found? The Church record shows that approximately 86% of those who hold the priesthood in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are actively engaged in church work, or willing to labor. The only reward looked for is the promised blessings of our Father and our God. Is not such service a sacrifice as described by Paul the Apostle of old? 

Fourth. "There is no clergy class." I find no mention in the Bible of "a clergy class," nor do I find mention of a priesthood class such as constitute the clergy of today. I ask, has new revelation been given providing for this change? 

Fifth. "The speakers at their meetings are farmers, etc." From the Bible we learn that the officers of the primitive church were fishermen, tax gatherers, clerks, etc. John, the apostle chosen by our Lord, records this statement made by our Lord: 

I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away: and every branch that beareth fruit he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 

****** 

Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me.
 
******

Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples. 

******

This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you.

****** 

Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. (John 15:1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16.) 

There is ample evidence that these "farmers, etc.," who have in this day been ordained apostles, etc., are recipients of this promise. 

For what man knoweth the things of man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so, the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. (I Cor. 2:11.) 

But God has revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. (I Cor. 2:10) 

Sixth. "These 'farmers, etc.' are incapable of discussing religion on anything like the plane of the average Protestant minister." Strange, is it not, that this professional schooled clergy class have never to our knowledge converted even one of these men whom we send out as missionaries, like those sent out by the Savior, although in some cases lacking in schooling. Why? Because they go out into the world having been commissioned with authority from him, and his Spirit goes before them, and the power of the Holy Ghost is upon them, as of old. 

Our critic speaks of the "supposed" doctrines revealed to Joseph Smith. If he will read them with an honest intent, he will find every one to harmonize with the Bible, and I am certain that he cannot make a similar claim for the church he represents. 

Seventh. "The Mormon respect for the Bible is not so great as that of the average Protestant church, etc." That statement has been answered during this conference. I add, Protestantism testifies that we adhere to the teachings of the Bible more nearly than any other church. 

We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness; 

But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. 

Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 

For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: 

But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty: 

And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are: 

That no flesh should glory in his presence. 

But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption: 

That, according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. (1 Cor. 1 :23-31.) 

Ye are bought with a price; be not ye servants of men; 

Brethren, let every man, wherein he is called, therein abide with God. (I Cor. 7:23, 24.) 

Our accuser either is not acquainted with the Book of Mormon or is not honest in his criticism of our belief in the Book of Mormon. Prescott says: 

The Jewish and Christian schemes were strangely mingled together during the conquest of Mexico by Cortez and the brains of the good fathers were still further bewildered by the mixture of heathenish abominations which were so closely intertwined with the most orthodox observances. In their perplexity, they looked on the whole as the delusion of the devil, who counterfeited the rites of Christianity and the traditions of the chosen people, that he might allure his wretched victims to destruction. 

If our critic will read the Book of Mormon, and refer to fragments of records which were preserved from the destructive fires of his fellow clergymen centuries ago, he will find justification for the disturbed condition of mind of his ancient fellows. 

In his reference to "Rational Theology" he uses the tricks resorted to by some college trained clergymen. He has taken statements from several paragraphs and made them serve his purpose, ignoring the explanatory matter and the vital part of the complete quotation. I wish I had time to read it all. 

We believe, as the Bible teaches, that our Lord atoned for the transgression of Adam, which was necessary that we might follow, as mortal beings, children of the living God, and that through baptism and obedience to the laws of God we should be saved in one of the three degrees of glory, and that each person should answer for his own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. We believe that baptism must be done, by immersion, by one having authority, which is likened to a burial and a washing, and that sprinkling does not meet the requirement of the law. We believe that little children are without sin, therefore need not be baptized. We agree that mixed marriages are not desirable, and believe that all marriages that are not performed for time and all eternity by one having authority, are null and void after death. 

As to "Sins, etc." We shall earn our degree of glory through obedience to the laws of God. Any act contrary to law is sin, and displeasing to the Lord, and for such each individual will be called to answer before the judgment seat of God. The sacrifice of our Lord brought about redemption from death to each of the children of God, each in his time, according to his obedience to the divine laws. To this end we baptize for the dead as of old. 

We believe that the words of First Corinthians 15 :29 are true and set forth the plan of our Lord. Our accuser must also believe or admit that the laws have been changed, and if the Bible contains all of the word of the Lord, then this change is man-made and without authority. From the beginning of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, members have continually sought for records of their dead, and have performed ordinances in the temples as of old, and as the Church has grown, so an interest in genealogy has increased among all people, and now nations are aiding in the work; wherefore 

Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God. 

Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. (Romans 13:1, 2.) 

God grant that we shall feel the responsibility that rests upon us to the extent that we will continue to labor in faith, humbly and diligently seeking to know the will of the Father and abide in the law, so that when he comes we shall be numbered with those chosen to meet him, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
