43
Afternoon
06 04 1936
President Heber J. Grant 
10
118-119

None

None

AUDITING COMMITTEE'S REPORT 

"Salt Lake City, Utah, March 31, 1936. 

President Heber J. Grant, 

Dear President: 

We have examined the Financial Report of the Church for the year 1935, which also includes the Presiding Bishop's department. 

The Church is free from indebtedness, its financial condition is sound, the accounting is modern and complete. We heartily commend the careful management of Church finances by the First Presidency and the General Authorities of the Church. 

Respectfully submitted, 
O. W. Adams, 
John W. Hart, 
John F. Bennett, 

Auditing Committee." 

EXPRESSES APPRECIATION OF SINGING 

I am very pleased indeed to express my deep appreciation of the beautiful singing that we have had by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, the Hyrum Stake Choir, and the Tabernacle Choir. I rejoice in the splendid work of Brother Frank Asper, of Brother J. Spencer Cornwall, and of all who have helped make this conference so interesting to those who have attended. 

AN INSPIRATIONAL CONFERENCE 

Considering that it is a week day, I feel that we have a very wonderful and splendid audience here this afternoon. I do not need to say to you people who have attended the conference that to me it has been a red-letter day in the history of the Church. 

I believe that we have had greater opportunity to carry our message to the world than ever before in our history. I am grateful for the inspiration of the Lord that has been manifested here in the speeches that have been made. I am glad that the brethren have been able to keep within the proper time limit in their remarks. Frequently there is not time for all to speak. We have thirty-three speakers; if each takes two minutes more time than he should, it amounts to one hour and six minutes. 

MEMBERS OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES ABSENT 

I regret that I overlooked announcing that Brother J. Golden Kimball has been absent from this conference on account of ill-health. Of course, you all know that Brother Joseph F. Merrill is in Europe presiding over the European missions. Brother Merrill is meeting with great success in his labors in Europe. Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley is in California where he is improving in health. 
