41
Afternoon
06 04 1936
Elder Nicholas G. Smith 
197
114-115

None

None

My brothers and sisters: I thought that I had fixed matters so that I would not be called upon to speak at this conference, but it seems I am not a good fixer. 

I am thrilled to be here and to have felt the spirit that has been in each of the sessions of this conference. I come from sunny California. I bring you the greetings first of Alonzo A. Hinckley, one of God's noblemen, who is sojourning there for a time in an endeavor to regain his health. Since his arrival there he has gained three pounds in weight, but he is yet a very sick man 

I bring you the greetings of the missionaries, one hundred and twenty-three of them, — clean, noble, devout workers in this great cause. Recently the president of one of the districts said to me, "President Smith, Elder so-and-so is district president timber. He is laboring in this portion of the field. You can't move him to any other district because of the asthma which he has, and his mission will be finished about the time mine is. Will you make him the district president and let me be just a missionary?" 

That is the sort of spirit that our boys and our girls have, — a desire to be helpful, a desire to be unselfish; and it is their unselfishness and their lives that have touched so many people. 

I bring you the greetings of nine thousand members of the California mission — Latter-day Saints. In the branches now represented in the mission the increase in tithes for 1935 over the year 1934 was some twenty-five per cent. 

We have had some very beautiful experiences in this matter of tithing. I thought as President Richards was talking this morning, what a fine showing some of these branches and some of the wards of this Church make. My thoughts went to Chino valley, a little branch that has had five per cent of its membership in the mission field, and of the forty-two members that began the first of the year forty-one of them were on the tithing record before the end of the year. And the branch president said, "Well, the other one moved away or he would have been on the tithing record also." 

I intimated to my branch presidents that I thought it would be a fine thing if every man, woman and child in the California mission could be upon the tithing record. In response to that suggestion I received a letter from President David Haymore of Douglas, Arizona. 

President Haymore said, "President Smith, there are two hundred and seventy-one members of record in the Douglas branch of the church, and at the end of the year 1935 there will be two hundred and seventy-one on the tithing record." 

I smiled at the suggestion, but when the year ended and we counted up, to my surprise I discovered that President Haymore had made a mistake. He had two hundred and seventy-five tithe-payers and two-hundred and seventy-one members in his branch. 

He told me this beautiful story. "President Smith, this has influenced my life with respect to the matter of tithing. A little child came in to see how many times he had paid his tithing, and as he checked over the record there was a penny here and a penny there and a nickel here. He noticed some of the other names that came under his initial, and he said to President Haymore, "Daddy's name and Mother's name are not there." 

President Haymore said, "No, Daddy and Mother haven't paid any tithing this year, my boy." 

So this little one went home disappointed and broken-hearted, and said to his mother, "Mother, Daddy's name and your name are not on the tithing record." 

That mother, with tears in her eyes, said, "Thank you, my boy; they will be there." And so they are there now. So a little child led them. 

I am delighted to have heard the report of our church activities and the great amount of money that has been expended throughout the past year. I know there has been an increase in tithes, from the reports I have heard from other wards and stakes and branches of the Church, and I am delighted to be a representative of the Church, happy to associate with the fine young men and women and the noble people amongst whom I live in sunny California. 

May God grant that we may ever have in our hearts a desire to test him. For you will remember that he said, "Try me and see." Amen.
