33
Morning
06 04 1936
Elder Wilford W. Richards
180
91-94

None

None 

The music of this conference has been an inspiration to all. The work of our great Tabernacle Choir, the Hyrum Stake Choir Saturday, and the Singing Mothers today have all been a blessing to us. 

We often find ourselves in the position of children, seeing about us the many activities and movements of life, but failing to recognize the full significance of such forces and movements. During this conference I have been struggling to comprehend the value and power of this great cause as it affects us and the people of the world. 

For generations people have taken an interest in keeping close to certain anniversaries. In private life we commemorate births, marriages and other important dates. In public and social life we have our Fourth of July, Armistice Day, Memorial Day and many others of general and local interest. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints remembers proudly a number of events which cluster around this season of the year. It was in the spring of 1820, one hundred sixteen years ago, that the first vision of this dispensation occurred. On May 15, 1829, one hundred seven years ago, the Prophet, John the Baptist, appeared in answer to prayer and restored the Aaronic Priesthood. It was but a short time following this that the personal associates of the Master himself, Peter, James and John, appeared and restored the Melchizedek priesthood. It was on March 27, 1836, that the Kirtland Temple was dedicated, and a week later, on April 3, when those great experiences recorded in Section 110 of the Doctrine and Covenants occurred, when the Savior himself, together with Moses, Elias and Elijah, appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associate, Oliver Cowdery, and left their particular authority and blessings. 

On March 17, 1842, the great woman's organization of the Church came into being. It was at this time that the Prophet of this dispensation turned the key for women in all the world. 

One hundred and six years ago today, April 6, 1830, under humble conditions in Western New York this Church was officially organized. Add to these more recent events the birth of our Savior and his resurrection some nineteen hundred years ago and we have a collection of significant anniversaries associated with this season of the year that are most challenging, thought provoking, and fundamental. 

As missionaries in the world, our responsibility is largely one of teaching the significance of these events, for therein is contained the message and authority of the Gospel. The missionaries of the North Central States mission are attempting to do this. They have the testimony, the energy and desire to do it well. We are proud of them and of their parents, priesthood quorums, and others who sustain them. 

Our reports for 1935 indicate an improvement in every item upon which reports are made. The spirit which permeates all this work is difficult to read into the reports but we feel it, rejoice in it, and know that it is of a divine source. Literally thousands of people have heard the Gospel message. Friends are being raised up, and many are seeking us out on their own initiative. The lump is gradually being leavened. The missionaries of our mission are indeed proud to be entrusted with responsibilities in connection with this mighty work. 

The Saints, as members of the mission, are also increasing in devotion and energy. They are growing in power to live and appreciate the Gospel. Their activities have increased and broadened. They, with you, are trying to be worthy of this Church and its blessings. 

We have discovered that the truth, in being taught, must be reflected through the teacher. We must teach the Gospel in terms of every day life and in the language of the people. If this were not true the mere distribution of our literature would be sufficient. Testimony, with the warmth of soul that comes from one who lives the truth, is a mighty force. The missionaries never cease to attract attention because of their clean, wholesome, radiant lives. The truths of the Gospel shine through them and their experiences. Perhaps a personal incident will illustrate this: 

Upon one occasion I was bearing my testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel. The man to whom I spoke said, "I don't believe a word of it." I asked him if he had ever experienced the effect of an anaesthetic. 

"Yes," he replied and then described his feelings to me. At the conclusion of his description I gave back to him his own answer to my testimony by saying, "I don't believe a word of it." This rather startled him but at the same time presented the point of view that each of us was speaking out of our own personal experience. Since I had had no anaesthetic experience I could not appreciate and understand his, and was perhaps just as much justified in denouncing it as he was in refusing to give credence to my testimony which had arisen out of my personal experiences, the likeness of which he had never felt. The incident led to an open door and an invitation to discuss at some length the principles of religion. 

The past winter in our section of the country has been the most severe in history. Under such conditions we have found it necessary to develop new and varied ways of doing our work. We have been forced to substitute a variety of methods for those usually employed. The missionaries have been equal to the emergency, however, and have made real contributions to the service even under these trying conditions. 

The headquarters of our mission is located in Minneapolis, a Christian community with many churches and many wonderful people. Many of these people being of Scandinavian descent, we feel that there is much of the blood of Israel there which should respond to the Gospel. We have been interested in several very distinctive contributions to Christian conduct and leadership that come out of our community life. You may be interested to know that a large retail store which employs some three thousand workers will not advertise in a Sunday newspaper, nor illuminate its windows on Sunday to display its wares; nor require labor of its workmen except in the very minimum service of guarding and protecting the property. A popular newspaper with a circulation of more than 115,000 copies daily refuses to carry any kind of advertising which relates to liquor or strong drink. The thing that has interested us in these cases is the fact that the public in the main admire the practices referred to and reward them with a good business and a growing sentiment of approval. 

We are grateful for the visit of Elder George Albert Smith in our mission since it was my privilege last to report. He left his faith, love and testimony there in full measure. He did us much good as he mingled with the missionaries and the local members of the Church. Many friends came to our meetings to hear him and went away rejoicing in their privilege and opportunity. 

We are looking forward to another visit from the General Authorities of the Church this season. 

It is a joy to bring to you parents the love and greetings of your missionaries. It is in like manner a privileged opportunity to bring a pledge of loyalty, support, and allegiance to President Grant and the General Authorities of the Church who have sent us out into the service. 

We of the North Central States mission are grateful for your confidence and trust. We desire most earnestly that the Lord will assist us to the extent that we may properly honor and respond to it, and that our work and responsibility may be met with, "an eye single to the glory of God." Personally I am very grateful for the Gospel, my heritage, and my family, and the missionaries with their cooperation and service in this work of the Lord. 

In all sincerity and humility I desire to add my testimony to those borne before me in this conference and I do it in the name of Jesus our Redeemer. Amen.
