42
Afternoon
06 04 1936
Elder Legrand Richards 
171
115-118

None

None

Humbly I stand before you, my brothers and sisters, yet deeply grateful to the Lord for the privilege of representing at this great Conference the approximately one hundred and fifty missionaries and eighteen thousand Saints of the Southern States mission. They are looking to you here as their leaders and rejoice in every good report that reaches them of your achievements and accomplishments. 

When the Master was upon the earth, he was wont to say: "Know ye not that these things must be that the scriptures may be fulfilled?" 

I have sat here and contemplated what a marvelous fulfilment of the prophecies of the scriptures we see about us in the establishment of this Church in these valleys of the mountains. 

I desire to read a few words here today from the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, quoted by Moroni when first he visited the prophet Joseph Smith, in connection with the bringing forth of this great gospel dispensation. "And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people, * * * and he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth." 

That which has been said here during this Conference and that which we have observed indicate that the Lord has set up an ensign unto the nations. This great assembly, the. beautiful temple upon this block, these wise leaders who are here to teach us the way of eternal life, these wonderful singers who have come up to "sing in the height of Zion," and you brethren and sisters who have come from the valleys that have been made "to blossom as the rose," because the Lord has opened "rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys," are all evidences of the Lord's fulfilment of his promises. 

But the Lord did not indicate that he would set up an ensign by the erection of beautiful buildings and the subduing of the desert only, but he said he would assemble unto this land the nations of the earth, to teach them of his ways, which contemplates the appointment of men and women to labor in the vineyard at home and in the nations of the earth. Jeremiah expresses this thought in these words: "I will take you one of a city and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion, and I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding." Surely we have been taught of his ways and have received knowledge and understanding here at this Conference. 

Then Jeremiah tells us that the Lord would send for many fishers and they would fish them, and after for many hunters and they would hunt them from every mountain and from every hill and out of the holes of the rocks. I want to say to you fathers and mothers that we are mighty happy to have in our mission approximately a hundred and fifty of these "fishers and hunters," your sons and daughters, who are fishing and hunting the seed of Israel and gathering them into the fold, and it is my testimony to you that when men and women are called of God to become "fishers and hunters" they are endowed with a power that no man of himself can give. Therefore, when these missionaries go forth among the children of men they go armored of God to accomplish his purposes and gather his people, and their influence and power is felt wherever they go, as people who have met them are happy to testify. 

The other day, in passing through one of our large cities, I drove up to a door and said, "Do the Mormon missionaries live here?" To which the lady replied, "Yes, and they are the finest young men I have ever met." 

Upon another occasion, we sent missionaries into a new city to open up the work in that section. The city officials were not sure they wanted to permit them to engage in their work there. The lady with whom they were boarding said, "I have some influence in this city, I will see what I can do." She took these missionaries to her church the next Sunday and introduced them to her class and said, "They neither smoke nor drink, nor use tea or coffee; and they don't look like 'sissies,' either, do they?" Then she asked, "Which one of you in this class would be willing to do for your church what these boys are doing?" 

Following the visit of Elder Melvin J. Ballard at Jacksonville, Fla., on Dec. 8, 1935, one of the elders, with only thirty-five cents in his pocket, started out to return to his field of labor in South Georgia. He attempted to hitch-hike on the highway without the usual success, apparently for a wise purpose. About nine o'clock in the evening he found himself still quite a distance from his field of labor, so he decided he would "tract-in" (seek entertainment) for the night. 

After being unsuccessful at two homes, he called at the third and was met at the door by a minister of the Gospel. He introduced himself as a Mormon missionary, whereupon he was invited in. The minister explained that he was in deep distress — that his little daughter was very sick and the doctor gave them no hope of her recovery. By this time, they had entered the living room where the family were sitting, and the doctor was at the side of the bed upon which the little girl was lying. 

The minister remarked, "You believe in anointing the sick with oil, do you not?" To which the elder replied in the affirmative. He then added, "I wish you would anoint my little girl — I have prayed for her without avail," and he offered the missionary a bottle of olive oil. The elder asked if it had been consecrated, to which the minister replied, "I am afraid I do not understand what you mean;" so the elder suggested that he would use his own oil, as he had a small bottle with him, and he invited the family to kneel with him about the bed to engage in prayer before performing the sacred ordinance. They seemed rather reluctant as though they had given up all hope. The doctor remarked, "Maybe the Lord can save her but I cannot." The elder led in prayer and then administered to the little girl, and as he removed his hands from her head she relaxed, and the doctor immediately reached for her pulse as though he feared she was breathing her last. 

For about twenty minutes, the elder sat visiting with the minister and his family, at which time the doctor again felt the girl's pulse and remarked, "There is no need of my remaining any longer — your little girl will be all right. I have seen it with my own eyes and yet I cannot believe it." 

Addressing the elder, the minister said, "You were seeking a bed for the night, were you not?" And being informed by the missionary that he was, he explained that he was not prepared to accommodate him, but that he was willing to take him to the hotel and pay for his room, or he would drive him in his auto wherever he wanted to go. He explained that his destination was sixty miles from there, but the minister was perfectly willing to take him that distance, and upon reaching his destination, the minister offered the elder ten dollars for what he had done in his home, but he refused to accept the money, explaining the instruction of the Master to the Twelve when he sent them forth: "Freely ye have received, freely give." 

I thank my Heavenly Father for the privilege of laboring with the fine missionaries who have been sent out to "recover the remnant of his people" and "hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks," and for the marvelous manner in which he is opening the hearts of the children of men to receive their testimonies. 

God bless this people, this Church and our leaders and our missionaries, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
