28
Morning
06 04 1936
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
2
80-83 

None

None

Yesterday we listened to the members of the Presidency of the Church preaching, over a great broadcast, the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the children of men. The extent to which their words reached I am not prepared to say, but as far as the broadcasting system carried, those who were able to listen heard the Gospel message. To me it was a wonderful thing and I am sure that all those who are here attending this conference must have been convinced that the Lord is continuing to build constructively in the earth and that his Church is making progress and is growing rapidly. 

I think that not before have the songs of Zion been sung by the entire congregation from this building over the broadcasting system of the nation. This Tabernacle is naturally made for such an event. I almost wish that I could have heard the rendition from some far distant point, for the thousands of voices must have gone over the air with fine effect. 

When Brigham Young, under the direction of the Lord, planned this building, I am sure he thought little about such a feature as we have just witnessed. It is doubtful if he could see at that time what might and would happen, how the word of the Lord could be preached from these mountains to all parts of the world. 

I wonder if those men who so carefully laid the great Gospel plan in foreign lands had a vision of such things in the beginning of their work. My mind recalls an experience that we are told President Wilford Woodruff had when he was in England, preaching the Gospel, building up the Church, and gathering members to this country. He listened constantly to the Spirit of the Lord. A great missionary was he, as we all know from reading his history. One day he felt impressed to go south, and it is said that he boarded a conveyance and rode south eighty miles, when he felt impressed to stop. He got off the conveyance and began to work in that vicinity, and as a result he gathered some eight hundred members of the Church in that part of England. Practically all of them came to Zion. 

Thus were his labors and the labors of others of the early missionaries mightily blessed. Through their preaching they reaped a rich harvest of souls. Today the elders in the field are giving just as faithful service and bearing just as fervent testimonies, but new methods are employed and new agencies are introduced to carry the Gospel to the nations. 

The Lord can do his work only as men and women will apply themselves; he does it through his servants in the earth; he directs his work through all the members of the Church who are willing to serve. If President Wilford Woodruff had not been listening, if his mind had not been in tune with the Lord, he never would have heard the whisper that came to him to go south to a certain place where he was told to get off the stage and begin his work. His heart was in tune with God. 

Brigham Young's heart was in tune with God when he built this building and laid plans for one of the greatest things the world has ever seen. 

We read in the scriptures about the prophets of old who spoke of the Gospel being preached from the mountain-tops, that the word of the Lord would go forth from there. How fully that prediction may yet be fulfilled! No one can realize yet what may come as a result of it, how far-reaching it may be. A few years ago no one heard of the great broadcasting system that we have now among us. It was not even dreamed of. Yet how simple and easy it appears to be. 

The President of the Church, the Prophet of the Lord, the leader of Latter-day Israel and those who are associated with him, can now send the Gospel out over the world, telling it to the people, telling men and women of the beauty of it, of the great plan of our Father which was instituted for the purpose of reaching the hearts of the children of men. I do not know how others feel, but to me this experience was the greatest I have ever had — to hear the singing and the preaching, and to know that it was going, perhaps, to the farther ends of the earth. 

I was greatly impressed by that fine address by President Grant in the first session of this conference. It indicated the progress being made by the Church — a progress which has been marked from the beginning, so far as I am able to observe from reading and from personally witnessing events. 

There has always been the call of the President, the preaching of the Gospel, the voice of the Lord unto the children of men. The Lord pleads with men, does everything under the shining sun to get men to believe. He calls men to preach the words that he gave while he was in the earth. He said upon one occasion: "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." That was the word of the Lord, given by him as it came from his Father. He also said: 

Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. 

And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand : 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it. 

The Savior laid the plan of life and salvation in the earth. He taught it unto the children of men, and he gave his life for it. He revealed it anew in your day and mine; he came unto the Prophet Joseph! Smith, and spoke unto him as one man speaks unto another. God our Eternal Father introduced the Son, and he laid the foundation upon which the children of men may build, upon which they may know whether this is the work of God or the work of men. He has given his word by prophets from then until now; and especially during the past hundred years, has the Lord specifically spoken to men. What a marvelous thing is the history of this Church. 

There is no other such gathering in the earth as this assembly, there is no such relationship among men and women, as exists among Latter-day Saints, no such an organization far or near. And now, through the providence of God our Father, thousands of people who are not able to come here may hear the voices of the servants of the living God, and may know the powerful message that comes from those who are endowed from on high to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the people of God in the earth. 

When we think of the example that has been set by the leadership of this Church, the plan of government that has existed from the beginning, we cannot but appreciate the hand of the Lord in these things. The foundation that was laid by the Prophet and his associates has led thousands of others to build upon that same foundation. They are not swerved from their path; they know the voice of the risen Redeemer, and they obey it. 

The establishment of the people in these mountains, the organizations of the Church in the stakes and wards, presided over by men of God, constitute the Church that our Eternal Father had in mind when his Son preached that it should be built upon a rock. These men are not swerved when the winds of adversity blow; they know how to weather the storm. We find them always solidly and squarely established in the revelations of God our Father; while, on the other hand, those who yield to temptation, who will not keep the commandments of God, are shaken as a reed in water, and many fall, because their foundation is not secure. 

This conference will be a great epoch in the history of this Church. The great anniversary today of the organization of the Church, the experiences of yesterday, and the inspirational sessions on Saturday add another great chapter to the program of God our Father by which men and women may know that those who are appointed to direct his affairs on the earth are at the helm, that they are watching over the flock, that they are constantly building and keeping in harmony and in tune with the work that has been established by our Father through the Prophet Joseph, who is a prophet of the living God, and was, and always will be. Those who have succeeded him were and are likewise prophets of God. 

May we remember the words we hear and carry them back to our people, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
