31
Morning
06 04 1936
Elder Reinhold Stoof 
218
87-89

None

None

My brethren and sisters, you will kindly excuse the poor English of a foreigner. Members and friends of the far countries under the Southern Cross in Argentine and Brazil extend to you their heartiest greetings. They rejoice in the light that went out from Zion and came to them; and you in Zion can be proud of your faithful members in the far southern countries. There has not been a missionary in South America who has not appreciated the interesting pioneer labor among the Latin-American people in Argentine and among the Brazilian colonies of German blood. 

Several missionaries who have labored in South America have told me that if circumstances would allow the Church to establish a mission in Italy or Spain they would gladly go there and preach the Gospel to the fine people of those countries. 

Argentine, like the United States, is a melting-pot for the nations. The majority of those who emigrated into South America are from the southern countries of Europe — Italy and Spain — so that the character of the Argentines is that of a real Latin people. The majority of our members in Argentine are Italians and Spaniards. We have a few Germans also there. 

Our experiences with the Latin-American people with regard to teaching the Gospel are very encouraging. There may be some who think that the ideal field of labor in which to find the scattered blood of Israel is the northern countries. For them it may be a consolation to know that a few centuries after Christ's birth tribes from the north invaded Spain and Italy, and it may be that their remnants are the ones who today follow the voice of the Good Shepherd. The fact remains that a great harvest will be brought in in Argentine among the Latin-American people. I have no doubt in my mind about that. 

I am very glad that the leading brethren of the Church have sent to South America two very fine men to preside over the two missions there; and I am sure that they will spread the Gospel in a most wonderful way in those countries. 

It was my good fortune to be blessed and sustained by the help of very faithful and capable missionaries, and this same blessing will be enjoyed by my two successors in South America. The people in South America are surely a wonderful people. The example of the missionaries has exerted a wonderful influence in the conversion of people to the Gospel. We had several friends who could neither read nor write; they could not prove the truthfulness of our message by studying the scriptures as they could not read them, but the example of the missionaries gave them conviction, and above all, these people lived the Gospel before their baptism. 

Weeks and months before their baptism they kept the Word of Wisdom, they even paid their tithing honestly without being urged to do so, and by living the Gospel they received a strong testimony, were converted and were baptized, and are some of our most wonderful members in the Argentine. 

It is my opinion that because of the integrity and faithfulness of those members, the Lord has blessed them with many manifestations. 

I testify unto you that I have never seen in my life before the power of the priesthood manifested in such a marvelous way as in South America. I testify unto you that I witnessed the gift of interpretation of tongues, and the gift of healing the sick in cases where doctors could not help them. I can testify that the eyesight was restored to a blind young Portuguese. I have a written statement in my possession in which that young Portuguese said: "I was willing to throw myself before the wheels of a wagon in the street to be killed, the doctors could not give me any hope." But the power of the priesthood restored his sight. 

I never shall forget that evening when we were called to the home of an Italian family whose daughter was very sick; that family had fasted and prayed an entire day, following the advice of a good Italian member of the Church. It was a strange sickness that had overcome the daughter. She slept for four days and could not eat nor speak, and then, after a day of fasting and prayer, the parents called the elders to administer to her. When we entered the room the daughter opened her lips for the first time for days, her eyes being closed, and she said in a low but distinct voice: "A supreme being has entered." 

The young elder, a very ambitious, fine Idaho boy, was called to anoint her, and he was so much astounded when he heard those words that he forgot the name of the young lady and it had to be repeated to him. We pronounced a blessing upon the head of that girl and rebuked the power of the Destroyer. We spoke comfort to her parents, and according to the promise given by the servants of the Lord through the power of the priesthood, her full health was restored. She did not remember anything that had happened to her. I do not know what her spiritual eyes had beheld, what supreme being had entered with us, — no missionary is a supreme being, we know that, but we cannot say who was at our side. We have no doubt that a heavenly being was there to give strength and testimony to the parents. The power of the Lord is upon the earth, the power of the priesthood is here, and that power calls to its aid even heavenly beings when necessary. 

I am thankful for the testimony that I have received, and that others have seen the power of the priesthood manifest in such a marvelous way, and I am glad that these blessings have been given unto those wonderful people in Argentine and Brazil. They are faithful and strong. 

I remember one fine missionary, a very capable young man, who was about to leave his mission field because of the lack of finances, but it was not necessary for him to leave, a little Italian couple took care of everything. They gave him shelter, they gave him to eat, and provided everything for him. Later this same faithfulness was manifested in their contribution of a house and lot in Buenos Aires to the Church for use as a chapel. This is one of the evidences of the faithfulness of those people. The servants of the Lord can preach without hindrance in those countries of South America. The cry of Freedom, Freedom, Freedom, rings throughout the wonderful nation of Argentine. Those people love freedom, they grant freedom to everyone, and so it is in all the republics of South America. In my opinion it is a wonderful field of labor for the people. 

A great harvest is waiting for the Church in South America. I have no doubt in my mind regarding that. The Lord gives me that testimony. God bless those far countries in the south — the home country of my children. God bless my South America, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
