1
Morning 
04 04 1931
President Heber J. Grant
10
2-14

None

None 

I do not recall that at a first session of a General Conference held on a week day I have ever seen as large an attendance as we have here today. I rejoice in the interest of the Saints in our Annual and Semi-Annual Conferences. It is a remarkable thing for people by the thousands to come from all parts of the United States, also from Canada and Mexico, to these meetings. It shows the interest, the faith and the love of the people for the Gospel of Jesus Christ that has been revealed in our day. On behalf of the General Authorities of the Church I welcome you here. I earnestly and sincerely pray that while we are assembled together we may be blessed of the Lord, that those who speak and pray and sing may do so under the inspiration that comes from our Heavenly Father. 

It has been customary for very many years to read to the people a statement of expenditures and statistical matters at our Annual Conferences. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The expenditures by the Church for the year 1930 are as follows: 

Stake and Ward Purposes: 

There has been returned from the tithes to the Stakes and Wards for the construction of Ward and Stake meeting houses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $887,678.43 

For Ward maintenance expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590,792.34 

For Stake maintenance expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271,983.42 

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,750,454.19 

Education: 

Expended for the maintenance of Church School System . . . $811,622.19 

Temples: 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of Temples . .  $196,898.81 

Charities: 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $203,091.41 

Missions: 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $916,543.59 

I believe I am safe in saying that at no time in the history of the Church has there been so much expended in our Missions as during the past two or three years, including the year that has just closed. The grand total of these appropriations from the tithes and resources of the Church is . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3,878,610.19

These funds have been taken from the tithes and Church investments and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the Stakes and Wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and mission activities. 

Other Charities: 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities and assistance rendered by the Relief Society in the sum of $464,404.39, which amount, added to the $203,091.41 paid from the tithes, makes the total charity assistance rendered by the Church . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $667,495.80 

There has been collected by the various Wards of the Church 

and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance. $100,685.08 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR 

THE YEAR 1930 

We have at the present time: Stakes of Zion, 104; Wards, 926; Independent Branches, 74; Dependent Branches, 33; Total Wards and Branches in the Stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, 1033; Missions, 30; Mission Branches, 873; Districts, 246. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the Stakes and Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20,021 

Children baptized in the Stakes and Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,313 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the Stakes and Missions . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,758 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1930 1,889 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1930 52 

Number of local missionaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions . . . 2,048 

Number engaged in missionary work in Stakes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 

Total missionaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,048 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812 

Persons recommended to the temples from the Stakes and Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69,109 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 29.7 per thousand. 

Marriage rate, 13.9 per thousand. 

Death rate, 7.6 per thousand. 

Families owning their own homes, 68 per cent. 

CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST OCTOBER CONFERENCE 

Stake Presidents Appointed: 

Anthon E. Anderson has been appointed president of Logan Stake to succeed Oliver H. Budge. 

Harold B. Lee has been appointed president of Pioneer Stake to succeed Datus E. Hammond. 

Jesse W. Richins has been appointed president of the Twin Falls Stake to succeed William A. Hyde. 

J. Emmett Bird has been appointed president of the Kolob Stake to succeed George R. Maycock. 

Almon T. Butterfield has been appointed President of the West Jordan Stake to succeed Joseph M. Holt. 

Thomas A. King has been appointed president of the Garfield Stake to succeed Charles E. Rowan, Jr. 

Francis W. Stratford, has been appointed president of the North Weber Stake to succeed John V. Bluth. 

New Mission Organized: 

Texas Mission, with headquarters at Houston, Texas. 

New Mission Presidents: 

Charles, E. Rowan, Jr., has been appointed president of the Texas Mission. 

Charles H. Hart has been released as president of the Canadian Mission, and John V. Bluth appointed to succeed him. 

New Wards Organized: 

Ogden 21st Ward, Ogden Stake. 

Wilmington Ward, Los Angeles Stake. 

Maywood Ward, Los Angeles Stake. 

Stake Presidents who have passed away: 

George R. Maycock, president of the Kolob Stake. 

Joseph M. Holt, president of the West Jordan Stake. 

I attended the funerals of these two Presidents and the tributes paid to them were of the most excellent character. Their labors were splendid and their families have our sympathy and our prayers that they may follow in the footsteps of these two splendid men. 

Bishops who have passed away: 

William T. Harkness of the Magna Ward, Oquirrh Stake. 

John L. Fish of Lakeside Ward, Snowflake Stake. 

Others who have passed away: 

Peter G. Johnston, one of the Church Auditing Committee for many years. 

Benjamin Goddard, formerly manager of the Bureau of Information from its inception until just prior to his death. 

George C. Smith, secretary for many years of the Tabernacle Choir. 

Zina Young Card, daughter of President Brigham Young, and active in Church work from her young girlhood days. 

Brigham Morris Young, son of Brigham Young, loyal and true all the days of his life to the Church and its interests and a worker in the Salt Lake Temple from the day it was dedicated until the time of his death. 

Evan Stephens, formerly director of the Tabernacle Choir, and one of the men to whom we owe so much — to him and Brother George Careless, perhaps more than almost to any other men — for writing our beautiful hymns and for taking such a deep interest in all of our musical affairs. 

DECRIES PROPAGANDA 

I desire to bring to the attention of the members of the Church some very regrettable and most annoying circumstances. I have taken occasion in times past to denounce the conduct of persons both within and without the Church who have palpably sought to bring disgrace upon the Church and reproach to its leaders in the circulation of propaganda for and the unlawful practice of pretended "plural marriage." Notwithstanding the positive, unequivocal declarations which I have made from time to time on this subject, and in, spite of the vigorous and unvarying prosecution within the courts of the Church, from the tribunals of the bishops to the Council of the Twelve Apostles, of cases arising out of violations of the law of the Church forbidding absolutely the practice of plural marriage — notwithstanding all these efforts on the part of the authorities of the Church to suppress the unlawful practices and propaganda of these people, we find that there are still a number, relatively small we hope, who persist in teaching the doctrine and maligning the leaders of the Church. 

PUNISHED WHEN FOUND 

Wherever the Authorities of the Church have been able to locate such persons and secure sufficient definite evidence to warrant their conviction, they have, without fear or favor, been dealt with and excommunicated from the Church. This procedure is the limit of Church jurisdiction. We have been, however, and we are entirely willing and anxious too that such offenders against the law of the State should be dealt with and punished as the law provides. We have been and we are willing to give such legal assistance as we legitimately can in the criminal prosecution of such cases. We are willing to go to such limits not only because we regard it as our duty as citizens of the country to assist in the enforcement of the law and the suppression of pretended "plural marriages," but also because we wish to do everything humanly possible to make our attitude toward this matter so clear, definite, and unequivocal as to leave no possible doubt of it in the mind of any person. 

TO PROTECT THE UNWARY 

There are always to be found in any large group of people some who are uninformed, credulous, and easily susceptible to the persuasions of more forceful personalities. Such persons are often well-meaning and at heart very devoted to the Church. It is a matter of sorrow and deep regret to us that some such members of the Church have been inveigled by designing men and fanatics into the support and practice of unlawful relations. It is largely for the protection of such class of people within the Church and similarly minded converts to the Church that we feel the necessity of stressing this unpleasant subject so much. 

The machinations of the proponents of unlawful marriages are, of course, carried on largely in secret. The Church has no adequate way of thwarting their endeavors before much harm is often done; although the officers of the Church, from the highest to the least, are definitely instructed to be constantly on the watch for such teaching and propagandists. We have hesitated somewhat to make public statements or denials to charges and false assertions published in literature sent out by these enemies of the Church and its administration, because we have felt that added publicity to their pernicious statements would he gratifying to them and probably useless in stemming their activity. There is scarcely a man among the leading authorities who has not been defamed by them, both in print and speech. 

WIDELY CIRCULATED 

They have circulated their literature as widely as possible with their available means, even sending defamatory pamphlets to the missionaries of the Church in their fields of labor, extending to Europe. We suppose that in some instances this material may fall into the hands of investigators, weak members of the Church, and others who already, by reason of misrepresentation, are prejudiced against us. There are some, undoubtedly, among these who give credence to that which they read, although, of course, we should be able to expect and we do expect that no missionary of the Church would credit such false assertions. 

FALSE AND SLANDEROUS STATEMENTS 

These publications are not only slanderous of the leaders of the Church but they are calculated to cast a blemish on the fair name of our State. Their authors are apparently without conscience as to the truth of their statements, seeking only to influence those who are uninformed and gullible. They have charged me and many of my brethren here with the commission of crime and have manufactured circumstances as fictitious as the imagination may conceive. We have felt that it was beneath us to make reply to such false and malignant accusations. We have believed that neither the people of the Church nor those outside the Church with whom we live as neighbors and fellow citizens would expect us to answer. If there are any of our brothers or sisters or friends who feel that there are any circumstances which warrant an answer or defense on our part, we assure any such we shall be glad to satisfy them on their request. And when we say our friends we mean our friends, not those who write anonymous letters, or individuals who make false statements about us. 

Perhaps we are presumptuous, but we feel that our standing in the community as men of integrity and honor is a sufficient rebuttal to these infamous charges made against us. 

PRESIDENT WIDTSOE MALIGNED 

In most instances the misrepresentations and false accusations have been made by way of recital and innuendo, with an apparent effort to shield the authors and publishers from legal responsibility. In one recent instance, however, they have been bold enough to print a libelous attack on President John A. Widtsoe, supposedly because they knew of his expected presence here for conference. The circumstances recited are wholly fictitious and false, and are presented, undoubtedly, with the purpose of creating prejudice against him and injuring his work in Europe. We think that the high esteem in which Doctor Widtsoe is held, not only in the Church but in his State and as a national figure, makes unnecessary any reply to such calumny. However, if he desires he may have the facilities we can afford to protect himself and to prosecute the defamers of his good name. 

ABSOLUTELY FORBIDDEN 

Now, in conclusion, let me state again, as I have done many times before — and my statement is meant for every member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for our neighbors and friends who dwell in the communities where we live, and for the whole world — that the Church does not countenance, aid, abet, tolerate or sanction in any way, shape or form the contracting of so-called "plural marriages," but that on the contrary it absolutely forbids the members of the Church from entering into any such unlawful relations or teaching or encouraging such practices, and that it will continue in the future as it has done in the past to deal with and punish to the extent of its authority any persons who violate these injunctions. I do not know how to make it plainer or more forceful. If I did I would do so. 

As I read this I recall that the statement is made that the leaders of the Church can practice these things. So when this is published I will say that this applies to all the General Authorities of the Church and the members, for fear these falsifiers will start another falsehood. 

THE POSITION OF THE CHURCH 

I want the officers of our Church, our missionaries, all who in any manner represent us, to know beyond any doubt whatsoever that this is the straightforward, honest, unequivocal position of the Church, and I want them all to know that any person or persons who question this assertion cast reflection upon the honor and integrity of the men who stand at the head of the Church as its General Authorities, for this statement sets forth not only my own views and purposes, hut it is sustained in every detail, in letter and in spirit, by each and every member of the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the Presiding Patriarch, the First Council of Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric, to whom it has been submitted and by whom it has been unanimously approved. 

And I wish to say that I want it understood that so far as God gives me power to give His word to the people, it is the word of the Lord. 

THE PEOPLES' WELFARE 

Now, I cannot do more. Of course the circumstances to which I have called attention are very provoking and annoying to us. It is easy to become angry when we contemplate the harm and incalculable injury that some of these perverted, vicious men have perpetrated on the Church, but I do not speak in anger. I have in mind only the welfare and the progress of the great cause which we represent and love, and the people who are within the Church and those to whom we are carrying the Gospel. It hurts me to see the advancement of the work retarded by such regrettable activities within the Church itself. We may always expect to be assailed from without, but it seems to me we can reasonably hope that within the Church our solemn statements of fact and principle will be received at face value. 

It may be that among those who so malign the Church and its leaders are some who are conscientious in their endeavors. I am sorry that they are so simple and misguided as to permit themselves to be allied with those who, by reason of their propaganda and activity, are among the most malicious enemies of the Church. I pray that their eyes may be opened and their course set right. I pray also that all the people of the Church in all parts of the world may unite in a determined effort to abolish from the inside of the Church at least these insidious efforts and unlawful practices which are calculated to bring so much reproach upon us. 

DENIES CHURCH IN DEBT 

The same people who are publishing these slanderous statements have also said that the presiding officers of the Church have used the credit of the Church and involved it in debt to the extent of $23,000,000.00, mortgaging its property to secure this indebtedness. 

The fact is that during my administration no part of the property of the Church has ever been mortgaged, and the Church itself is entirely free from debt. 

In proof of what I have said, I read the statement of the Church Auditing Committee, as follows: 

"April 4th, 1931. 

President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, Dear Brethren: 

It gives us pleasure to state that our examination of the reports of the First Presidency's office, which covered the Presiding Bishop's department, disclosed the fact that the Church is entirely out of debt. 

The accounting system of the Church is modern and complete. 

Respectfully submitted, Henry H. Rolapp, O. W. Adams, 

Auditing Committee." 

CONTRARY TO LAW 

It is against the law of the land to enter into polygamy. In section 58 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we find the following: 

"For verily I say unto you, my law shall be kept on this land. 

"Let no man think he is ruler; but let God rule him that judgeth, according to the counsel of his own will, or, in other words, him that counseleth or sitteth upon the judgment seat. 

"Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." 

"Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." 

STATEMENT SUSTAINED 

I would like all those in this congregation who feel to sustain this statement that I have read to you to manifest it as the Apostles and all of the General Authorities have done, by raising their right hands. 

(The congregation responded by raising their hands). 

I have never seen such a lot of hands held so high in my life. 

All those who are opposed to this statement will please raise their hands. 

(No hands were raised). 

Our enemies do not seem to be here. 

QUOTES PROPHET'S PRAYER 

The Prophet Joseph, at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, in the prayer offered on that occasion, among other things said: 

"We ask thee, Holy Father, to confound and astonish, and to bring to shame and confusion, all those who have spread lying reports abroad, over the world, against thy servant or servants, if they will not repent, when the everlasting gospel shall be proclaimed in their ears; 

"And that all their works may be brought to naught, and be swept away by the hail, and by the judgments which thou wilt send upon them in thine anger, that there may be an end to lyings and slanders against thy people." 

We say Amen to the prophet's prayer on that occasion. 

READS FROM SCRIPTURES 

In my remarks today I desire to read from the holy scriptures some of the words of the Savior, and also from the revelations that have come to us in our day. 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

"Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

"Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. 

"Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them." 

What kind of fruits do the people to whom I have referred bring forth? I know of no more outrageous falsifying in my life than has been indulged in by these people. One man by the name of Lorin C. Woolley said that Anthony W. Ivins and Heber J. Grant went to Los Angeles, that he followed them, that they went into a hotel and that Anthony W. Ivins married a plural wife to Heber J. Grant. 

Anthony W. Ivins and Heber J. Grant were never in a hotel together in Los Angeles. Heber J. Grant has never suggested to any human being during his entire administration as President of the Church that anybody should ever enter into plural marriage. On the contrary, every man or woman who has ever opened his or her mouth to him on this subject he has taught to the contrary. 

"And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand; 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it." 

Those who have heard my counsel for at least twelve years, to say nothing of that of my predecessors and others, to obey the laws of the land and do not do it, are building their houses upon sand, and they are absolutely certain to fall. 

"Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, 

"Master, which is the great commandment in the law? 

"Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

"This is the first and great commandment. 

"And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. "On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." 

THE BARLOW CASE 

I call to mind that we tried a man by the name of Barlow for entering into pretended plural marriage years ago. This man brought to us a letter purporting to come from Owen Woodruff, who was dead, telling him to send the person to Mexico, stating that Owen Woodruff married this girl to him. And there was not a word of truth in it. I went to his stenographer and confronted her, and she acknowledged that she wrote the postscript on the letter herself. After Owen Woodruff had been dead for years a man whose name I will not mention because he repented of his sins, acknowledged that he performed that marriage. 

What do you think of such falsifiers talking about the leaders of the Church apostatizing and that they are the reformers? 

FAITH AND WORKS 

"What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith save him? 

"If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, 

"And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? 

"Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. 

"Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works; show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. 

"Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well, the devils also believe, and tremble. 

"But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?" 

* * * 

"For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also." 

The Latter-day Saints are a people of great faith. But I regret exceedingly that there are many, among us who fail to do the works of God. We fail to live up to the requirements of the Lord. I am sorry that there are scores and hundreds of people who are not living the Gospel as they should do and observing to be honest, conscientious tithepayers, observers of the Word of Wisdom, and who are not doing the other things that devolve upon us. Let us reform. Let us show our love of our fellows by keeping the commandments of God and setting an example before them that shall be worthy of imitation in all respects. 

QUOTES FORMER SPEECH. 

I recall that on the first of June, twelve years ago — we had not been able to hold a conference immediately following the death of our beloved and revered President Joseph F. Smith in November, because of an epidemic of disease that existed — I was sustained to be the President of the Church, and I wish to quote a part of what I said at that time: 

"I feel humble beyond any language with which God has endowed me to express it, in standing here before you this morning occupying the position in which you have just voted to sustain me. I will ask no man to be more liberal with his means than I am with mine, in proportion to what he possesses, for the advancement of God's kingdom. I will ask no man to observe the Word of Wisdom any more closely than I will observe it. I will ask no man to be more conscientious and prompt in the payment of his tithes and offerings than I will be. I will ask no man to be more ready and willing to come early and to go late, and to labor with full power of mind and body, than I will labor, always in humility. I hope and pray for the blessings of the Lord, acknowledging freely and frankly that without the Lord's blessing it will be an impossibility for me to make a success of the high calling whereunto I have been called. But like Nephi of old, I know that the Lord makes no requirements of the children of men, save he will prepare a way for them whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has required. With this knowledge in my heart I accept the great responsibility without fear of the consequences, knowing that God will sustain me as he has sustained all of my predecessors who have occupied this position, provided always that I shall labor in humility and diligence, ever seeking the guidance of the Holy Spirit; and this I shall endeavor to do." 

PLEDGE KEPT 

Twelve years have passed away. But I can honestly and conscientiously say to this large assembly that I have day by day, month by month, and year by year, lived up to that pledge which I made at that time. 

COUNSEL FROM THE LORD 

The Lord says: 

"Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. 

"Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you; 

"And if ye ask anything that is not expedient for you, it shall turn unto your condemnation." * * * 

"And as ye all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." 

Again from the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires.

"Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies land your minds may be invigorated. 

"And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace." 

NOT NECESSARY TO BE COMMANDED 

I would like to read you the whole of this section known as Section Fifty-eight, but I see that the time has practically expired, so I will read only a part of it. 

"For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward." 

I have met any number of people who have said the Word of Wisdom is not a command from the Lord, that it is not given by way of commandment. But the Word of Wisdom is the will of the Lord and the Lord says in the words that I have just read that it is not meet that we should be commanded in all things. If you love your neighbor as yourself, if you love God with all your heart, might, mind and strength, does he need to command? No. 

Listen to the following: 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness." 

Can you, by your own free will, accomplish righteousness in the world as well by failing to obey the will of the Lord as you can by obeying it? I say No. One of the best ways in all the world to bring to pass much righteousness is to set an example as a conscientious, Godfearing Latter-day Saint, observing all of the requirements of the Lord. 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with a doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. 

"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments? 

"Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled? 

"I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. 

"Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But wo unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above." 

I commend the entire section for your perusal. 

GRATEFUL FOR KNOWLEDGE 

I rejoice beyond all the power that God has given me to express my feelings for the knowledge that God is directing the affairs of the Church of Christ. I rejoice beyond all the ability that I have to express my feelings that he has given me a knowledge of the divine mission of our Savior, the Redeemer of the world, the Son of the living God. I am happy beyond expression to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God and an instrument in the hands of God of restoring again to the earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ with the power and priesthood given to him by the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, who held that authority when they were here upon the earth. 

PRIESTHOOD PROPERLY EXERCISED 

I rejoice in knowing that the Lord through the inspiration of his Spirit has guided this people through all the changing scenes through which we have had to go. I am thankful that even when the Prophet Joseph and others were in Liberty Jail one of the greatest of all the great revelations that have come to this people was given to him. I rejoice in knowing that all these charges of tyranny and oppression and of a dictatorial management of the Church are absolutely false. There is not a man of the General Authorities of the Church but that desires to do — what? To exercise the priesthood exactly as the Lord says it should be exercised, and I will read the identical words. I really do not need to read them as I can repeat them from memory: 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile— 

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love towards him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

The enemies of the prophet could imprison him, but' he had access to God Almighty and was inspired and blessed of him. 

May the Lord help every one of us who professes the name of Jesus Christ and testifies to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged to live it in honor, in virtue, in truth, is my prayer, that our example may proclaim by our works the truthfulness of it. I bear testimony before God to the divinity of this work, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.
