2
Morning 
04 04 1931
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon
5
14-19

None

None

I endorse fully and unequivocally, my brethren and sisters, every word that has been spoken by President Grant this morning. I sense the responsibility that rests upon me this morning in speaking to you, and trust that I may enjoy your confidence in that which I may say, that I may be led to speak those things that are true and helpful. 

EASTER CELEBRATION  

Throughout the Christian world, yesterday, today and tomorrow, the most important event in Christian history, and in the earth life of Him who is the source of Christianity, is being celebrated. That is the crucifixion and resurrection of the Savior. The Latter-day Saints are fully in accord with the spirit of this occasion. Not only that, but we understand also that this is, actually, the time of year when the Savior was born. We recognize that his life and teachings, and the doctrines which he declared, are divine. We accept him in every sense of the word as the Son of God. We realize that his atonement was necessary, that men might come unto salvation, receive forgiveness for the transgression of Adam, and be rescued from spiritual death, and have the opportunity of gaining salvation and exaltation in the presence of the Lord. 

RESURRECTION AND LIFE 

We acknowledge and believe fully in the resurrection from the dead— the literal resurrection of the body. The Savior was indeed the first fruits of the resurrection. Through him we also may be resurrected. The time of our resurrection will depend upon our works here, and upon our faith and action. I would like to speak for a moment in regard to the life of Christ. "Though he were a Son," we are told, "yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered: and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." He passed through practically every experience that is possible for man to experience. He walked the path of humility. He said to the people: 

"Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. "Take my yoke upon you and learn of me; For I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. "For my yoke is easy and my burden is light." 

POWER IN HUMILITY 

He taught them the spirit of humility, and exemplified the power therein. There is a vast difference in meaning between humility and humiliation. Humiliation means shame. Humility does not mean lack of self-respect. It means strength and fortitude. It involves high moral courage. It leads to faith, trust in God, and to good works. It promotes gratitude. It overcomes vanity. It develops the strength to stand for right and truth. It involves clear thinking and sound judgment, because those who are humble are not likely to be misled by the trickeries of the world. It is evidenced by love of fellow-men. Humility manifests none of the elements of hypocrisy or self-righteousness. Remember the Savior's parable of the Pharisee and the publican. Humility is the opposite of highmindedness and pride. In it there is safety. Humility tends to keep people level-headed. Pride overbalances them. Pride tends to blind the eyes to the light and to close the heart against the truth. We are warned continually in the scriptures with regard to the dangers of pride, and advised of the benefits of humility. We have listened this morning to the testimony of President Grant, given at the time he accepted this position as the President of the Church, and of his pledge at that time to labor in humility and diligence for the welfare of this work. 

HUMILITY LEADS TO FAITH 

The very basis of this work is the spirit of humility, of striving to understand clearly the work of the Lord, and of righteous living. So when I say that humility leads to faith, I am sure that all of you who have had experience in the mission field realize that only those who are humble in their hearts are prepared to receive the truth and the light. Those who are proud have their hearts closed, their eyes blinded, and they are not willing to receive the Gospel. That of itself is evidence of the importance of so living in lowliness of heart that we can discern clearly between right and wrong. 

CONTRITENESS OF SPIRIT LEADS TO GOD 

Only those who are contrite in spirit can enter into the presence of God. As the prophet Isaiah declared: 

"For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy: I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones." 

The Savior illustrated this fundamental requirement when he placed a child in the midst of his disciples, saying: "Whosoever, therefore, shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven." On another occasion he declared: "Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted." So humility is a means of triumph, paradoxical as that may sound. But that triumph is not of the nature sought by those who are proud at heart. 

HUMILITY A DIVINE GIFT 

A day or two ago I read a newspaper item which told the experience of an able and intelligent man, who in the pride of his heart, had committed a crime, and had been sent to prison. He had been in prison for some time, and he declared, in this newspaper statement, that he had finally found humility, and used this expression: "The gift of the gods is humility." Whatever his belief in a Divine Being may be, he expressed, at least, a true principle, that through humility we come to understanding, repentance, and peace of mind. 

SPIRITUAL EFFECTS OF DEPRESSION 

The economic depression that we have suffered in the last year and a half has had a serious effect, not only upon the financial condition of the people of the world, but upon their spiritual attitude. Evidences are many that, as a result of this adversity, people are becoming more humble, are cultivating clearer thinking, and greater sanity. If the effect of these unfavorable economic conditions shall be to cause mankind generally to resist arrogance and to promote human welfare, then it will have proven a benefit in disguise to that extent at least. Surely, if there is anything that is necessary in the world today it is that spirit expressed by the prophet Micah: 

"He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" 

The tendency of the natural man is toward pride, highmindedness and covetousness, as, stated by the President this morning. The Spirit of the Lord, which should guide men, is the spirit of humility, of faith, of clear thinking, of courage, of sound judgment, and oi the desire for truth and light. History of nations evidences the extent of their progress as a result of their attitude, whether it has been that of pride and haughtiness, or whether it has been that of right living. 

PRIDE LEADS TO DESTRUCTION 

Humility is a state of mind, and not a condition, necessarily, of finances. It is too often true that people who gain financial prosperity are led away by pride of the heart and the desire for the things of this world. As I read history there has been no nation that has ever fallen because of prevailing humility among the people. But there are many instances of downfall due to pride. So long as nations have maintained a humble spirit they have been able to endure and to grow; but whenever they have become steeped in pride, they have been led to destruction. When Mary, who was to become the mother of the Savior, came to Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist, the latter was led to prophesy these words: 

"He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree." 

The wise man, Solomon, declared: 

"When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom. * * * 

"Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall. 

"Better is it to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud. * * * 

"Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honor is humility. * * *

"By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life." 

DANGERS IN HIGH PLACES 

There is a tendency very often for men, when they are elected to positions in public office by the people, to consider that they possess some superior power as a result thereof. I am reminded of a statement made by former President Calvin Cooldige. He said: 

"It is difficult for men in high office to avoid the malady of self-delusion. They are always surrounded by worshippers. They are constantly, and for the most part sincerely, assured of their greatness. They live in an artificial atmosphere of adulation and exaltation, which sooner or later imperils their judgment. They are in grave danger of becoming careless and arrogant." 

Surely we should ourselves maintain, and we should influence not only all of the officers and members of this Church, but also, as far as possible, the people of this, the greatest nation upon the earth today, to cultivate and maintain a spirit of lowliness of heart, in the midst of prosperity. If the people of this country will but recognize the source of the blessings which they enjoy, realize that intelligence, judgment and ability are given them of God, and that they should use them for the welfare of mankind, and not solely for their own selfish aggrandizement, then this nation will continue to grow and prosper, and will be able to overcome the present unfavorable conditions. The result will be to promote greater equality among men, and finer consideration for one another. On the contrary, if the spirit of pride and vain ambition shall prevail throughout the country; then the future welfare and progress of this nation, or any nation, under such conditions, will be seriously endangered.

With the increase of temporal prosperity among us as a people in common with the rest of the country generally during the past few years, the continuance of faith and devotion to the Gospel by some of those who have been successful in financial affairs is jeopardized. Not that wealth necessarily means loss of faith; but there is an unconscious tendency in the midst of success to supplant humility of spirit with high-mindedness. We tend to forget our obligations to the Lord, and our need to obey the divine commandments and to impart of our means to build up his work. This tendency becomes evident not only among parents, but also, and particularly so, among the children through indulgence shown them, through the luxuries which they enjoy, and through lack of instruction and obedience to divine principles. What is the result under such conditions? It follows that those who give way to feelings of pride lose the spirit of the Gospel and forfeit their enjoyment of spiritual gifts which would lead them on to righteousness. The Church suffers through their neglect, but they suffer far more through the loss of their spiritual standards. 

INSTANCES OF POWER THROUGH HUMILITY 

If time would permit, there are many instances that could be cited of men in high places who have shown their strength by their humility. The truly great are possessed of humility of heart. The Savior is the most outstanding example. Lowly as a child, strong in courage, fearless in declaring the truth, determined to fulfil his responsible mission, confident of his position, acknowledged by discerning men for his capacity, he exemplified fully the power of humility. His apostles showed the same spirit. Notwithstanding they were endowed with power from on high, yet were they indeed the servants of the people. In these days, in the affairs of this nation, the two most outstanding characters, Washington and Lincoln, demonstrated this same spirit. In the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and every one of his successors, as well as the other Authorities of the Church generally, have been possessed of that spirit of humility in the midst of their great responsibilities. 

THE SPIRIT OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

We have heard from President Grant this morning the recital of a part of Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants with regard to the spirit to be exercised by those who bear the priesthood. Let me repeat a portion of it: 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men. * * * 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge." 

The spirit of the priesthood is indeed the spirit of humility, of faith, of courage, of diligence, of confidence, of determination, of persistence for the right and the truth, and of consideration for our fellow men. 

I desire that the Lord may help us all so to live as to maintain this spirit, that even though we may enjoy prosperity and success, we may recognize the fact that these things come to us through the blessings of the Lord and that we should impart of our means for the cause of righteousness. If we have the spirit of humility we shall recognize the importance of giving of our means and our time for this cause, which makes for the welfare, the progress, and the salvation of mankind generally. 

May we (all strive continually "to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly" with the Lord, I earnestly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
