3
Morning 
04 04 1931
President Rudger Clawson 
7
19-20

None

None

My brethren and sisters, this is a great gathering of the Latter-day Saints for religious instruction, and it is to be expected that we will here be taught the true principles of religion. Let me say that religion is a serious and solemn thing — serious for the reason that it involves the question of salvation, individual and general salvation, and this, I take it, is an extremely important matter. 

GOD’S GREATEST GIFT

The Lord spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith, upon one occasion — you will find it recorded in a revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 6, the thirteenth paragraph — these very impressive words: 

"If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation." 

So we see from this that salvation is something that is greatly to be desired. 

Permit me also, brethren and sisters, to quote a very significant passage from the Book of Mormon, namely: 

"Adam fell that men might be, and men are that they might have joy." 

WHAT SALVATION IS AND HOW OBTAINED 

I think that it is apparent to all that no man could have permanent joy without salvation. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, defined salvation, in brief, in the following comprehensive language: 

"Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet, and when we have power to put all enemies under our feet in this world, and a knowledge to triumph over all evil spirits in the world to come, then are we saved, as in the case of Jesus, who was to reign until he had put all enemies under his feet, death being the last enemy." 

It would seem, therefore, that knowledge is a vital factor in the matter of salvation, for every one who does not obtain knowledge sufficient to be saved, will be condemned. The principle of knowledge is given through Jesus Christ. It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance. 

 Salvation comes to the children of men through the atonement made by our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, whose precious blood cleanses from all sin, and redeems and saves fallen man in the presence of God, always upon the condition of repentance and submission to the will of God. 

THE REWARD OF THE FAITHFUL 

The will of God is set forth in great simplicity, clearness and power in the standard works of the Church, the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. 

Speaking of those who attain to the highest rewards in the kingdom of heaven, the Lord said, in a revelation given to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and Sidney Rigdon, dated February 16th, 1832, that which follows: 

"And again, we bear record — for we saw and heard, and this is the testimony of the gospel of Christ, concerning them who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just— 

"They are they who received the testimony of Jesus, and believed on his name and were baptized after the manner of his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given —

"That by keeping the commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power. 

"And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true. 

"They are they who are the church of the first born" — or in other words, the Church of Jesus Christ, for he was the first born: 

"They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things — 

"They are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory." 

These words correspond, in spirit and doctrine, with the teachings of the Savior and his apostles in the meridian of time. It would be well if the Latter-day Saints would give heed to these words, and it would be well if the world at large, the children of men generally, would give strict heed to these words, because in rendering obedience to the will of God they will find salvation. 

TESTIMONY 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, solemnly, that I do know that this is the true Church of God; that Jesus was the Christ; that Joseph Smith was his prophet; and that it was given to Joseph Smith to stand at the head of this last dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times. I testify to you that whatever authority of God is resting down upon this people, has come to them and to us from the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Hence I do certainly revere his memory, and I regard him as a great man and a great prophet. We know — at least, we believe with all our souls — that Joseph Smith now mingles with the Gods in the spirit world, and, with his brethren there, is planning for the salvation of the people. 

This is the testimony I bear in all humility, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
