10
Afternoon 
04 04 1931
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
43-45

None

None


An American prophet, King Benjamin, whose history we read in the Book of Mormon said on one occasion: 

"And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God, or if ye have known of his goodness and have tasted of his love, and have received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should remember, and always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your own nothingness, and his goodness and long-suffering towards you, unworthy creatures, and humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith of that which is to come, which was spoken by the mouth of the angel. 

"And behold, I say unto you, that if ye do this ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins; and ye shall grow in the knowledge of the glory of him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which is just and true." 

Then we have the words of Jesus as recorded in the thirteenth chapter of Mark, the Evangelist, which read: "My words shall not pass away." The words and teachings of Jesus Christ, our Lord, shall not pass away. They shall live in the hearts of mankind forever. From; Jesus Christ as from no other teacher in the world's history men have gathered an idea of God and his teachings which have proved themselves to be the greatest teachings in the history of civilization. They have endured the changes of time and survived the vicissitudes of life. "In him as in no other being, humanity has found an ideal of character before which men of all generations bow their heads." We are living in a changing, dynamic age. It is called the greatest age of the world's history. There are so many influences leading mankind into all manner of theories and interpretations as to what life means. I have faith, however, in the youth of the world; I believe in humanity. There is much more goodness than wrong; much more righteousness than evil. Man is divine, and all are children of the same God. The knowledge of the divine will always remain to guide us to better spheres. Yet I am not unmindful of the fact that there are ills besetting human society. 

There is today an unprecedented challenge to law and authority. There is a prevailing hatred between nations; men and men. There is a growing aversion to work. There is an excessive thirst for pleasure, and a gross materialism seems to be growing; and as the materialism grows man is forgetting the spiritual life that has been taught us by Jesus the Christ, and those who have taken up his work and his cause. These ills have become common to human society, but there is a power in the- world that is destined to overcome them and that is the power of God, manifested in the mind and the soul of man. 

When Elder Ballard in his sermon quoted the words of Paul to Timothy in which Paul declared that God had not blessed us with the spirit of fear, but with power and strong minds, I was reminded of Stevenson's lovely story entitled "The Lantern Bearers." In this story, Stevenson describes a boyhood game, which consisted in carrying beneath one's coat a bulls-eye lantern. Those admitted to the society were permitted to carry lanterns, and when the members met on some hill or desert waste to talk with each other, their lanterns were the bond of fraternity. It united them all as by a sacred cause. When one member met another, he would ask: "Have you your lantern ready?" Then would come a responsive "Yes," and their coats were unbuttoned and the glow of the light revealed. From this Stevenson derived his philosophy of life. I wonder if we have our lanterns aglow and ready to show the way. 

I believe that the message of Christ is slowly, gradually, and surely touching the hearts of mankind. I believe that ultimately righteousness will prevail over wrong; and the Gospel of Christ prevail. Men will stand in the dignity of their divinity, and not only live, but declare by their lives the great work and power of the Master. 

Boys and girls in our universities are confronted with all kinds of ideas, hut ideas that have been advanced by men who are sincere. If the boys and girls will keep themselves clean and pure and unspotted, and look to their best selves, and the best that is in life, they will be safe, and they will come to a knowledge of the great truths of God. 

I remember once in passing the large gate of the University of Denmark, in Copenhagen, noticing a beautifully carved eagle above the entrance. I suppose it is there to this day. I remember the Latin expression beneath the eagle, which reads in English: "The eagle is looking toward the celestial light." Every time a University student passes through the gate he takes his hat off, looks up to that eagle and to the motto, and with thoughtful mind says: "This day may I look toward the celestial light." 

This has been the teaching of our fathers and our mothers, to look toward the celestial light. In that light, in that illumination which is and may become common to us all, there is happiness, and peace, and sunshine, and all in life we may ask for. 

The pioneers of Utah, our fathers and mothers, understood the joy of divine illumination, for they were men and women of toil, and of great faith in God. They understood life, for as they conquered the elements, the finer instincts of altruism and generosity and love swelled in their hearts. They grew in a knowledge of earth and heaven. They knew the worth of life. They had their lanterns ever ready I and never did they fail to keep to the light which never failed. 

The light of life is Jesus Christ, our Lord. He has told us to deal direct with God through his name. The soul is to be unafraid. We are to love God. That love becomes tremendous and real. It becomes an infinite power. "If thou canst believe," says Mark the Evangelist, "all things are possible to him that believeth." And again in Mark we read: "Have faith in God." "The time is fulfilled." "The Kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the good news." Amen.
