5
Afternoon 
04 04 1931
Elder Reed Smoot
39
24-26

None

None 

I want to thank my Heavenly Father for the privilege of meeting with you this day. In the first place I want to endorse with all my heart and soul the remarks that have been made during the morning sesssion. I think they were most timely and I wish to say to the people of the Church, no matter where they may live, these things apply to our every day life and if adhered to will make better men and better women of us. 

NOT ASHAMED OF THE CHURCH 

The examples that we set wherever we go are but one way of preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I have never been ashamed to acknowledge that I am a Mormon, if you please, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in so doing I cannot recall one instance in my life when it has redounded to my disadvantage. When I see, as I have seen in times past, members of the Church shrinking in certain society or associations from letting people know that they are members of the Church of Jesus Christ, I have only pity for them. If the principles of the Gospel were lived by every man who professes to be a Latter-day Saint we would be the ideal people of the world, and I believe that we are even under present conditions. 

PROHIBITIONISTS 

Do we believe in prohibition? T cannot but say, without a question of doubt, that there are a greater number of Latter-day Saints who not only believe it but practice it than in any other community of like number or any other place in all the world. It means so much to us and the world, and we profess so much for those who live it. I hope and trust that it will grow in the hearts of the people until every man bearing the priesthood of the living God can say, "I am a prohibitionist. I am proud of it." Acknowledge it. I testify to you that there has never been a place where I have been present, in this country or in foreign lands, where it has mortified me in the least degree to acknowledge it by word or action —I not only profess to be a prohibitionist, but that I live that law and have done so all my life, thanks to that mother God gave me.  

INGERSOLL’S VIEWS REGARDING ALCOHOL 

There has been a great deal of talk lately to the effect that the prohibition law should be repealed. Would it be better for the world? I do not believe so. No one can claim that Robert G. Ingersoll was a fanatic religiously, and I know of no one who has expressed himself upon the curse of alcohol stronger than has Robert G. Ingersoll. I would that the whole world would study what he said is the result of its use. And while this question is before the nation, if you please, and many I find, even among our people, believe it would be best to have the prohibition law repealed, I want to call your attention to what Robert Ingersoll said regarding alcohol: 

"I am aware that there is prejudice against any man engaged in the manufacture of alcohol. I believe that from the time it issues from the coiled and poisonous worm in the distillery until it empties into the hell of death, dishonor and crime it demoralizes everything that touches it from its source to its end. 

"I do not believe that any one can contemplate the object without prejudice against the liquor crime. All we have to do gentlemen, is to think of the wrecks on either bank of the stream of death, of the suicides, of the insanity, of the poverty, of the ignorance, of the destitution, of the little children tugging at the faded and withered breasts of weeping and despairing mothers, of the wives asking for bread, of the men of genius it has wrecked, and man struggling with imaginery serpents, I believe every thoughtful man is prejudiced against this damned stuff that is called alcohol! 

"Intemperance cuts down youth in its vigor, manhood in its strength and age in its weakness. It breaks the father's heart, bereaves the doting mother, extinguishes natural affections, erases conjugal love, blots out filial attachments, blights parental hope, and brings down mourning age in sorrow to the grave. It produces weakness, not strength; sickness, not health; death, not life. It makes wives widows, children orphans, fathers fiends, and all of them paupers and beggars. It feeds rheumatism, nurses gout, invites cholera, imparts pestilence and embraces consumption. 

"It covers the land with idleness, misery and crime. It fills our jails, almshouses and asylums. It engenders controversy, fosters quarrels and cherishes riots. It crowds our penitentiaries and furnishes victims for the scaffold. It is the life blood of the gambler, the element of the burglar, the prop of the highwayman and the support of the midnight incendiary. 

"It countenances the liar, respects the thief, esteems the blasphemer, it violates obligations, reverences fraud and honors infamy. It defames benevolence, hates love, scorns virtue, slanders innocence. 

"It incites the father to butcher his helpless offspring, helps the husband to massacre his wife, and the children to grind the paricidal ax. It burns up men, consumes women, detests life, curses God and despises heaven. It suborns witnesses, nurses perjury, defiles the jury box and stains the judicial ermine. It degrades the citizen, debases the legislature, dishonors the statesman and disarms the patriot. 

"It brings shame — not honor, terror — not safety, despair — not hope, misery — not happiness; and with the malevolence of a fiend it calmly surveys its frightful desolation and unsatiated with havoc, it poisons felicity, kills peace, ruins morals, blights confidence, slays reputations and wipes out national honor — then curses the world and laughs at its ruin." 

Is there anyone who can deny these statements? What more trouble and sorrow could come to a mother or a father, a sister or a brother, than to have one of their loved ones addicted to the alcoholic curse? What right thinking person can believe it should be sanctioned by law? No, God grant that it shall never come to our fair America again. 

I do not say that the present administration of the law is perfect. I do not say that it has been enforced to the length it could be. But I do say and I do claim that it is a thousand times better than if we had today the open saloon, the hell-holes of Satan himself. 

EASTERN STATES MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

There are so many questions of vital importance, my brethren and sisters, that could be spoken of and which have been referred to by those who have addressed this Conference. If I do trespass a moment I want to make reference to the Eastern States Mission, and acknowledge the splendid work accomplished, by Brother James H. Moyle, the president of that Mission. He has made it possible to reach not only the few that come to church, but also the thousands who listen to our Elders' sermons by radio. The last two nights I have read the speeches that have been delivered over the radio in the Eastern States Mission by our Elders. Brother Moyle tells me that the radio speeches do not cost the Mission a cent, and I have not the least doubt that they have reached tens of thousands of people who had never heard of Mormonism or had had one principle of our Gospel explained to them by a member of the Church. He informs me that almost all of these speeches have been prepared by young missionaries themselves. Many of them are masterpieces. It would do this great congregation and all the thousands who are listening in over the radio a great deal of good to hear them delivered from this stand. 

GOD AT THE HELM 

This work is growing. The God of heaven is at the helm. He has never made one prediction through his prophets in any age of the world nor in this day and dispensation that will not be literally fulfilled. I know it as I know that I live. God grant his blessings unto the President of the Church, the General Authorities of the Church, the organizations of the priesthood, and all the people of the Church. Remember, brethren and sisters, you belong to the most remarkable organization in all the world. God give us power and strength and the determination to do our part to bring about the purposes of God in establishing His Church in this day and generation, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

