20
Afternoon 
05 04 1931
Elder Hyrum G. Smith
32
76-79

None

None

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to be present upon this occasion. I don't remember having ever attended a Conference that was more blessed of the Lord. I have been thrilled with the testimonies and remarks of all the brethren, and with all the songs that have been sung. The Spirit of the Lord, and the spirit of the Gospel have touched my heart in testimony of their divinity. 

I am thankful for the wonderful privilege of associating with men who the Lord has chosen to stand in the leadership of the Church in this important time of the world. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH SACRIFICES OF OTHERS 

For several months past, about the most important meetings of a public character which I have attended have been funerals. I have attended a number of them of late, due to the fact that a great number of my relatives have recently passed away. At these services, of course, the addresses and the remarks of the brethren have been largely tempered with the spirit and teaching relative to the resurrection, the great mission of life, and the great blessings that have come to the human family through the atonement of Jesus Christ. 

I am always impressed with the spirit of devotion and humility when I hear my brethren and my friends speak in remembrance of the great experiences, sometimes called sacrifices, which our parents and forefathers endured, that we, as younger members of the Church might enjoy the multiplicity of blessings and privileges of the present time, for many faithful souls gave their lives for the cause of this Gospel. 

Personally, I am grateful for the blessings which have come to me, because of the sacrifices of others. I feel my unworthiness of the great blessings that have come to me, the great privileges and opportunities, especially the responsibilities. I do not say this in any manner of boasting, but I wish to say it by way of reporting the growth of the Church as seen from my particular viewpoint. 

HELPED BY PATRIARCHAL BLESSINGS 

I think my predecessor, the late John Smith, holds the record in point of time for any officer holding one position in the Church. He was Presiding Patriarch for over fifty-six years. During that time he was instrumental in administering to members of the Church something over twenty-one thousand recorded blessings. During the last nineteen years nearly twenty-one thousand recorded blessings stand to my credit in the office. 

A great many faithful Latter-day Saints are struggling with their responsibilities in life. Many times they have come to the office, fasting, with a prayer of faith and a keen desire for help to guide them in handling those responsibilities. And in their patriarchal blessings many have received the desired consolation. 

ANSWERS TO PRAYERS 

I am grateful for the faith and the prayers of the members of the Church. I believe in prayer. I know that the Lord hears and answers prayer. I have heard little children pray, and almost immediately have seen the answers come. I have seen adults and older people pray with faith, and have seen immediate and soul-satisfying results. I am converted to the devotion and the practice of prayer. I believe in it, and I practice it myself. I teach my children to pray. They pray for others as well as for themselves. My children, all of them, pray for the President of this Church, and for his associates, for the members of the Church, for the missionaries, for the sick and for all who need the favors of the Lord. 

Through the kindness of the Lord, a great many testimonies have come to us in our home relative to the answering of our prayers. I will not take your time to tell these stories, but our family history is replete with testimonies that are soul-satisfying, relative to the answering of our prayers. So I believe in prayer. 

I thank you for your prayers, my brethren and sisters. I have felt the benefit myself. I am very grateful to you personally for your faith and prayers.

I regret very much that I am physically unable at the present time, and have been for some time past, to visit with the people, and to carry on my duties as I would like to do. However, I feel very grateful that my strength is returning, and I hope to be able soon to discharge my duties in full. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you, my brethren and sisters, throughout the Stakes, Wards, and Missions, and in the auxiliary organizations. My heart is filled with blessings for your success, for your happiness, for your peace in carrying on the great work. 

A STRIKING EXAMPLE 

I realize that we are living in a peculiar time, when conditions are not just as we would like to have them: many are out of employment. 

A very striking example came to me only a few days ago. A convert to the Church, a well educated man, who was trained for the ministry in one of the religious organizations of the land, left his family at home in Canada, and came here to Salt Lake City, where he received his patriarchal blessing. After searching in vain for employment he decided to "hike" back home, a distance of two thousand miles, which he covered in eight days, he reports. He found his patriarchal blessing of great value in overcoming his despair. He acknowledged the hand of the Lord in his blessings, for he realized that he had been spared and blessed; and that he and the Church were still good friends. 

This example is only one of thousands who manifest faith in their blessings and who acknowledge the Lord as the Giver of them. 

FOR COMFORT AND BENEFIT 

I commend to you the faith and the devotion of the good men who are authorized, in the Church, to administer the ordinance of patriarchal blessings. These blessings are for those who understand them and who have a knowledge of their use and value in the Church. They are indeed valuable instruments for the comfort and benefit of faithful members of the Church. 

My heart is filled with sympathy and a desire to bless the entire membership of the Church, to see the Lord's work prosper, and to see faith increase in the hearts of our fellow members. 

I pray the Lord to magnify, bless, inspire, protect, preserve, and spare those who preside over the Church and who stand as its leaders today. 

BLESSES THE PEOPLE 

In the name of the Lord, I bless you all with peace and with prosperity, notwithstanding the uncertainty of things at the present time. You will go to your homes, and plant, cultivate, and reap, but not in vain, for the harvest will be satisfying and satisfactory; the blessings of the Lord will be upon your lands, and upon your possessions, and upon your faithful labors. Therefore, be honest with the Lord in your tithes and in your offerings; that the great promises concerning this land and its people may be fulfilled. 

I pray God to grant these blessings, that they may be upon the Church, its leaders and its members, and all the organizations in the Church, to the honor and glory of the Lord and his work, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
