35
Afternoon 
06 04 1931
Elder Noah S. Pond 
98
113-114

None

None

My brethren and sisters, the spirit of this Conference I am sure will extend to the extreme portions of the world, farther perhaps than missionaries or the representatives of the Church may be able to travel. 

While all these glorious truths have been presented for our consideration I have thought how wonderful that God, the great Creator, the Engineer, the Architect, knew the material from which he would create this earth, and the material from which he would create his sons and daughters to become inhabitants upon this earth. He knew Adam and selected him as the progenitor of the human race. Our Father knew Abraham and selected him to be the father of the faithful. He knew Noah and placed him as the replenisher of the human race after the deluge. He knew Moses and selected him as the great law-giver. He knew the Son of God as the Savior of the world, as his Beloved Son, upon whom he could place the responsibility for the redemption, salvation and exaltation of the inhabitants of the world. 

God knew the prophets and apostles, the inventors and discoverers, and he called them each in his day and time. God knew the Prophet Joseph Smith and he knew you and me, and this is proven by the fact that we are here. 

To Latter-day Saints it isn't so much a matter of chronology — when these goodly men and servants came or when these things occurred — as it is to know the actuality of them and to know that they did occur. These men came in their dispensations and accomplished their work. 

The Northern States Mission is doing its work as creditably as it is within the power of the humble servants of the Lord who labor there to do it. The incident related by Brother Sloan might be duplicated in the experiences within our observation, but it was a goodly mother instead of a father who knew her son was upon the operation table — he needed her. She prayed and she heard his voice calling her, and he heard his mother's voice. In checking the time both mother and son knew of the prayers of each other and that they could be together in spirit although three thousand miles apart. 

We have 77 organized and partially organized Branch and District Sunday Schools, in which there are enrolled 4,845 out of a membership of 7,000 in the mission. We have twenty-three Relief Societies over which Sister Pond presides, and nearly one hundred per cent of our, good sisters are maintaining their Relief Society Magazine in which the lessons for the mothers are presented. Sixteen thriving Mutual Improvement Associations, with an enrollment of 741, participated recently in contest work in a way that would be creditable to any of the Wards or Stakes of Zion. We have 23 Neighborhood Primaries taught by local people and our sister missionaries. 

I bear to you the testimony of my heart of the truthfulness and beauty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ that has been so forcefully preached to us during the sessions of this Conference; and say to you, brethren and sisters, that your missionary sons and daughters are doing true, active missionary work and enjoying the spirit and calling of their missions. 

May our Father's blessings be upon the leadership of this great work, those that we, hold in respectful remembrance of the past, and the Presidency and Apostles and other presiding authorities who guide and direct his work today, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
