29
Morning 
06 04 1931
Elder John V. Bluth
128
99-100

None

None 

If Brother J. Golden Kimball, with all the years of experience he has had and the many times he has been in this stand, has been "upon the anxious seat" during the past two days of this Conference, you may know to some extent how I feel at the present moment. 

I am reminded, while standing here at this west end of the tabernacle, that some fifty-four years ago I sat in the gallery of this house in the first seat just behind where the clock is now fastened. At that time I was an immigrant boy, just over from far-off Stockholm, Sweden, unable to speak the language. The only words of the language I knew were "yes" and "no". 

Remarkable as it may seem those two words have been of considerable importance in my life. It is a matter of regret that I have not always been able to say No when that was the answer that may have been required, but I appreciate and am thankful to my Heavenly Father that I have been able to say No as often as I have done; that I have been able to retain the faith and the testimony of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that has come to me. 

It is a matter of still greater appreciation that every time when I have been expected to say Yes I have been able to do so. I do remember also in my life that there was a time when I very much desired a "yes," and she gave it. For the past forty-six years we have been living together in love, affection and happiness. 

I have been upon two missions, one in the Southern States, and one in England. On those occasions I had to go as it were alone, except for the assistance of my Heavenly Father, which I need as much now as ever. This time I have the privilege of having her with me, and it is a pleasure and a matter of wonderment to me the way she has taken to this work and this mission. 

I rejoice in the privilege of accepting the call that has come to me to preside over the Canadian Mission. I recognize the responsibility and I feel very humble in seeking to follow in the footsteps of those who have preceded me in that work, when I see the labor they have performed, the work that has been accomplished. 

I cannot enumerate the number of States that could be covered by the area that comprises the Canadian Mission, but I did learn this much, that if one should take the lands within the Canadian Mission and divide them up between the men, women and children that comprise the membership of the Latter-day Saint Church in the Canadian Mission, each one would be entitled to 700,000 acres. From that you can decide whether the mission is extensive or whether the membership is small. As I find it, both are the case. 

I rejoice in the work, and I do pray that the Spirit of God may be with me in that work, that in the labors that come to us that Spirit may ever attend us; that a love for the children of God shall be in our hearts; that we shall spare no effort, no labor, no toil, in getting to them the message of life and salvation which has come into our hearts and has given us joy, happiness and satisfaction. 

When we see the hundreds of thousands of people gathering at shrines in other churches, we regret the fact that it seems to us they are as yet impervious to the message of the Gospel that we have to give them, which would give them more truth than they have now, more light and knowledge, and greater opportunity for advancement, progress, glory and salvation in God's kingdom. But all we can do is to seek our Father for the strength he can give unto us and bend every energy to cleanse our garments of the blood of this generation by neglecting no opportunity to preach the Gospel unto them and give them the opportunity to reject or accept, to have joy and gladness come into their hearts, or to have to wait another time and for other methods by which to receive it. 

We pray our Heavenly Father that he may inspire the hearts of the fathers and the mothers who are here at home that they may feel to sacrifice and send their sons and daughters into the missions, that we may not go as short-handed as we are at the present time. We have at present fifty-two missionaries in the Canadian Mission, while we had eighty-two last year, a loss of thirty. We have five District Presidents who are at present working alone. In the State of New Hampshire we have but two missionaries. The field is great and the laborers are few, and we depend upon the brethren and sisters at home who have a love for the work and an appreciation of the responsibilities that are upon us, to carry the message of the Gospel to the world. May we do all that lies in our power to discharge this responsibility. 

I bear my testimony to the truth and the divinity of this work, that that which the world calls "Mormonism" is indeed the work of the Lord, restored to us in these last days, which gives to the world an opportunity of knowledge and understanding and a better conception of God and our relationship unto him, the purpose of our being here and what we may accomplish. May we be blessed with his Holy Spirit to give unto them that message, and to discharge our duties and responsibilities in humility. That God may give us strength to that end, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
