41
Afternoon 
06 04 1931
Elder Joseph W. McMurrin
20
123-126

None

None

I sincerely hope that the blessings of the Lord may attend me during the few moments I occupy this position. 

Some of the other brethren have referred to the sensations they have had during the past three days. I have passed through all of those sensations and some I think in addition. To sit for three days not knowing what moment you are to speak is an anxious time. 

I desire to read a few words given by way of revelation at the opening of the great Gospel dispensation in which we now live. The Lord says: 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

"Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

"Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled." 

And the Lord says further: 

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets — 

"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh — 

"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

"That faith also might increase in the earth; 

"That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

* * * * 

"And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth: I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; 

"For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. 

"And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever." 

I would like to call the attention of this congregation to the fact that in this very first revelation in the book of Doctrine and Covenants the Lord has said that the weak things of the earth should be chosen to accomplish this marvelous work to which reference has been made. It may seem a little ridiculous in the eyes of those who do not believe that the Lord God of heaven has placed his hand to bring to pass in these latter times that marvelous work which has been sung about by all the prophets, that this revelation should say, "Fear and tremble, O ye inhabitants of the earth," because of the weakness of the men and women who are called to represent the work of God in the preaching of the Gospel. 

In my mind's eye I see standing in a little river, just fifty years ago this year, one of those weak missionary boys who had been appointed by his traveling companion to administer the ordinance of baptism to one who had been convinced of the truth. As he stood there in the river and thought of lifting his hand to make the declaration, "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost," how weak that poor instrument was; and in his soul he cried out to God, "Father, if there be aught wrong in this act that I am about to perform, forgive thy servant, who believes that he is possessed of divine authority." 

There could not be a weaker instrument, it seems to me, on the face of the whole earth, and that humble and frightened instrument was Joseph W. McMurrin. 

I have met a great many of these weak men right here in Salt Lake City who have been assigned to the California Mission, and sometimes as I have hearkened to them and have noted their weakness, they could hardly make answer to simple questions because of the fear that was in their souls. I have thought, "What can this man or this woman do in the mission field?" I am a witness that shortly after meeting them here I have met them in the mission field changed and improved. I would not want to convey the thought that they had suddenly become strong, educated, powerful men and women. No. But there had something come into their souls that had driven out fear; they had learned to know for themselves concerning the divine authority they possessed, that they had actually been called by the Lord God of heaven to represent him in the preaching of the holy Gospel, and that they were of a surety servants of the living God. Men may well tremble at the authority and power of God that has been given in this dispensation to mortal men. 

I want to tell you that when men and women become possessed in their own souls of this thought, there is a strength about their presence, and about their testimony, and about their faith in God, that is marvelous and beyond my power to describe. I thank God that the promises are being fulfilled. No matter how weak we are we do bear divine authority, and through the help and blessing and power of God, and the companionship of his Spirit we are making our way, little by little, among those with whom we come in contact; and God is convincing us in our very souls that we represent him. 

This is my testimony concerning the ministry that is being carried on by these weak vessels in the California Mission. We are perishing because of the lack of help. One of the First Presidency has made a declaration that has been referred to: "There is a famine in the land." He made it especially to the bishops, stake presidents and presiding men, and he said, "You are not meeting your responsibility." In attestation of the truth of this declaration I would like to say that the California Mission has been operating with 15O to 200 missionaries in years gone by, and we are now reduced to about eighty-five. We would like you brethren who select missionaries to take this declaration with you, and I hope it will ring in your ears — eighty-five. There is a famine in the California Mission because of the lack of men to proclaim the glorious Gospel of the Son of God. I hope the necessity will be met. You presiding men can change it, if you will. 

God bless all, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
