43
Afternoon 
06 04 1931
President Heber J. Grant 
10
127-132

None

None

I asked all the Mission Presidents who have just addressed us, with the exception of Brother Moyle, to occupy only ten minutes each. Every one of them complied with my request. They spoke from three and a half to eight and a half minutes each, and for the first time in four lor five years there is a little spare time at the closing session of Conference. 

GEMS FROM THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS 

I felt impressed that the splendid things contained in Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants ought to come before this Conference. I had several passages copied and intended to read them, but I was very pleased to hear nearly every word of them quoted by Brother Rulon S. Wells. There is, however, in that section something further which I think it well to read to you: 

"For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom; truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto light; mercy hath compassion on mercy and claimeth her own; justice continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things. 

"He comprehendeth all things, and all things are before him, and all things are round about him; and he is above all things, and in all things, and is through all things, and is round about all things; and all things are by him and of him, even God, forever and ever." 

And this from Section 84: 

"And any man that shall go and preach this gospel of the kingdom, and fail not to continue faithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb, nor joint; and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed." 

President Grant then presented the General Authorities and Officers and General Auxiliary Officers of the Church who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 
FIRST PRESIDENCY 
Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 
Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 
PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 
Rudger Clawson 
COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 
Rudger Clawson 	Joseph Fielding Smith 
Reed Smoot 		James E. Talmage 
George Albert Smith 	Stephen L. Richards 
George F. Richards 	Richard R. Lyman 
Orson F. Whitney 	Melvin J. Ballard 
David O. McKay 	John A. Widtsoe 
PRESIDING PATRIARCH 
Hyrum G. Smith 
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 
TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 
Heber J. Grant 
As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 
Brigham H. Roberts 
Jonathan G. Kimball 	Charles H. Hart 
Rulon S. Wells 		Levi Edgar Young 
Joseph W. McMurrin 	Rey L. Pratt 
PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 
Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop 
David A. Smith, First Counselor 
John Wells, Second Counselor 
GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 
CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 
Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund. 
CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 
Heber J. Grant 		Joseph Fielding Smith 
Anthony W. Ivins 	David O. McKay 
Charles W. Nibley 	Stephen L. Richards 
Willard Young 		Richard R. Lyman 
Rudger Clawson		 John A. Widtsoe 
Orson F. Whitney 	Adam S. Bennion 
Joseph F. Merrill 
Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 
COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 
Joseph F. Merrill 
AUDITING COMMITTEE 
Henry H. Rolapp 	Orval W. Adams 	John W. Hart 
TABERNACLE CHOIR 
Anthony C Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; David A. Smith, President. 
ORGANISTS 
Edward P. Kimball  	Alexander Schreiner 
Frank W. Asper 
CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 
Joseph Anderson 
GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 
Louise Y. Robison, President 
Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor 
Julia A. Child, Second Counselor 
Julia F. Lund, Secretary and Treasurer with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 
David O. McKay, General Superintendent 
Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted, 
YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 
George Albert Smith, General Superintendent 
Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 
YOUNG LADIES MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 
Ruth May Fox, President 
Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor 
Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 
PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 
May Anderson, Superintendent 
Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
Edna Harker Thomas, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

I rejoice exceedingly in the testimony of Brother James H. Moyle. He pleaded, oh so hard, for Brother Talmage or Brother Roberts or someone else to come to his mission and speak over the radio. We could not yield to his pleadings. We rejoice that during the last six months the Lord has seen fit to magnify the young men and the young women in the Eastern States Mission and that he has inspired and blessed them in the marvelous way he has done. 

OBEY THE LAWS OF GOD 

We hear a great deal about obeying the Constitution of the United States. What is the matter with our obeying the constitution of the Church of Jesus Ghrist of Latter-day Saints? What is the matter with us being honest in obeying the laws of Almighty God by paying our tithing? There are a great many people who are very active in preaching this Gospel who fail to obey it themselves. Let us obey it, and then we shall find that there is no power on earth or beneath the earth that can stop us in good works. 

LOYALTY IN PREACHING THE GOSPEL 

I do not believe that one missionary in every twenty that are sent into the mission field has had previous experience in missionary work. It seems to me that there should be more loyalty in preaching the Gospel than exists at the present time. I remember that when I was a young man the Church did not send boys on missions as it has to do today, but men of experience made sacrifices to go into the mission field. Men laid down almost anything that they were doing when the call came to go upon a mission. But now, if there is any excuse under heaven that we can make to stay home many of us are staying. 

I want to endorse all that has been said that is calculated in its nature to inspire the leading men of this Church, all over the Church, and the members, to make sacrifices and prepare themselves to proclaim the Gospel. 

THE BEST CONFERENCE 

I am very happy indeed over all that has been said and done in this Conference. I pray earnestly and sincerely that the Lord will sanctify to our blessing all that we have heard. I rejoice in the fact that I have heard on all sides as far back las I can remember, "Well, we have had the finest Conference ever." It shows that the people have the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; that when they are fed the bread of life their hearts are warmed. Tears of gratitude come into their eyes for the authority of the living God, for the power that comes to the people, and it does seem as though the last Conference is always the best. 

May God help us each and all to live in such way and manner that his Spirit may be our constant guide and companion, I ask in the name of Jesus and in the authority of the priesthood of the living God that I hold. May God bless the people; may he bless the General, the Stake and the Ward authorities and the officers of the auxiliary organizations throughout the Church. May he bless the misssionaries at home and abroad, and may he inspire the people to do missionary work. 

TO WARN OUR NEIGHBORS 

I would like to call the attention of President Joseph W. McMurrin to the fact that there are three Stakes of Zion in California, that there are residing in California today probably twenty thousand members of the Church. We should remember that the Lord has told us that it is our duty to warn our neighbors and to preach this Gospel — that duty is upon all of us — we should be missionaries. There are very many men in the Church who are devoting nearly all their time outside of their daily vocations in an endeavor to bring people to a knowledge of the Gospel, although they have not been called Upon missions. There are some of our Bishops who; not only do their duty in their Wards, but when they find someone whom they can interest in the Gospel they preach it to him. II think one of the best preachers I have known ever since he came home from his mission as a young man is Bishop Thomas A. Clawson of the Eighteenth Ward. He is zealous in keeping his returned missionaries at work. 

Let us all realize that this work belongs to each and every one of us, and let us do all in our power for its advancement. 

"THE SONG OF THE HEART" 

May the Lord bless our singers, not only those who belong to this great tabernacle choir, but our singers throughout the entire Church. There is no other people in the world who take greater interest in music, in singing, and in advancement along those lines than do the Latter-day Saints. Why? Because we realize that the Lord has given a revelation wherein he has said that his soul delighteth in the song of the heart, that it is a prayer unto him, and that it shall be answered with a blessing upon our heads. Let us remember the kind of songs the Lord likes, songs with the Gospel in them. I have gone to conferences where I have heard three or four anthems, with the words of which I could not agree. They were sung to good music but they were not good doctrine. 

May the Lord guide us by the unerring counsels of his Spirit, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer, Amen.
