37
Afternoon 
06 04 1931
Elder Miles L. Jones 
101
116-117

None

None

I certainly feel my weakness this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, in attempting to report the activities of the missionaries in the East Central States Mission. 

I rejoice exceedingly in having the privilege of laboring with your sons and daughters and your husbands who are engaged in the work of the Lord in that part of the Lord's vineyard. It is pleasing to me to meet with those who have returned from the mission field and hear them express themselves to the effect that they would like to be back in the service of the Lord again; showing that they had been imbued with the spirit of their work and that they still have that spirit with them. 

I would like to say to the Bishops of Wards and to the Presidents of Stakes of Zion where these young men and young women reside that I would appreciate it very much if you would find something for them to do to keep them active in the work, because they are active while in the mission field and have endeavored to do their duty to the best of their ability. 

About a year ago a message came from the mother of one of our missionaries, who is still laboring in the field, to the effect that his father had passed from this life. In that message the mother expressed the wish that her son remain in the field and complete his mission, and he chose to do so. Just a short time ago, two years, which is the usual term of missionary service, had passed, and learning of the financial condition at his home, I wrote to this young Elder and told him that his labors were acceptable to the Lord, and that he would be honorably released, to return home so as to be in attendance at this Conference. In answer to my letter he said:

"President, I have been very careful with my means. I have practiced economy and have saved enough to maintain me for another two months, or more. While I do not like to suggest it, if it would be permissible and agreeable I would like to remain for at least that length of time." 

It is needless for me to say that that Elder is still in the field. He has work ahead of him and prospects that he wants to see consummated before he returns to his home. 

Just two or three weeks ago a message came from President Grant and his counselors to the effect that the father of one of our very able lady missionaries had met with a serious accident and was taken from this life. The message was forwarded to her. Her companions rallied to her support, as did also the good Saints in that district, and comforted her. I received a letter in answer to one that I wrote to her just a few days afterwards in which she too expressed herself as wanting to remain and complete her mission before returning home. She is still in the mission field. 

My brethren and sisters, it fills my heart with thanksgiving when I see the faith that is exhibited by the young men and young women who go into the mission field. They are interested in the work. They want to accomplish their work in a way that the Lord will be pleased with their efforts, and I am sure that they are succeeding. 

My brethren and sisters, encourage the young people to prepare themselves for the mission field, for as President Nibley said yesterday, "there is a famine in the land, not for bread nor a thirst for water, but for hearing the words of the Lord." The harvest is great and the laborers are few; the time is far spent and there is little remaining. 

I pray God to bless you with every needful blessing. May he bless President Grant and his counselors, the quorum of the Twelve and all those who are engaged in this great latter-day work. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
