31
Morning 
06 04 1931
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
106-107

None

None

I earnestly pray that the word of the Lord that has been delivered to us at this Conference will take hold of us. It seems to me, brethren and sisters, that the beauty and power of this Gospel are revealed in the lives of the Latter-day Saints as much and probably more than they are revealed in the books. 

Two or three days ago I saw a happy mother walking along Main Street. Her face beamed with maternal pride, for at her side, walking with her, was her son, a manly young man who had been recently honorably released from filling a mission. With every step that mother took she seemed to say, "I am the mother of this boy." 

These wonderful mothers in Israel are not astonished at the gratifying progress their splendid sons and daughters make in the mission field, because they know that the testimony of the Gospel and the power to preach it were born with them. These mothers believe in their sons and daughters. My brethren and sisters, we cannot do very much with young people except we show them that we do believe in their integrity and power to fill their missions. 

Recently a married man came into the Mission. After he had labored for three or four months he received the sorrowful news that his only child, about two years old, had died. The bishop comforted the grief-stricken mother and told her that if it would help her to bear her grief he would send for her husband. But she replied, "No, bishop. Ever since we have been married I have prayed and worked and saved in order that my husband could fill a mission, and if he were to come home now the happiness he would bring me would not equal the joy that fills my heart because he is preaching the everlasting Gospel." 

Such a spirit, brethren and sisters, is unconquerable. It is invincible. And in that spirit of sacrifice, devotion and self-denial this glorious Gospel is being preached. 

A Presbyterian minister said a short time ago: "The church that evangelizes America will be the dominating factor in evangelizing the world." Noble words. Magnificent ideal. The mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to preach the Gospel to every nation and kindred and tongue and people, to bring about the glorious consummation, when every knee shall bend and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ. And how will the Church accomplish this? "Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord of Hosts." 

God help us all to work in the spirit of sacrifice and devotion. Let us send out our splendid sons and daughters to "wake up the world for the conflict of justice," I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
