32
Morning 
06 04 1931
Elder Arthur Gaeth 
129
107-109

None

None

My dear brethren and sisters, I bring you greeting from the smallest mission in the Church, consisting of thirteen of your sons and eleven members. I am happy to be here to enjoy the spirit of this Conference, happy that I was able to come and obtain a companion who will return with me, so that we can continue in our work in building up that mission of the Church. 

We are happy to be able to labor among the Slavic people — among the Czechs and the Slovaks — a people who have been religiously persecuted for centuries. They first received Christianity in the ninth century, when two Slavs, missionaries of the Byzantine church, came to them, and under the reign of Wenceslas, that famous Christian king in whose honor we sing one of our religious songs, they were practically Christianized. From that time on Christianity was a powerful factor in their history. But so well did the predominant church know how to inculcate the ideas of its religion into the lives of those people and into their affairs that by the fourteenth century it controlled practically one-third of all the lands, and most of the people were serfs and peasants under its dominion. 

It was said at that time that the Archbishop of Prague controlled one-third of the Province of Bohemia, and he had a large retinue of priests and followers who spent a good deal of their time in riotous living. This greatly incited the feelings of honest men and women who believed in the message of Christ. 

One of these was the famous reformer, John Huss, who began to preach against the corruption within the Church. He gained a following among the common people and the movement became so powerful that the attention of the Popes in Rome — and at that time there were two — was attracted to this movement. Huss was asked to come to trial on the shores of Lake Constance. His friends warned him and told him not to go, but he had a motto, the motto of the Bohemian people today, "Truth will conquer." 

And so with two or three followers and with a promise of safe passageway from the king of the Empire at that time, Sigismund, he went on to Constance. There, at a mock trial, he was condemned to death and was burned at the stake. 

Huss died, but his spirit lived on among the people, and for two centuries after that they were a Protestant nation. But at the beginning of the Thirty Years' War the Catholic forces came into the country and at the battle of White Mountain the Bohemians were defeated and were put in bondage. There were more than two million Bohemians living in the country at the beginning of the Thirty Years' War, and at the close, thirty years later, that number had dwindled to less than one million. The rest had been killed or forced into exile. For three hundred years after that they lived in bondage, spiritually. They were forced to accept teachings for which they had no desire and in which they did not believe. But slowly these things became a part of them, and the mass of the people became members of the Catholic church. 

Then the World War came and that people succeeded in gaining their freedom and in establishing religious liberty. The educated people began to break away from the church. They began to go off into the paths of skepticism and agnosticism. The masses still remain in that church and are remaining so probably because they feel they must have some kind of a cloak and that the cloak they are wearing now is probably as good as any they could get. But the leaders and the educated people are opposed to organized religion. They want nothing of it, because the experiences they have had with organized religion have taught them that it has meant bondage to them. 

We are laboring among the more educated people of the country, a skeptical people who weigh everything and who are paying attention to teachings and investigating them because they are interested in the development of their people and their country as probably no other leaders in Europe are today. They have gained their freedom. The spirit of liberty permeates their souls and they work and slave and accomplish. That is why the country of Czechoslovakia has made more progress in re-establishing and reconstructing since the war than any other country that participated in the war, except probably France. 

We are proud to be engaged in service among those people. We are thankful to our Heavenly Father that we can work there, and we feel that the time will come when the teachings of the Church, because they are practical and can be applied in every day life, will take hold among those people and we will be able to bring many of them into the fold of the Church. We are only a small group, fourteen of us laboring among fourteen million seven hundred and twenty-five thousand people. We feel that we have a great mission and that we need help. We ask the Lord to bless you here at home so that you may be able to send your sons and daughters out into the world to preach the Gospel, where they can gain the experiences so valuable to life, and at the same time preach the true and everlasting Gospel to the many nations of the world who are hungering for truth. 

May the Lord bless you and help you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
