34
Afternoon 
06 04 1931
Elder William R. Sloan 
97
111-113

None

None

Never in my life have I felt more humble and dependent upon the Spirit of the Lord than I do at this time. I was just as positive as of anything in the world that I would be the first speaker this afternoon. Something seemed to whisper that to my soul. You brethren who have never had this experience will probably never know with what feelings of timidity a man stands in the presence of these holy men to edify those present and say the things that should be said to this great body of priesthood, servants of the Lord. 

It seems to me that the great burden of this Conference has been the burden that is incumbent upon us as Elders in Israel, namely, the proclaiming of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the world. As we were singing the last hymn, my mind reverted to a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph to Peter Whitmer, June, 1829. I should like to read it. 

"Hearken, my servant Peter, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer. 

"For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth. 

"And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone — 

"For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of most worth unto you. 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given unto you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father." 

I am honored, my brethren and sisters, in being called to preside over the Northwestern States Mission, one of the grandest missions of this Church. Millions of people live within the boundaries of this great mission. Their attitude towards this Church is changing rapidly. Hundreds of them are seeking for the truth. They are reading the truth as your sons and daughters are delivering it to them from day to day, in the various parts of that mission, so far as our force will permit us to visit. We are limited in man power and in the strength of our women who have been doing missionary work and are doing missionary work there today, as is no doubt the case in all missions. Obviating that handicap we are calling a number of our local brethren and sisters within the immediate confines of the mission, to the service, and they are spending some time — some of them part of their time, others all of their time — and thus helping in overcoming the great shortage of missionaries today. 

I realize the sacrifice that you parents are making. I appreciate the hard times that we are going through financially; yet I realize too that God can overrule all things for the good of his people and for the promulgating of his work. 

Not long ago one of the Elders laboring in the Northwestern States Mission was worried over financial conditions at home, although his father had never mentioned finances to him. Yet, away up in Alaska he felt that all was not well. So, one evening he went out by himself to pray and he asked the Lord to remove this feeling from him that he might know of conditions at home. To his astonishment, that night when he retired a vision as it were came to him. Just as plain as the noonday sun he saw his good father going away from home and in seclusion kneeling in prayer, telling the Lord that he had a son in the mission field and his finances were such that he was worried as to whether he could retain him there longer or not; and he asked that this condition be overruled if it were the Lord's will. 

The next morning the son wrote a letter to his father and outlined in detail that which he had seen in vision. A few weeks later came a letter to the son, and he in turn sent it to me. That good father said: "Son, the very night that you had that vision, I was out there in seclusion away from home, praying, telling my troubles to the Lord, and he heard me. The next day as I went along the street I met a man, not a member of the Church, who voluntarily asked me if I did not need a little money, that he had some with which he could help me. His letter said, "Son, you remain on your mission as long as you are needed." 

These things, my brethren and sisters, are happening to the missionaries in the Northwestern States. They are kind, sweet, honest, willing young men and women. They are acquitting themselves admirably of the responsibilities that rest upon them. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. Oh, may he bless these men who preside over Israel! May we, brethren and sisters, stand back of them, every man and every woman, that Zion may grow through the united efforts and support we give these noble servants of God. I bear witness to you that I know this is God's work. Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and this work will never be overthrown nor given to another people. This I do in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
