33
Morning 
06 04 1931
Elder Arthur Welling 
102
109-111

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I too rejoice and am grateful with all my heart for the privilege and honor that has come to me as a missionary of this great Church, and for the opportunity of bearing my testimony along with those already borne at this Conference. 

In the North Central States Mission we are well, and busy, and happy in our work, and the Lord is blessing our efforts. Last year, despite its many handicaps, we had more baptisms, more tithing paid, and more people paying tithing than ever before in tour history. This year (1931), notwithstanding a reduction of more than one-third (from 8O to 50) in our missionary force, we feel and hope results may be even better. We are proud of our missionaries and of our Saints and friends. All that we need is more of each. There are many good people in the world. Given more missionaries, for whom we hope and pray, we shall strive earnestly to find them, and with the help of the Lord, to teach them the truth. 

A book has been written by Bertrand Russell and others entitled, "If I had but one sermon to preach." If we of the North Central States Mission had but one sermon to preach to the world it would be an humble testimony that God lives, the same wise, kind Heavenly Father, who in the beginning "Created man in his image," and who continues to be interested in all his children; that Jesus of Nazareth lives, a resurrected, immortalized, glorified member of the Godhead; that Joseph Smith, the prophet of this dispensation, was privileged to converse with these two heavenly personages, Father and Son, and of them was instructed in the manner of the organization of the only authorized Church of Christ upon the earth today; that this is that Church; that in it, under the administration of President Heber J. Grant, seventh in succession from the Prophet Joseph, are held and exercised all the keys of authority in the priesthood that characterized it in the early days. 

Such, my brethren and sisters, is our testimony to the world. And if, as upon one occasion long ago, some should be "pricked in their hearts" and should say, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" the answer is ever the same: 

"Repent and be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For this promise is unto you, and unto your children, and to all they that are alar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." (Acts 2:37-39). 

If we could preach but once to the youth of Zion it would be, in humble adaptation of the third, great commandment: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God IN VAIN." In vain? What do we mean — In vain? 

Consider for a moment the splendid oath and promise of the Boy Scout: 

"On my honor I will do my best to do my duty to God and to my country, and to obey the Scout Law; to help other people at all times; and to keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." 

Suppose the Boy Scout, having given this splendid commitment to service, should go his way forgetful that "A scout is Trustworthy, Loyal, Helpful, Friendly, Courteous, Kind, Obedient, Cheerful, Thrifty, Brave, Clean and Reverent." He shall have taken the Boy Scout Oath IN VAIN, shall he not?

Let us not, my young brethren and sisters in particular, take the name of the Lord our God, in vain. Who cares to become a deacon, a teacher, a priest, an auxiliary worker, or a missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints IN VAIN? Nobody. Last of all the youth of this day and age in the Church. 

"O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind, and strength, that ye be found blameless before God at the last day." 

Such, my young friends, the vision toward which our fathers wrought; 

Such their proud hope and faith in us, that we should carry on, 

Nor carry on IN VAIN, the work by them begun. 

So shall we prove ourselves in very deed their sons. 

So shall we prove to skeptic friends, "This is the Place;" 

This is his Church; and this the greatest day, 

(Though perhaps also the most critical and dangerous of days), 

That ever yet has dawned. 

God bless and keep the youth of Israel. God bless and magnify his missionaries in every land and clime. God bless and save the world, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
