27
Morning 
06 04 1931
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
97

None

None

I had not expected to be called on to address this Conference, but I do appreciate the privilege and the honor that is bestowed upon me in thus being called. 

What President Wells has said today has been in my mind and heart throughout the Conference. The thought that the light shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not is apparent in all the world.  

When the treasurer of the queen of Ethiopia was returning from Jerusalem, to which place he had gone to worship, he was reading from the prophet Isaiah. Phillip, an inspired servant of God was impressed to come near unto him and inquire if he understood what he read, to which he replied, "How can I, except some man teach me?" 

Around the Eunuch was this spirit which has ever shone in darkness. Being unable to get into contact with it, he could not understand the word of God. But this servant of God, endowed with the priesthood and the authority to teach, was able to make that which to him was darkness, plain and as light. 

As I conceive it, that is the responsibility of the missionary. The light shineth in darkness in all the world, and there are honest souls reaching upward for the light. It is our earnest prayer that the Lord will bless us and inspire us and help us to seek them out and find them and bring them to the light, that they may see the truths of the Gospel and rejoice in them. 

We feel in the missions — I am sure that all the missions feel alike— that the prayers of the Saints and of our brethren are the great sustaining influence behind us in our work. Therefore, I make this appeal to you this morning, to continue your prayers in behalf of the missions, that the Lord may inspire his servants who have the task of seeking out those who want to know the truth. There are many of them. We do not know how to find them except we be led to them. Will you pray for us? Will you continue to sustain us as you have done? We in turn will do the best we can to carry the message. 

I am happy to be able to say that the mission over which I have the honor ko preside seems to be doing very well. The Saints are faithful, the missionaries are faithful, and they are all enjoying health, strength, happiness and joy. 

May the Lord bless you. May he bless Zion and his servants who preside over the Church, and help them to be strong. May we love and sustain them, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen.
