12
Morning
07 04 1922
Rudger Clawson
7
45-48

None

Scripture 

I wondered, as I sat in the stand yesterday, where President John M. Knight got his stentorian voice. If I knew where such voices were manufactured, I think I should go and get one. As he stood there and spoke to the congregation, he roared like a lion, and the building trembled. I cannot roar. Nevertheless, I may possibly be able to make you hear, if I speak straight ahead. 

I was speaking to one brother yesterday, about yesterday morning's meeting, who said, "It was an epoch in our history of conferences." I quite agreed with him, because it seemed to me to be a very extraordinary meeting, a meeting of abounding interest to the Latter-day Saints. 

LESSON FROM THE HOLY BIBLE 

Let me say, brethren and sisters, that the Latter-day Saints are a blessed people, for we live in the latter days, and have access to the lives and experiences of the inhabitants of the earth from the earliest ages. For example, take the Holy Bible; it is one of the most precious books of the world today; it goes back to the very beginning and is written in the simplest, purest English. It deals with every phase of human nature — both good and bad. It is a work of great literary value and, although it sets forth the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, which is its principal value, it nevertheless reads like a romance — so absorbing is the story. What can be of greater interest to the human family than the story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden? Thev were our first parents, the root from which we sprang. It is good to know this, and to become somewhat familiar with their history. The Bible tells us that Adam and Eve were subjected to a great temptation and yielded, that is to say, the woman yielded, and the man voluntarily shared in her transgression. This experience seemed to be necessary for them to have, for we are told in holy writ that "Adam fell that man might be, and man is that he might have joy." There was, therefore, a great purpose in it. The story tells us that Cain, one of Adam's sons, through the spirit of greed and jealousy, rose up and slew his brother Abel. Thus was sin, and the greatest of all sins, introduced into the world. This was the first murder. There have been many since. Many generations pass away before we come to Noah and the flood. During those long years, the children of Adam multiplied greatly; righteousness they followed not, but were steeped in all manner of sin and debauchery. Noah the prophet, preached to them the gospel of repentance for one hundred and twenty years, but his message and warning were rejected. It was then the flood came and cleansed the earth of violence and wickedness. 

THE THREE GREAT PATRIARCHS 

Most absorbing is the story of the three great patriarchs: Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. They were indeed noble men. The Lord, Himself, declared that He was the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Did man ever before or after, receive such great distinction? Could greater honor have been conferred upon them? Then, we should remember that the integrity and faith of Abraham was so great that the Lord put upon him a blessing, under oath, saying, that unto him and his children, the land of Canaan should be given and that in him and in his seed, all the families of the earth should be blessed. This same glorious promise was also put upon Isaac and Jacob. On one occasion Jacob wrestled with an angel all night, and would not let him go until he had received a blessing. The angel thereupon said that his name should no more be called Jacob but Israel, for, said he, as a prince hast thou power with God and with man, and hast prevailed. Jacob was the father of twelve sons, from whom sprang the twelve tribes of Israel. We are of Israel. 

THE STORY OF JOSEPH IN EGYPT 

Who can read the story of Joseph and the Children of Israel in Egypt, of their bondage, and of their deliverance from bondage by ten great miracles, without being touched to the heart? It is a fascinating story, brothers and sisters, this story of Joseph, who was sold info slavery in the days of his youth, and was confronted with a great and terrible temptation by a beautiful woman. He resisted tbe temptation, and, for this evidence of his virtue, he was cast into prison. After two vears, be was brought out again, and almost immediately, was lifted to well nigh unlimited authority under Pharaoh; and, through the wisdom that was given him, he not only saved Egypt, but saved his father's house from starvation by famine. No story in fiction is of greater interest, and certainly, no story of fiction is quite as profitable, to my mind as the journeying of the Children of Israel in the wilderness, and later, of their occupation of the Promised Land, or Palestine. 

THE KINGS AND PROPHETS 

The vital lessons taught by the disobedience of King Saul and of the humility and obedience of David in his early life, and of his great sin in later life, are of great importance to the world and most instructive. 

The story of Daniel and the three Hebrews in Babylon exhibits a sublime faith, for, notwithstanding the fact they were condemned to death by the lions and by fire, nevertheless, they steadily refused to bow down to man but continued openly to worship the God of heaven; and, mark you, brethren and sisters, the God of heaven rescued them from their extremity. Oh! it is a wonderful lesson indeed. 

The great and wonderful prophecies of Isaiah, Ezekiel, Moses, Jeremiah, Daniel and others give a value to the Bible that cannot be over-estimated. 

THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST MOST WONDERFUL OF ALL 

But, the sweetest, most touching, most wonderful story of all the wonderful stories in the Bible, is the story of Jesus Christ and His ministry in Jerusalem. In that story is set forth the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, with all of its gifts, rites and powers, and Priesthood, that will save and exalt men in eternal glory, if they will but repent and render obedience to it. Here also is given an account of the organization of the true Church of God, consisting of apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, high priests, seventies, elders, priests, teachers and deacons. There is nothing in literature, brethren and sisters, that is quite comparable to the parables of Jesus — so simple, so direct, so profound, so God-like. They seem almost to cover our human experience. 

The greatest event, however, in the life of the Savior, was the crucifixion upon Mount Calvary, for therein did He give His life in atonement for the sins of the world, and by this sacrifice — the greatest sacrifice ever witnessed — he has drawn us to Him and put us under an obligation of eternal duration. 

The lives and acts of the apostles of Jesus, who preached the gospel extensively, and who, in the end, were martyred, like their Master, teaches a lesson that will bear fruit to the end of time.

IMPORTANCE OF THE STUDY OF THE BIBLE 

I have thus spoken of the Bible to emphasize the importance of its study, which, if mastered, would be quite equal, I am sure, to a college education. This holy record has come down to us, under the providence of the Lord, through the years. It is a most precious treasuse and will be found in nearly every household, but I fear it is not read as often, and is not pondered over as deeply, by the Latter-day Saints, as it should be. God has given us His word and He will not be mocked. 

MODERN SCRIPTURE OF EQUAL VALUE 

In the brief talk that I have made this morning, I have said nothing about the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, standard Church works, which are of equal value to the Bible, and should have our closest and most careful attention. The Lord has poured down from above and brought up from beneath a flood of light and truth for the benefit of mankind and we should remember that he reigns in the heavens and holds in his hand the destinies of the earth. He will not condone ignorance, for "the glory of God is intelligence," and if we would be like him, we must become intelligent. 

Brothers and sisters, may the Lord bless us and help us to do our duty by keeping His commandments and by studying His word. This is my prayer, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen. 
