15
Morning
07 04 1922
Joseph Fielding Smith
37 OR 38 (there were two in the google doc)
59-62

None

None

I was praying in my heart that whoever should speak at this time it would not be Brother McKay, for the very same reason which has been expressed, and I am glad that I have been called on, because it will soon be over. 

TOO LITTLE TIME SPENT IN PROPER DISCUSSION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GOSPEL 

I feel my weakness in standing before you at this time, and yet, I have been very happy, because throughout this conference the testimony has been one of preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and there is nothing that appeals to me, that finds response in my soul, quite so much as the preaching of the simple principles of the everlasting gospel. The people are not taught these principles enough. We do not spend any too much time in discussion, that is of the proper kind, I mean, of these principles which the Lord has revealed for our salvation; nor do we know any too much concerning them. 

JESUS CHRIST REDEEMER OF THE WORLD 

Much has been said in the conference in relation to the warning of the people, and in admonishing the Latter-day Saints to observe the laws and the ordinances of the gospel, which have been given us for our salvation. We believe in the Lord, Jesus Christ, as the Redeemer of the world. No Latter-day Saint can believe anything contrary to that. It is true that those who profess to be Christians, in large part at least, do not accept Him as the Redeemer, do not look upon Him as the Son of God, are not willing to believe that He died for the remission of sins, for the transgression of our first parents, and that we, through repentance, may come back into the presence of the Father; yet these doctrines are fundamental with the Latter-day Saints. No man shall see the kingdom of God unless he is willing to accept these truths. 

THE CELESTIAL KINGDOM OF GOD 

I would like to say a word or two in relation to the kingdom of God. In the great sermon that was preached by our Redeemer, on the mount, He taught the people, as we have already been informed, that they should "Seek first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness," and moreover, that the way was narrow and the gate was strait which led to life eternal, and few there were who found it. What did he have reference to? To the celestial kingdom. President Penrose, yesterday, very clearly and properly, pointed out to us, through the revelations of the Lord, that it was the purpose of our Father, and through the ministration of His Son, our Redeemer, to save all mankind, but that must be done through man's agency, through his faithfulness, through his obedience to the gospel, and it can be done in no other way. All men are to be saved, with the exception of the sons of perdition, who reject the truth after having received it, and who crucify Christ again unto themselves and place themselves in such a condition that eternal judgment must be passed upon them, of banishment into outer darkness, with the devil and his angels. But, in the salvation of the human family, it is contemplated that before salvation comes, every knee must bow, and every tongue must confess that Jesus is the Christ, and that through the shedding of His blood, comes redemption from death and from individual sin. Moreover, the Lord has never promised those who enter into the telestial kingdom that they shall receive the blessings of exaltation. He has not promised to those who enter into the terrestrial kingdom a fulness; but He has declared that he who endures to the end, he who will keep all the commandments, he who will be faithful, shall find a place in His kingdom; and when He speaks of His kingdom, He has reference, not to the great, broad kingdom which will embrace all humanity save the few, who become sons of perdition, but speaks of that place where He and His Father dwell. 

Let me repeat, in my own words, however, the expression that was made here yesterday by President Penrose. Who, among Latter-day Saints, is seeking a place in the telestial kingdom? Who, among the Latter-day Saints, is seeking a place in the terrestrial kingdom? With those kingdoms we should want nothing to do; it is not the intention of the man who is baptized into the Church, or ought not to be, to so live that he will not find a place in the celestial kingdom of God; for baptism, itself, is the way into that kingdom. Baptism is of two-fold nature; primarily for the remission of sins, and then, entrance into the kingdom of God, not the telestial kingdom, not into the terrestrial kingdom, but entrance into the celestial kingdom, where God dwells. That is what baptism is for; that is what the gift of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of hands, is for —  to prepare us that we may, through obedience, continue on and on, keeping the commandments of the Lord, until we shall receive the fulness in the celestial kingdom. 

AS TO ADVANCEMENT FROM ONE GLORY OR KINGDOM TO ANOTHER 

There has been a great deal of discussion going on in certain parts, as to whether or not those of the telestial kingdom may advance into the terrestrial, and those of the terrestrial into the celestial, and whether eventually all men enter into the kingdom where God lives and Christ reigns. Why should we worry ourselves? Why should we argue? Why should we contend? Why should we discuss a matter of that kind? When we have come out of the world and have received the gospel in its fulness, we are candidates for celestial glory; nay, we are more than candidates, if we are faithful, for the Lord has given unto us the assurance that through our faithfulness, we shall enter into the celestial kingdom, and surely, no Latter-day Saint desires a place somewhere else, there to take a chance of some day being forgiven and having the opportunity of advancing and finally reaching the place where the righteous dwell. 

Then again, let us keep in mind what the Lord has said; it is unnecessary for us to go outside of that which the Lord has stated in the revelations unto the Church. He has declared, speaking of those who enter into the telestial kingdom, "that where God and Christ dwell, they cannot come, worlds without end." Then, why should we bother about it; why should we argue about it; why should we consider these things in such a serious manner? So far as we are concerned let us live so that we will be assured of our place, and so we will know, through the lives we live, that we shall enter into His presence and dwell with Him, receiving the fulness of the blessings that have been promised. Who among the Latter-day Saints will be content with anything short of the fulness of salvation which is promised us? The revelations are clear; the Lord has revealed unto us just what course we should take; He has given us commandments; they are plain; they can be understood. It does not require an interpreter; he who runs, may read and may understand and get the knowledge which is essential to his salvation. And then of course it is necessary for us, in our humility, and in the spirit of repentance, to press on and on; keeping the commandmelnts unto the end, for our hope and our goal is eternal life, and that is life in the presence of the Father and of the Son; "And this is life eternal," said the Lord, "that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." That we may know this, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 