16
Afternoon
07 04 1922
David O. McKay
18
62-69

None

None 

"But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find Him, if thou seek Him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. When thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come upon thee, even in the latter days, if thou turn to the Lord thy God and shalt be obedient unto His voice; (For the Lord thy God is a merciful God. He will not forsake thee, neither destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of thy fathers, which he sware unto them." 

At twelve o'clock today I envied the peace to which Brother Joseph Fielding was entitled and which I am sure he enjoyed, after his closing address this morning. It is no easy task to anticipate facing this audience. 

A VISIT TO DISTANT MISSIONS OF THE CHURCH 

Eighteen months have passed since I had the privilege of trembling before a congregation in this tabernacle. Twelve months of that time have been spent in company with President Hugh J. Cannon in visiting the distant missions of the Church. When President Grant suggested Brother Cannon as my companion, I readily acquiesced, because I knew his worth. Then I respected him; today I love him. I think that conveys to you the fact that our more than twelve months' constant companionship, night and day, was most genial and happy. 

NEARNESS OF GOD TO US, AND HIS GUIDING HAND 

I should like very much, this afternoon, to choose some part of that wonderful trip and take you over it, but all throughout this conference I have been prompted to try to give the message that seemed to be the most precious to me of all our experiences; namely, the many manifestations of the nearness of the Lord and of His guiding hand. 

THE MESSAGE 

The message is found in the passage I have read: "If thou turn to the Lord Thy God, and shalt be obedient unto His voice, He will not forsake thee." I pray that I may be able, in a few words, to give that message to the brethren and sisters present this afternoon, in the hope that they may convey it to the hosts of young men and women who ought to receive, even indirectly, the inspiration of this memorable conference. 

A KEEN SENSE OF THE TRAVELER'S RESPONSIBILITY 

When we left home, December 4, 1920, we looked forward with no little misgiving and anxiety to the trip ahead of us. It was no simple matter to contemplate traveling to the Orient, thence to the Antipodes, much of that distance to be spent on the water. The distance itself made us realize that we were undertaking a great responsibility. Absence from our loved ones was keenly felt by both, but greater than these two, and other incidental things that made us hesitate about accepting this responsibility, was the realization that we were going on a first visitation to our people to represent the general authorities. The keen sense of our responsibility, adequately to fulfil the desires of President Grant and his counselors and the Twelve, who had honored us with that call, made us seek the Lord as I had never sought him before in my life, and I wish to say this afternoon that the promise made by Moses to the children of Israel just before they crossed the Jordan River into the Promised land, has been fulfilled in our experiences. As we sought the Lord with all our souls He came to our guidance and assistance. 

TENDENCY OF THE WORLD TO DENY THE EXISTENCE OF A PERSONAL GOD 

It may be that the realization of our dependence upon Him made more prominent what seems to me to be a deplorable tendency of the world to disregard, even to disown, their relationship to our heavenly Father. It was our privilege to hear educators and other prominent men speak in different places and upon different occasions, and to mingle with different classes of men and women on boats, for we spent a total of five months on the water, sailing in about twenty-three different vessels, and every vessel well crowded with all classes of tourists, most of whom were professed Christians. Frequently we were grieved to note the attitude of apology that these Christian men and women assumed toward God, their Creator, and His son Jesus Christ. I have been in mixed gatherings here in the State, and out of the State, in which some men, when speaking of the early pioneers of Utah would refer in a rather apologetic way to Brigham Young, and on some occasions I have felt that the speakers even hesitated to name him and give him the credit due him in the settlement of this great intermountain commonwealth, and in the founding of institutions that have since become centers of influence and might. Just such an attitude I have seen manifest among so-called Christians when they would begin to talk about God. He did not seem to be real to them. He did not seem to be in very deed their Father in Heaven. There is a tendency, it seems to me, among Christian nations to move toward a conception of God very much similar to the conception of the Buddhist who says: "There is no personal God-Creator on whose mercy and good will the universe is dependent. Everything owes its origin and development to its own inherent vitalism, or, what comes to the same, to its own will to live. Human ignorance it is which alone invented a personal God-Creator." The Buddhist utterly rejects the belief in a personal God. So do many in the Christian world. In opposition to this false conception of God, I wish to declare that today I feel as I have never felt before in all my life that God is my Father. He is not just an intangible power, a moral force in the world, but a personal God with creative powers, the Governor of the world, the Director of our souls. I would like to have the young men of Israel feel so close to Him that they will approach Him daily, not in public alone, but in private. 

I would have them have the trust in Him which the little blind girl had in her father. She was sitting on his lap in the train, and a friend sitting by said: "Let me rest you," and he reached over and took the little child on his lap. The father said to her: "Do you know who is holding you?" "No," she replied, "but you do." Oh, the trust of that child in her father. She knew she was safe because he knew who was holding her. Just so real should be the trust which the Latter-day Saint boys and girls have in their Father in heaven. 

FOUR GREAT BLESSINGS COMING FROM FAITH IN GOD AND PRAYER 

Like Benjamin Franklin: "The longer I live the more convincing proofs I see that God governs in the affairs of men; and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground unnoticed, is it possible that an empire can rise without His aid?" If we can get our young people to have this faith and so to approach their God in secret, there are at least four great blessings that will come to them here and now. The first is gratitude — gratitude for blessings before unrealized. Their souls will be filled with thanksgiving for what God has done for them. They will find themselves rich in favors bestowed. The young man who closes the door behind him, who draws the curtains, and there in silence prepares to plead with God for help, should first pour out his soul in gratitude for health, for friends, for loved ones, for the gospel, for the manifestations of God's existence, as seen in the rocks and the trees and the stones and the flowers, and all things about him. He should first count his many blessings, name them one by one, and it will surprise him what the Lord has done. 

The second blessing of prayer is guidance. I cannot conceive of a young man's going astray who will kneel down by his bedside in the morning and pray to God to help him keep himself unspotted from the sins of the world. I think that a young girl will not go far wrong who will kneel down in the morning and pray that she might be kept pure and spotless during the coming day. I cannot think that a Latter-day Saint will hold enmity in his heart if he will sincerely, in secret, pray God to remove from his heart all feelings of envy and malice toward any of his fellowmen. Guidance? Yes, God will be there to guide and direct him who "will seek Him in faith with all his might and with all his soul." 

The third blessing is confidence. All over this land there are thousands and tens of thousands of students who are struggling to get an education. Let us teach these students that if they want to succeed in their lessons, they should seek their God, that the greatest teacher known to the world stands near them to guide them. Once the student feels that he can approach the Lord through prayer, the student will receive confidence that he can get his lessons, that he can write his speech, that he can stand up before his fellow students and deliver his message without fear of failure. Confidence comes through sincere prayer. 

Finally he will get inspiration. It is not imagination that we can approach God and can receive light and guidance from Him, that our minds will be enlightened, our souls thrilled by His Spirit. Washington sought it, Abraham Lincoln received it, Joseph Smith knew it; and the testimony, the evidence of the Prophet Joseph's inspiration is manifest to all who will but open their eyes to see and their hearts to understand. 

EXAMPLES OF INSPIRATION ENJOYED BY THE TRAVELERS 

Inspiration was given to us on this trip. That is why I touch this theme. 

I want to testify to you that God was with us when we stood beneath that tree in old China and turned the key for the preaching of the gospel in the Chinese realm. My words may not convince you of the fact, but no disputant can convince us that our souls were not filled to overflowing with the Spirit of God on that occasion. 

Again the veil was thin between us and departed friends, when we stood in prayer on the side of old Haleakala, the largest extinct volcano in the world, and poured out thanksgiving to God for what He had done for Presidents Joseph F. Smith, George Q. Cannon, Elders Francis A. Hammond, James Hawkins and their wives, and other missionaries who carried the gospel message to the Hawaiian people. 

I knew of His protecting care in the Tongan Islands; for when the vessel was submerged by a mountainous wave, we felt that peace and security which the little girl felt when she said to her father: "No, but you know, and I am safe." 

At Papeete, Tahiti, we knew His guiding hand and acknowledged His overruling providence, when replacing our judgment by His inspiration He moved us to do something which our own judgment had told us not to do, subsequent events proving that the inspiration came in rich abundance in the priesthood meetings with your boys. God bless them wherever they are today, for they are God's servants, as long as they will keep themselves pure and spotless from the sins of the world, and I testify to you that His Spirit is guiding them, magnifying them in their youth, making them a power in preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Again, when among the Samoans, we felt His presence on several occasions, especially in that memorable farewell at Sauniatu. May I take this occasion to say, brethren and sisters, that we are not sufficiently close to the Tahitians, the Maoris, the Tongans, the Samoans and the Saints in Australia and New Zealand. In distance they are a long way off, and visitations of general authorities are all too infrequent. They need things which they do not get — sometimes, I think, just because of the great intervening distance; but their hearts are just as true and genuine and their faith just as sincere as yours and mine. 

Another memorable example of God's guiding hand was experienced when we met Joseph Wilford Booth at the very time and place that we should have met him in order to make our mission to the Armenians successful. He did not know where we were and we knew not where he was. He was praying that the hope of President Grant, expressed in a letter, might be realized; (for the President of the Church, too, was praying that Brother Booth would meet us, and that we three would go to Armenia together); we were praying that we might meet him, so that our mission there would not be a failure, and God answered our prayers. If I narrated the details, most of you, too, would be convinced that there was some power above chance that brought about that meeting. 

RESTORATION OF THE JEWS IN PALESTINE 

Now, I say that one result of approaching God, our Father, is inspiration. Now may I take sufficient time to give one little circumstance in which the inspiration of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph — nay more than inspiration, the revelation to the Prophet Joseph was fulfilled in part at least, right before our eyes. The same chapter from which I read at the opening of my remarks says also that: "If they [Israel] depart from the ways of the Lord, and go to worshiping images again, I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from the land whereunto ye go over Jordan to possess it. Ye shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall utterly be destroyed." "But," says the Prophet, "in the latter days, if thou turn to the Lord thy God, and shalt be obedient unto his voice, he will not forget the covenant of thy fathers, which he swore unto them." You remember also in the Book of Mormon, which was published before the organization of the Church, that there is a passage referring to the Jews as follows: "Nevertheless, when the day cometh that they no more turn aside their hearts from the Holy One of Israel, then will He remember the promise He made to their fathers." If you will turn to the tenth chapter of Second Nephi, you will see what that promise is. "They shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance." And another significant remark, that "in that day the Gentiles shall be great in mine eyes in carrying them forth to the lands of their inheritance." That prophecy revealed to the Prophet Joseph is very significant in the light of current events, in the light of the attitude of the Jews today toward Christianity, and toward Christ. 

A SIGNIFICANT EXPERIENCE IN JERUSALEM 

All this, however, I must leave by mere reference and carry you now to Jerusalem on the 2nd day of November, 1921. On the previous day, Jerusalem had been all bustle and business. David Street was lined with little shops in which Jews and Mohammedans were carrying on their trade. Little donkeys heavily laden with the goods of commerce were walking up the rough stone steps of David Street. We saw no camels on that street, it being too narrow. Camels were lying down depositing their burdens at Damascus Gate. On November 1, 1921, Jerusalem was a typically busy Oriental city; but on the 2nd all things were changed. David Street, so far as business was concerned, was quiet. Shop windows were closed, so were the shops outside of the wall. By the Allenby Hotel every shop window was boarded. No autos stood as usual in front of the hotel ready to carry tourists down to the Dead Sea and to Jericho. Our guide, Michael, a Greek Christian, seemed to radiate a foreboding feeling. I rather jocularly approached him and wondered what was the matter with him. He remained silent, his attitude portending evil, and he intimated to us to be quiet. We had scarcely reached the Jaffa Gate where, by the way, is seen the "eye of the needle," when he broke his silence. 

"Don't you see that all business houses are closed?" said he. 

"Yes," I replied, "what does it signify?" 

"It means," he continued, "that today the Mohammedans and the Christians are uniting in protest against Mr. Balfour's declaration that Palestine shall be set aside as a Jewish State." 

Well, it was like a thunderclap from a clear sky. I had not dreamed that there would be opposition to that movement. We had seen the Jews present in the city carrying on their trade evidently in peace, without molestation. We had looked up a few statistics and knew that in 1914 it was estimated that 80,000 people were in Jerusalem; 50,000 of whom were Jews, most of whom had come there but recently; for fifty years before that there were only 20,000 people in Jerusalem all told. Now to hear from our guide, who seemed to know what he was talking about, that the Mohammedans and Christians were opposed to the Jews' coming back, was an astonishment to me. I haven't time to take you through that day, but I just call your attention to this fact, that at eleven o'clock when we came back to the street leading to the Jewish quarter, Brother Cannon and I expressed a desire to confer with the Jews regarding the opposition so strongly manifest that day. 

"Don't go there," cried Michael. 

"Why?" we asked. 

"Because there is danger." 

"No," I replied, "I think there is no danger." 

"If you go there, you go alone," said our guide. 

I said: "All right, Michael, here is where you and we part company. We will meet you at two o'clock." 

So, alone we went into the Jewish quarter, to hear their side of it. We will never forget that scene. Groups of Jews from foreign countries, Russia, Rumania, and Orthodox Jews, who had been in Jerusalem a number of years talked together in subdued tones. From windows and balconies women peered at us, evidently suspicioning us as spies — children looking from behind shutters, and doorways. We finally found a young Jew who could speak English; and in answer to our question what all this means, he said: 

"The Mohammedans and the Christians are uniting in protest against Mr. Balfour's declaration that Palestine shall be set apart as a home of the Jews." 

As we walked back, we again passed through a group of British soldiers in full uniform, including steel helmets, muskets in hand, bayonets fixed, guarding the Jews. We knew how necessary their presence was; for, as we had come up David Street we had seen several Jews and two Jewesses, one of whom clasped a baby to her breast, stoned by Mohammedans and so-called Christians, their only offense being that they were Jews, who had come back to their promised land. 

As we passed these British soldiers, I said: "Boys, we hope you will keep them (the Moslems) straight." 

"Oh, I think we can," answered one of the "Tommies"; and as we went back to our hotel we commented upon this scene and the significant passage which I have read: "And the Gentiles shall be great in mine eyes in restoring them to their land. Yea, the kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto them, and the queens nursing mothers." On the tower that now marks the spot of the tower of David, British officers were waving signals over the city, giving orders to keep the peace; armored cars, bearing British soldiers were driven through the streets to subdue the threatened uprising. Notwithstanding these precautions, eight men lost their lives on the streets of Jerusalem that day. 

At five o'clock the order was given by Acting Governor General Samuels, the first Jew to rule in Palestine since before the days of the Savior, that no person should be on the street after five o'clock. We ventured out after that hour just to see if the order had been obeyed. It was, absolutely. We were witnesses that day of the beginning of the fulfilment of that prophecy which refers to the time, now near at hand, when the Jews will "no more turn aside their hearts from the Holy One," and when the Gentiles shall be the means of restoring them to their own land. 

IF WE ONLY KNEW THE READINESS OF CHRIST TO HELP 

Next day we crossed the Brook Kedron, passed the Garden of Gethsemane, and ascended the Mount of Olives, to the spot as near as we could determine, where Christ stood when He looked at Jerusalem and wept over her. In the light of the opposition to His purposes to which we were witnesses, I thought that He would weep again if he were standing there today. "If thou hadst known," cried he, "even thou, at least in this day, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes." Neither do they who are now opposing his purposes know the things which belong unto their peace. "If they only knew!" I desire to say to the children of Israel today, in these valleys of the mountains, to the boys and girls especially: If you only knew that Christ is ever ready to give you help in time of need, and comfort and strength, you would approach Him in purity, simplicity, and faith. I indicated in the beginning how this might be done. May I illustrate it by a little paragraph which I will read in conclusion: 

The builder who first bridged Niagara's gorge, 

Before he swung his cable, shore to shore, 

Sent out, across the gulf, his venturing kite 

Bearing a slender cord for unseen hands 

To grasp upon the further cliff, and draw 

A greater cord, and a greater yet. 

Ti'l at the last across the chasm swung 

The cable — then a mighty bridge in air! 

So we may send our little timid thought 

Across the void, out to God's reaching hands — 

Send out our love and faith to thread the deep, 

Thought after thought, until the little cord 

Has greatened to a chain no chance to break, 

And — we are anchored to the Infinite! 

God bless our youth that they may send out these thoughts in prayer and faith and receive the assurance that they are anchored to the Infinite, in God our Father and His holy Son, the Redeemer of the world. This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 