18
Afternoon
07 04 1922
Stephen L. Richards
96
74-77

None

None

A Revolting Crime 

Two months ago a prominent business man of this city sat in his home, eating his evening meal, with his family surrounding him. Without warning, there entered his home two masked men. Upon their entrance they commanded him to raise his hands, and thereafter, immediately, this man was shot to death. The crime cast a pall of horror and of gloom over this entire community. 

CRITICISM OF THE POLICE OFFICERS AND THE LAW 

Following the first effects there came a reaction in the form of indignation and rather severe criticism of the municipal and police authorities for the crime which had been committed. A delegation of business men, representative of clubs and associations to which the deceased belonged, waited upon the police and civic departments of the city, voicing something in the nature of criticism for what was alleged to be inefficiency on the part of that department and its inability to forestall such terrible disasters as that which had happened. Among the criticisms that were urged at the time was this one: It was said the police department had given over so much of its time and endeavor to the attempted enforcement of laws which were in their nature quasi-moral regulations that it was unable to throw the whole force of its power into measures and safeguards tending to mitigate and to forestall the commission of crime. Not very complimentary things were said at the time regarding the class of legislation which the police department had, in some measure, attempted to enforce. Among these laws which were held up to ridicule by the men who felt so aggrieved, was the law passed by the last legislature of this state against the sale and disposition of cigarettes, and the smoking of tobacco under certain proscribed conditions. Other laws came in for a share of condemnation, and it was said that altogether too much of the efforts put forth by the police department had gone to the enforcement of laws against gambling, against the keeping open of places of ill repute, and other measures tending to regulate society in this community. 

OTHER CAUSES THAN THE POLICE AT FAULT 

Shortly after these criticisms were urged against the police department of this city certain developments came to light in the horrible crime which had been committeed. It was at first supposed that the crime had been perpetrated by masked bandits, probably strangers to the city, in the hope of procuring goods and wealth from the home of him who had been shot. It later developed that the whole tragedy had its inception in the plan of a young girl who had been retained in the household as a servant; and according to the confession which she made, as it was set forth in the press, it seems that her ideas were formulated largely from the education — I use the word advisedly — which she had received in the moving picture halls of this city. You are all more or less acquainted with the details of her confession. You know what importance she attached to the fact that she had conjured up in her own mind a tragedy in which she should play a very important part and possibly secure some coveted notoriety. Further investigation and development also brought to light the fact that one of the principals in the murder was the son of a widow whose husband was murdered several years ago; that he came from a broken home, and that by reason of the inability of a poor mother to properly provide that training and those safeguards which should be around the life of every young man, he had been subjected to improper influences, had given himself over to association with bad characters and thus came to this lamentable end. The antecedents of the other principal do not seem to be so well known. I think, however, it would be a safe estimate that he likewise had come from a home which had not exerted around him that influence which is designed to safeguard him from the temptations of the world. The point that I desire to bring to your attention in again reminding you of the circumstances attendant upon this tragedy is this, that the very thing against which the legislation which is so bitterly complained of was directed, and the very things against which it and similar legislation were provided as safeguards, are the things which gave rise to this unspeakable tragedy. 

THE REAL CAUSE 

The lack of moral culture, the failure to supply the innocent or unfortunate with the safeguards that should be about them in youth had given rise and stimulation to ideas and false notions which resulted in that terrible crime. The men who voiced their disapproval, not only of the laws passed by the legislature but of the enforcement of those laws by the civic authorities of this city surely must have felt that they were mistaken when they urged that criticism against our municipal authorities. 

AN APPEAL TO SUSTAIN THE LAW AND ITS OFFICERS 

I want to appeal for co-operation and support for the municipal authorities of our cities and towns in the enforcement of that legislation which is somewhat paternal, which has for its object the safeguarding of society even though it may not be entirely in consonance with the belief of many men and women as to the proper and legitimate function of the government. Every good citizen knows that when the legislature passes a law, that action ends discussion as to whether or not the principle is a right or proper one for legislation, at least until such time as an issue shall be formulated upon the question again. The legislature of this State and the legislatures of some other states have passed laws tending to safeguard the moral, the physical, the spiritual well-being of the citizens of this and other states. It ill becomes any citizen, surely it is ill becoming in any member of the Church, to interpose any degree of criticism, at this stage either upon the wisdom of the legislation or the propriety of enforcing the law. 

It is not an easy thing to enforce law. My sympathy goes out to the men who have been elected to positions of responsibility and who are called upon to bring to justice those who violate the laws and the ordinances of the land. I believe that never, at any time in our history, has there been greater need for whole-souled support of the administrators of law than at the present time. It is regretable in the utmost degree that there are citizens of this country, as pointed out by President Ivins in his remarkable address of yesterday, who are inclined to look with very great allowance upon the infraction of those ordinances and laws which are passed tending to bring about better conditions in our state, and surely it must follow that if we neglect the enforcement of these laws there will come a degree of crime and infraction of law that will be horrible to all the people and to all the world. I believe that the time has come when we must stand by the laws of the State, when we must support these regulations, and we must lend such co-operation to our municipal authorities that they will feel and know that the best people of the country stand squarely behind them. Not only is it our duty as a Church to lend influence and support in this measure and in these particulars, but it is likewise our duty to so use these great organizations which the Lord has given to us that they may educate boys and girls in respect for law and for order. I believe thoroughly that the firmest props to our government lie in religion and morality. 

OUR NEED OF FAITH, SERVICE AND SELF-CONTROL 

A memorable address was made at the university, upon the inauguration of its new president, by Doctor Carver, who addressed this conference, upon the pertinent question: "How much civilization can we stand?" He answered his question by saying in substance: "We can stand only so much civilization as we may show service and self-control." Religion, true religion, faith in God the Father, adherence to His commandments and to the principles of truth, are indispensable to the development of self-control and to the development of that great altruistic spirit which shall render service to humanity and to God. Therefore, I appeal to my brethren and sisters who officer and direct these great organizations of the Church, to so use them that they may stimulate and establish faith in the hearts of boys and girls and men and women. The Church is not an end in and of itself. The Church is but a great implement to be used by these holy ones, of whom Brother Talmage has spoken, for the enlightenment of the world, for the reclamation of the souls of men and for the establishment in the hearts of men of the great virtues which go to make character and manhood and womanhood. God grant that the people of the Church may support and sustain the law, the administrators of the law, and the foundation of the law, which lies in the great principles of truth, virtue, equity and justice, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
