22
Morning
08 04 1922
Hyrum Gibbs Smith 
32
89-91

None

None

In my memory I go back ten years ago from this Conference. I was not present, however, but I suppose a great many of you were here when the opportunity came for you to raise your hands in vote to sustain the patriarch of the Church. You sustained a man you did not know, and whom many of you had never seen. Today, I am grateful for the testimony which has been strengthened in me, especially during the past ten years. It seems only a day, in one sense, since that Sabbath day — the 6th of April 1912 — when, as a branch president, seven hundred miles from here, I had entered upon my duty as a humble elder in the Church, while the great multitude of Saints who had gathered here in this building, raised their hands to sustain me as the Patriarch of the Church. 

The Lord has blessed me in my ministry and, before you, my brethren and sisters, I wish to acknowledge the hand of God in his blessings unto me and unto this people. I have observed that during my tenure of office many important changes have taken place in the growth of the Church. Many of its leading men and women have finished their earthly missions and are separated from us. I have seen the workings of the Church here at home, in the stakes and wards of Zion, and in the mission fields, and I see the Church going on in growth, in keeping with the wonderful teachings which you have just listened to, in obedience to the true law of Christ, the love of our fellows, living the pure laws of life, which have been revealed from heaven from our Father and our Redeemer. I not only see the work of the Lord progressing here at home, in the wards and stakes of Zion, but I see the honest in heart of the world being brought out of the world, through obedience to the teachings of humble elders and the missionaries in general, both men and women, throughout the world, in the missions that have been organized by the Church. I see today that the missions are gradually partaking of the nature of stakes. Further organization and growth will go forth to gather out the honest in heart and those who are willing to take upon them the name of Christ and enter into these holy alliances for the establishment and growth of truth and righteousness in the world. This work has been organized and given to the earth, never more to be thrown down nor given to another people. It has been given for a purpose, and the Lord will, in his own due time and way, see to it that that purpose will be accomplished and fulfilled. The responsibility is upon us today. God grant that we may have the power, the courage of our convictions, to stand by our standards, and be equal to the responsibilities given us. I pray that God will bless and sustain those whom He has called to preside in the Church — our President — the First Presidency, and all associated in this great work, both directly and indirectly, whether called to labor at home or abroad. With all the power that the Lord has given me, my heart goes out in blessings to those who are in the Church today and those who are willing to come in, in the proper way, that we may all rally together and work together for the standards of truth and virtue, even in the face of evil witnesses, who decry us as untrue and false. 

I suppose there will always be someone to rise up in the world to testify against the work of the Lord, but He will triumph in the end; and in the present time, the great responsibility of carrying on His work is given to us — the great multitude that is assisting to bring about the blessings which were pronounced upon the head of Ephraim the son of Joseph, to fulfil the blessings of Joseph, who was separated from his brethren, and became a savior unto his people, are being fulfilled today in our very lives. We are the nation today that should preside and become established in the tops of the mountains, even in the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills, where that great salvation for all the world should be established, where not only the house of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob should be established, and saved, but where all of God's chosen children should receive their blessings — and they shall receive them at the hands of Ephraim. 

Therefore, my brethren and sisters, as kinsmen in the house of Joseph, descendants of his chosen son, let us be true to our birthright — valiant workers in this great cause of righteousness and be prepared to administer the promised blessings. 

We were admonished by the President of the Church in repeating that great truth that is revealed to us, that all of our blessings are predicated upon obedience. No matter how great or how small the blessing we desire, we must first learn the law upon which that blessing is predicated, and then, in obedience to that law, we must work for our blessings. If we are to share in this great work and officiate in turning the keys for the blessing of all mankind, of every kindred, tongue and nation, we must learn the law and we must obey it. We must receive our blessings first, else we cannot share them with our fellows. 

In the name of the Lord, I pray that the blessings of our Father in heaven may be upon this people, and upon all those who are called to preside and lead in their midst; that we may get the blessings which our Father has provided for us; that we may stand true and firm in the faith; that we may live virtuous lives as sons and daughters of God, and be worthy to administer the promised blessings to the world, as the people come out, cleansing themselves from the sins of the world and espousing the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There are in the Church, as it is organized today, over two hundred patriarchs bearing the holy Priesthood, with power to administer blessings unto the faithful members of the Church. I pray God to bless and magnify them, that they may honor that great gift of pronouncing blessings upon the people. God bless us all in our homes, in our fields and places of business, bless our labors both temporal and spiritual, and bless those who befriend us at home and abroad, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.
