24
Morning
08 04 1922
John A. Widtsoe 
122
94-98

None

Creation, Temples

At this moment I sympathize very heartily with the remark made by Dr. Carver last Thursday, as I left him at the Tabernacle door, "I have heard of many ways by which a man may lose his breath, but I know now that the most effective method is to speak before a General Conference meeting in the Salt Lake Tabernacle." Nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, I am glad to bear to you my testimony of the conviction in my heart that this is the work of God. 

THERE IS A SPIRIT IN MAN 

Surely every person in this vast congregation, who has tasted of the gospel of Jesus Christ, can testify that the words spoken during this conference, have been uttered by the inspiration of God, and not of man. The Lord has made His servants mighty and strong. "There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty gives them understanding." 

I rejoice to know that, if I obey the commandments of God and live in accordance with my best knowledge of His law, when great things are required of me, I may, with confidence, draw upon the power of God, to secure the assistance I need. 

MATERIAL HYPOTHESES DO NOT EXPLAIN THE WORLD 

As I have listened with great interest to the addresses made at this Conference, from the remarkable key-note address given by our beloved president, to the last address made, I have been reminded over and over again, of the sober words spoken by one of America's greatest chemists, who died only about two months ago. This man was a discoverer of two of the chemical elements. He had made many other notable contributions to human welfare. Sometime before his death, he gave himself to the study of the purification of ether, with a view of making it more serviceable in the surgeon's operating room. A short time before he died, Dr. Baskerville, who was both a great chemist and humanitarian, in conversation with some of his friends, reviewed the great advances in knowledge during his life and the peculiarly intimate knowledge that he had gained of his own field in science. In summing up the results of his life's labor, he declared that "There is something which cannot be explained on a purely materialistic hypothesis." This man, standing at the pinacle of scientific knowledge — in the full light of man-made knowledge — declared soberly to his friends that with all the knowledge he had won in the laboratories and from books, he was constrained to say that his knowledge was incomplete, that there is a spiritual something which must be taken into account, even in the domain of science. This declaration of a modern scientist is the age-old and eternal wail of the baffled soul, which, rich in man-made knowledge, stands helpless by an impenetrable wall which only spiritual truth can open or move away. His declaration is also the great cry of faith for man, when he discovers his limitations and learns to understand the value and power of faith, cries out, "There is something in the world which cannot be explained on a purely materialistic hypothesis." 

THE EXPLANATION OF EXPLANATIONS 

Ever since the beginning of time, men have sought for an explanation of the universe. Facts are merely the building blocks of truth; they have no value in themselves; but when facts are placed in conjunction with each other, in an organized form in the service of great explanations, they leap into life and attain meaning. The world moves on, not by the discovery of facts, but by the explanation of the facts that men secure; and the most rapid way of discovering new truth is to win the great explanations that make coherent the innumerable facts of the universe. 

It is instinctive in the human soul to seek for the greatest of all explanations — the explanation of human existence. The questions: Whence comes man? What is his purpose here? What will he do hereafter? are the natural questions of every human being who thinks about the things about him. Poets and philosophers, from the beginning of time, have attempted to answer these fundamental questions, and thereby give satisfaction to the human soul. Nations have become great, or have remained small; have impressed themselves greatly or poorly upon the course of human history, as they have been able, in a greater or in a smaller degree, to answer these fundamental questions regarding human existence, and to train the people in this knowledge. A nation with a purposeless philosophy of man's existence has never served the world greatly. 

It is the glory of this Church that it possesses, and the glory of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that he left behind him, for us and for all generations to come, the explanation of explanations, the reason for life and reason for human existence. Under the inspiration of God, he told us whence we came, what we are doing here and where we are to go. This knowledge is a glorious heritage. We lived before this life; we were in the beginning with our Father, our God. We were begotten by Him, as President Penrose declared last Thursday. In that preexistent life, we made a preparation and laid a foundation on which we are building today; we won our right, as Elder Talmage said, to come forth upon this earth, to do our work. We shall live hereafter —  not a quiet, silent, purposeless life, but a life of development and progress, everlastingly achieving, everlastingly growing, everlastingly becoming more and more like the greatest and highest of our ideals. Around such an explanation of life may be clustered in orderly fashion all the events of existence. It was such an explanation, I think, that our friend Dr. Baskerville had in mind when, a few months ago, he spoke the sober words I have quoted relative to the achievements of his life. 

ALL ACTS MUST HAVE SPIRITUAL MEANING 

I would like to leave as one of the thoughts, and perhaps the main thought, of the few moments I have at my disposal, with this vast assemblage of people, that the all-important thing in life, after all, is to find a place in the universal scheme of things, for all the acts of our lives. There is a spiritual meaning of all human acts and earthly events. The Lord has specifically declared "not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal." It is the business of man to find the spiritual meaning of earthly things. I pay my tithing, for many reasons, perhaps, but the one great reason is that by so doing, I am advancing this great cause, this great purpose, this great plan to which I am committed. I keep the Word of Wisdom to keep my body clean and pure and wholesome, but I keep the Word of Wisdom also, because by so doing I make myself an abler colaborer with God in carrying onward this great work. I grow sugar beets, not merely because I want clothing and food for my family, but because the cultivation of the soil and the consequent increased prosperity among the people, adds to the onward progress and nearer fulfilment of the purposes of Almighty God, of the great explanation of explanations, beginning in tine vast Before and ending in the vast Hereafter. No man is quite so happy, I think, as he who backs all his labors by such a spiritual interpretation and understanding of the acts of his life. A piece of silver always has a certain value as it passes from hand to hand; it is weighed and we sell it in the market place; but, when that piece of silver is coined into a dollar, it receives the stamp of government service; it becomes a coin of the realm, and it moves from hand to hand to accomplish the work of the realm. So, every act of man, the moment it is fitted into the great plan, the plan of salvation, receives spiritual coinage, and passes from hand to hand, from mind to mind, to accomplish the great work of God. It is a great theme beyond my powers to develop fully, and far beyond the time at my disposal; but I desire to leave with you as my testimony, the thought that the greatness of life is won only when men regulate and order the affairs and acts of their lives by an understanding of the great spiritual purpose of man's existence. Those who do not so place their lives, who act because of selfish purposes, independently of the great plan, are as the purblind; they stand in the midst of knowledge and light, yet they do not see. In times of material difficulty, like these, it is more important than ever to hold to the spiritual significance of life and to obey the spiritual law. 

OUR TEMPLES PLACES FOR SPIRITUAL INSPIRATION 

We have on every hand in this Church many opportunities for gaining the great spiritual knowledge and strength with which we may surround and interpret all the acts of our lives. Every principle, every part of the organization of this Church, lends itself to the spiritual strengthening and up-building of our lives. 

Temple work, for example, gives a wonderful opportunity for keeping alive our spiritual knowledge and strength. We believe that those who die without the faith, may be served by us, as proxies, in the holy temples; and that these dead, because of our unselfish labors, may be able to secure blessings, somewhat similar to those that we desire for ourselves. Thus, by serving the dead, we commit ourselves definitely to the great eternal plan of human salvation, which constitutes the spiritual basis of all life. The past, the present and the future are united by our vicarious acts. The mighty perspective of eternity is unraveled before us in the holy temples; we see time from its infinite beginning to its endless end; and the drama of eternal life is unfolded before us. Then I see more clearly my place amidst the things of the universe, my place among the purposes of God; I am better able to place myself where I belong, and I am better able to value and to weigh, to separate and to organize the common, ordinary duties of my life, so that the little things shall not oppress me or take away my vision of the greater things that God has given us. 

TEMPLE WORK A SIGN OF THE LAST DAYS 

My brethren and sisters, we belong to the last days, in this last great dispensation, which has unfolded the great explanations of life. God has said that this people is to prepare for the last days. The last days will come; there will be a time when this work shall be accomplished, and a new work undertaken. One of the great purposes of this Church is to prepare for the last days. There shall be signs of the last days; there shall be things that will tell us when the last days are about to occur and when they are here. May I say to you that we need not go far away to look for these signs; they are about us. I know of no more convincing sign of the approaching end than the work now being done in our temples. I heard Elder George F. Richards, president of the Salt Lake Temple, say, a short time ago, that five or six times as many endowments are now being done daily in the Salt Lake Temple as were done a few years ago. This is a sign of the last days. When the hearts of the fathers and the hearts of the children, living and dead, are tied together in love, and in recognition of God's great purposes for the human family, then the Lord has found a people which may prepare properly for the last great coming of the Savior and the purification of all things, and the re-establishment of the true kingdom of God. 

God bless us, that in all we do, in our labors in the home and the field, or wherever we may be, we may understand the spiritual meaning and value of the things we do; that we may go through life with seeing eyes, finding light even in the darkness of earth, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
