25
Morning
08 04 1922
Brigham H. Roberts 
29
98-103

None

None

I have recently returned from attending the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America, held in the city of Chicago, on the 29th and 30th of March. As our Church is very much interested in the Boy Scout movement, I have thought that perhaps the best contribution I could make to our conference, would be to report some things connnected with the National Council proceedings. 

It so happened that the Sunday before going east to attend this conference, I delivered, in this Tabernacle, a discourse on the subjects that have been dwelt upon, more or less, by the speakers in this conference; namely, the wave of lawlessness which seems to be sweeping over our land. It was, therefore, somewhat refreshing, to get connected up with a movement, and obtain a vision of the other side of the picture that represents our country — the good side. If we attend solely to observation and the summing up of evil alone, we are very apt to get a mis-vision of things. Truth is knowledge of things as they are — not as they are in wrong vision of them, but as they are in reality. And so, attendance upon this National Council of the Boy Scouts of America gave me an opportunity to get a vision of some of those progressive things that are being done in our land, that make for good citizenship, for moral worth, for spiritual uplift, and I feel very grateful for that view of the things which came to me by reason of my connection with this national council. 

There were in attendance at this council about two hundred men, representing the finest citizenship of our land, men interested in the future welfare of our country. They came from New England, from the Atlantic Coast states, and from the Gulf coast states, and from the great Middlewest. They were a fine representative body of American men interested in more than eight millions of the youth of our land within the Scout age, the age from 12 to 18. 

It was reported by those having this work in hand, that we had enlisted in this great cause of citizen development of our youth, about 530,000 men and boys, 403,000 of them being enrolled scouts. Plans were adopted by the National Council, looking to the complete occupancy of the whole territory of our country, by which all the youth of our land would be brought within the territorial organization of this great movement. It was recognized that what had been done was but little in comparison with what remains to be done. It is important, of course, that more than five hundred thousand men and boys are enlisted in this cause, but it is of still greater importance that plans should be adopted for reaching the eight millions of lads within the scout age and not yet enrolled in scouting. This body of men from all parts of the country were made up from among the leading citizens of the various districts they represented. And not only did they represent the organizations directly interested in this movement, but also those organizations which indirectly are interesting themselves in it, and giving it financial and moral support. There was spoken of there the business men's organizations throughout the land, that are interesting themselves in this movement; the Kiwanis clubs were mentioned; and the Rotary clubs, and "The Lions," an organization of business men's societies — all these were represented as playing the part of the "big brother" to the Boy Scout movement, in many localities. The financial aid and moral support that these business men's organizations are giving to the Boy Scout movement convince me that the reputation America has for being materialistic in spirit, and selfishly money-mad, isn't altogether true, since so many organizations of business men are interesting themselves in a movement that is so purely unselfish, and that has for its purpose the moral uplift of the present boyhood of America, in order to provide for the future good citizenship of our country. 

America, notwithstanding the present reign of lawlessness, which we all deplore, is not all bad. There is a great volume of good in it, and those prophecies of evil that we have in the scriptures that have been given to our Church respecting our country — the United States — while they sound a note of warning against lawlessness and the evil conditions that now obtain, yet they also carry with them an alternative, to the effect that if the people of our country will repent and respect the conditions of righteousness, which God requires of any people that inhabit this God-blessed land of America, then He will not destroy them, but will secure them in the enjoyment of their rights and of their liberties. His blessings will attend them, and they will become a mighty instrument in His hands for good; and He will couple their destiny with the destiny of modern Israel, until the Zion of God shall be founded upon this land which is "choice above all other lands." I have been thinking of late that if I were a younger man, I would be disposed to consecrate all the years of my life in sounding that warning to our American people, to outline for them, as God has outlined it in our scriptures, the glory, and honor, and power, and influence, and world-leadership that God is willing to confer upon this mighty people of America, and upon their government that He has brought forth through the inspiration of His Spirit, upon the minds of the fathers of the republic, who laid deep and well the foundations of human liberty by creating and adopting the constitution of our country. I would be willing to devote my life to that, I say, to the saving of the manhood and womanhood of America; and get that manhood and womanhood consecrated to the accomplishment of God's high purposes with reference to our land. 

What I now want to do, however, and more especially, is to awaken your interest in this Boy Scout movement. You do not know how proud I was to have it said that our state of Utah held the record for the highest percentage of enrollment of Boy Scouts of America; that in this state we had registered one in ten; whereas, in other states the nearest number approaching that is about one in thirteen. This gives evidence of larger interest in boy scouting in Utah than elsewhere. 

Now, what I want to do in these few minutes in which I am to address you is to awaken a universal interest in this Boy Scout movement. We have gathered here in this meeting, representatives from all sections of the territory occupied by the Church of the Latter-day Saints, not alone from Utah, but from surrounding states. I would like, if I could do so, to send you all home enthusiastic in this cause. I would be delighted if all our bishops could go from here determined to give full recognition and encouragement to this movement, until what has become a mission with the General Board of Y. M. M. I. A., which, as you know, is assuming the role of "Big Brother" to boy scouting; I would like to have you officers of the Church, everywhere, give welcome to the promotion of this organization, and I am sure that you will be inclined to do that if only once the great purpose to be achieved through this organization is carried home to your hearts. To accomplish that desire I am going to repeat to you, but only in "head-lines," the purposes of this great organization, to which our Church has given official recognition and encouragement; and which our Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association has taken under its wing, for the purpose of helping it develop and achieve its highest purposes. "The Scout Promise" — sometimes called, "The Scout Oath," is: 

1. On my honor I will do my best to do my duty to God, and my country, and to obey the scout law. 

2. To help other people at all times. 

3. To keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight. 

What a foundation is here! All that these apostles, with the spirit of their apostleship upon them, have urged and asked for with reference to our labors among our youth, is pretty well covered by this solemn promise that the boy gives upon entering into scouting. 

The further aim of scouting is set forth in the scout law, which requires that the scout shall be trustworthy, that he will be loyal, that he will be helpful, that he will be friendly, that he will be courteous, that he will be kind, that he will be obedient, that he will be cheerful, that he will be thrifty, that he will be brave, that he will be clean, that he will be reverent. What more could be required of boydom than that? 

Fathers and mothers in Israel; presidents of stakes, and high councilors; bishops of wards, Church officers of all grades, who have to do with boy life, what a fine program is here, and what co-operation and help you will get to the main effort of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, from this organization, engaged in laying these foundation stones in the life and character of boys! 

Can this program be improved upon? Yes, I think it can be a little improved upon. A rather interesting and amusing incident happened at the banquet that was given in honor of this National Council, gathered in Chicago. Father Cavanaugh, of the Catholic Church, who was called upon to deliver an address at the banquet, given in honor of the National Council, cautioned the representatives not to regard scouting as religion. While Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch, of Chicago, who was also among the speakers, very boldly proclaimed that since so much of scouting had to do with helpfulness to others, it was good religion. Mr. J. H. Beveridge, Superintendent of Schools of Omaha, and President of the National Education Association, held that the movement was chiefly educational. While another speaker, Mr. H. H. Merrick, I think, representing the Executive Committee of Chicago, stated that he was glad to hear all that had been said by the other speakers in relation to scouting, but held that it was an American movement — a movement for good American citizenship. And so these parties differed, very greatly, but each one contributed a thought worth while, for scouting. 

But now, as to improving upon the scouting program. When Brigham Young instituted the Y. M. M. I. Association he said: 

"Let the keynote of your work be the establishment in the youth of individual testimony of the truth and magnitude of the great latter-day work; the development of the gifts within them, that have been bestowed upon them by the laying on of the hands of the servants of God; cultivating a knowledge and an application of the eternal principles of the great science of life. It is our desire that our young men may grow in the comprehension of and faith in the holy principles of the gospel of eternal salvation, and furthermore, have an opportunity to testify, and be encouraged in bearing testimony and speaking of the truths of our holy religion." 

The superintendency of our Mutual Improvement Associations, while President Ivins was our superintendent, declared, through the Improvement Era, that coupling this spiritual, religious element voiced by President Young, with the Boy Scout movement, gave the finest program for boy control and guidance, and work, that it was possible to conceive. It adds the one other important element to such a work; the element that Dr. Widtsoe spoke of a moment since, that mysterious, almost indefinable, spiritual ingredient and power, essential to the success of things human — it makes it then a genuinely religious movement, as well as an educational, a moral, and a physical betterment movement. Well, add that religious element to the Boy Scout program, and you have, as a means of guidance for the citizenship of tomorrow, in these United States, the best possible program. And so, I commend this movement to you, elders in Israel; bid it welcome into your several communities, and grant to it your moral and whole hearted support, so that we may extend scouting until every Improvement Association shall have its Boy Scout organization. 

Just these words in conclusion. In this thing we cannot as successfully walk alone as we can by keeping step with the national organization. I learned a new idea at this National Council, to which I have been giving much thought since, namely, a man or a community who comes to regard himself as all-sufficient, turns out generally to be, and it is the observation of experience, turns out to be inefficient. We cannot be all-sufficient in ourselves in such a work as guidance of our youth — such a work as scouting. We need the national organization. We need it for the classification of scouts, from tenderfoot to the eagle scout. We need its courts of honor; we need its system of merits and rewards; we need the "national pull" that is found in these things. We need the recognition that the national organization is willing to give us. We can not, of course we would not desire, to plagiarize all this organization, and the splendid things that have been developed by it. Yet you cannot devise another boy program without plagiarizing it — it covers the field so completely — and that being true, there is nothing for us to do but to join in the great national march of the boyhood of our land, toward the goal of the highest citizenship. Therefore, let us recognize in boy scouting a point of contact with our fellow citizens of the United States that is of great advantage to us, and through which we also, perhaps, can contribute something to the great national movement. Be friendly, therefore, my brethren in your attitude towards this great organization, I pray you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
