33
Second Overflow
08 04 1922
Nephi Jensen 
215
125-128

None

None 

I sincerely pray in my heart, that the Spirit of our heavenly Father shall attend me and give me utterance while I stand before you this afternoon. I appear before you with a sense of humility and obligation, and I ask you to pray for me, that I shall be your spokesman, and deliver to you counsel and instructions that will be edifying to you as well as myself. 

I am thankful, with all my heart, for membership in this great Church. I am thankful for the opportunity of coming here from my home in Eastern Canada, to participate with you in the worship of our Father. I am thankful for the impressions and inspiration that have come to my heart while attending the sessions of this great conference. 

We think it is stormy here at the present time. But we have had a storm in Toronto, Canada, recently in comparison with which our storm here is but a gentle summer zephyr. We have had, back there, a storm of agitation against this people, and the message of truth that this people is endeavoring to deliver to the world. 

We have passed through a fierce storm of newspaper agitation in the city of Toronto during the last few weeks. Through it all I have been reminded of the statement of the great Emerson, that there is a compensation in all things. I noticed, as I have often noticed in the past, that when men commence to speak against us, they very frequently unwittingly bear testimony to the divinity of this great work. I recall an incident of this kind some years ago. There was held, as I now remember, in the state of Idaho, in the year 1908, a convention of the Christian Endeavorers. One of the speakers at that convention was Mr. G. W. Barnes, the president of the association. He was so close to the "Mormon" territory that he could not quite resist the temptation to throw a few rocks over into the state of Utah. But a singular thing among the statements he made against this people and our religion, is the fact that he unintentionally testified of the vitality and the fervor of spirit which are found in this great Church. He said, "We can never hope to crush 'Mormonism' until we have a zeal equal to that of the 'Mormons.'" I have often wondered why any minister of religion should have a desire in his heart to destroy a religion which plants in the human heart living faith in the living God, and inspires them with a self-forgetting zeal that sends them to the ends of the world to testify of the great things of our God. But, singular as it is, it is nevertheless a fact that the men who endeavor to bring to naught the purposes of this great work, unwittingly testify of the greatness of God's Latter-day kingdom. 

Another instance of this kind came to my attention a few months ago in the Dominion of Canada. There lives up there in our country over in the province of Saskatchewan a minister of a Protestant church, by the name of Toombs. He wrote a lengthy pamphlet against our religion. In the course of his article he said that the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was most wonderful. He became even more superlative, he said: "It may be even said to be perfect." Shortly after the publication of this pamphlet, the great Anglican church, which is a division of the Church of England, deemed it necessary to put out a pamphlet against the propaganda of our Church in the Dominion of Canada. They could find nothing that suited their purpose better than the article written by Mr. Toombs. And so in the month of July, 1921, the great Anglican church published the Toombs article as its Bulletin No. 44, against "Mormonism." That bulletin contains the significant statement that the "Mormon" Church "may be said to be perfect." When I read that statement in that bulletin, I felt deeply grateful to the great Church of England. I have felt like writing them a letter, thanking them heartily for testifying officially to the divinity of the Church of which we are members. For this bulletin does contain a very impressive testimony of the divinity of our Church. 

We have always been led to believe that when you say that anything is perfect, it is equivalent to saying that it is divine. If we were to select that adjective which most completely describes God's attributes, we would select the adjective "perfect." God is perfect. And that which he establishes in the world is perfect. So we might well be truly thankful in our hearts, that from the seats of the mighty, men are commencing to testify, even though it be unwittingly, to the divinity of this great work. 

Not only is this great Church of ours perfect in organization, but there is in it also the perfect Spirit of Jesus Christ. What is it in the ministry of the Son of God that impresses us as being most divine? All of you would say that it is His great spirit of self-sacrifice. And so it is. 

Just a few days ago, I had the opportunity of attending a wonderful priesthood meeting, in one of the wards of this city. There were present at this priesthood meeting several hundred splendid men of all ages who bear the Priesthood of the Son of God. At that meeting a number of men, who had recently been called to go out into the world to preach the gospel, were called upon to speak briefly. I recall distinctly one of them. He was a German. He had been converted to the Church in far-away Germany, some eight or nine years ago. This plain man came to this country with his family. Since his arrival here he has been pursuing the plain occupation of a laborer. Through his industry, thrift and frugality, he has been able to save a few hundred dollars. Because of the beautiful, divine spirit of self-sacrifice in his heart, he has accepted a call to go to his mother country to preach the gospel. He is going out to spend the money that he has earned by hard labor, in testifying to the world of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want you to know that when I heard that plain man's testimony, my heart thrilled with gratitude because I was a member of that Church which puts this splendid, divine spirit of self-sacrifice into the hearts of men. 

There is in this great Church also the power of the living God. I recall today, with deep emotion, and a sense of gratitude, the blessing which came to me on the first Sunday of the month of March this year. At that time the storm of agitation, in the city of Toronto, had reached its crest. Because of the strain I underwent in writing newspaper articles in defense of our people, I felt that a nervous break-down was coming upon me. I requested the Saints and the members of the Church in Toronto to fast and pray for me the first Sunday in the month of March. Before our good people had concluded their fast on that day, our missionaries came to the Mission Home and held a prayer circle for me. While these young men and women prayed for me, my flesh quivered all over, because of the power of God's Spirit which came upon me. One of my companions, a mere boy, scarcely out of his teens, laid his hands upon my head, and said, "You shall be made well from this very day." I can testify today, in the sincerity and gratitude of my heart, that those words came to me by the voice of the Holy Ghost. I can testify moreover that my heavenly Father has remembered those words, and made them true in my life. God be praised for His goodness and kindness to me. With all my heart I thank my heavenly Father, that I belong to this great organization. With all my heart I thank him that I have had the opportunity of spending six years of my short life on the firing line of truth, telling the people of the marvelous things God has wrought in our day and time. 

I know that there is in this great Church the spirit and power of God. I know that outside of this wonderful organization there is no peace, but chaos, confusion, destruction and misery. It is good to be in the house of God in these days of strife and turmoil. Let us remember, in sincere humility and deep gratitude, the goodness of our heavenly Father to us, in committing to us these great riches, these great graces and powers which are found in this Church. 

God help us to walk through this life with bowed heads and broken hearts. God help us to trust in Him, and hold fast to the iron rod, that through His mercy and His power, we shall receive salvation and exaltation in His kingdom, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
