34
Second Overflow
08 04 1922
Heber C. Iverson 
214
128-132

None

None

Two thoughts expressed by our beloved President in his opening address, and emphasized by nearly every speaker who has followed, are these: A call to repentance and greater diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord, and an appreciation of changed conditions in which our motives and the results of our efforts are better understood and are bringing forth merited praise. 

Notwithstanding the fact that in the past we have been, and at present are being, basely misrepresented, yet the light of truth has pierced the darkness, and many honest-in-heart are beginning to recognize us as we are and not as we have been falsely reputed to be. Among those who have been thus favorably impressed with our achievements, the fruits of the gospel, are men of eminence. You who were present at the opening session of this conference heard the words of three distinguished visitors who spoke on that occasion. These are three educators of high standing who spoke; one, Doctor Carver, of Harvard University, Professor of Political Economy, who said in substance that were he looking for a people among whom the processes were going on under which a great nation is built, among the Latter-Day Saints is the one place in the world where one can see this in operation in the field itself. The other two noted scholars, Doctor Clark, President of the University of Nevada, and Doctor Lory, President of the Agricultural College of Colorado, spoke also in terms of high commendation and praise. 

A book which has recently been written by one William E. Smith, which book bears the title, City Homes on Country Lanes, has much to say of the "Mormon" Colonization experiences. Among other statements the following appears: "Utah is a monument to leadership — to a quality of leadership that has been creative and inspiring. This leadership has been generally attributed to the 'Mormon' Church, and justly so. It is often said, 'Yes, the Church could do it but nobody else could do it.'" It is a shallow remark, based on the most superficial knowledge of "Mormon" institutions. Leadership is leadership, and great as is the "Mormon" Church, it is a very small thing when compared to the government of the United States. 

The writer appears unconscious of the secret of this superior leadership. He seems to think it lies in the kind of form of organization, and is unconscious of the real source of power whence it emanates. 

Doctor Thomas Bicknell, for many years president of the National Education Association, great writer and philanthropist, after paying high tribute to the educational achievements of our people, concludes his statement with these splendid words: "The vitality and force of all societies and organizations founded on Christianity lies in the self-sacrifice of its adherents. No other church, no other organization, can produce such manifestations of self-sacrifice as that shown in the 'Mormon' missionary system." 

Our missionary system is truly a source of power, a marvelous work and a wonder. You may recall the words of the Lord to the prophet Isaiah recorded in the 29th chapter of the book bearing his name, in which the Lord foretells the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. Following this wonderful prediction He says, "For inasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men, therefore I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder, for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

From the midst of the deep distress, following the terrible world happenings of the past few years, men are crying for superior, aye, for inspired leadership, because they have come to recognize the fact that human wisdom is wholly inadequate to solve the mighty problems of the present and future, and herein we see the fulfilment of the Lord's words I have just quoted from Isaiah. The wisdom of the worldly wise has perished, come to naught, and the understanding of their prudent men is hid in overwhelming uncertainty and distress. 

Many eminent characters have spoken in high praise of the fruits of "Mormonism" and many popular magazine writers, within the recent past, have written very complimentary articles concerning our people. In fact it appears they are vieing with one another in declaring our virtues. I fear that herein lies great danger to us for we are but human and liable to think ourselves great, forgetting the source of our strength, the secret of our greatness. Here the words of Apostle Paul are apropos, he says: 

"I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I cannot tell, or whether out of the body, I cannot tell; God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven. And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) how that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities. For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. And He said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me." 

Whatever strength or power we possess has its foundation in humility and devotion. The greatest among us are always the most humble. Among the many glorious sayings of the Master is this: "He that would be greatest among you, let him be servant of all." In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith found in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 121, the Lord reveals in plainness the source of real power, the path to true greatness and glory. Speaking of the holy Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man he says: 

"Behold, there are many called but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold! ere he is aware he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks; to persecute the Saints, and to fight against God. We have learned, by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy and without guile, reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death; let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

Here we discover the source and secret of whatever real power or greatness we possess, the manner in which it may be obtained, and the manner in which it may be lost. The most destructive of all agencies is selfishness; such as inspired the rebellion in heaven, and which manifests itself in a lesser degree in a thousand different ways by mortals on earth. One of the most common expressions of selfishness is the one against which the Lord sounds a significant warning. I fear that, too frequently, we consider what our efforts in this work will mean by way of "honors of 'men,' of self glorification; if so, we violate the spirit of this revelation, and it is truly Amen and Amen to our power and Priesthood. The Lord has said, "Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted." Again, "Whosoever will lose his life, for my sake and the gospel, shall find it." I take it that these words are equivalent to saying that whosoever will lose self in the Lord's great cause, consecrate every energy of his being, every sympathy ot his soul, to its up-building, and, that with an eye single to the glory of God, shall find eternal life in His kingdom. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men . . . . and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly  . . . . then shall the Holy Ghost be thy constant companion." What a glorious possession to have the Holy Ghost as a constant companion. This Divine companionship is wholly contingent upon our absolute chastity of mind and charity of soul. 

How timely these instructions, "let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly," for the world is truly in the midst of a veritable maelstrom of immorality. During the past decade, especially since the great world war, there has been a decided weakening of moral fibre throughout the world. 

In conclusion, may I repeat some ringing words spoken this morning to the officers of the Y. M. M. I. A. by our worthy General Superintendent George Albert Smith. Speaking of our moral standard he declared that second only to murder is unchastity. He also repeated some very impressive words spoken to him in his boyhood days by his illustrious father. His father said, "Son, if an evil-minded man were to come into your home for the purpose of assaulting your mother or sister, you would protect her honor, her virtue, with your life. And just so, I would have you defend the honor and virtue of every other woman, for she is the daughter of some father and mother, and the sister of some man." 

May virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly that we may bequeath to posterity a most wholesome influence, and if possible, a definite disposition toward a positive disapproval of all that is indecent and immoral, whether upon the movie screen, in literature, in music, or in dress, for it is everywhere to be found. It is Satan's trump card, and should these demoralizing agencies succeed as he hopes they will, inevitable destruction will come to individuals and nations who abandon themselves to his vices. 

May the Lord help us to maintain the high moral standards vouchsaved unto us by our faithful parents, that we may be among the Saviors on Mount Zion, not alone in this our beloved nation but throughout the world, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
