42
Afternoon
08 04 1922
Levi E. Young 
48
153-155

None

None

I have been helped spiritually by the testimonies that have been given at this conference. It is good to hear men tell of God's goodness to them: it is stimulating to listen to words that bear witness that God lives. The world needs the spirit of inspiration and testimony, and it is necessary that we as servants of the Lord be ever ready to explain the message of our Savior Jesus Christ in a broad and comprehensive manner. The other evening I was asked if "Mormonism" is to solve the problems of the world from an economic viewpoint. I was in conversation at the time with a prominent American educator who had spoken at the University Club on the conditions of civilization today. He had explained that the behavior of mankind is measured by economic principles and ideals. If these principles are high, then the solution of the world's problems will be correspondingly good. If they are wrong, then the world will go to pieces, and civilization will decay. He cited Russia as an example of where a people have tried to bring about reform in adopting economic ideals of a low standard. To the question as to whether or not the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to solve the problems of humanity from an economic viewpoint, I answer that the religion of the Master is a pure religion, and holds that the spiritual life of man is above all things, and that the suffering of humanity can only be eliminated as humanity humbly and courageously approaches the work and problems of life with a supreme faith in God. We must come back to a fundamental truth which I sometimes fear we are forgetting, and that is the fact that we are all naturally blessed with a consciousness of what is right and what is wrong. We must cultivate this consciousness and choosing the right as God gives us the power to see the right, fearlessly live and preserve the better moral life of our natures both individually and socially. 

Nineteen centuries have passed since the Savior of the world uttered the ringing admonition, "Go ye into all the world," and yet the majority of mankind are unsaved. Almost a thousand million of the race perish in the life of each generation without the gospel, which is the only force after all that can re-generate mankind. In answer to the question, then, "Will 'Mormonism' solve life's problems from an economic viewpoint?" I reply YES. But only as the gospel of Christ in its purity affiliates itself through men of wisdom with the practical affairs of life. We have reached a crisis in the history of the race when but the universal spread and triumph of the gospel can save the world from dire disaster; for in the gospel is wrapped up the solution of all the industrial, financial, political, social, and moral problems of the age with which philosophers, statesmen, and philanthropists are hopelessly struggling. I ask: "Is not the call a clear one to us who have the gospel, and understanding its regenerating and transforming power, to teach mankind how to apply it in making over mankind, and transforming institutions by this divine agency?" 

Let me give you an example of how "Mormonism" has contributed to the solution of the social problem of mankind. No one will deny the fact that the idealism of Christianity is the highest known to humanity. And when it comes to government, the principles of the Government of the United States are the most democratic and idealistic ever worked out by statesmen. The "Mormon" Church has brought people of twenty-seven different nationalities together and, uniting them in a common purpose, has caused them to look to the highest ideals religiously and politically. When a society is united on the same principles of life and are agreed to the same ideals, it is a demotic type, as the Socialists express it. The gospel of Jesus Christ tells us that every man must work out his own salvation, and develop the individuality which God has blessed him with. This is the greatest of all rights and privileges in life, and we should learn to appreciate it. The highest ideals can only be attained by our looking to God for divine guidance, and by our working every day with faith in ourselves and confidence in our fellow men. The fact that one morning, God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ spoke to the little boy Joseph Smith and gave him the divine message as to what he was to do to direct the children of men back to the Throne, is the lesson which teaches that mankind must come back to God and recognize His Godship over all. 

We have in this congregation a delegation of Japanese who are passing through our city. They are welcome to these services, and I hope they will be able to understand much of what is said this afternoon. A great Japanese poet once explained in one of his poems that every man is a part of the "light of the Great Light," and the gleam of his soul will ever be the directing influence into the Great Light. In one sense, this is our philosophy, for Joseph Smith, recognizing the gleam of "Light" in his soul, went to the "Eternal light" and asked for more knowledge, and he was answered. It was as you state in your philosophy, the gleam that is in the soul of man, participating in the greater light that brought us into being, "but this light is embodied in God, and His Son, Jesus Christ, personages, beings, individuals as you and I are. 

I have been asked what compromises "Mormonism" will make with the world? I reply, no compromise when it comes to the fundamental principles of religion, for they are of God, and no one has a right to compromise the eternal truths of God. They belong to Him. We have no right to say we will compromise with man. So I pray that we may hold up these eternal truths. There is no compromise in God's principles and holy laws. There can't be, they are of God; and we have seen the "gleam," and we must follow the "gleam" according to the will of God for all His children. 

The Lord help us to see these things and to keep straight to the path, loving all men as individuals. I have hopes for the world, and while I agree with everything that has been said from this stand, I know you agree with me in the statement that there are great truths being established by men in the world, that there is goodness in the world, there is sweetness and light in the hearts of humanity. God help us that we may unite on all these powers for right, that the power of light may overcome the power of darkness. Amen.
