45
Afternoon
08 04 1922
Charles W. Nibley 
24
160-164

None

None

My heart and my soul are in entire sympathy and harmony with the doctrines and precepts and counsel and admonition and spirit of this great conference. I know that the men who stand at our head, the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles, the Patriarch, the Seventies, and the Bishopric — you may exclude me from God. There may have been, doubtless have been, in times past, one God. There may have been, doubtless have been, in times past, one here and there, more distinguished as a leader, more fitted, as President Ivins pointed out to us, for the work that they were called upon to do, than any others who preceded them or who have followed them; but in the history of this Church I don't believe there ever has been a band of brethren of general authorities who are more desirous of serving the Lord unselfishly than the brethren that we now have who preside over the Church. They are men of God, clean of life and unselfish, and most devoted in their labors. They are men to whom the Lord manifests Himself and to whom He gives guidance and direction, in the conduct of the affairs of the Church.  

The same may be truly said with respect to the authorities in the stakes, in all the stakes of Zion. As far as I know, the presidencies, high councilors, the bishops and their counselors are, as a rule, unselfish workers, and in the missions also, as well as the auxiliary organizations and, in fact, in all the activities of the Church everywhere, there are more faithful workers today who labor unselfishly for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God than there ever were up to this time; so that the Church and kingdom of God is today stronger, more powerful, more potent than it ever has been in any hour of its history in the past. 

But notwithstanding all this, we are, oh, so dreadfully weak in many things. We are not self-sustaining as we should be; far from it. We are most woefully in debt. I have been thinking in these meetings this thought: I wonder what Brother Brigham would say to us if he could happen along here now and ascertain that we do not produce in our state more than about one-half of the meat that we eat! We ship in tens of thousands of hogs from other states instead of raising them here at home! I wonder what he would say after all the years of his teaching, which I heard and others here heard, and which you can read, that this people should become self-sustaining, and then find out that today forty to fifty per cent of all the eggs consumed by the people of this state are shipped in from the East, and the fowls that you go down in the market and buy are shipped in by the carload! We do not produce them here where everybody, pretty much, who has a little piece of land could be producing a few chickens and eggs, and have, as Brother Brigham used to tell us, a pig or two, and thereby become self-sustaining. 

Then again, following the same thought, I wonder what President Smith wduld say to us if he found now that we are more in debt individually than we ever were before. We have not followed the wise counsels that have been given to us as we should have done. I plead guilty myself, and yet the Latter-day Saints as a whole are a good people. I believe in them. They are my people. I want to be with them. 

I see men here and there going away from this camp-fire of ours, going off with people who are not of our faith. They seem to find happiness and enjoyment there, and I fear some of them have pleasures in unrighteousness. But for me, I like my own people best, for I believe they are the Lord's people, and yet those of our friends and neighbors at these different campfires around us, they, too, are good people. 

I have an abiding faith in this Nation, which the Lord, our God, brought into being, and has brought to this day and age, standing as it does, doing a great work, a leader among nations for good, for helpfulness, for righteousness, for peace. President Grant noticed in his opening remarks the wonderful work that had been done, and commended it, by the recent conference held in the city of Washington, looking to the partial disarmament of the nations; that has been a great work and a good work. We might say, if they had only done that one thing, the return of Shantung with its thirty millions or more of Chinese to their own land, to their own country, returned them to their own government, if that alone was the only thing that had been accomplished, that alone was worth while. But many other great things have been accomplished, and I am proud of what our Nation is trying to do. 

We need not fear as to this Nation from without. The Lord has said, "I will fortify this land against all other nations." The danger is not from without, but from within, as the Book of Mormon plainly points out from secret combinations of men giving their first allegiance to their secret combination. That is the danger for after awhile these combinations will be contending one against the other until anarchy is apt to prevail, crime becomes rampant and danger to the existence of our government with its glorious Constitution is great, unless the people turn unto the Lord and seek Him. 

Our attention was called by a distinguished educator here the other day. to the fact that the great curve, as he called it, of mechanical development, invention of every kind, patents being issued by the millions on all these inventions, which go on multiplying by the thousands, the great mechanical development that makes this the most wonderful age in all the history of the world, that curve he said had gone way up almost out of sight, but he said the spiritual line or curve has not moved upward but rather downward, and he suggested that the people of this Nation should give more attention to the spiritual and less to the temporal. 

On the opening day of our conference, when I saw a larger congregation here than had ever met on a week day of any conference before, I marveled at it. What is it? I thought, as this learned educator called attention to this lack in the spiritual growth, or development of spiritual matters, which is so sadly lacking in the world, that here is this very thing that brings these thousands and tens of thousands together, this spiritual power which is lacking in the world. There isn't any use denying the lack of it in the world. Indeed, it is not denied. It is confirmed. We heard it confirmed here the other day on the best authority, and we see it; we see the lack of it; we have heard it repeated in these conferences, the lack, as these men testify, such men as Nicholas Murray Butler and others from him on down, all testify to that lack in the world, but here is that spiritual power which has brought these tens of thousands together to this conference on a week day to listen to the servants of the Lord. That is the very power which the people of the world lack. For these thousands who come, do not come here to grumble and complain at the Priesthood. As a rule, they are clean men, good men. They are tithepayers. They are men who, generally speaking, keep the Word of Wisdom. But those who do not pay tithes, and who do not keep the Word of Wisdom, you will not find them crowding into this tabernacle on a week day, or on a Sunday even, not as a rule. It is those who have this spiritual essence and power in their souls, which these distinguished educators say, and which we know, the world lacks. We have it here, and so we come to be refreshed and to learn of the ways of the Lord, and to partake of His spirit, and to grow in grace, and in the knowledge of the truth. 

 A distinguished and learned man, a ruler among the Jews, and an educator, called on the Savior in his day and stated that he knew that the Savior had power which they did not have because, he said, "No man could do the works you are doing unless God be with you." Now the Savior said to him, "Except a man be born again he cannot see the kingdom of God." At that the distinguished ruler, educator and teacher began to quibble and say: "Well now, how can a man be born again when he is old," etc., and the Savior replied, "Except a man be born of the water, and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 

He can secure for himself, by conforming to the law, this spiritual essence and power which shall make him to know God. Read in the Doctrine and Covenants how the conferring of the Priesthood was brought about, and how the power of the Holy Ghost which gives the key of the knowledge of God, was given through holy angels, conferring this Priesthood upon the Prophet Joseph Smith and his fellow-servant Oliver Cowdery. They received this power, this authority. They were delegated to confer it upon others, and when they laid their hands upon them and said, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost," then, mystery of mysteries, miracle of miracles, thev received it. And you also have partaken of that Spirit, my brethren and sisters. You have received it just as the Savior told this great teacher that he could receive it. The Savior said, "The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth." We need not inquire further than to know that that power, that spiritual essence, is received when we comply with the conditions. The Savior said that no man could receive it without obeying. You know that is true. You have received, as I say, of this Spirit, and that is what brings you here. That is what gathers this great body of people every six months. That is what makes you to know that these brethren of the Presidency are men of God, that these presiding officers are clean, good, upright men, competent by the purity of their lives alone, to be entitled to communion with that Spirit and power called the Holy Ghost, and to receive direction and guidance from that source, and give it to this people, and this notwithstanding our many little failings and weaknesses which beset us in our lives. 

We can say, as Jesus said to this great teacher, Nicodemus, 'Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness." The Latter-day Saints teach that which they know, and they say with the power of Almighty God, the power of the Holy Ghost, this spiritual existence, this spiritual missing force which the world is now finding out that it lacks, oh, so greatly, too, which they have not got and neither can they find it only in the Lord's way, "Except ye be born of the water, and of the Spirit ye cannot enter into the kingdom of God," neither can you know and feel assured of this spiritual essence and power which we possess, and which we know is the power of God unto salvation, without complying with this requirement. God bless you. Amen.
