7
Morning
06 04 1922
Charles A. Lory
(no speaker ID)
18-19

None

None

Friends and neighbors of Utah, this is not the first time I have had the privilege of being in this wonderful Tabernacle of yours, but it is the first time I have ever had the honor and privilege of speaking to so many of you at this place. We were entertained here in a splendid way when the Rotarians were here about three years ago; and all the memories we have of you people, of your Church, of your Tabrnacle, of this wonderful city, are altogether good and on the positive side. Those of us who are charged with the work of education and with the work of building forward our civilization, cannot help but admire the work that you are doing. As a young man, it was my privilege, first, to get acquainted with folks like you in Northern Wyoming; and as a young man, I must confess that I carried all the prejudice of certain young men regarding you and your beliefs. In all fairness I must say that those prejudices were altogether wrong, that I found you altogether different, and so far as my experience goes with the pioneer "Mormon" citizens of northern Wyoming, altogether good. In all fairness, also, I must confess that the training I there got has helped me, as much as any course I ever took, in trying to carry out my duties as an educator in your neighboring State to the East. No one can be here at a gathering like this without being impressed with the wonder of what it means, to every community here represented. 

I listened with interest to President Grant's statement about your sugar industry. We also have a sugar industry, but, President Grant, ours was not as fortunate as yours, because I am afraid our farmers are going to lose heavily through the loss of one of their independent companies. I have listened to the report of the development of your work and of your members, and certainly everyone here has cause to be gratified for the progress that you are making. 

We are privileged to work with the "Mormon" settlers in Southern and Southwestern Colorado. We know their worth and we always go to those sections with a great deal of enthusiasm, because we know what is being done. I feel that the time is here when, as President Clark has said, we must build spirituality. The curve that represents the growth of spirituality is rather a flat one; the curve that represents the increase in wealth, the increase in material knowledge, is rather a steep one; and, somehow, we must learn to do as you are doing; carry our religion into our day's work — not religion on one day only, but religion on seven days, and every hour of the twenty-four. I count it a privilege to add my testimony to the work that you are doing. I count it a privilege that I am permitted, as a laborer in the vineyard, to carry forward the work of education. I count it a privilege to tell you that your people in Colorado are doing their part well. They are good neighbors and they are helping us in a work that we count highly important, a piece of work that you are doing and doing well in Utah, namely, supplanting the "little red school house" by a better school house, usually a consolidated school, where better opportunities can be given to the country children, a work that has placed, in the last ten years, something like thirty-six thousand children in consolidated schools and brought high school facilities to something like six thousand children who had no such school facilities before; and best of all, a work that is resulting in the formation of a community church where men and women of many different sects and faiths could gather in one place under one organization, to worship God. May your work prosper. 