Morning
07 04 1922

I wondered, as I sat in the stand yesterday, where President John M. Knight got his stentorian voice. If I knew where such voices were manufactured, I think I should go and get one. As he stood there and spoke to the congregation, he roared like a lion, and the building trembled. I cannot roar. Nevertheless, I may possibly be able to make you hear, if I speak straight ahead. 

I was speaking to one brother yesterday, about yesterday morning's meeting, who said, "It was an epoch in our history of conferences." I quite agreed with him, because it seemed to me to be a very extraordinary meeting, a meeting of abounding interest to the Latter-day Saints. 

LESSON FROM THE HOLY BIBLE 

Let me say, brethren and sisters, that the Latter-day Saints are a blessed people, for we live in the latter days, and have access to the lives and experiences of the inhabitants of the earth from the earliest ages. For example, take the Holy Bible; it is one of the most precious books of the world today; it goes back to the very beginning and is written in the simplest, purest English. It deals with every phase of human nature — both good and bad. It is a work of great literary value and, although it sets forth the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, which is its principal value, it nevertheless reads like a romance — so absorbing is the story. What can be of greater interest to the human family than the story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden? Thev were our first parents, the root from which we sprang. It is good to know this, and to become somewhat familiar with their history. The Bible tells us that Adam and Eve were subjected to a great temptation and yielded, that is to say, the woman yielded, and the man voluntarily shared in her transgression. This experience seemed to be necessary for them to have, for we are told in holy writ that "Adam fell that man might be, and man is that he might have joy." There was, therefore, a great purpose in it. The story tells us that Cain, one of Adam's sons, through the spirit of greed and jealousy, rose up and slew his brother Abel. Thus was sin, and the greatest of all sins, introduced into the world. This was the first murder. There have been many since. Many generations pass away before we come to Noah and the flood. During those long years, the children of Adam multiplied greatly; righteousness they followed not, but were steeped in all manner of sin and debauchery. Noah the prophet, preached to them the gospel of repentance for one hundred and twenty years, but his message and warning were rejected. It was then the flood came and cleansed the earth of violence and wickedness. 

THE THREE GREAT PATRIARCHS 

Most absorbing is the story of the three great patriarchs: Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. They were indeed noble men. The Lord, Himself, declared that He was the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Did man ever before or after, receive such great distinction? Could greater honor have been conferred upon them? Then, we should remember that the integrity and faith of Abraham was so great that the Lord put upon him a blessing, under oath, saying, that unto him and his children, the land of Canaan should be given and that in him and in his seed, all the families of the earth should be blessed. This same glorious promise was also put upon Isaac and Jacob. On one occasion Jacob wrestled with an angel all night, and would not let him go until he had received a blessing. The angel thereupon said that his name should no more be called Jacob but Israel, for, said he, as a prince hast thou power with God and with man, and hast prevailed. Jacob was the father of twelve sons, from whom sprang the twelve tribes of Israel. We are of Israel. 

THE STORY OF JOSEPH IN EGYPT 

Who can read the story of Joseph and the Children of Israel in Egypt, of their bondage, and of their deliverance from bondage by ten great miracles, without being touched to the heart? It is a fascinating story, brothers and sisters, this story of Joseph, who was sold info slavery in the days of his youth, and was confronted with a great and terrible temptation by a beautiful woman. He resisted tbe temptation, and, for this evidence of his virtue, he was cast into prison. After two vears, be was brought out again, and almost immediately, was lifted to well nigh unlimited authority under Pharaoh; and, through the wisdom that was given him, he not only saved Egypt, but saved his father's house from starvation by famine. No story in fiction is of greater interest, and certainly, no story of fiction is quite as profitable, to my mind as the journeying of the Children of Israel in the wilderness, and later, of their occupation of the Promised Land, or Palestine. 

THE KINGS AND PROPHETS 

The vital lessons taught by the disobedience of King Saul and of the humility and obedience of David in his early life, and of his great sin in later life, are of great importance to the world and most instructive. 

The story of Daniel and the three Hebrews in Babylon exhibits a sublime faith, for, notwithstanding the fact they were condemned to death by the lions and by fire, nevertheless, they steadily refused to bow down to man but continued openly to worship the God of heaven; and, mark you, brethren and sisters, the God of heaven rescued them from their extremity. Oh! it is a wonderful lesson indeed. 

The great and wonderful prophecies of Isaiah, Ezekiel, Moses, Jeremiah, Daniel and others give a value to the Bible that cannot be over-estimated. 

THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST MOST WONDERFUL OF ALL 

But, the sweetest, most touching, most wonderful story of all the wonderful stories in the Bible, is the story of Jesus Christ and His ministry in Jerusalem. In that story is set forth the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, with all of its gifts, rites and powers, and Priesthood, that will save and exalt men in eternal glory, if they will but repent and render obedience to it. Here also is given an account of the organization of the true Church of God, consisting of apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, high priests, seventies, elders, priests, teachers and deacons. There is nothing in literature, brethren and sisters, that is quite comparable to the parables of Jesus — so simple, so direct, so profound, so God-like. They seem almost to cover our human experience. 

The greatest event, however, in the life of the Savior, was the crucifixion upon Mount Calvary, for therein did He give His life in atonement for the sins of the world, and by this sacrifice — the greatest sacrifice ever witnessed — he has drawn us to Him and put us under an obligation of eternal duration. 

The lives and acts of the apostles of Jesus, who preached the gospel extensively, and who, in the end, were martyred, like their Master, teaches a lesson that will bear fruit to the end of time.

IMPORTANCE OF THE STUDY OF THE BIBLE 

I have thus spoken of the Bible to emphasize the importance of its study, which, if mastered, would be quite equal, I am sure, to a college education. This holy record has come down to us, under the providence of the Lord, through the years. It is a most precious treasuse and will be found in nearly every household, but I fear it is not read as often, and is not pondered over as deeply, by the Latter-day Saints, as it should be. God has given us His word and He will not be mocked. 

MODERN SCRIPTURE OF EQUAL VALUE 

In the brief talk that I have made this morning, I have said nothing about the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, standard Church works, which are of equal value to the Bible, and should have our closest and most careful attention. The Lord has poured down from above and brought up from beneath a flood of light and truth for the benefit of mankind and we should remember that he reigns in the heavens and holds in his hand the destinies of the earth. He will not condone ignorance, for "the glory of God is intelligence," and if we would be like him, we must become intelligent. 

Brothers and sisters, may the Lord bless us and help us to do our duty by keeping His commandments and by studying His word. This is my prayer, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH

I hope that you are enjoying this Conference as much as I am. I sat here yesterday and rejoiced in the good things we listened to. This morning, the same spirit is present, and I sincerely desire that I may be blessed of the Lord to say something that will be helpful. 

GODS PROMISE TO THE TEACHER 

The responsibility of standing in the presence of a congregation like this, about ten thousand people, is great, and yesterday Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver, of Harvard, so expressed himself. President Walter E. Clark, of the Nevada University, and President Charles A. Lory, of the Colorado Agricultural College, felt the responsibility of standing here without preparation when they were suddenly called to speak. The Latter-day Saints have been admonished to put their trust in the Lord when they are called to advocate the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the year 1832, elders were advised not to take thought beforehand what they should say, but to treasure up in their minds continually the words of life with the assurance that they would be inspired to mete out what was needed to every man. I take it for granted that applies to all Israel; so you men who are presidents of stakes and bishops of wards — when you stand in the presence of your flock, if you have stored your mind, as our heavenly Father indicated should be done, you have the promise from Him that He will give to you and to the congregation, what is necessary for that particular occasion. 

COMPLIMENTS FROM PROMINENT VISITORS 

Yesterday we received compliments from our visiting educators, previously named, that were surely gratifying. It was very interesting to me to see how they partook of the spirit of our gathering. I have often observed, and I think most of you who have had missionary experience, will bear me out, that no good man or woman can come under the influence of the faithful members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and withhold their commendations of what they observe while with us. When they leave us, sometimes it is different, but while they are under that influence that comes from the Lord, possessed by His servants, who are serving Him, they are usually pleased to commend what they have seen and felt. That was a wonderful compliment that was paid us yesterday by Dr. Carver, who is a student of political economy and national history. He said (I am not going to try to quote him but I am going to quote the impression he gave me) that if he were looking for information as to how to build a real commonwealth or empire, he would come to the Latter-day Saints in this part of America. If he and other great men would learn that it was not man's wisdom that planned what he saw here, but that it was inspired by our heavenly Father, they would realize, as we do, that it is not only the best plan by which to build an empire in this world, but a sure foundation for eternal happiness in the world to come. 

MEN ARE REACHING OUT FOR THE SPIRITUAL 

President Grant read, yesterday, an extract from the annual report of President Nicholas Murray Butler, of Columbia University, for 1920, that calls our attention to the fact that men are thinking seriously, and they are looking out for something different from what the world already has. I believe I will read a paragraph or two from the same report: 

"There can be no cure for the world's ills and no abatement of the world's discontents until faith and the rule of everlasting principle are again restored and made supreme in the life of men and of nations. These millions of man-made gods, these myriads of personal idols, must be broken up and destroyed, and the heart and mind of man brought back to a comprehension of the real meaning of faith and its place in life. This cannot be done by exhortation or by preaching alone. It must be done also by teaching; careful, systematic, rational teaching, that will show in a simple language which the uninstructed can understand what are the essentials of a permanent and lofty morality, of a stable and just social order, and of a secure and sublime religious faith. 

"Here we come upon the whole great problem of national education, its successes and its disappointments, its achievements and its problems yet unsolved. Education is not merely instruction — far from it. It is the leading of the youth out into a comprehension of his environment, that, comprehending, he may so act and so conduct himself as to leave the world better and happier for his having lived in it. This environment is not by any means a material thing alone. It is material, of course, but, in addition, it is intellectual, it is spiritual. The youth who is led to an understanding of nature and of economics and left blind and deaf to the appeals of literature, of art, of morals and of religion, has been shown but a part of that great environment which is his inheritance as a human being. The school and the college do much, but the school and the college cannot do all. Since Protestantism broke up the solidarity of the ecclesiastical organization in the western world, and since democracy made intermingling of state and church impossibLe, it has been necessary, if religion is to be saved for men, that the family and the church do their vital cooperative part in a national organization of educational effort. The school, the family and the Church are three cooperative educational agencies, each of which has its weight of responsibility to bear. If the family be weakened in respect to its moral and spiritual basis, or if the Church be neglectful of its obligation to offer systematic, continuous and convincing religious instruction to the young who are within its sphere of influence, there can be no hope for a Christian education or for the powerful perpetuation of the Christian faith in the minds and lives of the next generation and those immediately to follow. We are trustees of a great inheritance. If we abuse or neglect that trust wE are responsible before Almighty God for the infinite damage that wil be done in the life of individuals and of nations." 

THE DANGER THAT CONFRONTS THE WORLD 

I rejoice to find men who are thinking, as that man thinks, of the necessity of spiritual education. The danger that confronts this world today is similar to that of the ages past. Calamity has overtaken the nations where men and women have departed from the teaching of the true and living God and have accepted the philosophies of uninspired men instead. Having turned away from those glorious truths that emanate from the source of all knowledge, they have been led captive by the fallacies of those who have set themselves up as wiser than their Creator. 

History repeats itself. We read in the Old Testament the circumstances that surrounded the people at the time of the flood. We are informed that they were not destroyed until they had been fully warned. For one hundred and twenty years Noah, a prophet of God, went to and fro among the people, calling on them to abandon their wickedness. He warned them that unless they repented of their sins and turned to the Lord, destruction would overtake them. One hundred and twenty years of pleading to do right was followed by the flood that destroyed all flesh not preserved in the ark. Bcause Noah was indeed a prophet of God, and had only told the people what the Lord had directed, his promise was fulfilled, he was vindicated, and the earth received its baptism of water. Only the little handful that believed in the prophet of God and listened to his wise counsels, were saved. 

WARNING MESSENGERS 

Yesterday President Ivins informed us that we have had 60,080 missionaries go out from this Church into the world, since 1830. Think of it, more than sixty thousand men, possessing divine authority, imbued with a desire to save humanity from the calamity that threatened; men who have paid their own expenses, and with a burning desire in their souls to uplift mankind, have gone to the ends of the earth calling attention to the fact that there is only one true and living God, proclaiming the divine mission of the risen Redeemer, giving of their time and their talents and all that God has given to them, to the end that the world might be spared the distresses that have overtaken it in the ages that are past. Now the average mission is about two years, that means more than one hundred twenty thousand years of individual service, instead of one hundred twenty years; and if the Lord, after one hundred twenty years teaching the truth through His servant Noah, found it necessary, because of the wickedness of men, to destroy all but eight, it is not surprising to me that, after one hundred twenty thousand years of preaching the gospel among the children of men, and their refusal to accept the truth as it has been delivered in this latter day, the sorrows of the world are multiplying. Think of the condition of humanity today. On every hand men are suspicious of one another; nation is jealous of nation, the pursuit of wealth and popularity occupy much of the attention of the majority. Immorality, murder, robbery and suicide appear to increase, and unless the people of the earth reform their lives, destruction is sure to follow, for the Lord has declared it. Where, in the world, will you go to find a people such as the one that you are a part of, most of whom have placed their all upon the altar, where nearly all of those who have been called into service have said, in substance: "Here, Lord, am I, what would you have me do?" 

At the present time the world is in distress, not because of shortage of food, nor for lack of money, not because there is not clothing enough; but because of the suspicion that is in the hearts of men; the distrust that everywhere prevails and the determination on the part of the few to possess more than they can possibly enjoy. Fortunately for us the gospel of Jesus Christ has taught us a better way, and in His great mercy our Lord continues to teach us and bless us. My soul rejoices as I look over these great mountains and valleys, and I realize that this is the heritage of the sons and daughters of God, gathered from the nations of the earth. They have heard the warning voice — "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness" has been the cry that has rung in the ears of modern Israel, and because they have received a witness that the gospel has been restored again; because they have learned for themselves that God really does speak to his children upon the earth, men and women by thousands have been willing to part company with those with whom they have associated and loved, and leave the homes of their ancestors to cast their lot with this much misrepresented and despised people. And they have lived to realize the remainder of the promise, "And all these things shall be added," for surely the material blessings of life have been bestowed upon us. 

OUR BLESSINGS AND OBLIGATIONS 

When we look back over the record of the past and think that since the year 1830, with a little organization of six members, unpopular then as it is now and opposed by the adversary in every possible way, glorious truths of the eternal gospel have been disseminated and accepted by men and women anxious to serve God, the teaching of the humble elders has appealed to their reason, with the result that from that nucleus of six has developed a Church of hundreds of thousands of our Father's children, created in His image, whose spirits were created by Him, who have earned the right to come into the world to work out their eternal exaltation. These have joined the Church and have been willing to incur the unkind feelings of former friends and the hatred of the world, in order that they might please their heavenly Father and obtain eternal happiness in His celestial kingdom. It is true that you will not find in any place else in the world so perfect a form of government as has been given to the Church with which we are identified. This is the Lord's way; Joseph Smith did not, of his own wisdom, lay the foundation for this Church; Brigham Young, of his own wisdom did not plan what we behold in these valleys; those men were inspired by the same power that directed Moses when he led ancient Israel into the wilderness. The same Father in heaven lives today, His power prevails and the evidence of it is seen in the development of His children. While we enjoy all these wonderful blessings, we do not feel to criticise those who do not comprehend the truth, we do not feel to find fault with the men and women of other churches or out of the churches who cannot understand; but, on the contrary, the gospel teaches us to have charity for all and to love our fellows. The Savior said: 

"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, this is the first and great commandment. 

"And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." 

Brethren and sisters, if the gospel of Jesus Christ, as delivered to you, has not planted that feeling of love in your hearts for your fellow men, then I want to say that you have not enjoyed the full fruition of that wonderful gift that came to earth when this Church was organized. As I go to and fro in the earth and find opportunity to mingle with our Father's children in various lands and climes, many of them honored because of their intellect and because of their virtues, I rejoice to realize that these are our brothers and sisters. It is to them that the gospel has been sent, and upon us, as elders of this Church, has been laid the obligation to go into all the world and preach the gospel unto every creature. We have received a wonderful gift, but with that gift comes a great responsibility. We have been blessed of the Lord with a knowledge beyond our fellows, and with that knowledge comes the requirement that we divide it with His children wherever they may be. So, while we are here comfortably situated in the valleys of these great mountains — as communities by ourselves, in many cases, we must not forget that wherever the sun shines our Father's children are there. We must not forget that wherever His children are, He is seeking after them. He is desirous that they should know Him. He is anxious that they should have taken from their minds the delusions that have been placed there by the adversary of all righteousness. For that reason, He has bestowed upon men in this latter day, a knowledge of the old gospel, and has required us to disseminate His truth among His children wherever opportunity offers. It is not an easy task; it is not a pleasant thing, perhaps, to be called out into the world, to leave our dear ones, but I say to you that it will purchase for those who are faithful, for those who discharge that obligation as they may be required, peace and happiness beyond all understanding, and will prepare them that, in due time, when life's labor is complete, they will stand in the presence of their Maker, accepted of Him because of what they have done. 

THE WORLD IN NEED OF OUR MINISTRY 

We must not be idle. This world is in need of our ministry. Our Father's children everywhere are anxious to know what they should do, but, by reason of the evil influences that have pervaded the earth, they have been deceived; honorable men of the earth are blinded to the truth; and the adversary continues with his work, destroying, not individuals alone, but, as in the great war that recently filled all nations with alarm, millions of God's children are wiped out and millions more are made miserable. The adversary is at work, and the only power that can neutralize his influence is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The churches of the world are trying, in their way, to bring peace into the hearts of men. They are possessed of many virtues and many truths, and accomplish much good, but they are not divinely authorized. Neither have their priests been divinely commissioned. 

ADVICE TO THE HEARERS OF OUR MESSAGE 

I want to call your attention to the fact that when the boy Prophet knelt in the woods and when he asked the Father of us all which of the churches he should join, he was warned that he should join none of them, "For," said the Lord, "they worship me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They teach for doctrine the commandments of men. They have a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof." When the Lord said that, he was not condemning all his children, but he was stating the truth that has been manifested since the gospel was restored. When He organized His Church, it was not intended that men should be discouraged or disappointed, who had joined other churches, but it was desired that all the virtues, all the blessings that were worth while, all the truth that they had acquired in their church organizations might remain with them and that they might take it with them when they embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ — verily the power of God unto salvation. We have never asked any good Catholic, Methodist or Presbyterian to give up any virtue or truth that has been possessed by him in the organization with which he has been identified, but with all the power that a numerically weak organization could exert we have said to the men and women of this world: Keep all the good that you have acquired, and go to the Lord in mighty prayer and learn from Him and that His gospel has again been restored upon the earth. Learn from Him that His truth is here and that there are men living who possess divine authority conferred by Him. Go to Him. Go to the Lord, and ask Him that you may know the proper course to pursue. Surely intelligent men can see that all these various deviating paths cannot lead back into the presence of our Lord, but there is a path and He who marked it out has all power in heaven and earth. He has ordained that His gospel should be proclaimed to His children not in unkindness, not in harshness but with love unfeigned, that they may, before it is too late, investigate His truth and turn from the error of their ways and be worthy to be received by Him when the time comes for Him to establish His kingdom. 

WHAT THE WORLD NEEDS 

My brothers and sisters, I rejoice in the opportunity that has come to me. I am grateful for the gospel of Jesus Christ, I am thankful for the companionship of my brothers and sisters in this Church. I appreciate the opportunity to meet, from time to time, intelligent men in the world, who, like the president of Columbia University, see that this great nation must reform, that there is need for the people of this world to retrace their steps and get back to the foundation that was laid by the Master of heaven and earth, the foundation of faith, repentance and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the reception of the Holy Ghost under the hands of those possessing divine authority. That is what the world needs. I am grateful indeed that many are looking that way. They have been going blindly along a pathway that has led to sorrow and distress, but there has been placed within reach a remedy for all ills — the gospel of Jesus Christ. There has been mapped out for all a path that, while it is narrow, and difficult to follow, leads back to the Father of us all; and there is no other path that leads there. Knowing that, how grateful we should be that there has come to us in these latter days, a knowledge of this truth, and oh, how happy we ought to be that we are permitted to partake of it.

That the Lord may add His blessing; that the knowledge of this glorious truth may burn in our hearts: that we may not be led to the right nor to the left, by the cunning craftiness of the adversary, but day by day, with faith planted in our souls, that we may go forward, with a desire to be worthy of Him, in whose likeness we are, desirous of leading back to Him, all His children wherever they may be; and in the end, as a result of our faith and devotion, we may find many of His sons and daughters gathered into His glorious kingdom, to be our companions throughout the ages of eternity, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.. 

A sacred solo entitled, "Come, come to me," was sung by Louise Watson. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS

I realize, my brethren and sisters, that this is a splendid opportunity afforded to deliver a message to the people, there being so many in attendance. I also realize, somewhat, the responsibility of such an undertaking and almost feel to shrink from the responsibility. 

It is my purpose to occupy but a few moments, and while doing so I desire the faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints present. I am very glad to be able to say that my feelings have been in perfect accord with the spirit and instructions of the conference, both yesterday and today. 

WE CARRY OUR RELIGION INTO OUR DAILY WORK 

I desire to refer briefly to some of the statemejnts made by one of our honored visitors who spoke briefly in the conference yesterday morning. I refer to the remarks of Mr. Lory, from Colorado, in which he stated that we must learn to carry our religion into our every day work. 

If there is any one thing that we have tried to impress upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints from the beginning, it has been the necessity for carrying our religion into our daily work, and I believe there is no other people upon the earth who has so fully and well accomplished this as have the Latter-day Saints; yet, I realize that there is opportunity for much improvement. Our understanding is not that we are here upon the earth for the purpose of accumulating the wealth of this world, with which to purchase the luxuries and pleasures of life. Our purpose here is more exalting, these other things, temporal, being but a means to a nobler end. 

WHY THE SAINTS ARE SUCCESSFUL PIONEERS

In conversation with some prominent people in Arizona a few years ago, while paying a visit to the Roosevelt dam, when it was in course of construction, the leading draftsman upon the works asked me this question: "How is it, Mr. Richards, that your people are so successful as colonizers and pioneers?" The answer came to me very readily, "Because, with us, it is a religious principle," and then I proceeded to explain that we pioneer new countries and colonize — not from a selfish viewpoint, but that we may prepare a place for those who gather in fulfilment of the predictions of the prophets, to assist in the establishment of God's kingdom upon the earth; that our religion is one of service and helpfulness to one another, and this is one of the means by which we are able to manifest it. 

OUR RELIGION A POSITIVE RELIGION

Another remark of Mr. Lory's was, that all that he observed pertaining to our people and of this city of Salt Lake and of this tabernacle, the construction of which President Grant had briefly explained as an evidence of the wisdom of the president of the Church who designed it, were on the positive side. That made an impression upon my mind; and I thought, too, that our religion is a positive religion, from beginning to end; that those who are in opposition to us and the doctrines which we teach are negative: We affirm and they deny. You may take the principles and ordinances, one by one, as we declare their necessity for man's salvation anid exaltation, and you will find this principle involved, and the same with the gospel as a whole. It is a satisfaction to one to have been right on any question, and a disappointment to have been wrong; and the greater and more important the question involved, the greater the satisfaction or the disappointment as the case may be. There is no other question so great, that has moved the people of the world in different dispensations as that of religion or salvation. What does salvation mean? How is it to be obtained? The religion of the Latter-day Saints answers these questions perfectly. It is the division upon this question that has made the various religious organizations that are upon the earth today. If there is a God in heaven, and there is; and if the soul of man is immortal, and it is, the time will come when these facts will be generally known. If the gospel which we have received and are teaching to the world is indeed the gospel of Jesus Christ, the only true plan of life and salvation, and it is, the time will come when men and women generally will know this fact. Then the disappointment of those who have rejected the prophets of this day and the revelations which God has given us, by which men and women might be saved, will be supremely great; while the satisfaction of those who have accepted the gospel, and have made it the guiding star in their lives, will be correspondingly great. 

NEED OF PROFITING BY THE EXPERIENCE OF OTHERS 

"History repeats itself." We are told that, "Experience is a dear school, but that fools will learn in no other." I think we may apply this to individuals and peoples, alike. Not only should we learn from our own experience and from things which we may read and study from books and which may be told us by those who have the authority to interpret the mind and will of God, but we should profit by the experiences of others. It has been a weakness of mankind, from the beginning, that we will not profit by the experiences of others; we must experience these things ourselves. Several references have been made already in this conference to the destruction of the ante-diluvians, because of their wickedness and because they rejected the message and messengers sent to them of the Lord. It does seem that in nearly every dispensation the people have not been prepared for that which God has had to give them, notwithstanding He, who knows the end from the beginning, has raised up prophets who have foretold the coming of events. So it was with the ante-diluvians, and they were swept from off the earth with a flood. We should not stop there, in considering the seriousness of the consequences of their rejecting the prophets and the gospel which was sent to them. We are told in the third chapter of First Peter, that Christ went and preached to those people who were disobedient in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing. They had been shut up in prison, so characterized by Isaiah and others of the prophets for about twenty-four hundred years. Just the character of their imprisonments, I do not understand; but one of our Book of Mormon prophets speaks of it as a fearful, awful, looking forward to the time when the fiery indignation of the wrath of God should be poured out upon them. Then we should remember this, too, which the Lord has revealed through the prophet Joseph, found recorded in the 76th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that those of the terrestrial kingdom, of which the moon is typical, include those who were disobedient in the days of Noah. When we think of their physical destruction, their spiritual imprisonment, and their being consigned to the terrestrial kingdom, we are impressed with the seriousness of their mistake and the greatness of their disappointment. It is a terrible thing to reject the prophets and their message. All the dispensations since that time, should have profited by the unwise course and conduct of this people and the wisdom of the conduct of Noah and his family, who were true and faithful. The cities of Sodom and Gommorrah were burned by fire because of the wickedness of the people and because they rejected the messsengers that had been sent them of the Lord. The same old story, and if we knew the further results, we would, perhaps, discover that they would be in the same class with those ante-diluvians who were destroyed by the flood. 

There is the case of Jonah's preaching to the great city of Nineveh. This shows the other side of the picture; how through conversion and repentance of the people, from the king upon his throne to the least member of that great city, the wrath of God and His judgments were turned aside and the people and the city were spared. 

We come to Jerusalem. The Lord sent Lehi, Jeremiah and other prophets, to tell the people of their wickedness, and call them to repentance but their message was rejected and the city was destroyed. Again, when the Savior came, in the meridian of time, He came to His own but His own received Him not, and they were cursed and scattered and became a hiss and a byword among all nations. As a rule the word of the Lord, the gospel of Christ, has not been popular, it has been rejected by all except a few. It was so in the days of Isaiah, who said, "Lord, who hath believed our report?" or the equivalent of saying, "Lord, not many have received the gospel"; and in the New Testament, we read of the days of Christ, "Not all have obeyed the gospel, for, as Esaias saith, 'Lord who hath believed our report?'" 

THE MESSAGE OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

The Lord has raised up a prophet in these last days, and he has been succeeded by other prophets, who have led this people, as the Lord's mouth-piece, not only to the chosen people of the Lord, but to the whole world; and for almost a century, we have been trying to convince the world that God has spoken from the heavens; that He has revealed Himself and His Son, Jesus Christ, and that the Father is indeed a resurrected immortal and glorified being, having a body of flesh and bones, and spirit like His Son after His resurrection, and that the Son ascended to heaven with His resurrected body, and retains it in the heavens and will come with that same body to reign and rule upon the earth as King of kings and Lord of lords. How many have received this message? It is but telling the old story over again, that there are but few who have accepted it; the same with other gospel principles. The gospel has been restored, in fulfilment of the predictions of many prophets. The Savior, Himself, said, "This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world, for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come." Just prior to the coming of the Lord, then, this gospel which Jesus taught, must be taught again to the world. John, the Revelator, declared that he saw in the then future, the restoration of the gospel by an angel. It has been so restored. Daniel, in the interpretation that the Lord gave him of Nebuchadnezzar's dream, saw a kingdom which God, Himself, would set up in the last days, that should never be thrown down or given to another people. That kingdom has been established, and we have been trying for nearly a century to convince the world of this fact. How many of all the one hundred ten millions of people in these United States have accepted the message? A mere handful, less than half a million. 

The coming of our Lord is nigh; the wars and rumors of wars, famines, pestilence, apostasy and wickedness bespeak the near approach of His coming, and we have been giving this message to the people for about ninety years, pleading with them to repent and prepare the way and put on the wedding garments, to fill their lamps that they might be prepared to go out and meet the bridegroom. How many have received the message? The same old story — history repeats itself, men and nations have to learn, it seems, by their own experience, and many will suffer bitter disappointment and condemnation. 

May the Lord bless those of us, who have embraced the gospel, and enable us to be true and faithful and may He have mercy upon those who are in spiritual darkness, and who have honest hearts, and lead them to hear, to understand, and to obey its truth; I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I was praying in my heart that whoever should speak at this time it would not be Brother McKay, for the very same reason which has been expressed, and I am glad that I have been called on, because it will soon be over. 

TOO LITTLE TIME SPENT IN PROPER DISCUSSION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GOSPEL 

I feel my weakness in standing before you at this time, and yet, I have been very happy, because throughout this conference the testimony has been one of preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and there is nothing that appeals to me, that finds response in my soul, quite so much as the preaching of the simple principles of the everlasting gospel. The people are not taught these principles enough. We do not spend any too much time in discussion, that is of the proper kind, I mean, of these principles which the Lord has revealed for our salvation; nor do we know any too much concerning them. 

JESUS CHRIST REDEEMER OF THE WORLD 

Much has been said in the conference in relation to the warning of the people, and in admonishing the Latter-day Saints to observe the laws and the ordinances of the gospel, which have been given us for our salvation. We believe in the Lord, Jesus Christ, as the Redeemer of the world. No Latter-day Saint can believe anything contrary to that. It is true that those who profess to be Christians, in large part at least, do not accept Him as the Redeemer, do not look upon Him as the Son of God, are not willing to believe that He died for the remission of sins, for the transgression of our first parents, and that we, through repentance, may come back into the presence of the Father; yet these doctrines are fundamental with the Latter-day Saints. No man shall see the kingdom of God unless he is willing to accept these truths. 

THE CELESTIAL KINGDOM OF GOD 

I would like to say a word or two in relation to the kingdom of God. In the great sermon that was preached by our Redeemer, on the mount, He taught the people, as we have already been informed, that they should "Seek first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness," and moreover, that the way was narrow and the gate was strait which led to life eternal, and few there were who found it. What did he have reference to? To the celestial kingdom. President Penrose, yesterday, very clearly and properly, pointed out to us, through the revelations of the Lord, that it was the purpose of our Father, and through the ministration of His Son, our Redeemer, to save all mankind, but that must be done through man's agency, through his faithfulness, through his obedience to the gospel, and it can be done in no other way. All men are to be saved, with the exception of the sons of perdition, who reject the truth after having received it, and who crucify Christ again unto themselves and place themselves in such a condition that eternal judgment must be passed upon them, of banishment into outer darkness, with the devil and his angels. But, in the salvation of the human family, it is contemplated that before salvation comes, every knee must bow, and every tongue must confess that Jesus is the Christ, and that through the shedding of His blood, comes redemption from death and from individual sin. Moreover, the Lord has never promised those who enter into the telestial kingdom that they shall receive the blessings of exaltation. He has not promised to those who enter into the terrestrial kingdom a fulness; but He has declared that he who endures to the end, he who will keep all the commandments, he who will be faithful, shall find a place in His kingdom; and when He speaks of His kingdom, He has reference, not to the great, broad kingdom which will embrace all humanity save the few, who become sons of perdition, but speaks of that place where He and His Father dwell. 

Let me repeat, in my own words, however, the expression that was made here yesterday by President Penrose. Who, among Latter-day Saints, is seeking a place in the telestial kingdom? Who, among the Latter-day Saints, is seeking a place in the terrestrial kingdom? With those kingdoms we should want nothing to do; it is not the intention of the man who is baptized into the Church, or ought not to be, to so live that he will not find a place in the celestial kingdom of God; for baptism, itself, is the way into that kingdom. Baptism is of two-fold nature; primarily for the remission of sins, and then, entrance into the kingdom of God, not the telestial kingdom, not into the terrestrial kingdom, but entrance into the celestial kingdom, where God dwells. That is what baptism is for; that is what the gift of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of hands, is for —  to prepare us that we may, through obedience, continue on and on, keeping the commandments of the Lord, until we shall receive the fulness in the celestial kingdom. 

AS TO ADVANCEMENT FROM ONE GLORY OR KINGDOM TO ANOTHER 

There has been a great deal of discussion going on in certain parts, as to whether or not those of the telestial kingdom may advance into the terrestrial, and those of the terrestrial into the celestial, and whether eventually all men enter into the kingdom where God lives and Christ reigns. Why should we worry ourselves? Why should we argue? Why should we contend? Why should we discuss a matter of that kind? When we have come out of the world and have received the gospel in its fulness, we are candidates for celestial glory; nay, we are more than candidates, if we are faithful, for the Lord has given unto us the assurance that through our faithfulness, we shall enter into the celestial kingdom, and surely, no Latter-day Saint desires a place somewhere else, there to take a chance of some day being forgiven and having the opportunity of advancing and finally reaching the place where the righteous dwell. 

Then again, let us keep in mind what the Lord has said; it is unnecessary for us to go outside of that which the Lord has stated in the revelations unto the Church. He has declared, speaking of those who enter into the telestial kingdom, "that where God and Christ dwell, they cannot come, worlds without end." Then, why should we bother about it; why should we argue about it; why should we consider these things in such a serious manner? So far as we are concerned let us live so that we will be assured of our place, and so we will know, through the lives we live, that we shall enter into His presence and dwell with Him, receiving the fulness of the blessings that have been promised. Who among the Latter-day Saints will be content with anything short of the fulness of salvation which is promised us? The revelations are clear; the Lord has revealed unto us just what course we should take; He has given us commandments; they are plain; they can be understood. It does not require an interpreter; he who runs, may read and may understand and get the knowledge which is essential to his salvation. And then of course it is necessary for us, in our humility, and in the spirit of repentance, to press on and on; keeping the commandmelnts unto the end, for our hope and our goal is eternal life, and that is life in the presence of the Father and of the Son; "And this is life eternal," said the Lord, "that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." That we may know this, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "O ye mountains high." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Lewis Anderson, President of the Manti temple. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


