Second Overflow
08 04 1922


ELDER REY L. PRATT 

(President of the Mexican Mission.) 

"And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall hearken unto the Lamb of God in that day that He shall manifest Himself unto them in word and also in power, in very deed unto the taking away of their stumbling blocks, and if they harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they shall be numbered among the seed of thy father: yea, they shall be numbered among the house of Israel; and they shall be a blessed people upon the promised land forever; they shall be no more brought down into captivity; and the house of Israel shall no more be confounded. . . . And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, Nephi, saying, Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent it shall be well with them; and thou also knowest concerning the covenants of the Lord unto the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard that whoso repenteth not must perish. Therefore, wo be unto the Gentiles if it so be that they harden heir hearts against the Lamb of God. For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a great and a marvelous work among the children of men; a work which shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or on the other — either to the convincing of them unto peace and life eternal, or unto the deliverance of them to the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of their minds unto their being brought down into captivity, and also into destruction, both temporally and spiritually, according to the captivity of the devil, of which I have spoken." I Nephi 14: 1-7. 

These are the words that the Lord spoke through His prophet Nephi, when He gave unto him the vision of what should be upon this continent in the last days. He beheld that the remnant of his seed that should be mingled with the Lamanites, should be brought down by the hand of the Gentile nations that should come in among them. He prophesied also that the Lord would not permit the Gentiles to remain in a state of darkness, described by him incident to, or touching, the great and abominable church in their midst, incident to the fact that the holy scriptures had been wrested and twisted among them, to the end that the people were not able to discover or discern which was right or which was wrong; but the Lord would through his mercy, establish among the Gentiles the fulness of His everlasting gospel. And he made wonderful promises unto the Gentiles, who should be blessed. And here he sets forth very plainly, that if they would give heed to the teachings of that gospel that would be restored among them, they should be numbered among those of the house of Israel, they should be blessed for ever, they should not be molested in their possession of this land of promise. But there is another side of the question here, and it is specifically set forth that if they should not serve the Lord with full purpose of heart, if they should turn from Him, they should be destroyed, and that not only temporally but also spiritually. I find in this Book of Mormon things that to me are very pertinent, for this is the very nation described. This book is one that has come into the world with the restoration of the gospel. It is true, it is the word of the Lord given through His ancient prophets and apostles upon this land, who foresaw our day. And inasmuch as the note has been sounded in this conference, of repentance, it seems to me timely to call attention to some of these things that so specifically point to our day; for if we are not mindful as a people, if we are not mindful as a nation, if the Gentile people who have come here do not give heed to the inspired word of God, do not accept the gospel as offered to them, this scripture foretells for them an awful destruction. 

I would like to read to you the Lord's decree, the first decree that we have any account of having been given, concerning this land on which we dwell. This decree was given to the brother of Jared, a great prophet who led his people to this land at a very early day. You will find it in the words of the brother of Jared given in the second chapter of the Book of Ether, through Moroni, who abridged the history of the Jaredites found on the gold plates. It is there stated: 

"And it came to pass that they did travel in the wilderness, and did build barges, in which they did cross many waters, being directed continually by the hand of the Lord. And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness but He would that they should come forth even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people. And He had sworn in His wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise from that time henceforth and forever should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of His wrath should come upon them. And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fulness of His wrath has come upon them. And the fulness of His wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity. For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land that they are swept off. And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of this land hath hitherto done. Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ who hath been manifested by the things which we have written. " 

Here again we find the perfect warning voice of God coming to the Gentiles who should possess this land. Now the question of all importance to us is not armies, not navies, is not ambition, is not universities, is not learning, but the question to us is, wherein lies the security of this great Gentile nation? Not only the one but the many Gentile nations commingling, making a nation that has built one of the greatest governments that has ever been known, that has established better laws and better living conditions than have ever before been known among the children of men since the creation, things that are in every way desirable? But I repeat, that the continuance of these conditions depends upon the fact as to whether the people will accept and subscribe to the principles of the gospel. And to accept the gospel is none other, nor aught else than to put our lives in harmony with the laws of eternal truth, which are God's laws; the laws by which all that is was created, and all that is, is sustained in the universe; and when those laws are controverted, when those laws are disobeyed, that disobedience brings disintegration, and destruction, and the ultimate annihilation of those who indulge in breaking them. Is there not today, by the prophets, seers and revelators, who stand at the head of Israel, who are God's mouth-pieces unto the world today, who sound the cry of repentance today, and also to the whole earth — is there not again a sounding of that decree? 

We have not only the testimony of your sons in the mission field, who come in contact with the world; the testimony of mission presidents who sound their voices to and mingle their voices in, all parts of this fair land, Canada and Mexico; but we have the testimony of this nation's statesmen and great men, that there has never been a time in the history of this country, when there was so crying a need for repentance as there is today. I believe we are living in the fulfilment of the time spoken of by Paul, in his Epistle to Timothy. This is as I find it, and I hope you will not take it that I am a calamity howler, and that I do this for effect. I consider it incumbent upon me to raise my voice abroad and at home; and I do not let an opportunity pass, to sound my voice, even the cry of repentance, in the ears of the people, so that not only we, but the nations and people with whom we dwell, might repent, and be saved in the kingdom of heaven. I believe we are living in the time of the fulfilment of the words spoken by the Apostle Paul to Timothy: (II Tim. 3:1-7.) 

"This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those who are good, traitors, heady highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof; from such turn away. For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead captive silly women, laden with sins, led away with divers lusts, ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth." 

I request you candidly, brethren and sisters, to ask yourselves the question, was there ever a time when you have seen manifested so great a spirit of selfishness as there is today, individually, in groups, in cities, and nationally? We find this selfish instinct more apparent than I have ever seen it in my life. Do we not find ourselves to be deceivers, truce-breakers, and find the same in others? And do we not find ourselves hating one another, partaking of practices of the world that are not righteous? Why, I am constantly kept in hot water. I came up here, in the last two weeks, from the interior of Mexico, and I find here, in the newspapers and among the people, things that are slanderous to the Mexican people, things that are given out as facts without facts to support them. But they are slanderous to those people; they stir up hatred against the people there, and when I return I am, of course, asked about such things, and hence am kept in hot water. We go to the southern republic, and we find the press of that country rampant over the treatment that they receive, that is heaped upon their citizens who happen to be here, and I have to act in the role of a pacifier in both countries. I try to make them see that it is not the work of the masses, but of agitators, and I think likely that class is to be found here. 

In the religions of the day do we find the power of God, or is there more likely to be found a form of godliness, and the men engaged in religious pursuits denying the power of godliness, more than we find in them a living and loving faith, and the love of God and His righteousness? I wish to read a little extract from the Literary Digest of February 25: 

"Interviewed by a reporter of the New York Times, several clergymen exhibit, we are told, a decidedly 'liberal' tendency, one of them going so far as saying that many Methodists in good standing had only a 'technical' belief in the verbal inspiration of the Bible, and that in his opinion a man might be a good Methodist and believe, for instance, that the Biblical account of the creation, literally understood, was not in accordance with the fact." 

Further on in the article it says: 

"People widen their experience. They are simply out-growing these old points of view. There has been an emancipation in theological views about the verbal inspiration of the Bible. The belief in verbal inspiration is only technically held today by a great many people. Today we emphasize the spirit of the word. The great thing is to exercise discrimination. There are good books and bad, and you have to discriminate but nobody can do that for me. The attitude of most Methodists toward Darwinism, I think is that it is accepted with reservations. There is a certain type of mind which carries it too far, and makes it odious. But the principle is believed in generally. It is the great fundamental law of life." 

My brethren and sisters, if God does not exist, why then the need of any ism in all the wide world? If the world does not need, I will say, any moral life, and God did not create us, why then continue any nonsense along that line? They go further than this, and many ministers tell you that Jesus Christ is a fiction, as a living entity, never did live; that the Christ story is only a beautiful story concocted for whatever end it might serve. So they have, I say, a form of godliness, but they deny the very foundation upon which it rests and must rest. I thank God I believe in Him as a literal, tangible Being, who is my Father, and whose child I am, and I feel that I can go to Him in all of my anxieties, if I would go in the true spirit; and I can get salvation; I can get help. I am thankful, but not in the spirit of the Pharisee, who thanked the Lord that he "was not as other men," but from the bottom of my heart I thank the Lord that I know I am created in the image of the Lord, my Maker; that I know that Jesus Christ came into the world, and was and is the Son of God, that He taught wisdom to men, whereby they may be, as He has again been, exalted into the celestial kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

Perhaps I would not have spoken in this vein, had it not been sounded in this conference; but I lift my voice with those who have spoken in this conference, and those who are crying, "Repent, ye nations of the earth, for the kingdom of God is at hand." 

Do I fear for this Church that has been established, although we are surrounded by temptations and the evils of the world? No. But I do know that this Church was established in these last days on the rock of revelation, and it will go on to its success. And I do know that we have a duty incumbent upon us to tell it to those who do not see as we see. That obligation comes with the knowledge we have of the gospel. I am perfectly positive and sure that the Church will go on to ultimate success and triumph. The only fear I have is, will I be able to stay with it? Will I be able to keep myself clean and unspotted from the sins of the world? And next to that, will my children, surrounded as they are by the evils and temptations of the world, be able to keep themselves pure and clean and unspotted from the sins of the world, and triumph with the work of God? And, next to that, will you, and particularly your children, be able to do likewise? That is the concern I have for Israel. After that, my concern is to gather from the world those who are honest at heart, who are, like ourselves, our Father's children — millions of them in the world; and we want to teach them the way that they may escape calamities that will come upon them, if they do not repent. 

Now, is this promise of destruction a myth? I will only say that its fulfilment or non-fulfilment depends upon this people. You will find in the words of Moroni, that the Lord will destroy the people if they do not repent, even as He has hitherto done. I am a witness. As I have traveled over the valleys of Mexico I have seen evidences of the mighty judgments that came upon the people of a former generation that have lived upon this land. One month ago yesterday, with some fellow missionaries — perhaps some of your sons — I stood in the midst of a majestic ruined city. If Salt Lake City were to be ruined, and be left in a state of decomposition for as long a time as that one has been, it would leave, in comparison, but a mere scratch upon the land. Those were a mighty people that have built cities that are wonderful even in their ruins today. I stood upon the summit of a mighty building in that city of Mexico, covering more ground at its base than the block on which we stand, the other day, and looked as far as I could see, and saw the mounds of that ruined city. They were a cultured people and highly civilized who had built that city. But the Book of Mormon recounts to us that there came a time when they became ripened in iniquity. And what did God do? He swept them off the land as completely as if they had never been, according to appearances which remain. Will he do it again? My knowledge is, that he will, except the people serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. Therefore, I repeat to you that there lies for Israel, aye for America, no other way of safety but in keeping and living the commandments of God. 

This is the Lord's Church. I know that it is true. Sometimes the preaching of the elders, or sometimes even the word of the Savior, incites the ill-will of those who cannot see just exactly as we do. I wish to read you the words of the Savior Himself as recorded in the 15th chapter of Matthew: 

"Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees which were of Jerusalem, saying, Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they wash not their hands when they eat bread. But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? For God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father and mother, let him die the death. But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; and honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me. But in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. And He called the multitude and said unto them, Hear, and understand: Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man. Then came his disciples, and said unto Him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, after they heard this saying? But He answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted shall be rooted up. Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch." 

So we say, that every plant that is not planted of our heavenly Father shall be by Him rooted up. And what care we, though the world scoff and scorn. This Church has been nurtured on persecution from the day of its inception; and if it brings persecution to declare the truth, let it come, for our duty is to warn the world and call men unto repentance. 

Oh, we do not preach that all men are lost. There are none, so far as we know, lost, only if they continue to do evil. Then they will be lost. But today, even as in the times of old, the Savior, through His disciples, through His ministers, through His missionaries that are sent into the world, is crying to the world to come to Him. I almost fancy I can hear His voice, as He said to Jerusalem: "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! Behold, your house is left unto you desolate." But how literally has that promise been fulfilled upon the Jews. They still have an opportunity, but they have no opportunity to return, save by the road of repentance, and acknowledging Jesus as the Christ, the Son of the living God, their King and their Ruler whom they have to look upon as their Lord and their Savior. 

God help us, my brethren and sisters, to realize our true position as fathers and mothers in Zion, to teach our children lessons of chastity, purity and truth, that they may know how to pray to our Father in heaven; teach them the principles of the gospel, of life, of health. All you fathers and mothers, get close to your boys in this age, get close to your daughters, and know where they are, and what they are doing, for many times they suffer by coming in contact with evil and ignorantly embracing it, not knowing the consequence; and the responsibility may rest, in many instances, upon the father or the mother, who has not taken proper care in teaching their young folks. It is a time when men want wealth, they want riches, want commodities and comforts; but, my brethren and sisters, my concern is not so much for these things as for the eternal truth, and those things which are of God, for our true and proper living. These are the pearls of great price. They are greater than all other things given to man. 

May God help us to fulfil our mission and destiny upon the earth in righteousness, I pray, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

(Presidept of the Canadian Mission) 

I sincerely pray in my heart, that the Spirit of our heavenly Father shall attend me and give me utterance while I stand before you this afternoon. I appear before you with a sense of humility and obligation, and I ask you to pray for me, that I shall be your spokesman, and deliver to you counsel and instructions that will be edifying to you as well as myself. 

I am thankful, with all my heart, for membership in this great Church. I am thankful for the opportunity of coming here from my home in Eastern Canada, to participate with you in the worship of our Father. I am thankful for the impressions and inspiration that have come to my heart while attending the sessions of this great conference. 

We think it is stormy here at the present time. But we have had a storm in Toronto, Canada, recently in comparison with which our storm here is but a gentle summer zephyr. We have had, back there, a storm of agitation against this people, and the message of truth that this people is endeavoring to deliver to the world. 

We have passed through a fierce storm of newspaper agitation in the city of Toronto during the last few weeks. Through it all I have been reminded of the statement of the great Emerson, that there is a compensation in all things. I noticed, as I have often noticed in the past, that when men commence to speak against us, they very frequently unwittingly bear testimony to the divinity of this great work. I recall an incident of this kind some years ago. There was held, as I now remember, in the state of Idaho, in the year 1908, a convention of the Christian Endeavorers. One of the speakers at that convention was Mr. G. W. Barnes, the president of the association. He was so close to the "Mormon" territory that he could not quite resist the temptation to throw a few rocks over into the state of Utah. But a singular thing among the statements he made against this people and our religion, is the fact that he unintentionally testified of the vitality and the fervor of spirit which are found in this great Church. He said, "We can never hope to crush 'Mormonism' until we have a zeal equal to that of the 'Mormons.'" I have often wondered why any minister of religion should have a desire in his heart to destroy a religion which plants in the human heart living faith in the living God, and inspires them with a self-forgetting zeal that sends them to the ends of the world to testify of the great things of our God. But, singular as it is, it is nevertheless a fact that the men who endeavor to bring to naught the purposes of this great work, unwittingly testify of the greatness of God's Latter-day kingdom. 

Another instance of this kind came to my attention a few months ago in the Dominion of Canada. There lives up there in our country over in the province of Saskatchewan a minister of a Protestant church, by the name of Toombs. He wrote a lengthy pamphlet against our religion. In the course of his article he said that the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was most wonderful. He became even more superlative, he said: "It may be even said to be perfect." Shortly after the publication of this pamphlet, the great Anglican church, which is a division of the Church of England, deemed it necessary to put out a pamphlet against the propaganda of our Church in the Dominion of Canada. They could find nothing that suited their purpose better than the article written by Mr. Toombs. And so in the month of July, 1921, the great Anglican church published the Toombs article as its Bulletin No. 44, against "Mormonism." That bulletin contains the significant statement that the "Mormon" Church "may be said to be perfect." When I read that statement in that bulletin, I felt deeply grateful to the great Church of England. I have felt like writing them a letter, thanking them heartily for testifying officially to the divinity of the Church of which we are members. For this bulletin does contain a very impressive testimony of the divinity of our Church. 

We have always been led to believe that when you say that anything is perfect, it is equivalent to saying that it is divine. If we were to select that adjective which most completely describes God's attributes, we would select the adjective "perfect." God is perfect. And that which he establishes in the world is perfect. So we might well be truly thankful in our hearts, that from the seats of the mighty, men are commencing to testify, even though it be unwittingly, to the divinity of this great work. 

Not only is this great Church of ours perfect in organization, but there is in it also the perfect Spirit of Jesus Christ. What is it in the ministry of the Son of God that impresses us as being most divine? All of you would say that it is His great spirit of self-sacrifice. And so it is. 

Just a few days ago, I had the opportunity of attending a wonderful priesthood meeting, in one of the wards of this city. There were present at this priesthood meeting several hundred splendid men of all ages who bear the Priesthood of the Son of God. At that meeting a number of men, who had recently been called to go out into the world to preach the gospel, were called upon to speak briefly. I recall distinctly one of them. He was a German. He had been converted to the Church in far-away Germany, some eight or nine years ago. This plain man came to this country with his family. Since his arrival here he has been pursuing the plain occupation of a laborer. Through his industry, thrift and frugality, he has been able to save a few hundred dollars. Because of the beautiful, divine spirit of self-sacrifice in his heart, he has accepted a call to go to his mother country to preach the gospel. He is going out to spend the money that he has earned by hard labor, in testifying to the world of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want you to know that when I heard that plain man's testimony, my heart thrilled with gratitude because I was a member of that Church which puts this splendid, divine spirit of self-sacrifice into the hearts of men. 

There is in this great Church also the power of the living God. I recall today, with deep emotion, and a sense of gratitude, the blessing which came to me on the first Sunday of the month of March this year. At that time the storm of agitation, in the city of Toronto, had reached its crest. Because of the strain I underwent in writing newspaper articles in defense of our people, I felt that a nervous break-down was coming upon me. I requested the Saints and the members of the Church in Toronto to fast and pray for me the first Sunday in the month of March. Before our good people had concluded their fast on that day, our missionaries came to the Mission Home and held a prayer circle for me. While these young men and women prayed for me, my flesh quivered all over, because of the power of God's Spirit which came upon me. One of my companions, a mere boy, scarcely out of his teens, laid his hands upon my head, and said, "You shall be made well from this very day." I can testify today, in the sincerity and gratitude of my heart, that those words came to me by the voice of the Holy Ghost. I can testify moreover that my heavenly Father has remembered those words, and made them true in my life. God be praised for His goodness and kindness to me. With all my heart I thank my heavenly Father, that I belong to this great organization. With all my heart I thank him that I have had the opportunity of spending six years of my short life on the firing line of truth, telling the people of the marvelous things God has wrought in our day and time. 

I know that there is in this great Church the spirit and power of God. I know that outside of this wonderful organization there is no peace, but chaos, confusion, destruction and misery. It is good to be in the house of God in these days of strife and turmoil. Let us remember, in sincere humility and deep gratitude, the goodness of our heavenly Father to us, in committing to us these great riches, these great graces and powers which are found in this Church. 

God help us to walk through this life with bowed heads and broken hearts. God help us to trust in Him, and hold fast to the iron rod, that through His mercy and His power, we shall receive salvation and exaltation in His kingdom, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

Two thoughts expressed by our beloved President in his opening address, and emphasized by nearly every speaker who has followed, are these: A call to repentance and greater diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord, and an appreciation of changed conditions in which our motives and the results of our efforts are better understood and are bringing forth merited praise. 

Notwithstanding the fact that in the past we have been, and at present are being, basely misrepresented, yet the light of truth has pierced the darkness, and many honest-in-heart are beginning to recognize us as we are and not as we have been falsely reputed to be. Among those who have been thus favorably impressed with our achievements, the fruits of the gospel, are men of eminence. You who were present at the opening session of this conference heard the words of three distinguished visitors who spoke on that occasion. These are three educators of high standing who spoke; one, Doctor Carver, of Harvard University, Professor of Political Economy, who said in substance that were he looking for a people among whom the processes were going on under which a great nation is built, among the Latter-Day Saints is the one place in the world where one can see this in operation in the field itself. The other two noted scholars, Doctor Clark, President of the University of Nevada, and Doctor Lory, President of the Agricultural College of Colorado, spoke also in terms of high commendation and praise. 

A book which has recently been written by one William E. Smith, which book bears the title, City Homes on Country Lanes, has much to say of the "Mormon" Colonization experiences. Among other statements the following appears: "Utah is a monument to leadership — to a quality of leadership that has been creative and inspiring. This leadership has been generally attributed to the 'Mormon' Church, and justly so. It is often said, 'Yes, the Church could do it but nobody else could do it.'" It is a shallow remark, based on the most superficial knowledge of "Mormon" institutions. Leadership is leadership, and great as is the "Mormon" Church, it is a very small thing when compared to the government of the United States. 

The writer appears unconscious of the secret of this superior leadership. He seems to think it lies in the kind of form of organization, and is unconscious of the real source of power whence it emanates. 

Doctor Thomas Bicknell, for many years president of the National Education Association, great writer and philanthropist, after paying high tribute to the educational achievements of our people, concludes his statement with these splendid words: "The vitality and force of all societies and organizations founded on Christianity lies in the self-sacrifice of its adherents. No other church, no other organization, can produce such manifestations of self-sacrifice as that shown in the 'Mormon' missionary system." 

Our missionary system is truly a source of power, a marvelous work and a wonder. You may recall the words of the Lord to the prophet Isaiah recorded in the 29th chapter of the book bearing his name, in which the Lord foretells the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. Following this wonderful prediction He says, "For inasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men, therefore I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder, for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

From the midst of the deep distress, following the terrible world happenings of the past few years, men are crying for superior, aye, for inspired leadership, because they have come to recognize the fact that human wisdom is wholly inadequate to solve the mighty problems of the present and future, and herein we see the fulfilment of the Lord's words I have just quoted from Isaiah. The wisdom of the worldly wise has perished, come to naught, and the understanding of their prudent men is hid in overwhelming uncertainty and distress. 

Many eminent characters have spoken in high praise of the fruits of "Mormonism" and many popular magazine writers, within the recent past, have written very complimentary articles concerning our people. In fact it appears they are vieing with one another in declaring our virtues. I fear that herein lies great danger to us for we are but human and liable to think ourselves great, forgetting the source of our strength, the secret of our greatness. Here the words of Apostle Paul are apropos, he says: 

"I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I cannot tell, or whether out of the body, I cannot tell; God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven. And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) how that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities. For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. And He said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me." 

Whatever strength or power we possess has its foundation in humility and devotion. The greatest among us are always the most humble. Among the many glorious sayings of the Master is this: "He that would be greatest among you, let him be servant of all." In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith found in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 121, the Lord reveals in plainness the source of real power, the path to true greatness and glory. Speaking of the holy Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man he says: 

"Behold, there are many called but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold! ere he is aware he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks; to persecute the Saints, and to fight against God. We have learned, by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy and without guile, reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death; let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

Here we discover the source and secret of whatever real power or greatness we possess, the manner in which it may be obtained, and the manner in which it may be lost. The most destructive of all agencies is selfishness; such as inspired the rebellion in heaven, and which manifests itself in a lesser degree in a thousand different ways by mortals on earth. One of the most common expressions of selfishness is the one against which the Lord sounds a significant warning. I fear that, too frequently, we consider what our efforts in this work will mean by way of "honors of 'men,' of self glorification; if so, we violate the spirit of this revelation, and it is truly Amen and Amen to our power and Priesthood. The Lord has said, "Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted." Again, "Whosoever will lose his life, for my sake and the gospel, shall find it." I take it that these words are equivalent to saying that whosoever will lose self in the Lord's great cause, consecrate every energy of his being, every sympathy ot his soul, to its up-building, and, that with an eye single to the glory of God, shall find eternal life in His kingdom. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men . . . . and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly  . . . . then shall the Holy Ghost be thy constant companion." What a glorious possession to have the Holy Ghost as a constant companion. This Divine companionship is wholly contingent upon our absolute chastity of mind and charity of soul. 

How timely these instructions, "let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly," for the world is truly in the midst of a veritable maelstrom of immorality. During the past decade, especially since the great world war, there has been a decided weakening of moral fibre throughout the world. 

In conclusion, may I repeat some ringing words spoken this morning to the officers of the Y. M. M. I. A. by our worthy General Superintendent George Albert Smith. Speaking of our moral standard he declared that second only to murder is unchastity. He also repeated some very impressive words spoken to him in his boyhood days by his illustrious father. His father said, "Son, if an evil-minded man were to come into your home for the purpose of assaulting your mother or sister, you would protect her honor, her virtue, with your life. And just so, I would have you defend the honor and virtue of every other woman, for she is the daughter of some father and mother, and the sister of some man." 

May virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly that we may bequeath to posterity a most wholesome influence, and if possible, a definite disposition toward a positive disapproval of all that is indecent and immoral, whether upon the movie screen, in literature, in music, or in dress, for it is everywhere to be found. It is Satan's trump card, and should these demoralizing agencies succeed as he hopes they will, inevitable destruction will come to individuals and nations who abandon themselves to his vices. 

May the Lord help us to maintain the high moral standards vouchsaved unto us by our faithful parents, that we may be among the Saviors on Mount Zion, not alone in this our beloved nation but throughout the world, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Heavens are telling." 

ELDER GEORGE W. McCUNE 

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

I have sat in fear and trembling so far throughout every session of this Conference lest I might be given this opportunity of talking to you, and then to come to this final session knowing that I would be expected to talk, and here be compelled, by our beloved brother, President Bennion, to keep silent until the last, has almost made a nervous wreck of me. Therefore, I beg of you, brethren and sisters, sustain me by your faith and prayers that I may say nothing which will mar the sweet spirit which has prevailed throughout our entire Conference. I know that we have been blest of the Lord with a rich portion of His Holy Spirit, without which we could not be fed with the bread of life. 

Many great truths have been spoken upon during the various sessions of this Conference and I desire to say a hearty amen to all of them, and for one I have a sincere desire in my heart to try and carry out in my daily life these valuable instructions given by our leaders. 

One of our visiting educators, I think it was Dr. Clark, of the University of Nevada, who visited the first session of our Conference in the Tabernacle, Thursday morning, made a statement to the effect that science did not satisfy the soul of man and that it was essential that we keep our souls open and susceptible to spiritual instruction, in order that we may have soul satisfaction, and I know that this is true, and that the sincere seekers for truth, the world over, are fast finding it out. Scientific facts or truths which have been established beyond question do not disagree with revealed religion, and they are good, and we accept them, because all truth is a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but scientific theories are not truths, and may at any time be overthrown by the establishment of truth. Scientific theories are one thing today but may be quite a different thing tomorrow; hence, they do not satisfy the soul which hungers and thirsts for truth. 

During a recent visit to our Boston conference we were favored with the presence of one of our leading scientists, Professor Ralph Chamberlin, formerly at the University of Utah, but now holding an important position in the great Harvard University, who gave us a wonderful talk, during which he made a similar statement to the one mentioned before, to the effect that all his labors and researches in the laboratories of science, while very interesting, and to a great extent satisfying to the intellect, did not satisfy the soul of man, and that he yearned for something more. He bore a beautiful testimony to this effect, adding that he felt in this meeting a spirit which was soul-satisfying and bore testimony that he knew that ours is the true Church of Jesus Christ. 

My dear brethren and sisters, when we were baptized into this Church and received the gift of the Holy Ghost, we were given a most wonderful blessing, which, if cultivated and developed, will prove to be the source through which the soul may be fed and satisfied, but it must be kept in tune to the great broadcasting station from whence all messages of uplift and good cheer are sent. Two weeks ago today I had the pleasure of dining with Brother David P. Howells and his family in New York. Perhaps many of you know Brother Howells. He formerly lived in Salt Lake City, and is one of our very successful young men, who by his course in life, is preaching the gospel daily to all with whom he comes in contact, because he follows out in his daily life the teachings of the gospel to a very great degree. After dinner had been served Brother Howells invited us into the living room where he showed us the wireless telephone instrument which had recently been installed in his home, beside which was a program telling of the various messages of interest which would be broadcasted at certain hours of each day from the central station. Brother Howells proceeded to make some slight adjustments by turning certain keys to the right or to the left, as he found it necessary, in order to put this instrument in strict tune to the central station. When this had been accomplished, behold beautiful strains of music burst forth in the room, very much clearer than the ordinary music box in which there is some metallic sound. It was not necessary for each one in the room to have something to their ears, but all could hear distinctly the sweet strains of music which were being played at the broadcasting station some twenty-two miles distant. This, of course is a marvelous accomplishment of man's and I could not help comparing it with the divine instrument God placed in each and every one of His children entering into the world — an instrument which if kept in tune with our Father's Kingdom will bring to its possessor rich messages of love, encouragement, patience, gentleness, meekness, kindliness and all the virtues and fruits of the gospel of our Redeemer. We might make a comparison of these matters at great length but suffice it to say, my dear brethren and sisters, that this divine instrument within us is even more sensitive than the wireless telephone, it will easily be put out of tune by sin, either through acts of commission or omission. The little keys referred to on the wireless instrument which Brother Howells turned to the right or to the left in order to put the wireless instrument in tune with the great broadcasting station may be compared to the principles of the gospel which, if adhered to, will put us in strict tune with our Father's Kingdom, and should we find our instrument made discordant through sin, as indicated above, we can always turn to the glorious principle of repentance, of which we have heard so much throughout this entire Conference, and if we sincerely repent of our wrong doing, having complied with the other ordinances of the gospel, our Father in heaven will accept of our repentance and forgive our sins. 

I want to heartily approve of what our brethren have said regarding this great principle of repentance. It is a fact that repentance is a gift of God and, as stated by our beloved President Penrose, there is a possibility of sinning away the time of repentance, for the Spirit of God will not always strive with man. It is indeed a sad spectacle to see one of our companions or associates who has been faithful for many years, fall by the way side, but, my dear brethren and sisters, it is a sadder sight to see one of such incapable of laying hold of this glorious principle of repentance, to find him lifted up in pride and justifying his actions. I say this is a far more serious condition than the fact of our sinning, because, as I have indicated already, our sins shall be forgiven through the glorious principle of repentance, but if we have not lived or acquired this gift of God, there is no avenue through which our sins can be forgiven, we will go on through life justifying ourselves and thus sinning away the time of repentance. Now, we need to teach this principle in our homes. All great movements and reformations must begin at the fireside. We must put our own house in order first, then we can, with good grace, cry repentance to the world. 

In the remarks of President Ivins, we heard regarding conditions throughout the world as to disrespect for law and order which are indeed appalling; as Latter-day Saints we must be zealous in guarding against such evils. The most effective way, in my estimation, to guard against evil will be, first, to show by our actions absolute respect for all constituted authority in our conversation and in our lives, not only the ecclesiastical authorities, the authorities in our Church, but all constituted authority; municipal, state, or national, let us learn the joy of upholding and sustaining them. Do not let us be guilty of indulging in destructive criticism. Someone has said, we must first learn to obey orders before we attempt to give orders. We must certainly learn to first uphold authority. I for one certainly intend to take to heart these splendid instructions and go from this Conference with a greater determination to repent of my sins if I have been guilty of showing any disrespect for constituted authority. I have learned to love the brethren of the Church, those who preside over us, and I find great joy and satisfaction in honoring and sustaining them and I also find a feeling of genuine pride in seeking for and talking about the good acts of our civil authorities. On the other hand, I always feel a sort of unworthiness if I have indulged in unjust criticism of any constituted authority. Someone has said of our people, that we are like the blind leading the blind, and yet it is a fact that within our Church there is the greatest opportunity for individual development. 

This Church organization is designed to develop and cultivate the talents of each and every individual in it, and it will do so to the extent that such individuals will respond to the opportunities afforded them and respond to responsibilities placed upon them. In the the various organizations of man, it is the custom to have a select few designated to do the thinking, preaching, speaking, writing, and so forth, hut this is not the case in the Church of Jesus Christ. Our heavenly Father instructs each and every one of His children how to live their individual lives and make the most of their opportunities. Now my brethren and sisters, these deplorable conditions of disrespect for law and order and morality are of the world, and we are in the world and must be prepared to fight and withstand the onslaught of Satan's hosts for he will tempt our young people and lead them away in the most alluring fashion. While we are far from perfection I am indeed happy to know that we are above most of the world morally and I hope we shall continue to maintain this lead and improve upon it. The Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed to Joseph Smith in latter days has certainly given to the world high ideals for their salvation, not only morally but intellectually and physically as well as spiritually. 

I will relate a little incident which happened in Utah during the recent war, which illustrates to my mind the status of Latter-day Saints morally. When our splendid young men were being called to the Colors there was a good mother who accompanied her son to the railroad station to bid him farewell. Just before the departure of the train on which this young man must leave home, his mother looked him straght in the eye and said, "My boy, your country has called you into service. I want you to go like a man and do your full duty. Honor and respect those who are in command. Be faithful to every trust placed upon you, and if your country shall require your life, be a man and give the same, for I could stand to see you come home in a box if it should be necessary. God grant that it will not be, but there is one thing I want you to promise me. I could not stand it to have you come home contaminated with the sins of the world. Therefore, I want you to come back to me clean, or come back not at all." 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that this is the sentiment of all Latter-day Saints. We have all been taught from infancy that it is better to lose our lives than to lose our virtue and chastity. We can not get away from these fundamental principles of morality, and it behooves the younger generation to instil the same integrity into the hearts of our children as did our fathers and mothers before us. If we can but live this one principle of the gospel, the principle of morality, and live it strictly, through this great law we shall be able to redeem the world, but should we fail to stand apart from the world in this respect, history will repeat itself upon us, as well as the rest of the world, which shows that when a people become immoral, they degenerate, and destruction is inevitable. Let us go from this Conference, my brethren and sisters, with a determination in our hearts to live better lives and to seek the Lord in mighty prayer that we may have wisdom to teach our children the principles of morality, and impress them upon their minds so that they will feel that it is better to lose their lives than to lose their virtue. It is a difficult task to rear our children to be different from their neighbors, but we must try earnestly to keep them from indulging in the excesses of the world. Some of the brethren have mentioned during the Conference the evils of modern dress. I feel that it is the extremes that harm and are not proper. We are taught to be a moderate people in all things and this applies to dress, to our eating, to our language and all our conduct in life. There is indeed a great responsibility upon us and I sincerely pray that we will be equal to the occasion and not fall into the sin of indifference as regards the duties of life. This is the greatest evil we have to contend with; the sin of indifference. It is appalling to find the condition of the world as regards their attitude toward religion and toward our duties in life. We ought to realize full well, my dear brethren and sisters, "Life is real, life is earnest, and the grave is not its goal. Dust thou art, to dust returnest was not spoken of the soul." There is much for us to do, every moment is precious and we are all hastening on to the end. "Our hearts, though strong and brave, still like muffled drums are beating funeral marches to the grave. We know not when the end will come but we know it will come in due time, and great will be our joy and satisfaction if we have striven hard to learn the purpose of our being here in mortal life, and of trying to magnify the same to the satisfaction of our heavenly Father. 

I was deeply impressed by the sweet rendition by the choir of the beautiful anthem, based upon the scriptural reference, wherein the Savior said: "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest," and wherein, He went on to say, "For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light." My dear brethren and sisters, I know that if we accept the gospel of our Redeemer with full purpose of heart, and live up to its teachings with faith in God, we shall find the words of the Savior to be true and correct that His yoke is easy to bear and that His burden is light. 

I earnestly pray that God will bless you all that we may try earnestly to understand the purpose of life and seek to magnify our duties to the very best of our ability, and I humbly pray for this blessing in behalf of all of us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission.) 

Only those who stand before great audiences like this can feel what it means to occupy the time of the meeting. One is always reminded that the responsibility that rests upon those who are assigned any duties in this Church is great, and that unless the Lord comes to the rescue these duties cannot be adequately discharged. 

I have been much impressed at this conference, I think more than ever before, by the fact of the divine appointment of the leaders of this Church. I think I have never recognized more fully the power, the inspiration, that rests upon the President of this Church and his counselors, and the twelve apostles, men who have been appointed and ordained in the time in which we live, to lead Latter-day Israel. It is to me a great testimony, to listen to the inspired doctrine and teachings of Christ, manifested through these men. 

I have been reminded of two or three passages of scripture pertaining to our pre-mortal state. The Lord, in speaking to Jeremiah, as recorded in the first chapter, told him that before he was born he knew him, and ordained him a prophet unto the nations. In the Pearl of Great Price, we find more scripture which proves the divine appointment of men who take part in the administration of God's work in the earth. 

The Lord revealed unto Abraham some things pertaining to us in this life, and in the language of Abraham I read: 

"Now the Lord has shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was, and among all these were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good, and He stood in the midst of them, and He said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good, and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." 

The Lord told Abraham that with him were many of the noble and great ones, whom He would make His rulers. The world believes not in the ante-mortal state of men, according to the teachings of their churches and their ministers. They have not arrived at that knowledge, because they have not obeyed the law upon which that blessing is predicated, for it is a great and glorious blessing to a man or a woman to obtain a knowledge, while they sojourn in the flesh, that before they came here they lived, and that God organized intelligences, and established them, so that when they should come into the earth, some should be His rulers; not particularly the rulers of nations, but the rulers of His Church, in the day that His Church should be in the earth, for he says, "These I will make my rulers." These men were tried, and proved to be the spirits, among others, who were able to be leaders of men; and before they were born in this earthlife, in the days of their "primeval childhood," when they were "nurtured at his side," in immortality, the God of our Fathers and their fathers had given unto them their calling; and we have thousands of people who stand in the midst of Israel, as also many who have passed away, who can testify, and do testify, that the leaders of this Church were inspired men, who were called and ordained to be his rulers in the day and age in which they were to come on the earth. 

The history of Joseph Smith is evidence to this people, that he was and is a prophet of the Living God, and impresses even those who do not believe with evidence of his leadership. We find no greater leadership in all the world than in this "Mormon" Prophet, who labored early and late, unceasingly, to establish in the minds and hearts of men that faith and that knowledge which he had received in his communication with the Father, the Father of all the children of men who have to be reached in the flesh, and with Jesus Christ. He gave his life for the testimony which he bore, that he had seen the Father and the Son, and that they had revealed unto him the true order of worship. And as the world grows older, men and women of all countries will become acquainted with his work and with his character, and they will point to him as being the man who was a leader of men; and when they recognize that he was a leader of men, then the power of the Almighty will rest upon them, and they will recognize in him a leader of God's people here in the earth. Then will they begin to remember the Lord, and will begin to come unto him in repentance, and will finally come unto Him in His kingdom. It may take unto eternity before the truth, that has been preached to them while here in the flesh, shall pierce them, but except a few who may reject it, all will receive it ultimately. 

Now I want to say a word about Brigham Young. How many people have given consideration as to what it took to build that Temple on this block, to lay those mighty stones, to plan that mighty edifice? I think there are but few in the Church today who can properly estimate what one of those stones weigh, and what it took to build that great structure. I question very much if any of us have given it sober or serious thought. None but a man moved upon by God could build such a building. It stands there as a monument, and will stand as a monument, that Brigham Young was and is a prophet of God, and that God did inspire him. You know when he stood at the head of the Church he preached the gospel with as much power as any prophet has ever done. Men asked him how he was going to build the temple. He said, "The Lord has shown unto me the pattern of the temple, and I know what it shall be like, and how to build it." Those words of his are there in granite. That is evidence to this Church and to the world that he was a leader of men, a mighty man, and a glorious character, one who was ordained, and one who stood in the midst of the Gods when these rulers of the Church were chosen. Brigham Young was among them. So was the Prophet Joseph. So was John Taylor, who also gave his life, offered it in Carthage jail when Joseph and Hyrum fell martyrs, and who gave up their lives because of persecution many years later, when he stood at the head of this great Church. Wilford Woodruff was there. Lorenzo Snow was there. Joseph F. Smith was there. Heber J. Grant was there. God said, "These I will make my rulers." And you who have the testimony of Jesus, you who have received the knowledge that this latter-day work is true, you know, in your own hearts, that these men were and are leaders of God's people in the great work He has established upon the earth. 

As I listened to President Grant, at our opening session, tell the people what they should do, and what he had done for them in the way of establishing them more firmly in their industries, so that they might pay their debts and live as becometh the people of God, and as He intended they should, there was testimony in his heart, the testimony and words of the living Redeemer shone forth in his countenance. The living God governs the words and testimonies of his servants as they come upon the earth, just as he counseled with them when they stood among the spirits and knew them to be the men that He would have them to be. 

God, our eternal Father, through His Son Jesus Christ, has proved to the world that he has never made a mistake with the men that He has called to lead Israel; from the days of Adam until now. He has chosen men that He knew, before their worldly career, who would come forth in time, and be the leaders of men, and He said through Paul, the Apostle, that He hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation. And Moses tells us, in Deuteronomy, that the "nations of the earth were divided according to the number of the children of Israel," and Israel was known of the Lord, and leaders of Israel were recognized by Him because of their ability to carry on His work. Why was Jeremiah ordained a prophet? Because God knew who he was, knew that he was a prophet because of the power that he had received through observing the laws of the gospel of Jesus Christ before the world was. God knew that he would be, in his day and in his time, when he should come to the earth according to appointment, a prophet of the living God, and one in whom the Lord could repose confidence, because of his stability, strength, power, life, and love for His work. 

I want you Latter-day Saints to go home, with this feeling in your hearts that he who leads this Church is a man divinely called and associated with men who are duly appointed to act in the name of God, and who have the power to ordain others; and that through them comes revelation for the guidance of this Church, for the preaching of the gospel, for the redemption of mankind; that they are children of our Father, called by our Father to be leaders of the children of men before they lived upon the earth. A man will make no mistake who follows them, and receives their advice, and who keeps the commandments of God. 

I heard President Grant say, recently, that he would consider it a favor to him, if men and women would abstain from the use of tea and coffee, tobacco, liquor, and coca-cola; that they would have power given them to establish themselves in the faith, and save themselves from debt, sickness, and disease. And he read from the revelations, that the destroying angel would pass them by; and he is a prophet of God. 

Read in the scriptures; in them is life and light and the power that leads back unto God, our Father. A short time ago, I asked the branch presidents and conference presidents and each missionary in the Central States mission, to take up a labor with the members of their branches, and with every member of the Church with whom they came in contact, encouraging them to read the scriptures, not only in preparation for their lessons for auxiliary organizations, but separate and apart from that — to read the scriptures one-half hour a day. I tell you if men and women will do this the Lord's truth will come into their minds and into their hearts, and they will remember constantly the word of God, and will avoid the pitfalls that are everywhere present to entrap those who have a knowledge that this is the Church of God in the earth, and that there is none other through which salvation to the human family can come. May God give us the power to be true to his work I humbly pray in His name. Amen.

The choir sang the anthem, "God's refuge and strength." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph A. McRae. 


