Afternoon
07 04 1922


ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find Him, if thou seek Him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. When thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come upon thee, even in the latter days, if thou turn to the Lord thy God and shalt be obedient unto His voice; (For the Lord thy God is a merciful God. He will not forsake thee, neither destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of thy fathers, which he sware unto them." 

At twelve o'clock today I envied the peace to which Brother Joseph Fielding was entitled and which I am sure he enjoyed, after his closing address this morning. It is no easy task to anticipate facing this audience. 

A VISIT TO DISTANT MISSIONS OF THE CHURCH 

Eighteen months have passed since I had the privilege of trembling before a congregation in this tabernacle. Twelve months of that time have been spent in company with President Hugh J. Cannon in visiting the distant missions of the Church. When President Grant suggested Brother Cannon as my companion, I readily acquiesced, because I knew his worth. Then I respected him; today I love him. I think that conveys to you the fact that our more than twelve months' constant companionship, night and day, was most genial and happy. 

NEARNESS OF GOD TO US, AND HIS GUIDING HAND 

I should like very much, this afternoon, to choose some part of that wonderful trip and take you over it, but all throughout this conference I have been prompted to try to give the message that seemed to be the most precious to me of all our experiences; namely, the many manifestations of the nearness of the Lord and of His guiding hand. 

THE MESSAGE 

The message is found in the passage I have read: "If thou turn to the Lord Thy God, and shalt be obedient unto His voice, He will not forsake thee." I pray that I may be able, in a few words, to give that message to the brethren and sisters present this afternoon, in the hope that they may convey it to the hosts of young men and women who ought to receive, even indirectly, the inspiration of this memorable conference. 

A KEEN SENSE OF THE TRAVELER'S RESPONSIBILITY 

When we left home, December 4, 1920, we looked forward with no little misgiving and anxiety to the trip ahead of us. It was no simple matter to contemplate traveling to the Orient, thence to the Antipodes, much of that distance to be spent on the water. The distance itself made us realize that we were undertaking a great responsibility. Absence from our loved ones was keenly felt by both, but greater than these two, and other incidental things that made us hesitate about accepting this responsibility, was the realization that we were going on a first visitation to our people to represent the general authorities. The keen sense of our responsibility, adequately to fulfil the desires of President Grant and his counselors and the Twelve, who had honored us with that call, made us seek the Lord as I had never sought him before in my life, and I wish to say this afternoon that the promise made by Moses to the children of Israel just before they crossed the Jordan River into the Promised land, has been fulfilled in our experiences. As we sought the Lord with all our souls He came to our guidance and assistance. 

TENDENCY OF THE WORLD TO DENY THE EXISTENCE OF A PERSONAL GOD 

It may be that the realization of our dependence upon Him made more prominent what seems to me to be a deplorable tendency of the world to disregard, even to disown, their relationship to our heavenly Father. It was our privilege to hear educators and other prominent men speak in different places and upon different occasions, and to mingle with different classes of men and women on boats, for we spent a total of five months on the water, sailing in about twenty-three different vessels, and every vessel well crowded with all classes of tourists, most of whom were professed Christians. Frequently we were grieved to note the attitude of apology that these Christian men and women assumed toward God, their Creator, and His son Jesus Christ. I have been in mixed gatherings here in the State, and out of the State, in which some men, when speaking of the early pioneers of Utah would refer in a rather apologetic way to Brigham Young, and on some occasions I have felt that the speakers even hesitated to name him and give him the credit due him in the settlement of this great intermountain commonwealth, and in the founding of institutions that have since become centers of influence and might. Just such an attitude I have seen manifest among so-called Christians when they would begin to talk about God. He did not seem to be real to them. He did not seem to be in very deed their Father in Heaven. There is a tendency, it seems to me, among Christian nations to move toward a conception of God very much similar to the conception of the Buddhist who says: "There is no personal God-Creator on whose mercy and good will the universe is dependent. Everything owes its origin and development to its own inherent vitalism, or, what comes to the same, to its own will to live. Human ignorance it is which alone invented a personal God-Creator." The Buddhist utterly rejects the belief in a personal God. So do many in the Christian world. In opposition to this false conception of God, I wish to declare that today I feel as I have never felt before in all my life that God is my Father. He is not just an intangible power, a moral force in the world, but a personal God with creative powers, the Governor of the world, the Director of our souls. I would like to have the young men of Israel feel so close to Him that they will approach Him daily, not in public alone, but in private. 

I would have them have the trust in Him which the little blind girl had in her father. She was sitting on his lap in the train, and a friend sitting by said: "Let me rest you," and he reached over and took the little child on his lap. The father said to her: "Do you know who is holding you?" "No," she replied, "but you do." Oh, the trust of that child in her father. She knew she was safe because he knew who was holding her. Just so real should be the trust which the Latter-day Saint boys and girls have in their Father in heaven. 

FOUR GREAT BLESSINGS COMING FROM FAITH IN GOD AND PRAYER 

Like Benjamin Franklin: "The longer I live the more convincing proofs I see that God governs in the affairs of men; and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground unnoticed, is it possible that an empire can rise without His aid?" If we can get our young people to have this faith and so to approach their God in secret, there are at least four great blessings that will come to them here and now. The first is gratitude — gratitude for blessings before unrealized. Their souls will be filled with thanksgiving for what God has done for them. They will find themselves rich in favors bestowed. The young man who closes the door behind him, who draws the curtains, and there in silence prepares to plead with God for help, should first pour out his soul in gratitude for health, for friends, for loved ones, for the gospel, for the manifestations of God's existence, as seen in the rocks and the trees and the stones and the flowers, and all things about him. He should first count his many blessings, name them one by one, and it will surprise him what the Lord has done. 

The second blessing of prayer is guidance. I cannot conceive of a young man's going astray who will kneel down by his bedside in the morning and pray to God to help him keep himself unspotted from the sins of the world. I think that a young girl will not go far wrong who will kneel down in the morning and pray that she might be kept pure and spotless during the coming day. I cannot think that a Latter-day Saint will hold enmity in his heart if he will sincerely, in secret, pray God to remove from his heart all feelings of envy and malice toward any of his fellowmen. Guidance? Yes, God will be there to guide and direct him who "will seek Him in faith with all his might and with all his soul." 

The third blessing is confidence. All over this land there are thousands and tens of thousands of students who are struggling to get an education. Let us teach these students that if they want to succeed in their lessons, they should seek their God, that the greatest teacher known to the world stands near them to guide them. Once the student feels that he can approach the Lord through prayer, the student will receive confidence that he can get his lessons, that he can write his speech, that he can stand up before his fellow students and deliver his message without fear of failure. Confidence comes through sincere prayer. 

Finally he will get inspiration. It is not imagination that we can approach God and can receive light and guidance from Him, that our minds will be enlightened, our souls thrilled by His Spirit. Washington sought it, Abraham Lincoln received it, Joseph Smith knew it; and the testimony, the evidence of the Prophet Joseph's inspiration is manifest to all who will but open their eyes to see and their hearts to understand. 

EXAMPLES OF INSPIRATION ENJOYED BY THE TRAVELERS 

Inspiration was given to us on this trip. That is why I touch this theme. 

I want to testify to you that God was with us when we stood beneath that tree in old China and turned the key for the preaching of the gospel in the Chinese realm. My words may not convince you of the fact, but no disputant can convince us that our souls were not filled to overflowing with the Spirit of God on that occasion. 

Again the veil was thin between us and departed friends, when we stood in prayer on the side of old Haleakala, the largest extinct volcano in the world, and poured out thanksgiving to God for what He had done for Presidents Joseph F. Smith, George Q. Cannon, Elders Francis A. Hammond, James Hawkins and their wives, and other missionaries who carried the gospel message to the Hawaiian people. 

I knew of His protecting care in the Tongan Islands; for when the vessel was submerged by a mountainous wave, we felt that peace and security which the little girl felt when she said to her father: "No, but you know, and I am safe." 

At Papeete, Tahiti, we knew His guiding hand and acknowledged His overruling providence, when replacing our judgment by His inspiration He moved us to do something which our own judgment had told us not to do, subsequent events proving that the inspiration came in rich abundance in the priesthood meetings with your boys. God bless them wherever they are today, for they are God's servants, as long as they will keep themselves pure and spotless from the sins of the world, and I testify to you that His Spirit is guiding them, magnifying them in their youth, making them a power in preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Again, when among the Samoans, we felt His presence on several occasions, especially in that memorable farewell at Sauniatu. May I take this occasion to say, brethren and sisters, that we are not sufficiently close to the Tahitians, the Maoris, the Tongans, the Samoans and the Saints in Australia and New Zealand. In distance they are a long way off, and visitations of general authorities are all too infrequent. They need things which they do not get — sometimes, I think, just because of the great intervening distance; but their hearts are just as true and genuine and their faith just as sincere as yours and mine. 

Another memorable example of God's guiding hand was experienced when we met Joseph Wilford Booth at the very time and place that we should have met him in order to make our mission to the Armenians successful. He did not know where we were and we knew not where he was. He was praying that the hope of President Grant, expressed in a letter, might be realized; (for the President of the Church, too, was praying that Brother Booth would meet us, and that we three would go to Armenia together); we were praying that we might meet him, so that our mission there would not be a failure, and God answered our prayers. If I narrated the details, most of you, too, would be convinced that there was some power above chance that brought about that meeting. 

RESTORATION OF THE JEWS IN PALESTINE 

Now, I say that one result of approaching God, our Father, is inspiration. Now may I take sufficient time to give one little circumstance in which the inspiration of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph — nay more than inspiration, the revelation to the Prophet Joseph was fulfilled in part at least, right before our eyes. The same chapter from which I read at the opening of my remarks says also that: "If they [Israel] depart from the ways of the Lord, and go to worshiping images again, I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from the land whereunto ye go over Jordan to possess it. Ye shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall utterly be destroyed." "But," says the Prophet, "in the latter days, if thou turn to the Lord thy God, and shalt be obedient unto his voice, he will not forget the covenant of thy fathers, which he swore unto them." You remember also in the Book of Mormon, which was published before the organization of the Church, that there is a passage referring to the Jews as follows: "Nevertheless, when the day cometh that they no more turn aside their hearts from the Holy One of Israel, then will He remember the promise He made to their fathers." If you will turn to the tenth chapter of Second Nephi, you will see what that promise is. "They shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance." And another significant remark, that "in that day the Gentiles shall be great in mine eyes in carrying them forth to the lands of their inheritance." That prophecy revealed to the Prophet Joseph is very significant in the light of current events, in the light of the attitude of the Jews today toward Christianity, and toward Christ. 

A SIGNIFICANT EXPERIENCE IN JERUSALEM 

All this, however, I must leave by mere reference and carry you now to Jerusalem on the 2nd day of November, 1921. On the previous day, Jerusalem had been all bustle and business. David Street was lined with little shops in which Jews and Mohammedans were carrying on their trade. Little donkeys heavily laden with the goods of commerce were walking up the rough stone steps of David Street. We saw no camels on that street, it being too narrow. Camels were lying down depositing their burdens at Damascus Gate. On November 1, 1921, Jerusalem was a typically busy Oriental city; but on the 2nd all things were changed. David Street, so far as business was concerned, was quiet. Shop windows were closed, so were the shops outside of the wall. By the Allenby Hotel every shop window was boarded. No autos stood as usual in front of the hotel ready to carry tourists down to the Dead Sea and to Jericho. Our guide, Michael, a Greek Christian, seemed to radiate a foreboding feeling. I rather jocularly approached him and wondered what was the matter with him. He remained silent, his attitude portending evil, and he intimated to us to be quiet. We had scarcely reached the Jaffa Gate where, by the way, is seen the "eye of the needle," when he broke his silence. 

"Don't you see that all business houses are closed?" said he. 

"Yes," I replied, "what does it signify?" 

"It means," he continued, "that today the Mohammedans and the Christians are uniting in protest against Mr. Balfour's declaration that Palestine shall be set aside as a Jewish State." 

Well, it was like a thunderclap from a clear sky. I had not dreamed that there would be opposition to that movement. We had seen the Jews present in the city carrying on their trade evidently in peace, without molestation. We had looked up a few statistics and knew that in 1914 it was estimated that 80,000 people were in Jerusalem; 50,000 of whom were Jews, most of whom had come there but recently; for fifty years before that there were only 20,000 people in Jerusalem all told. Now to hear from our guide, who seemed to know what he was talking about, that the Mohammedans and Christians were opposed to the Jews' coming back, was an astonishment to me. I haven't time to take you through that day, but I just call your attention to this fact, that at eleven o'clock when we came back to the street leading to the Jewish quarter, Brother Cannon and I expressed a desire to confer with the Jews regarding the opposition so strongly manifest that day. 

"Don't go there," cried Michael. 

"Why?" we asked. 

"Because there is danger." 

"No," I replied, "I think there is no danger." 

"If you go there, you go alone," said our guide. 

I said: "All right, Michael, here is where you and we part company. We will meet you at two o'clock." 

So, alone we went into the Jewish quarter, to hear their side of it. We will never forget that scene. Groups of Jews from foreign countries, Russia, Rumania, and Orthodox Jews, who had been in Jerusalem a number of years talked together in subdued tones. From windows and balconies women peered at us, evidently suspicioning us as spies — children looking from behind shutters, and doorways. We finally found a young Jew who could speak English; and in answer to our question what all this means, he said: 

"The Mohammedans and the Christians are uniting in protest against Mr. Balfour's declaration that Palestine shall be set apart as a home of the Jews." 

As we walked back, we again passed through a group of British soldiers in full uniform, including steel helmets, muskets in hand, bayonets fixed, guarding the Jews. We knew how necessary their presence was; for, as we had come up David Street we had seen several Jews and two Jewesses, one of whom clasped a baby to her breast, stoned by Mohammedans and so-called Christians, their only offense being that they were Jews, who had come back to their promised land. 

As we passed these British soldiers, I said: "Boys, we hope you will keep them (the Moslems) straight." 

"Oh, I think we can," answered one of the "Tommies"; and as we went back to our hotel we commented upon this scene and the significant passage which I have read: "And the Gentiles shall be great in mine eyes in restoring them to their land. Yea, the kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto them, and the queens nursing mothers." On the tower that now marks the spot of the tower of David, British officers were waving signals over the city, giving orders to keep the peace; armored cars, bearing British soldiers were driven through the streets to subdue the threatened uprising. Notwithstanding these precautions, eight men lost their lives on the streets of Jerusalem that day. 

At five o'clock the order was given by Acting Governor General Samuels, the first Jew to rule in Palestine since before the days of the Savior, that no person should be on the street after five o'clock. We ventured out after that hour just to see if the order had been obeyed. It was, absolutely. We were witnesses that day of the beginning of the fulfilment of that prophecy which refers to the time, now near at hand, when the Jews will "no more turn aside their hearts from the Holy One," and when the Gentiles shall be the means of restoring them to their own land. 

IF WE ONLY KNEW THE READINESS OF CHRIST TO HELP 

Next day we crossed the Brook Kedron, passed the Garden of Gethsemane, and ascended the Mount of Olives, to the spot as near as we could determine, where Christ stood when He looked at Jerusalem and wept over her. In the light of the opposition to His purposes to which we were witnesses, I thought that He would weep again if he were standing there today. "If thou hadst known," cried he, "even thou, at least in this day, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes." Neither do they who are now opposing his purposes know the things which belong unto their peace. "If they only knew!" I desire to say to the children of Israel today, in these valleys of the mountains, to the boys and girls especially: If you only knew that Christ is ever ready to give you help in time of need, and comfort and strength, you would approach Him in purity, simplicity, and faith. I indicated in the beginning how this might be done. May I illustrate it by a little paragraph which I will read in conclusion: 

The builder who first bridged Niagara's gorge, 

Before he swung his cable, shore to shore, 

Sent out, across the gulf, his venturing kite 

Bearing a slender cord for unseen hands 

To grasp upon the further cliff, and draw 

A greater cord, and a greater yet. 

Ti'l at the last across the chasm swung 

The cable — then a mighty bridge in air! 

So we may send our little timid thought 

Across the void, out to God's reaching hands — 

Send out our love and faith to thread the deep, 

Thought after thought, until the little cord 

Has greatened to a chain no chance to break, 

And — we are anchored to the Infinite! 

God bless our youth that they may send out these thoughts in prayer and faith and receive the assurance that they are anchored to the Infinite, in God our Father and His holy Son, the Redeemer of the world. This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

They call us "Mormons." The Church to which we belong is known as the "Mormon Church." The gospel which is committed to the Church is called "Mormonism." These names, pseudonyms as they are, have been fastened upon us. We do not resent the titles, but we must not forget that they are false names, as thus applied. Nicknames they were; and where the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is known in the world to one by its proper name, it has been heard of by hundreds as the "Mormon Church." The possibility of error, misunderstanding, false conception, through this application of the term "Mormon" should not be forgotten. The Lutheran Church is named after a great man, and those who chose to follow his banner called themselves "Lutherans." So in many other instances have sects and denominations been named after men; but this is not the Church of Mormon, nor the Church of Joseph Smith, nor of Brigham Young, nor of any other man save only that Man who was the Son of the Living God, He who was and is Jesus the Christ. 

WHOSE CHURCH IS IT? 

The compound name-title given to the Church has drawn questions and has aroused thought in the minds of those who are not of us: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. You will remember that after Christ had established his Church among the aboriginal peoples of this continent, when he appeared as a resurrected Being amongst them, after he had chosen and ordained twelve men to direct the affairs of the Church, there was some little disputation as to the name the Church should bear, and the Twelve, remembering the Lord's gracious promise that when they would call upon him, united in heart and purpose, they would be sure of a hearing, fasted and prayed, and He appeared again amongst them there in their council meeting in bodily presence and asked them what they would. They said, "Lord, we will that thou wouldst tell us the name whereby we shall call this Church." His answer, as we may render it in modern style of speech, was to this effect: Why should there be any question on so simple a matter as that? Whose church is it? Is it the church of Moses? If so, call it, of course, by the name of Moses; or if it be the church of any other man, then call it by his name, but if it be my Church, as ye say, and it is, then call it by my name. 

THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

When this restored church was organized in 1830, ninety-two years ago yesterday, it was named the Church of Jesus Christ; but afterward, by special revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord himself gave the extended name and said: "For thus shall my Church be called in the last days, even the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Many of us content ourselves with the assumption that this addition was made to avoid confusion with the Church of Jesus Christ as it had existed in earlier days, the primitive Church as we call it; and I agree with that as being a good purpose well served. Nevertheless, to me there is a deeper meaning. This is in one sense, and that an all-comprehending sense, the Church of Jesus Christ. It was organized by his commandment. Its doctrines are his doctrines. The salvation it preaches is the salvation which he made possible; but as an organization among men, as a body of human beings it is likewise the Church of the Latter-day Saints, and to this body constituting the organization is committed certain authority and to such are given certain privileges coupled with commensurate responsibilities. It is a self-perpetuating organization, all its affairs being carried on by men who are duly called under the inspiration or by direct revelation from the Lord who stands at its head. 

PRONE TO USE "MORMON" TOO FREELY 

The Church, therefore, is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and while I say we do not resent the term "Mormon," I am inclined to think that we Latter-day Saints, as we call ourselves, and rightly too, are prone to use the term "Mormon" a little too freely. I have been impressed by comments made to me, orally and by letter, by men of thought, theologians and scripture students, telling of the impression made upon them when they first considered the name "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints" and expressing surprise that we use the term "Mormon" among ourselves, as we do, so freely. I have thought of this matter many times, extending through many years, but "Mormon" is a common name with us. If we will only remember that it is used because others know us thereby and because it is shorter, and because we are used to it, there may be no reason for strong objection; and there is a little excuse, perhaps, if not of justicifation, for I remember that the Lord has made plain that the holy Priesthood, which we are told is after the order of the Son of God, has been and is called the Melchizedek Priesthood to avoid the too frequent repetition of the sacred Name, and I would rather hear the Church spoken of as the "Mormon Church" if we understand the sense in which the term is used, than to hear the name of Jesus Christ used loosely, or with contempt, and perhaps with feelings that are even more sinful. 

ATTEMPTS OF SMALL SECTS TO USE NICKNAME 

By the way, now that the term "Mormon," thus fastened upon us, has become commonly current, I note that because of the esteem in which the Church is held by many who know us as we are and yet are not of us, attempts have been made by certain small sects to claim it. You know there are a number of small, aberrant, and abnormal denominations who profess to believe in this little thing that the Prophet Joseph said or did, or to accept that part of the revelations which God gave to him though they reject many of the revelations from the Lord given through that same prophet, and in years past they have made manifest their detestation, of the term "Mormon." Their advertisements in the papers used to be coupled with an explanatory line "Not Mormon," and now I think I am not saying too much when I affirm that they are trying to purloin that nickname and apply it to themselves. They want to be called "Mormons." But the world who gave us the nickname have given us letters patent assuring our right, our exclusive right to it. Whether we want to use it or not is another matter. 

THE REAL MEANING OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

But I pray you consider what the real name means — "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." We can understand, easily, what "Latter-day" means — modern day, this day; but what does the word "Saint" mean? By derivation, by acceptation, and by the best authority in the language, it means directly, used as an adjective, "holy," and when used as a noun, "a holy one;" and we, therefore, profess to be a body of holy men, holy women. We proclaim ourselves in the name of Jesus Christ to be the holy ones of the last days, a significant proclamation, blasphemous in the extreme if it be not justified. But that name was given us of God. We do not apologize for it, nor do we preach the doctrines of the gospel, committed to the Church to be preached, in any apologetic manner. We preach in simplicity, in humility, but not by way of apology. I agree, from my own observation, with the attitude assumed by many, referred to and described so tersely by Elder McKay. We have no apology to offer for our name nor for our membership in the Church, nor for our scriptures that have been given by revelation through the prophets of the Lord unto the people. 

What should it mean to you and me, to be thus called a holy man, a holy woman? As thus applied, the term does not mean that the one who bears it is necessarily without weakness or devoid of blemish. An authorized usage of the term "holy" is that it shall apply to anyone or anything that is authoritatively appointed and set apart for exclusive service in the cause of God, and such we profess to be, set apart amongst men and nations as the people of God. However, all peoples and all nations may be one with us and may thus be set apart, if they only will, and so become entitled to bear that distinguishing name. 

GREAT POWER IN CHURCH REGARDLESS OF NUMBER 

There is power in a name given of God, and there is power in this Church. You know it, we all know it, though our numbers be few. One of our speakers referred to the total membership of the Church as constituting a handful as compared with the people of the world, the human population at this time. The expression was apt; but I pray you let us not forget that the Lord does not reckon strength in terms of the numbers of men. You know a certain king of old, the king of Israel, was rebuked because he wanted to number Israel and find out over how many people he ruled. Why should he not have known that though they were one one-thousandth part as many as he hoped, with the Lord on their side they could vanquish the world, if so directed. The success of this Church, as an organization among men, does not depend wholly upon numbers. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Let me illustrate, showing that other people recognize the fact. Some time ago it was my privilege to be in consultation with a man of letters, who was a directing editor of two large newspapers in Boston. He inquired into some phases of our Church history, asked me many questions in an investigative manner, and he put this inquiry to me: "What is the membership of your Church?" This was long ago, a few years ago, before the last census was taken. I said: "Approximately five hundred thousand." "Oh," he said, "I don't mean here in New England, or in this section only. I want the total membership." "I have told you, sir." He leaned back in his chair; then he said, "Do you tell me, in all earnestness, that the great "Mormon" Church numbers only approximately half a million?" "I do." Again he leaned back and, after a moment's thought, rose as the Spirit of the Lord gave him utterance, and bore testimony to the power of God in these simple words: "Surely, the hand of God is in it." 

We are not a big Church, but we are a great one — the greatest on the face of the earth. I say it without apology, without qualification. Between bigness and greatness there is a fundamental difference. 

Again, in the city of Baltimore I was once talking with the editor of one of the leading papers. I had been announced to speak in the city. He explained to me — this was during the war season — that space was precious in their papers, that the force of reporters had been cut down, and perhaps they could not cover the meeting as they would otherwise have been pleased to do. In a casual way he said: "Flow many have you in your congregation here in Baltimore?" I was able to answer him promptly and accurately, for shortly before my interview with him I had been in consultation with the conference president. I gave the number — as I remember it, it was twenty-nine. "Twenty-nine," I replied. He started in his chair — "Twenty-nine what?" "Twenty-nine souls," said I, "most of them children." He said: "Are you in earnest? Are they all you have?" I said, "Yes; and if you wish I can give you the names and the addresses. We have the complete roll and record of our members here." His answer was: "We will send a reporter. You shall have all the space you want." 

NOT DISAPPOINTED IN SMALL NUMBERS 

Do you see, that such men recognize the fact that there is something more in the Church than mere numbers? I call to mind the prediction of the ancient Nephite prophet — no, the prediction of the living God, given through his prophet, that in these days, in the very dispensation in which this book, the Book of Mormon, should come forth out of the earth, the Church of the Lamb should be found in many lands, all over the earth, but that their numbers would be few; so we are not disappointed. We expect to be few; for, of the whole human family there are few who are willing to recognize the truth, very few. I read with deep emotion that declaration recorded in the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants that the inhabitants of the Telestial world, kingdom or glory, whichever you like, the lowest of the kingdoms of glory, were seen to be as innumerable as the stars in heaven or the grains of sand upon the seashore. We are started on the high journey along that straight and narrow path that has been referred to, leading to the Celestial kingdom of the Lord our God. Let us sanctify ourselves, as becomes holy ones, that there be no blemish upon our sacred name and title. I pray in the name of Him who gave the Church its designation, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.

Claire Goslind sang a sacred solo entitled, "Abide with me." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

A Revolting Crime 

Two months ago a prominent business man of this city sat in his home, eating his evening meal, with his family surrounding him. Without warning, there entered his home two masked men. Upon their entrance they commanded him to raise his hands, and thereafter, immediately, this man was shot to death. The crime cast a pall of horror and of gloom over this entire community. 

CRITICISM OF THE POLICE OFFICERS AND THE LAW 

Following the first effects there came a reaction in the form of indignation and rather severe criticism of the municipal and police authorities for the crime which had been committed. A delegation of business men, representative of clubs and associations to which the deceased belonged, waited upon the police and civic departments of the city, voicing something in the nature of criticism for what was alleged to be inefficiency on the part of that department and its inability to forestall such terrible disasters as that which had happened. Among the criticisms that were urged at the time was this one: It was said the police department had given over so much of its time and endeavor to the attempted enforcement of laws which were in their nature quasi-moral regulations that it was unable to throw the whole force of its power into measures and safeguards tending to mitigate and to forestall the commission of crime. Not very complimentary things were said at the time regarding the class of legislation which the police department had, in some measure, attempted to enforce. Among these laws which were held up to ridicule by the men who felt so aggrieved, was the law passed by the last legislature of this state against the sale and disposition of cigarettes, and the smoking of tobacco under certain proscribed conditions. Other laws came in for a share of condemnation, and it was said that altogether too much of the efforts put forth by the police department had gone to the enforcement of laws against gambling, against the keeping open of places of ill repute, and other measures tending to regulate society in this community. 

OTHER CAUSES THAN THE POLICE AT FAULT 

Shortly after these criticisms were urged against the police department of this city certain developments came to light in the horrible crime which had been committeed. It was at first supposed that the crime had been perpetrated by masked bandits, probably strangers to the city, in the hope of procuring goods and wealth from the home of him who had been shot. It later developed that the whole tragedy had its inception in the plan of a young girl who had been retained in the household as a servant; and according to the confession which she made, as it was set forth in the press, it seems that her ideas were formulated largely from the education — I use the word advisedly — which she had received in the moving picture halls of this city. You are all more or less acquainted with the details of her confession. You know what importance she attached to the fact that she had conjured up in her own mind a tragedy in which she should play a very important part and possibly secure some coveted notoriety. Further investigation and development also brought to light the fact that one of the principals in the murder was the son of a widow whose husband was murdered several years ago; that he came from a broken home, and that by reason of the inability of a poor mother to properly provide that training and those safeguards which should be around the life of every young man, he had been subjected to improper influences, had given himself over to association with bad characters and thus came to this lamentable end. The antecedents of the other principal do not seem to be so well known. I think, however, it would be a safe estimate that he likewise had come from a home which had not exerted around him that influence which is designed to safeguard him from the temptations of the world. The point that I desire to bring to your attention in again reminding you of the circumstances attendant upon this tragedy is this, that the very thing against which the legislation which is so bitterly complained of was directed, and the very things against which it and similar legislation were provided as safeguards, are the things which gave rise to this unspeakable tragedy. 

THE REAL CAUSE 

The lack of moral culture, the failure to supply the innocent or unfortunate with the safeguards that should be about them in youth had given rise and stimulation to ideas and false notions which resulted in that terrible crime. The men who voiced their disapproval, not only of the laws passed by the legislature but of the enforcement of those laws by the civic authorities of this city surely must have felt that they were mistaken when they urged that criticism against our municipal authorities. 

AN APPEAL TO SUSTAIN THE LAW AND ITS OFFICERS 

I want to appeal for co-operation and support for the municipal authorities of our cities and towns in the enforcement of that legislation which is somewhat paternal, which has for its object the safeguarding of society even though it may not be entirely in consonance with the belief of many men and women as to the proper and legitimate function of the government. Every good citizen knows that when the legislature passes a law, that action ends discussion as to whether or not the principle is a right or proper one for legislation, at least until such time as an issue shall be formulated upon the question again. The legislature of this State and the legislatures of some other states have passed laws tending to safeguard the moral, the physical, the spiritual well-being of the citizens of this and other states. It ill becomes any citizen, surely it is ill becoming in any member of the Church, to interpose any degree of criticism, at this stage either upon the wisdom of the legislation or the propriety of enforcing the law. 

It is not an easy thing to enforce law. My sympathy goes out to the men who have been elected to positions of responsibility and who are called upon to bring to justice those who violate the laws and the ordinances of the land. I believe that never, at any time in our history, has there been greater need for whole-souled support of the administrators of law than at the present time. It is regretable in the utmost degree that there are citizens of this country, as pointed out by President Ivins in his remarkable address of yesterday, who are inclined to look with very great allowance upon the infraction of those ordinances and laws which are passed tending to bring about better conditions in our state, and surely it must follow that if we neglect the enforcement of these laws there will come a degree of crime and infraction of law that will be horrible to all the people and to all the world. I believe that the time has come when we must stand by the laws of the State, when we must support these regulations, and we must lend such co-operation to our municipal authorities that they will feel and know that the best people of the country stand squarely behind them. Not only is it our duty as a Church to lend influence and support in this measure and in these particulars, but it is likewise our duty to so use these great organizations which the Lord has given to us that they may educate boys and girls in respect for law and for order. I believe thoroughly that the firmest props to our government lie in religion and morality. 

OUR NEED OF FAITH, SERVICE AND SELF-CONTROL 

A memorable address was made at the university, upon the inauguration of its new president, by Doctor Carver, who addressed this conference, upon the pertinent question: "How much civilization can we stand?" He answered his question by saying in substance: "We can stand only so much civilization as we may show service and self-control." Religion, true religion, faith in God the Father, adherence to His commandments and to the principles of truth, are indispensable to the development of self-control and to the development of that great altruistic spirit which shall render service to humanity and to God. Therefore, I appeal to my brethren and sisters who officer and direct these great organizations of the Church, to so use them that they may stimulate and establish faith in the hearts of boys and girls and men and women. The Church is not an end in and of itself. The Church is but a great implement to be used by these holy ones, of whom Brother Talmage has spoken, for the enlightenment of the world, for the reclamation of the souls of men and for the establishment in the hearts of men of the great virtues which go to make character and manhood and womanhood. God grant that the people of the Church may support and sustain the law, the administrators of the law, and the foundation of the law, which lies in the great principles of truth, virtue, equity and justice, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

As a result of the promise and resolution I made in our General Conference six months ago, I am standing before you this afternoon in what is probably the largest pair of shoes ever made at Z. C. M. I. And who can say that the making of this suit of mine, of Provo-made cloth, has not so increased the demand for wool that its price has advanced from something like fourteen cents, six months ago, to something like thirty-five cents now. 

OUR MISSIONARIES HAVE A NOTABLE MESSAGE 

President Grant read a statement yesterday from Prest. Nicholas Murray Butler of Columbia University that it is significant that in this period of vigorous and able-bodied reaction the world should be "without a poet, without a philosopher, and without a notable religious leader. The great voices of the spirit are all stilled just now, while the mad passion for gain and for power endeavors to gratify itself through the odd service of destroying what has already been gained or accomplished." 

While our missionaries as individuals may not be regarded as "notable religious leaders," by the great mass of people in the world, they do speak with authority and they do have a message for the world that to them is of such importance that they are willing, at their own expense, to give their time and devote themselves thus unselfishly to carrying the gospel message "to every nation, kindred, tongue and people." 

Sooner or later the world will learn that in these days the heavens have been opened, God the Father has spoken, the Son has appeared, the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored, and it is being preached "as a witness" and that when this message has been carried to "every nation, kindred, tongue and people" our Lord and Master will come again in accordance with prophecies clearly made in Holy Writ. 

THE GREATEST NEED OF THE WORLD TODAY 

The greatest need of the world today is the return to simple Christian religious ideals. One of the world's greatest financial statisticians (Roger W. Babson, Fundamentals of Prosperity, p. 55) has stated the situation clearly in the following words: 

"Much of the prosperity of this nation is due to the family prayers which were once held daily in the homes of our fathers. To a very large extent this custom has gone by. Whatever the arguments pro and con may be, the fact neverthelesss remains that such family prayers nurtured and developed these spiritual resources to which the prosperity of the nation is due. The custom of family prayers should be revived along with many other good New England customs which some modern radicals may ridicule, but to which they owe all that they possess."

HOW THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS MAY PERFORM THEIR TASK 

The work that has been given us to do, that of preaching the gospel to all the world, is a tremendous undertaking. This work can be accomplished only if we, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, live in fairly strict conformity with the teachings of the gospel of our Master. Of these teachings there is none more thoroughly fundamental and important, perhaps, than that of family prayer. Are the fathers and mothers of the Church devoting themselves faithfully to this important duty, and are they teaching their sons and daughters to place their trust in Divine Providence? 

If it were possible for me to do so, I should be glad, this afternoon, to teach you some sure method of making money, to teach you how to save money, to teach you some method of going forward with certainty to secure honor, to secure distinction, to accomplish some unusual or tremendous success. But giving such instruction would not be of greatest importance, for the accomplishments I have named are not in and of themselves the greatest of the fundamentals. 

That Scripture quoted yesterday by President Charles W. Penrose and this morning by Brother George Albert Smith, is founded upon the essential fundamentals. We must, if we are to achieve the greatest success, "seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness," then all these things will be added unto us. 

PRAYER ONE OF THE FUNDAMENTALS OF SUCCESS 

The forefathers, the founders of our country, sought first the kingdom of God. This great nation of ours is builded upon a religious spirit. Our forefathers were religious men. Washington, Franklin, Lincoln — these great Americans were all prayerful. The great leaders of our country all the way along the line have been men who were firm believers in, and who placed their confidence in, Almighty God. 

The wise men of the world seem these days to be pretty well agreed that in all time the peoples of the world have been in no more serious situation than they are today. 

LINCOLN'S PROCLAMATION FOR A DAY OF PRAYER

For Lincoln's time the situation faced was a serious one. What he did then ought the world not to do now? In what was probably the darkest hour of the Civil War, he set apart March the 30th, 1863, as a day of fasting and prayer by issuing a proclamation which read in part as follows: 

"Whereas, the Senate of the United States, devoutedly recognizing the supreme authority and just government of Almighty God in all the affairs of men and nations; has by a resolution requested the President to designate and set apart a day for national prayer and humiliation; and 

"Whereas, it is the duty of nations as well as of men to own their dependence upon the overruling power of God, to confess their sins and transgressions in humbled sorrow, yet with assured hope that genuine repentance will lead to mercy and pardon, and to recognize the sublime truth, announced in the Holy Scriptures and proven by all history, that those nations only are blessed whose God is the Lord:

"And, insomuch as we know that by His divine law, nations, like individuals, are subjected to punishments and chastisement in this world, may we not justly fear that the awful calamity of civil war which now desolates the land may be but a punishment inflicted upon us for our presumptuous sins, to the needful end of our national reformation as a whole people? We have been recipients of the choicest bounties of Heaven; we have been preserved these many years in peace and prosperity; we have grown in numbers, wealth, and power as no other nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God. We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us, and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our hearts, that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that made us.

"It behooves us, then, to humble ourselves before the offended power, to confess our national sins and to pray for clemency and forgiveness. . . .

"This fasting and praying being done in sincerity and truth, let us then rest humbly in the hope authorized by the divine teachings that the united cry of the nation will be heard on high and answered with blessing no less than the pardon of our national sins and the restoration of our now divided and suffering country to its former happy condition of unity and peace." 

TEACH THE YOUNG PEOPLE TO PRAY 

To the last degree I am interested in the welfare of this people. The ambition of my life is to use my physical strength and mental power for the good of the young people in the Church. I want them to succeed. May heaven help us to induce them to live in accordance with the principles of the gospel. I desire them to have eyes that are brighter, intellects that are clearer, minds that are more active than are the minds and intellects and the vision of other people. These blessings must be ours if we, the people of the Church, though few in numbers, are to accomplish so much. 

If there is before me now any father or any mother who has not taught his or her son, his or her daughter, to lead in family prayer I beg of you, accept my sympathy. Teach them to pray. 

Only last Tuesday a mission president reported that when he called upon a young man to lead in family prayer, who had come into the mission field, the young man hesitated, stumbled, uttered but a few words, finally finished in considerable embarrassment and then said: "That is the first time in my life I have spoken a word of prayer." 

SEEK FIRST THE KINGDOM OF GOD 

Let us, I beg of you, remember the Lord, "Seek ye first the kingdom," and all these things shall be added unto us. 

Our obligation to train our children as they ought to be trained is an important one. While "We believe the Bible to be the word of God," we believe that what is written in the Doctrine and Covenants, and what is recorded in the Book of Mormon, applies with a greater degree of accuracy to us in these days and in this age than does that which is recorded in the Bible. I shall read to you now Scripture from the sixty-eighth Section of the Doctrine and Covenants beginning with the twenty-fifth verse. This scripture is intended for us here and now: 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents;

"For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized: 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. 

"And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day — And the inhabitants of Zion shall, also, remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor in all faithfulness, for the idler shall be had in rememberance before the Lord. 

"Now, I the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickednss; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. 

"These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them." 

Let us, then, primarily seek not honor, nor position, nor money, nor social standing, but let us seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and then incidentally all these very desirable things will follow. 

May the Lord bless us to this end I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The choir and congregation sang, "Come let us anew our journey pursue." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Wm. W. Seegmiller, President of the Kanab stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Sunday morning, notice being given that a general Priesthood meeting would be held this evening; and that a special Priesthood meeting would be held on Saturday morning at 10 o'clock. 