Morning
04 04 1936

The opening session of the Conference commenced promptly at 10:00 o'clock, Saturday morning, April 5. 

Practically every seat in the large tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied as the time arrived for opening the meeting. 

The Hyrum Stake Choir of more than 300 voices, under the leadership of W. H. Terry, furnished the music for this session. 

As an opening number, the Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "High on the Mountain Top." 

Elder Willard L. Jones, President of the Moapa Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

"The Sweet Story of Old" (Parks), was sung by the Hyrum Stake Choir. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency Read the financial and statistical report of the Church, as follows : 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The expenditures by the Church for the year 1935 : Stake and Ward Purposes : 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for the construction of ward and stake meeting houses ., $ 

For ward maintenance expenses 

For stake maintenance expenses 

317,386.04 741,196.79 229,355.60 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 



Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church school system $ 632,128.59 

Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of temples.— $ 268,857.59 Charities : 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment $ 183,809.71 

Missionary Work: 

F or the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions $ 712,027.52 

Total $3,084,761.84 

which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and mission activities. 

Other Charities: 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities and assistance rendered by the Relief Society in the sum of $402,938.94, which amount, added to the $183,809.71 paid from the tithes, makes the total charity assistance rendered by the Church $ 586,748.65 

Expended for the maintenance of Missionaries : 

There has been collected by the various wards of the Church and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance $ 82,967.50 

Average cost per missionary in the missions during the year 1935, $29.02 per month, or a total of $348.24 per year per missionary. There was an average of 1439 missionaries in the various missions during 1935, making a total average expense for the year, (348.24 x 1439) ..$ 501,1 17.36 

Estimated average earnings per missionary, $900.00 per year x 1439, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might have earned if at home of $1,295,100.00 

making a total estimated contribution of missionaries and their families to the Church for the preaching of the Gospel $1,879,184.86 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE YEAR 1935 

There were on December 31, 1935 : 1 15 Stakes of Zion; 977 Wards; 87 Independent Branches; 38 Dependent Branches, or a total of 1,102 wards and branches in the stakes of Zion; also, 32 missions (including the European Mission), 900 mission branches, and 209 districts. 

CHURCH MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes 595,071 

Missions 151,313 

Total 746,384 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the 

stakes and missions 20,973 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 14,249 

Converts baptized in the stakes and missions 7,535 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, Dec. 31, 1935 1,682 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, Dec. 31, 1935 29 

Number of local missionaries 64 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions 1,775 

Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 1,557 

Total Missionaries 3,332 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary 

Home 871 

Persons recommended to the temples from the stakes 76,519 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 27.9 per thousand 

Marriage rate, 16 per thousand 

Death rate, 7.3 per thousand 

Families owning their own homes, 59.7% 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST OCTOBER CONFERENCE 

New Mission Presidents Appointed: 

Wallace F. Toronto appointed President of the Czechoslovak Mission to succeed Arthur Gaeth. 

Octave F. Ursenbach appointed President of the French Mission to succeed Daniel J. Lang. 

Bryant S. Hinckley appointed President of the Northern States Mission to succeed George S. Romney (Deceased). 

William M. Waddoups appointed President of the Samoan Mission to succeed William G. Sears. 

Emil Dunn appointed President of the Tongan Mission to succeed Reuben M. Wiberg. 

(Castle H. Murphy has been released as President of the Hawaiian Mission but no one has been appointed to succeed him.) 

New Stake Organized: 

Bonneville Stake created by the division of Liberty Stake. The new stake is composed of the Thirty-third, Emigration, LeGrand, Yale and Yalecrest Wards; leaving the First, Second, Third, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Thirty-first, Liberty and Harvard Wards in the Liberty Stake. 

New Stake Presidents Appointed: 

Joseph L. Wirthlin appointed President of the Bonneville Stake. 

George E. Jorgensen appointed President of the Carbon Stake to succeed Arthur W. Horsley. 

Milton Twitchell appointed President of the Garfield Stake to succeed Thomas A. King. 

J. Percy Goddard succeeded Bryant S. Hinckley as President of the Liberty Stake. 

James L. Hatch appointed President of the Panguitch Stake to succeed William J. Henderson. 

Horace A. Hess appointed President of the Yellowstone Stake to succeed John M. White. 

New Wards Organized: 

Ontario Ward, Boise Stake, formerly an independent branch. 

Yalecrest Ward, Bonneville Stake, created by the division of the Yale Ward.. 

Edgehill Ward, Highland Stake, formerly part of the Wasatch Ward. 

Harvard Ward, Liberty Stake, formerly a part of the Liberty Ward. 

Young Ward, Logan Stake, created by the division of the College Ward. 

Phoenix Third Ward, Maricopa Stake, organized from Phoenix First and Second Wards. 

Cokeville Ward, Montpelier Stake, was an independent branch. 

Palisade Ward, Rigby Stake, formerly an independent branch. 

Park City Ward, South Summit Stake, was divided into the First and Second Wards. 

Echo Ward, Summit Stake, formerly an independent branch. 

Ogden Twenty-second Ward, Weber Stake, created by the division of the Ogden First Ward. 

The Church has borrowed no money, it has mortgaged none of its property, it has sold none of its property. The First Presidency has no intention of doing any of these things, for there is no call or necessity therefor. All rumors and reports to the contrary are wholly untrue. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is certainly a very inspiring sight to look at this immense audience, with so many standing. I am grateful for the wonderful growth of the Church — 571,000 people in the stakes of Zion alone. 

I recall my first, trip to New York, after having been made an apostle, and the ridicule that I met from many people with whom I conversed. Then we had under the jurisdiction of the United States fewer than 200,000 Church members. There were 60,000,000 people in the country at that time, now there are 120,000,000, a 100 per cent increase in this great country of ours, and the Church has increased in numbers from less than 200,000 in the United States to 571,000 in the various stakes. Zion is growing and prospering at home and abroad, and I am grateful for it. 

ACCOMPLISHMENTS UNDER DIFFICULTIES 

As I remarked at the Relief Society Conference yesterday, I never think of the life and labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith but I am filled with wonderment at the remarkable things that he accomplished during the fourteen years from the time of the organization of the Church until his death. Without the help of God our Heavenly Father and the guidance of his Son Jesus Christ, I do not believe that any mortal man could have accomplished anything in comparison with what he did; in fact I know it could not have been done. 

It is marvelous what he accomplished, notwithstanding the mobbings, drivings, the tarrings and featherings, the lawsuits, and the arrests — he was arrested more than forty times as I remember it — the incarcerating in jail, and everything with which he had to contend. 

REVELATIONS IN LIBERTY JAIL 

The enemies of the work of God, as you all know, imprisoned the Prophet in Liberty jail, where he received two very remarkable revelations. They are known as Sections 121 and 122 of the Doctrine and Covenants, also a remarkable document which was published regarding the persecutions of the Saints (Section 123). The mob could not prevent the Prophet from receiving communications from God. To my mind, Section 121 is one of the greatest revelations that God has given to us through the Prophet Joseph. In Section 122 we read: 

The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee. 

While the pure in heart, and the wise and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand. 

And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors. 

And the people of God have never been turned against the Prophet Joseph Smith, nor have they been turned against Brigham Young, nor John Taylor, nor Wilford Woodruff, nor Lorenzo Snow, nor Joseph F. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 7 

Smith, nor your humble servant. I think I am absolutely safe in saying that 99 and a fraction per cent of the Latter-day Saints have sustained the men who in the providences of the Lord have stood at the head of this Church from the days of the Prophet until the present time. 

Section 122, in which the Lord speaks to the Prophet Joseph about his trials and tribulations, concludes by saying : 

If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou _ art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thoU art in perils by land or by sea : 

The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he? 

Therefore, hold on thy way, and the priesthood shall remain with thee; for their bounds are set, they cannot pass. Thy days are known, and thy years shall not be numbered less; therefore, fear not what man can do, but God shall be with you forever and ever. 

GOD WITH THE CHURCH 

God has been with the Church f rom the day of its organization, and will continue to be. 

I read from Section 121 : 

How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it upstream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon principles of righteousness. 

The powers of heaven have been handled in this Church from the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith until today upon the principles of righteousness. 

FRIENDLY COMPLIMENTS 

I received many letters when I was called to be an apostle of the Church, some of them from men not of our faith. I remember distinctly one that I received from a man who had known me from my young manhood. He was the general manager of one of the big insurance companies of the world. He said : 

Heber, I have known you from your youth. I know that you are fundamentally honest from the crown of your head to the soles of your feet. I have never had a very good opinion of the leaders of the "Mormon" people because I believed that they were a bright, shrewd lot, taking advantage of the ignorance and religious enthusiasm of the people to become wealthy, but now that you are one of the fifteen men to stand at the head of the "Mormon" Church I apologize to the other fourteen. I know if there were anything crooked or anything shady, or anything wrong in the Church, you would give the whole thing away. I think it was Josh Billings, who said : 

Never judge a man by his relatives, he cannot help them, they are crowded on to him, but judge him by the company he keeps, because he chooses his own. 

I rejoice in the statement made to me by David Wood the day after Anthony W. Ivins was made an apostle. He said : 

I am glad you are running your Church to suit me. If you had come into my offce yesterday and said, "Dave Wood, you have lived among us for twenty-five years, and you have been a friend to the Mormon people at home and abroad, in the United States and in foreign countries, and I have been sent down to your office to say to you, as you know the leading people of the Church from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, that we are ready and willing to show our appreciation of your friendship by letting you name the best man in the Mormon Church to be an apostle," I would have hollered "Ivins" without batting an eye or taking a breath. 

Compliments of this kind are paid by honest, faithful men regarding the choice of individuals for positions of leadership in the Church. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF THOSE CALLED TO OFFICE 

I wish to bear witness here today that every man who is chosen to be one of the General Authorities, or to preside over a stake or a ward, or in the Improvement Associations, and every woman who is chosen to preside in the Primary Association, or in the Relief Society, and those chosen for the Sunday School work, we aim to get the very best that there is, and the offscourings of the earth can go on howling as long as they like and as loud as they will, it will not make any difference. 

I again quote from Section 121 : 

Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. 

I bear witness to you here today, and to all the world, that there has never been any exercise of authority in this Church except by persuasion and by long-suffering. 

Behold, ere he is aware, he is left to kick against the pricks, to persecute the Saints, and to fight against God. 

I shall not read the balance of this wonderful revelation for the reason that I shall have the privilege of broadcasting to the world on 

Sunday for the enormous (?) length of seven minutes, and it will take me just about that long to read the balance of this section and some others of truths that are contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH OBEDIENCE 

I am very thankful indeed for the revelation which says : 

There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — 

And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. 

I can say that the blessings of the Lord have been poured out in rich abundance upon every man who has stood at the head of this Church, because they have all sought righteously for the inspiration of the Spirit of God to guide them in all they have undertaken to do. 

CHANGE IN SENTIMENT 

I rejoice in the wonderful change that has taken place since my first trip to New York. There was a feeling of animosity in the hearts of many people. Men would double up their fists and shake them at me saying if they had their way they would put the Mormons in this tabernacle and turn the guns of Fort Douglas upon them. 

I remember the spirit of animosity that existed in Phoenix, Arizona, the first time I was there, and I contrast it with my visit there just a few weeks ago, when I had the pleasure of being present at the organization of the Phoenix Third Ward. There was not a member of the Church living in Phoenix, so far as I am aware, at the time of my first visit. At the time of my recent visit to that city we had two wards in Phoenix, and another was organized while I was there. I also had the pleasure of dedicating two meeting houses in the Maricopa Stake, and calling at the Temple and preaching for a few moments in that wonderful building, which cost us three-quarters of a million dollars. I also had the privilege of ordaining a couple of bishoprics while there. 

While in New York recently I had the privilege of inspecting a building that we have now leased for some years, a large twenty-story building with a chapel in it. It is a splendid place. As I contrast the miserable little building in which we rented some rooms, about twentyfoot frontage, the first time I was in New York, with the chapel in which we are now located in a magnificent building in that city, it makes my heart rejoice. 

I rejoice in the change that has come about in Washington — the beautiful structure that we have in that city now, in comparison with what we had the first time I was there. When Brother Reed Smoot first went to Washington I think he said that at the first meeting they held there, which was in his home, only five people were at the services. We now have in the capital of the nation one of the most flourishing branches in all the Church, and about 1,000 members. I call to mind that when I went to California for the first time I was assured by the few Latter-day Saints who were in Oakland and San Francisco that they believed the total membership of the Church in California would not quite reach a hundred. Today we have two stakes in Los Angeles, and we have decided to divide them, as there are too many members in each stake for one stake president to be able to take care of them. We have another stake of Zion in San Bernardino, one in San Francisco, one in Oakland, one in Sacramento, and another in Gridley, and, with the members of the California mission, I am convinced beyond a doubt that we have between forty and fifty thousand people in California belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

The first time I was in Rexburg, the total Church population north of the Oneida Stake, was only 1,300 people. Today, going north and west and up into Canada, I am sure we have a hundred thousand people in that territory who belong to the Church. 

RECORD IN SCOUTING 

I am very grateful indeed for the remarkable record that our young men have made in Boy Scouting. It fell to my lot to attend an annual gathering of the Boy Scouts in New York some time ago. In one of the meetings the president said: "We would like to hear from Mr. Grant, although it is time for lunch, for the reason that the Church over which he presides has made the most remarkable and splendid record in Scouting of any church or community, in proportion to its numbers, and I hope the people here will be willing to wait and listen to Mr. Grant for a half hour." 

I got up and said : "There is no need for me to say anything. Chart after chart has been exhibited here, showing our accomplishments. I would be almost ashamed to praise our boys as much as the speakers have done who have preceded me, and I therefore suggest that we go to lunch." 

I rejoiced in being present at the recent meeting of the executives of the Boy Scouts, and it was marvelous the fine compliments that were paid to our people and to the executives who are members of the Church who are being employed in the different sections, working for the Boy Scout movement, from New York to California. Our young men are making a splendid record; we are becoming known, the young and old of this Church, as God-fearing men and women. 

When I was only a young man I rejoiced in the splendid tributes that were paid to us by the late Bishop Daniel Turtle. He went east and told the truth about us, that we were "a God-fearing, upright, conscientious people, serving God." While he did not agree with us; he admired our integrity, and said that truth and righteousness always prevailed amongst us. 

I am very thankful that the Book of Mormon has been printed in Braille, and that the blind will have the privilege of reading it. I am  that that wonderful book, full of inspiration from Almighty God to the men who wrote it, will cause many a person to rejoice who has never been able to read the Book of Mormon heretofore. 

GENEALOGICAL AND TEMPLE WORK 

I thoroughly enjoyed meeting with the Genealogical Society last night. I had understood that there was going to be a long KSL broadcast connected with it, talking about dramatizing the 110th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, but that part of it lasted only a few minutes. The meeting was practically a short one, but I was very pleased with what I heard. I am delighted with the wonderful work that is being done in our temples in the accomplishments of our people in hunting up the records of their forefathers and performing the saving ordinances for them in the temples of God. 

I have never attended a temple dedication in my life but what there was a marvelous outpouring of the Spirit of God upon those who spoke there, and it has fallen to my lot to be at the dedication of the Logan temple, the Manti temple, the Canadian temple, the Hawaiian temple, and the Arizona temple, and the Lord was good to us on those occasions. They were the most outstanding and inspirational meetings that it has ever been my privilege to attend. 

.: A SEMINARY IN WYOMING 

It fell to my lot only last Sunday to visit Wyoming. We have erected at Laramie, a very beautiful and fine structure as an institute, adjoining the University of Wyoming. Never before in my life have I been treated more kindly, and with more respect than upon that occasion. I rejoice in the compliment paid to us by the governor of the state, in that he traveled from Cheyenne, his headquarters, to Laramie, to be present, and he made a most complimentary speech with regard to our people. I never have heard any finer things said regarding professors in a school than the tributes paid by the president of the University of Wyoming to our young men who are teaching in the Wyoming University. He praised very highly the president of our branch at Laramie, Brother Albert G. Bowman. Brother Bowman has been there now, if I remember correctly, for twenty years, if not longer, and he and the other young men who are employed in that school have made a record for themselves and they are appreciated, and it was so declared. The president of the University said that not only were the young men, the professors who are teaching in the school, of the highest grade, but he paid compliments to all of our people who are attending the school. 

In the evening there was a reception in our institute building. It is very well adapted for the work that we expect to do there. Notwithstanding the inclemency of weather, the governor of the state and the president of the university, and other prominent people were present, and there was a spirit of fellowship and good-will existing there the equal of anything I have experienced in my life. THE WORTH OF SOULS 

I pray God to help me and you and every soul to live the gospel of Jesus Christ, to labor with all the zeal that we have. I am grateful, indeed, for this remarkable statement in the Doctrine and Covenants, in a revelation contained therein, in which Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer were appointed to name the men who were to be members of the first quorum of the Twelve Apostles : 

And now Oliver Cowdery, I speak unto you, and also unto David Whitmer, by way of commandment; for, behold, I command all men everywhere to repent, and I speak unto you even as unto Paul, mine apostle, for you are called even with that same calling with which he was called. 

Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

For, behold, the Lord, your Redeemer, suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! 

And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me! 

Behold, you have my gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation. 

A GOSPEL OF FORGIVENESS 

May God help each and every one of us to remember that the gospel of Jesus Christ is not only a gospel of conversion, but it is a gospel of forgiveness. We have it recorded that though a man's sins be as scarlet, if he will repent, they shall all be as white as snow. I rejoice in that remarkable revelation which says: 

I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men. 

May the Lord help us one and all to grow in the light, and knowledge, and testimony, and love of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that our light may so shine that others seeing our good works may join the Church. 

TESTIMONY 

I desire upon this occasion, and upon all occasions, to bear witness in all solemnity and in all humility to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to the divine mission of each and every one of the men who have been chosen to succeed him, and above all I desire to say that I know that God lives, I know that Jesus is the Christ, the. Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world. God help you and me and all to live the gospel is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer. Amen. ,. m 

The Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel," after which the Choir sang the anthem, "Grant us Peace" (Stephens). 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We owe a wonderful debt of gratitude to Brother Evan Stephens and we thank this choir — the Hyrum Stake Choir — for their beautiful rendition of some of his compositions. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I was born of goodly parents, across the street west from here, sixty-six years ago today, and am informed that there were two feet of snow on the level and drifted to the tops of the fences. Happy am I to be with you and to have you celebrate my birthday in General Conference. It affords me the opportunity to meet many dear friends and greet you under most favorable circumstances. 

MEMBERSHIP IN CHRIST'S CHURCH A PRIVILEGE 

During a very busy life it has been my joy to witness the constant development of the work of the Lord in this and in other lands. I am sure that the splendid report of the condition of the Church that we have listened to this morning and the address of our beloved President cause us to be grateful to the Lord that we have membership in the organization that He named for his beloved Son. To have fellowship in the Church of Jesus Christ that was organized under his direction for our earthly happiness and to prepare us for eternal life in the Celestial kingdom is indeed a glorious privilege 

THE BOOK OF MORMON IN BRAILLE 

Reference has been made this morning to the Book of Mormon that has been printed in Braille for the use of the blind. I regret that I did not bring a set here for you to see. It consists of seven volumes, each 12 inches long, 12 inches wide and 2-3 inches thick, nicely bound in green cloth and embossed in gold. A set will be presented to the larger libraries of the country making it available to most of the blind just as is the Holy Bible. It was printed by the American Printing House for the Blind, at Louisville, Kentucky, the same concern that prints Bibles for the American Bible Society. It was proof-read by a scholarly blind man, one of the two best Braille proof-readers in the United States, who was also employed to proof-read the Bible. 

ITS DISTRIBUTION AN IMPORTANT DUTY 

The Book of Mormon is a sacred record containing information that is found in no other book. The Lord has commanded us to divide with all his children the truths of the everlasting Gospel that have been revealed to prepare them for a place in the Celestial kingdom. Distributing the Book of Mormon is a most important missionary duty. In the year 1827 Joseph Smith was living at Palmyra in New York and it was at the Hill Cumorah, not far from his home that an angel delivered into his custody a volume of plates having the appearance of gold. He was directed to translate their contents into English, which he did by the gift and power of God. It caused quite a commotion in the community when it was reported that Joseph had received some golden records and had them in his possession. Attempts were made to take them from him. He and his father's family were harassed because of the report that they had something valuable in their possession. The Lord had informed Joseph before he was fifteen years of age that a great mission was to be given to him if he would live a righteous life. Later it became part of his duty to translate and publish to the world the Book of Mormon. When the people in the neighborhood learned that he was contracting with a local printer to publish the book they did everything possible to discourage it. They declared that the work was a fraud and determined to prevent its publication, and in order that the venture might be a financial failure they tried to make the distribution impossible by agreeing that they would not read the book 

A REMARKABLE PROPHECY 

Notwithstanding the threats that were made Joseph placed the manuscript containing this prophecy in the hands of the printer for publication (II Nephi, 30th chapter and 3rd verse) : 

And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and the Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the remnant of our seed. 

And then shall the remnant .of our seed know concerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of the Jews. 

And the Gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them; wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had among their fathers. 

It is interesting to note that notwithstanding the animosity of the people and the threat not to purchase the book it did not deter the youthful prophet from publishing the prediction that had been made by Nephi, "There shall be many which shall believe the words which are written." Let us see if that promise of the Lord has been fulfilled. 

IN FULFILMENT OF THE LORD'S PROMISE 

The Book of Mormon was first published in English in 1830; in Danish in 1851; in Welsh in 1852; in German in 1852; in French in 1852; in Italian in 1852; in Hawaiian in 1855; in the Deseret alphabet  1869; in Swedish in 1878; in Spanish in 1886; in Maori in 1889; in Dutch in 1890; in Samoan in 1903; in Tahitian in 1904; in Turkish in 1906; in Japanese in 1909; Czecho-Slovakian in 1933 and in Braille in 1936. 

Now that the Book of Mormon has been published in Braille it is interesting to note that in 2nd Nephi, 27th Chapter and 29th verse the following occurs : "And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness." 

While there are not many blind people in our own communities it is estimated that there are more than 125,000 in America. 

We were very grateful when the Presidency of the Church authorized the Society for the Aid of the Sightless that has been operating a small Braille plant for many years, to arrange for the publication of an edition of the Book of Mormon in Braille. We knew that such action would enable those people who have been denied the sense of eyesight to exercise another sense that the Lord has magnified in them, "the power to read by touch," and they could read the important information recorded in the Book of Mormon. 

In addition to the 18 languages in which the Book of Mormon has already been printed it has also been translated and prepared for publication in Hindustanee, in Greek, Hebrew, Bulgarian, Russian and Armenian. 

About eighty years after the Book of Mormon was published I went to Palmyra to purchase the old home of Joseph Smith where a part of the Book of Mormon was translated. I made an investigation and found that the people of that section had fulfilled their promise. I did not find one soul who had ever read the Book of Mormon. The only copy that I found among them was the printer's copy that had never been cut, and it was held as a curiosity by the banker there, Honorable Pliney T. Sexton, who was a very good friend of ours. 

AS A RESULT OF FAITH 

Think of the problem that presented itself to Joseph Smith. Money was being expended, borrowed money, in order that the book might be published. Martin Harris had mortgaged his farm to secure the necessary funds. It required faith of a high order to continue under such circumstances. The edition of five thousand was eventually delivered and paid for and the estimate now is that considerably more than a million copies have since been distributed among the nations of the earth. The demand for it increases as the days go by, and it fills my heart with joy to know that every man who will read it prayerfully, every man who will desire to know whether it be of God or not has the promise, not of Joseph Smith or any living human being, but the promise of our Heavenly Father that they shall know of a surety that it is of God. (Moroni 10:3-4-5) : Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. 

And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. 

A COMPANION VOLUME TO THE BIBLE 

It is surely pleasing to have this other volume of scripture prepared for the use of the blind to read as a companion to the Bible that for many years has been printed for them in Braille. These two books hand in hand teach us all where we came from, why we are here, where we may go, and they both contain the advice, the loving advice of our Heavenly Father intended to inspire us to do that which will enrich our lives here and prepare us for eternal happiness. 

OFFERING THE GOSPEL TO OTHERS 

It is a privilege to live in this day and age of the world. It is marvelous to be associated with the people who have, as you learned this morning, more than seventeen hundred missionaries in the world today, offering without money and without price the Gospel of Jesus Christ to those who need it but do not understand it. Our missionary effort at home is assuming large proportions, for many in the stakes of Zion are proclaiming the Gospel of Jesus Christ. No other people in this world are making such an effort to share with the children of men the glorious truths of our Heavenly Father for the uplift of mankind and for the preparation of those who desire to dwell upon this earth when it shall be the Celestial kingdom of our Lord. Grateful am I that after sixty-six years of experience in this world, after associating with men and women and teaching them the Gospel in this and many other lands, that my assurance of the divinity of this work is stronger today than ever before. 

BEARS TESTIMONY 

I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord. And I know, as I know that I live, that the Church that bears the name of the Redeemer by his direction, is of divine origin, and that the authority to speak and act in the name of the Savior has been placed upon his children here and that we are made partakers of those blessings that are to prepare us for eternal life in the Celestial kingdom. Knowing that, and realizing the seriousness of such a statement on this my birthday, I gratefully bear to you my testimony that I know that these things are true, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, it is a wonderful sight to see so many Latter-day Saints assembled in one body. It is impressive. I have rejoiced in the spirit of this meeting thus far. I think we have made an excellent start for a splendid conference. 

THE SAVIOR'S BIRTH AND MISSION FORETOLD 

The Savior has been referred to this morning. He was the great central figure in all the world of mankind, and prophets of ancient Israel predicted his birth in no unmistakable language. They looked forward to his day with keenest interest, knowing that he would be entrusted with the greatest mission that ever had been or ever would be given to mortal man. By the eye of faith, under the inspiration of the Almighty Father, they saw that he was destined to become the Savior of the world through the shedding of his precious blood. 

As ancient prophets anxiously looked forward to his day, so modern prophets look backward with equal interest to his day, and all, both prophets and saints, rejoice in contemplation of it. 

Some people in Christian communities, even ministers of the gospel, have denied the divinity of his birth, while on the other hand in several instances, writers have asserted that no such character as Jesus Christ, the Lord of the Holy Bible, ever existed. They could just as well have repudiated the entire Bible itself as to make such a ridiculous claim. 

WORDS OF SCRIPTURE SET TO MUSIC 

Brethren and sisters, permit me to read, by way of reminder, some of the scriptural passages mostly found in the book of Isaiah the prophet, relating to the Christ, which were set to music by George Frederick Handel and designated The Messiah, an oratorio. The words were undoubtedly inspired of the Lord, and we may well believe that the music was also given by inspiration. 

The oratorio is divided into five parts as follows: The Prophecy, the Fulfilment, the Passion, the Glorification, and the Resurrection. 

WORDS OF PROPHECY 

I will first read the words of prophecy concerning the Christ : 

Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God; speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem; and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned. 

The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. 

Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill made low, the crooked straight, and the rough places plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. 

Thus saith the Lord of Hosts : Yet once a little while and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, the sea, and the dry land; and I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come. 

The Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in; Behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of Hosts. 

But who may abide the day of his coming, and who shall stand when he appeareth? 

For he is like a refiner's fire. 

And he shall purify the sons of Levi, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. 

Behold a virgin shall conceive, and bear a Son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. 

For, behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people; but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee, and the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising. 

The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light : and they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. 

For unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder : and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. 

THE FULFILMENT 

These were prophecies made in ancient times concerning the Savior, and now follows the fulfilment of these prophecies in brief : 

There were shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night 

And lo! the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. 

And the angel said unto them, Fear not; for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. 

For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord, 

And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying: 

Glory to God in the highest, and peace on earth, good will towards men. 

Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, thy king cometh unto thee. 

He is the righteous Savior, and he shall speak peace unto the heathen. 

Then shall the eyes of the blind be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped; then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing. 

He shall feed his flock like a shepherd; and he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young. 

Come unto him, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and he shall give you rest. 

Take his yoke upon you, and learn of him; for he is meek and lowly of heart : and ye shall find rest unto your souls. 

THE PASSION 

And now comes the Passion. Think of the solemnity of it. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 19 

He was despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief. 

Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows; he was wounded for our transgressions; he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him. 

****** 

Thy rebuke hath broken his heart; he is full of heaviness. He looked for some to have pity on him, but there was no man; neither found he any to comfort him. 

Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto his sorrow. 

THE GLORIFICATION 

And now the Glorification : 

Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up ye everlasting 

doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 

****** 

Why do the nations so furiously rage together? and why do the people imagine a vain thing? 

The kings of the earth rise up, and the rulers take counsel together 

against the Lord, and against his anointed. 

****** 

Hallelujah! for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. The kingdom of this world is become the kingdom of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign forever and ever. 

KING OP KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS, HALLELUJAH! 

THE RESURRECTION 

And now finally the Resurrection: 

I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth : 

And though worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. 

For now is Christ risen from the dead, the first-fruits of them that sleep. 

Worthy is the Lamb that was slain, and hath redeemed us to God by his blood, to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing. 

Blessing and honor, glory and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb, for ever and ever. 

While these references from Holy Writ cover, broadly speaking, the life of Jesus Christ, there are many other scriptures that throw much light upon the great and enduring work he accomplished. 

OUR OBLIGATION TO THE REDEEMER 

In conclusion let me say that we should never forget the words of John, the beloved disciple, as recorded in chapter 3, verse 16, in St. John's gospel : 

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. This passage of scripture emphasizes the tremendous obligation the children of men are under to the Redeemer who suffered for them a cruel and ignominious death. 

I testify to you for myself, in all solemnity, that I do know that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and was crucified upon Mt. Calvary for the sins of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. 

I rejoice with all my heart and soul in this testimony, which I hope to have and to retain all the days of my life. 

I pray God's blessings upon you brethren and sisters, and upon the Presidency of the Church and all the General Authorities, and all the local authorities of the Church in the stakes of Zion, and the people of God generally. May his blessings and power and goodness be upon you I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I rejoice, my brothers and sisters, in the splendid spirit that has been evidenced in this first meeting of this conference; and am happy with the splendid report that has been presented of Church progress in 1935. It is stimulating to know of the very favorable conditions that prevail throughout the Church, and toward the Church by our fellowmen in this nation and in other places throughout the world. I realize that, after all, the progress that we make as a people depends in large measure upon our actions. I was interested in the expression of the President that "Zion is growing" and is spreading abroad. 

WHAT AND WHERE IS ZION 

What is Zion and where is Zion ? I would like to read to you a few things that President Brigham Young stated about that very thing. He said, "Where is Zion ? Where the organization of the church of God is. And may it dwell spiritually in every heart. And may we so live as to enjoy the spirit of Zion always." Further he said, "When we conclude to make a Zion we will make it; and this work commences in the heart of each person." Again, "This is the land of Zion. West of us is a body of water that we call the Pacific, and to the east there is another large body of water which we call the Atlantic, and to the north is where they have tried to discover a northwest passage. These waters surround the land of Zion." Again, "What is Zion? In one sense Zion is the pure in heart. But there is a land that will ever be called Zion. It is North and South America." Finally, he states "Zion will extend eventually all over the earth. There will be no nook or corner upon the earth but what will be Zion. It will all be Zion." 

ZION WHERE VIRTUE AND RIGHTEOUSNESS PREVAIL 

Now, as I read these statements I conclude that Zion is a place where virtue and righteousness are practised, and where the love of the Lord . Wherever the Latter-day Saints settle and practise the principles of the Gospel — unity, faith, righteousness, and diligence both in spiritual and in temporal affairs, — there is Zion; where the organizations of the Church are established, and where the members of the Church take part therein. So that Zion, as has been expressed this morning, is growing and spreading abroad throughout this nation and throughout other nations. It is our privilege and responsibility as Latter-day Saints, as parents, and as leaders in the stakes and wards and missions to encourage every member of the Church, whether young or old, to endeavor to live in such a way as to partake of the spirit of Zion, which is the spirit of the Gospel; to give of our service to the advancing of the interests of the Church; to qualify as men and women who are able to do things m a temporal way for the progress of the communities in which we live; to take advantage of the opportunities that may be afforded us to grow temporally as well as spiritually and exercise a powerful influence for good among all of our f ellowmen. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 

I am interested, as I am sure all of us are mutually, in the welfare of all members of the Church, both young and old. I realize that, under the conditions which have prevailed during the last four or five years, opportunities for the welfare and progress of our young people particularly have been limited. Our young people are seeking opportunities to work and to get forward in the field of life. Everything that can be done by all of us toward obtaining placements for our young people, and our older members also, should be done. Those who are able to furnish employment should strive to secure those who are upright, trustworthy, dependable and diligent. There is some improvement manifest in economic conditions at the present time, and it appears that there are greater opportunities coming for all young people who are out of employment. But, if they will seek to qualify for life in the largest measure, it appears to me that there are going to be splendid opportunities for our young people to live their lives, to grow in capacity, and faith, and to give, not only of their service for their personal welfare and progress in a financial way, but also for the advancement of the work of the Lord. 

CARE IN PLANNING FUTURE 

They must realize that the land of Zion comprises this entire western hemisphere; and that the spirit of Zion, cherished in the heart of any Latter-day Saint, will help him, wherever opportunity may offer for bettering his economic condition, to carry on with the greatest peace and satisfaction. It is, of course, ordinarily a natural desire to reside in the community in which one is raised. It requires courage to go elsewhere to become established. Wisdom and foresight and careful investigation are needed in all such cases. They must be careful to resist the attitude of looking for "greener pastures" farther away, when actually there are good opportunities at home. When desirable opportunities do offer, and when the proposed location affords established Church organization, their determination should be to affiliate with the Church organization; and take active part in such service along with their employment. Such activity will enable them to resist all influences that are harmful to their real progress in life, and to become "builders of Zion." 

Now, it seems to me that in order to be prepared to take advantage of larger opportunities, both temporal and spiritual, our young people should carefully develop certain specific objectives: 

First, to widen their material horizons to include all localities where the organizations of the Church are established. To realize that in all this broad land, where the Church is functioning and where opportunities are offered them of suitable means of livelihood, there is no good reason why they should not establish themselves. To broaden their spiritual horizons so that they gain a genuine testimony of the Gospel, and, at the same time, respect the beliefs of others who have different creeds, or no creeds. Even if their occupations should take them to localities not provided with church facilities, they should take the spirit of Zion with them, and, as President Young states, "make a Zion." 

COOPERATION IN COMMUNITY WELFARE 

In connection with this matter, I think that there are opportunities in the communities of this state and other states of this intermountain country for economic improvement. It is evident that, particularly in this state, one of the requisites for growth in various settlements, is the conserving of all possible flood and waste waters. Another is the cultivation of the spirit of true cooperation in the development of local enterprises that will yield the maximum of financial returns and of employment to the local people. This matter deserves the careful consideration and initiative of the leaders in all our communities. Such undertakings will help to provide further opportunities for the young people. 

PROPER HOME TRAINING AND CHURCH ACTIVITY 

The second objective that I think our young people should gain is proper home training, thorough Church teaching and spiritual activity. This is a challenge to all parents and Church officers. Thereby they will become established in the faith of the Gospel, and bring forth the works thereof, by living clean lives, by practising all the splendid virtues, such as straightforwardness, reliability, industry, initiative and kindliness, and by exemplary service in the Church wherever they may be. Such examples prove to be a very powerful means of missionary work. 

LEARNING A TRADE OR PROFESSION 

The third objective for which, I think, every boy and girl should strive is to be sure to get a good secular education which will give them a proper foundation upon which to grow in knowledge and understand. And that education should be coupled with sound religious training that will give proper balance to their thoughts and actions, and develop a high standard of character and morals. Likewise, they should be able to apply that knowledge in a practical way in the affairs of life. Every one should learn how to do at least one thing well — that is to specialize in a trade, in agriculture, business or a profession. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF CHURCH OFFICERS 

I think also in a larger measure we as general officers of the Church, stake, ward, branch and mission officers, and members of the priesthood, should consider and inquire after the welfare of all the young people who are in our midst, and make systematic effort to encourage them to take part in the Church activities, as well as to aid them, where necessary, to secure employment for which they are particularly fitted. There is so much work that needs to be done for the advancement of the Church in every locality that every one who is willing can properly be assigned to do that which will be for his spiritual progress and the welfare of others; and at the same time whereby he will not need to neglect either his secular affairs nor his family. Thus he will thereby develop that proper balance which promotes stability and peace and happiness. 

UNITY AND ACTIVITY BRING PROGRESS 

Now, wherever the Latter-day Saints may live, whether they be in the heart of what we call Zion, where the organization of the Church is most complete, or whether it be in other localities, where there are few in number, it appears to me that through the unity and helpfulness which the Gospel teaches, they can help one another to live better lives by example and by kindly influence, and thereby promote greater spiritual strength among all members, as well as to interest those who are not members of the Church. 

Another important factor in the welfare and safety of our young people everywhere who take part in Church affairs is that they are thereby safeguarded from evils, temptations and dangers to which many others succumb. Attendance at church services and giving service in church organizations brings one in contact with ward officers who are interested in the welfare of members. Thereby, young men and women can obtain wise counsel and be protected from despondency and rash actions. 

UPRIGHT LIVING PRODUCES CONFIDENCE 

Experience proves that the standards by which true Latter-day Saints live are powerful means in enabling them to secure positions of trust. Right living, high principles, faith and good works, loyalty, industry and integrity, coupled with particular aptitude in any direction, are all greatly in demand in the world of affairs. I have recently had occasion to learn of many instances of young people who are recognized where they are employed,, because of their religion. And, because of their habits and qualifications, which follow observance of principle, are valued as employees in the particular lines for which they are qualified. Intelligent employers today, who are engaged in all the various business affairs, desire and demand employes of good habits, alert minds, trustworthiness, willingness, persistence, and energy. There are many instances where young people have been employed simply because they are known as Latter-day Saints. What a wonderful tribute that is to the faith which we have espoused! How important it is that every one of us should measure up to these standards, and likewise encourage every other member of the Church to establish in his or her life those principles which will make them worthy of confidence everywhere. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the Gospel in which we are engaged. I realize that it is a means of growth in every way for every one of us; and that if we will live for it we shall be blessed in every respect. If we are active and diligent in the promotion of faith and righteousness we ourselves shall gain the benefit. I rejoice in the fact that this Gospel is divinely restored to us in these days; that through it we can gain so many opportunities and blessings. 

May the Lord help us, every one, to be appreciative of these things and to live for them. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

An anthem, "Unfold, ye Portals," (Gounod), was sung by the Choir. 

Elder Franklin L. West, Commissioner of Education for the Church, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

FIRST DAY 


