Afternoon
06 04 1936

The concluding session of the Conference convened Monday afternoon, April 6, at 2 o'clock. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers furnished the music for this meeting. 

Elder J. Percy Goddard, President of the Liberty Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

"All Hail to Thee" (Pilgrim's Chorus — Wagner), was sung by the Choir. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The following are but a few of the many expressions of the great Master and Teacher himself on the subject of prayer : 

"watch and pray" 

Pray for them which despitefully use you. (Matt. 5:44.) 

Watch ye and pray. . . . The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. (Mark 14:38.) 

Take ye heed, watch and pray; for ye know not when the time is. (Mark 13:33.) 

Watch ye therefore and pray always that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of Man. (Luke 21 :36.) 

Why sleep ye? Rise and pray. (Luke 22:46.) 

Pray that ye enter not into temptation. (Luke 22:40.) 

The whole of the New Testament and of course therefore all the teachings of our Lord are filled with instructions and admonitions to pray. There are some among the rich, as among all other classes in our nation, who ridicule religion. One wise man (Roger W. Babson) has said that these men of wealth of the United States who ridicule religion are indebted for all that they possess to the family prayers which were once held daily in the homes of their fathers. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S EXPERIENCE 

On this subject, Joseph Smith the Prophet in his writings says: 

Having looked around me, and finding myself alone, I kneeled and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. ... I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head. 

The Prophet continues : 

I had beheld a vision. I have thought since that I felt much like Paul, when he made his defense before King Agrippa and related the account of his vision when he saw a light and heard a voice; . . . some said he was dishonest, others said he was mad; ... he was ridiculed and reviled. But all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, . . . and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise; he . . . would know to his latest breath that he had both seen a light and heard a voice. . . 

So it was with me. I had actually seen a light. ... I had found the testimony of James to be true — that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided. (Pearl of Great Price, pp. 48-50; James 1 :S.) 

TRANSFORMED BY DIVINE LIGHT 

Paul saw a light, Paul heard a voice. That light which burned into his soul was the something outside of himself which he needed, for that divine light changed him from a man of hate to a man of love, from the man who, when the Christians were put to death, gave his voice against them, into that scholarly and powerful defender of the Christian' faith around whose teachings much of our New Testament has been built. It was that light from heaven, that inspiration from the Almighty which transformed this wicked persecutor of the saints, Saul of Tarsus, into Paul the great and scholarly apostle. 

And so, too, Joseph Smith the Prophet saw a light, he heard a voice. This light, this voice, this inspiration transformed him from a youth filled with doubts and uncertainties into a mighty prophet. Under the inspiration of the Spirit he saw clearly and he defined definitely, in the revelations which have come to us through him, those rules for Christian living of which the world today is in such desperate need. 

INSPIRING THE SOULS OF MEN nations and of the world do to bring into the souls of men this much needed light, this inspiration which will bring about remarkable and desirable transformations in the form of love, unselfishness, success, peace on earth good will toward men? 

Praying, having faith in our Lord, struggling to live in accordance with his teachings, his ideals and his example will, I am sure, in no small degree bring about these greatly desired results. Honest, earnest, prayerful appeals will bring that inspiration, that divine light which transforms human lives from those which are filled with misgivings and mistrust into lives of faith in fellowmen, faith in self and faith in divine providence. Living the Christian's life of prayer in a thoroughly honest and conscientious way will, I verily believe, change the nations and the people of the world everywhere from conditions of hate, conditions of greed and conditions of mistrust into conditions of faith, conditions of affection and confidence, of joy, happiness, peace and success. 

In this trying hour I appeal to you Latter-day Saints, if you are not doing so already, to call your families together with daily regularity and with them go upon your knees and appeal for help and guidance, for that light, that voice, that inspiration which all of our families and all other people everywhere need so much in this time of trial and temptation. 

REMEMBER THE ALMIGHTY 

Abraham Lincoln said our nation has had a growth and a development the like of which no other nation has ever known, but, said he, during our great Civil War, the trouble with us is "We have forgotten God." I appeal to you to remember the Almighty. Let us remember him who in all the history of our nation has been our strong, our loyal and our devoted Friend. By his power we the people of the United States are able to live today in this land of freedom and liberty under the sacred folds of the only flag in all the world that has never known defeat. Remember the motto of our nation, "In God we trust." Let us pray to him in secret, make of him a confidential friend, tell him our shortcomings, our imperfections and our weaknesses; appeal for these to be forgiven and then pray, in faith believing, for strength and courage and power to resist evil. Let us appeal not for burdens that are light but for strength to lift those loads, however heavy, which may be placed upon us. 

In this hour of stress, of temptation and of depression, in these days when war clouds are threatening everywhere, let us pray that men's hearts may be purged of selfishness and greed and that the light of heaven which brings the spirit of sacrifice and unselfishness may shine with glowing effect into the souls of men everywhere 

I appeal to you who compose the vast multitude assembled in this historic Tabernacle and to all who are listening in not only to remember the Lord by going upon your knees in secret and in your family prayers but I appeal to you also to go with regularity to your places of worship  there with prayerful hearts come into closest possible communion with our Heavenly Father and thus deserve and receive from him an answer to your honest, heartfelt appeals whatever blessings are necessary to fill your hearts and lives with joy, contentment, peace and success. 

THE SABBATH A DAY OF PRAYER 

We should bear in mind always that the Sabbath is a day of prayer. It is a day of worship. We do not go to our places of worship for the purpose of acquiring scholarship; we do not go there to learn history or mathematics or science. The purpose of our going to our sacrament meetings is to worship. We cannot get faith by logic any more than we can get learning by simply longing for it. Partaking worthily of the' Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is an important and fundamental part of that worship, and it is this intense and genuine worship, this prayerful spirit that will bring that light and inspiration of which I have spoken, that light and inspiration which we all so much need and which so many of us, I am sorry to say, do not deserve. 

A FORTIFICATION AGAINST EVIL 

It is said that the temptations of today are greater than those of any previous time. It is generally conceded that our young folks are surrounded with conditions more alluring than those of any previous period. If we have not taught our children to pray as a means of helping to fortify them against the evils with which they are surrounded, then in the language of the Savior let me exclaim, "Why sleep ye? Rise and pray that ye enter not into temptation." (Luke 22:46.) Remember, as the Master says, the flesh is weak and therefore we need, indeed we must have the help of Heaven if we are going to be able to resist the temptations of today. 

If we have not taught our young people to pray and thus to come into close communion with the light and inspiration of Heaven, I am sure that a little careful reflection will convince us that such neglect has been and is a serious mistake. The revelation itself says clearly : "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and there offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." (D. and C. 59 :9.) 

THE MIRACULOUS EFFECT OF PRAYER 

Let me renew and repeat my appeal that we all pray, and pray always, in our homes, in secret and in our places of worship so that we may not enter into temptation. And let us remember that after we have resolved to pray earnestly and faithfully, after we have had awakened in our souls faith in Divine Providence and a burning testimony of the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, after we have decided to accept the teachings of the Son of God and after we have successfully undertaken to live in accordance with these teachings, to GENERAL CONFERENCE , to worship our Lord and Master, to do our best to do his will, we will then necessarily have the singular consciousness of knowing that we are not exactly the same persons we were before. The effect of the Gospel upon hearts and lives is miraculous. The effect of the light of Heaven which comes as a result of faithful, effective appeals is remarkable, it is wonderful. 

THE GREATEST WORK IN THE WORLD 

George R. Wendling has said that the most wonderful work in the world is not to take iron and steel and brass and with these make a locomotive; that the most wonderful work in the world is not to take gold and diamonds and cog-wheels and with these make a watch; nor is the most wonderful work in the world to take canvas and colors and brush and with these paint an Angelus; nor even yet is the most wonderful work in the world to take pen and parchment and write an Iliad or a Hamlet. No, indeed, says he, infinitely more wonderful and infinitely greater than any one or all of these combined is that something which is accomplished by living in accordance with the teachings of the Gospel of the Master. The prayerful, devoted, honest, sincere, unselfish Christian life has such remarkable power that it can take an ignoble, cruel, impure and dishonest human being and transform that cruel, ignoble, impure and dishonest person into an upright, gentle, pure, honest and dependable human soul. "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool." (Isaiah 1 :18.) Such transformations show the glory, the grandeur, the power and the mystery of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is this rebirth, it is this rebuilding, it is this reconstruction of lost and broken souls into upright and glorious men and women that is infinitely greater than anything else which this age of mechanical miracles can do. In the presence of accomplishments thus marvelous, we bow humbly before the mastery of our Lord. His Gospel is most wonderful. We who have felt its touch and inspiration can say boldly in the language of the Bible, "For I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ : for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth." (Romans 1:16.) 

OUR MOST IMPORTANT WORK 

In conclusion : Let us never forget that the outstanding commission that is yours and mine as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the outstanding work to be done by those who have been endowed with authority to speak in the name of the Master is to carry the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. Let us never forget that this "Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations and then shall the end come." (Matt. 24:14.) In this our most important work and duty may we not fail, but humbly, with the aid and blessing of our Heavenly Father, go forward to outstanding success, I humbly pray. 101 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

To be eligible to occupy this position with no certainty that you will be called to speak is an ordeal that keeps one in a state of anxiety. In this, I see in a measure a likeness to the second coming of our Lord, for he tells us that when he comes he will come as a thief in the night and no man will know the day or the hour thereof. We have the further warning that those who are prepared will find that day to be a day of rejoicing, while those who have not been obedient to his laws will be overtaken with sorrow. 

I rejoice in having the privilege of raising my voice with my brethren during this conference. We are living in a wonderful time, an age of many marvels. Today we hardly dare think of what tomorrow might bring. It appears to me that with man increasing his powers there is less concern for God, for the world is troubled, and contention and selfishness are found on every hand. True, friends are being raised up to assist us in the great work in which we have been called to labor, yet there are those who profess to be priests of the Most High, who are not content to teach the doctrines of the Church they represent, but resort to spreading untruths about the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. For example, I recently read an article which was written by one who certainly knows he is stating untruths. 

I refer to this article as a reminder to us that in accepting the priesthood we assume a responsibility which carries an obligation to God and our Lord and Savior and our fellows who are the children of God. The time allotted to me will only permit of a brief statement concerning some of the falsehoods that I have culled from this article : 

First. "As a religion, Mormonism has the minimum of worship." With our sacrament meetings, Sunday Schools, our priesthood quorum meetings, and the meetings of the auxiliaries, I answer, in what other church can you find such devotion ? 

Second. "It has no service of sacrifice." What is sacrifice? From Adam to the coming of our Lord its purpose was to keep the children of God reminded of the great sacrifice in which the Lamb of God should be slain and offered as an atonement for the transgression of Adam. 

For even Christ our passover is sacrificed for us : 

Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with 

the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of 

sincerity and truth. (I Cor. S :7, 8) 

Third. "It has lost completely the original and Christian idea of priesthood, etc." I answer : What was the original idea of priesthood as outlined in the New Testament? The Bible clearly describes the Church as having apostles, prophets, seventies, elders, bishops, priests, teachers, deacons, and evangelists. In what church today are such officers found ? The Church record shows that approximately 86% of those who hold the priesthood in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saints are actively engaged in church work, or willing to labor. The only reward looked for is the promised blessings of our Father and our God. Is not such service a sacrifice as described by Paul the Apostle of old? 

Fourth. "There is no clergy class." I find no mention in the Bible of "a clergy class," nor do I find mention of a priesthood class such as constitute the clergy of today. I ask, has new revelation been given providing for this change? 

Fifth. "The speakers at their meetings are farmers, etc." From the Bible we learn that the officers of the primitive church were fishermen, tax gatherers, clerks, etc. John, the apostle chosen by our Lord, records this statement made by our Lord : 

I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away : and every branch that beareth fruit he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 

****** 

Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cajniot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 

Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples. 

This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved 

you. 

Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain : that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. (John 15:1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16.) 

There is ample evidence that these "farmers, etc.," who have in this day been ordained apostles, etc., are recipients of this promise. 

For what man knoweth the things of man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so, the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. (I Cor. 2:11.) 

But God has revealed them unto us by his Spirit : for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. (I Cor. 2:10) 

Sixth. "These 'farmers, etc' are incapable of discussing religion on anything like the plane of the average Protestant minister." Strange, is it not, that this professional schooled clergy class have never to our knowledge converted even one of these men whom we send out as missionaries, like those sent out by the Savior, although in some cases lacking in schooling. Why? Because they go out into the world having been commissioned with authority from him, and his Spirit goes before them, and the power of the Holy Ghost is upon them, as of old. 

Our critic speaks of the "supposed" doctrines revealed to Joseph Smith. If he will read them with an honest intent, he will find every one to harmonize with the Bible, and I am certain that he cannot make a similar claim for the church he represents. 

Seventh. "The Mormon respect for the Bible is not so great as that of the average Protestant church, etc." That statement has been an103  during this conference. I add, Protestantism testifies that we adhere to the teachings of the Bible more nearly than any other church. 

We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling blcck, and unto the Greeks foolishness; 

But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. 

Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 

For ye see ycur calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: 

But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty: 

And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are : 

That no flesh should glory in his presence. 

But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption : 

That, according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. ( 1 Cor. 1 :23-31.) 

Ye are bought with a price; be not ye servants of men; 

Brethren, let everv man, wherein he is called, therein abide with God. (I Cor. 7:23, 24.) 

Our accuser either is not acquainted with the Book of Mormon or is not honest in his criticism of our belief in the Book of Mormon. Prescott says : 

The Jewish and Christian schemes were strangely mingled together during the conquest of Mexico by Cortez and the brains of the good fathers were still further bewildered by the mixture of heathenish abominations which were so closely intertwined with the most orthodox observances. In their perplexity, they looked on the whole as the delusion of the devil, who counterfeited the rites of Christianity and the traditions of the chosen people, that he might allure his wretched victims to destruction. 

If our critic will read the Book of Mormon, and refer to fragments of records which were preserved from the destructive fires of his fellow clergymen centuries ago, he will find justification for the disturbed condition of mind of his ancient fellows. 

In his reference to "Rational Theology" he uses the tricks resorted to by some college trained clergymen. He has taken statements from several paragraphs and made them serve his purpose, ignoring the explanatory matter and the vital part of the complete quotation. I wish I had time to read it all. 

We believe, as the Bible teaches, that our Lord atoned for the transgression of Adam, which was necessary that we might follow, as mortal beings, children of the living God, and that through baptism and obedience to the laws of God we should be saved in one of the three degrees of glory, and that each person should answer for his own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. We believe that baptism must be done, by immersion, by one having authority, which is likened to a burial and a washing, and that sprinkling does not meet the requirement GENERAL CONFERENCE  the law. We believe that little children are without sin, therefore need not be baptized. We agree that mixed marriages are not desirable, and believe that all marriages that are not performed for time and all eternity by one having authority, are null and void after death. 

As to "Sins, etc." We shall earn our degree of glory through obedience to the laws of God. Any act contrary to law is sin, and displeasing to the Lord, and for such each individual will be called to answer before the judgment seat of God. The sacrifice of our Lord brought about redemption from death to each of the children of God, each in his time, according to his obedience to the divine laws. To this end we baptize for the dead as of old. 

We believe that the words of First Corinthians 15 :29 are true and set forth the plan of our Lord. Our accuser must also believe or admit that the laws have been changed, and if the Bible contains all of the word of the Lord, then this change is man-made and without authority. From the beginning of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, members have continually sought for records of their dead, and have performed ordinances in the temples as of old, and as the Church has grown, so an interest in genealogy has increased among all people, and now nations are aiding in the work; wherefore 

Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God : the powers that be are ordained of God. 

Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. (Romans 13:1, 2.) 

God grant that we shall feel the responsibility that rests upon us to the extent that we will continue to labor in faith, humbly and diligently seeking to know the will of the Father and abide in the law, so that when he comes we shall be numbered with those chosen to meet him, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HAROLD W. PRATT 

President of the Mexican Mission 

I can sympathize with the statement made by Bishop David A. Smith. To sit here expecting to be called at any time during three days and then perhaps not to lie called, or to be called, I think is one of the most trying experiences I have ever gone through in ray life. 

Nevertheless, I am very pleased to be here with you this afternoon. I have enjoyed to the fullest the Conference and expect to return to my field of labor strengthened in my faith and testimony to represent you in the mission field in Mexico. 

It is with pleasure that I report to you that the mission is growing. We have, I believe, the finest group of missionaries that there has ever been in the Mexican mission. I am sure that the growth 105  number during the past year is equaled in the quality of the missionaries. I believe that the Church has never before sent such a uniform, fine group, with so few, practically no problem cases. The mission field has ceased to be what it perhaps once was, a reform school. We are now sending them out, I am happy to report, to preach the Gospel, to teach the truths of the restored Gospel to the world. And they are doing that very thing. 

We have been happy during the past year to have a one hundred per cent increase in the number of our missionaries. We wish to thank you parents in Zion and you bishops of wards and presidents of stakes for this hearty cooperation. We beg of you that you continue your cooperation in sending forth missionaries. If the one hundred per cent increase that we have enjoyed in the Mexican mission could be extended to a thousand per cent increase we would still have room to place the missionaries to good advantage. 

Our mission is a mission of self-sacrifice, one of unselfish service, a service of love. There is a request that I should like to make to those of you who are sending your boys and girls into the mission field, and that is, that before they are called you imbue them with that spirit, give to them that motive of going forth into the mission field, a motive of service, of taking that which is of utmost value to people and giving it to them that they, in turn, may enter the realm of service and through that service of sacrifice and unselfishness gain blessings for themselves. We find that too often, even today, our missionaries come into the field with the idea of personal achievement, with the idea of personal benefit, with the idea of gaining experience which will better fit them for future life. And while of course this is one of the greatest benefits of missionary work, we take it that even that benefit will be greater if the motive is correct, being that of unselfishly serving our fellowmen, of carrying to them this Gospel, which is of the utmost value, of helping to make the. world a better place in which to live, of verily representing the spirit of this Conference which, I take it, is the spirit of our Church, a spirit exemplified in the talk made by President McKay, that "He who shall find his life shall lose it, yet he who may lose his life for my sake shall find it eternally." 

I find, my brothers and sisters, that the conditions in the world today, are indeed nothing more nor less, in my opinion, than the working out of the plans of our Heavenly Father, who will overrule all things in the interest of his work and mark out the ways by which people may be brought to an attitude and a state of mind in which they will accept the Gospel principles. I think this is true universally. The calamities that are befalling our nation, as well as other nations, the political turmoil, the breaking down of some of the powers that have held people. in slavery, — at least spiritual slavery, — for so many years, — all of these things, I take it, are merely placing people in a position in which they may accept of the principles of the Gospel upon hearing it. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

My great concern is whether or not I, and those laboring with me in our specific field of labor, shall be able to keep up our end of the bargain and discharge our responsibility of presenting the Gospel to the people as soon as the Lord brings them to an acceptable point of view. I beseech of you, each and every one, to so live your religion that your light may so shine that men seeing your good works may come to glorify our Father which is in heaven. I beseech of you further cooperation in sending your boys and girls into the mission field to carry this message to the people who, according to my belief, are now coming to the mental and spiritual state in which they may accept these saving principles. 

I bear you my testimony that I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that the Gospel which he brought to the earth has been restored. I testify to you that our Church today is guided by men who are blessed with the power of revelation, the power to represent our Heavenly Father here upon the earth, and that through them we do receive his mind and will, which is just as binding upon us as though we were to receive it from him direct. Therefore let us be united in sustaining our present authorities and working with them to the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes. 

May the Lord bless us to this end, I pray in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah," after which the Choir sang an anthem, "O Divine Redeemer." (Soloists Margaret Stewart Hewlett and Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, William Hardiman, violinist). 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

This is a meeting of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and no person not a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has any business to be voting, and no person is expected to speak in this meeting unless requested to do so by the presiding officer. We will now present the Authorities of the Church. 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 107 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L. Richards Alonzo A. Hinckley 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Antoine R. Ivins 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Rufus K. Hardy 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant * Richard R. Lyman 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. -<John A. Widtsoe David O. McKay Adam- S. Bennion 

WrHari-rYoung -'Joseph F. Merrill 

« Rudger Clawson «< Charles A. Callis ' Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin S. Harris 

j Stephen L. Richards Franklin L. West 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer GENERAL CONFERENCE 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams John W. Hart John F. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; D. Sterling Wheelwright, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Frank W. Asper 

Alexander Schreiner Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Albert E. Bowen, General Superintendent George Q. Morris, First Assistant Superintendent Franklin L. West, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 109 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, First Assistant Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

All of the foregoing General Authorities and Officers of the Church, and the General Auxiliary Officers were unanimously sustained by the vote of the Conference. 

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

It is related that an infidel once said to the great Pascal, who was a devout Christian, "If you will prove your religion to me I will try it." 

Pascal replied, "If you will try the religion, it will prove itself." 

I have the same feeling today with respect to our own religion. I have been inspired by the things that have been said and my soul has also been lifted up because of the wonderful and inspirational music to which we have listened. Under the inspiration of the Lord, I would like to tell you how much there is in our religion, when properly tried, which will prove itself. 

Two weeks ago yesterday I was in Boston. A minister attended our services and told us at the close that he had been studying, he and other members of a committee, for many months, the best there is in the religions of the world, and they had selected twenty-two leading Articles of Faith from various churches for what they believe to be a new religion or a new church they are about to found, and that of those twenty-two they had selected nine of the Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish they had selected the rest of our Articles of Faith and would really accept the truths stated therein. 

Would you be better physically? Try the laws of the Lord with respect to health. I never heard any one say that they didn't work well. Would you love your neighbor and treat your fellow men properly? Follow the teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Not long ago a man was speaking to me with reference to the acquiring of wealth. He referred to it as one of the great curses of the world. 

I said, "If you would follow the teachings of our church as laid down in the Holy Scriptures, there would be no curse." He asked me for a specific reference. 

The second chapter of Jacob, the eighteenth and nineteenth verses, to which I referred him, explain the true motive back of the acquiring of wealth : 

But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God; and after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches if you seek GENERAL CONFERENCE , and ye will seek them for the intent to do good, to clothe the naked and to feed the hungry and to liberate the captive and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted. 

Can the acquiring of wealth be a curse when that is the motive back of it? The answer is apparent. It is the motive back of the acquiring of wealth, it is the love of money that is the curse, not the acquiring of it for a righteous purpose. Would you seek to know the laws of toleration, of equality? Read the thirtieth chapter of Alma. 

And so we might go on through. If the world would accept, if the world could truly understand and follow the admonition of the teachings of the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Bible, then would the solutions of the world's problems appear. The religion is itself its greatest witness. To try it, to know it, to understand it is to have it commended to every thoughtful man and woman. The Book of Mormon and all other inspired writings of the Lord, have within them inherently that which appeals to the best there is in mankind. 

When true religion is translated into life, I think it is not boasting to say that it is the greatest influence for good in all the world. Just a few illustrations : 

I wonder if I may just read one or two sentences from a letter that I received the other day? We have only one group of missionaries in the Eastern States mission that has engaged in athletic activities during the last winter. That was only supplemental to their missionary work. This letter came to the office the other day entirely unsolicited. Let me read just a verse or two from it. This man says : 

Undoubtedly you will appreciate this unsolicited commendation of one of your groups in the mission field. 

Later on he says : 

These wholly Christian-like young men set up a standard of athletic competition that can never be excelled in these wonderful United States. During their too brief stay with us here in the anthracite coal mining region there seemed to be almost a halo of American sportsmanship surrounding the very beings of these young men. Nothing that I can here say would better express my inner thoughts concerning all of them than to tell you that I shall continue to boast of their friendship and its value to me as one of the priceless possessions of my life. 

They probably will be more surprised to learn of this letter than you at the Eastern States mission were to receive it. 

Four or five of our young men have been touring a part of our mission lately. In addition to being splendid singers they are fine speakers. In Massachusetts, two weeks ago, they had thirty-nine appointments before business clubs, before ladies' clubs, before Young Men's Christian Associations, before newspaper boards and other organizations. Wherever they have gone we have received from men, who attended and listened to their message, words of commendation. 

A few Sundays ago in a conference a fine lady came up at the close of the meeting and expressed great appreciation of the services. 111 

Some one asked her what part of the meeting she enjoyed best. 

She said, "Not the main speaker" —! (I was he). 

(Laughter.) 

"I have," said she, "enjoyed the spirit of these young men and women who have spoken here today. As I saw them, as I heard them, I said, 'Can it be that the religion of which I have heard so much evil, can it be that it has produced these boys and girls ? I would have my son doing the work they are doing if he would. If this is Mormonism we want it in our homes." 

I could only say to her, as I say to you in conclusion, "Can water rise above its source?" "Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?" The Gospel of Christ, in which we so devoutly believe, is responsible for the lives of our people. 

These young men and women who are in the Eastern States mission and who are in every other mission of the Church come from Mormon homes. Back of every one of them is a Mormon mother, as back of George Washington was a Mary Ball Washington and as back of Abraham Lincoln there was a Nancy Hanks Lincoln. So back of every Mormon missionary is a Mormon mother, a Mormon home, a Mormon father, and the Mormon religion. 

Try this religion. It will prove itself. God help us to put it to the test. I say to you parents, you have sent some good boys and girls out into the mission field. Not every one is perfect, but in the main there are no better boys and girls in all the world. God is with them and they are taking their message to the world. 

I pray that God will help us to continue to know the truth. I know it and bear solemn testimony to you today of its truthfulness, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ABEL S. RICH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

If this were not such a difficult task I would be indeed happy to report to you the Canadian mission. I can say truthfully that after being out of these valleys of the mountains for some time I am happy to be back in them. Their friendliness appeals to me, as does the spirit of this great Conference. 

I am happy to bring you greetings from the Saints and missionaries of the Canadian mission, and to tell you that they are all well and happy. I know how those Saints would enjoy what you are enjoying today. As our broadcast went to them Sunday it would be the first time that many of them had heard our president and his counselors, and they were prepared to receive those messages. 

For some of you who may not know, may I say that the Canadian mission covers the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, in Canada, and Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont in GENERAL CONFERENCE  United States. It is a beautiful country. There are no more beautiful cities, I think, any place, than the city of Toronto, our headquarters. The fertile valleys of Ontario are beautiful. I think there are no more fruitful areas on the American continent than we find there. We go from there, however, out to frontier sections in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and northern Maine, where we find people still using ox teams in the lumber camps and on the farms. 

I have been especially impressed with the culture and refinement of the Canadian people. The boys and girls who come to the Canadian mission are likewise impressed with the refinement of those people who have seemed to bring with them the culture and refinement of the Old World. They are more like the people of Europe, I believe, than they are like our own people. They are in the center of great educational institutions, and their schools are wonderfully fine. I have been especially impressed with two outstanding things among those people : one is that in ten months in Canada I have never heard swearing. I thought it was possibly because I had not been where people swear, but I have children in school, both in high school and in the grades, and they, too, tell me they do not hear young people swear. The other outstanding thing is the strict observance of the Sabbath day. In the city of Toronto, with eight hundred and fifty thousand people, there are no amusements open on Sunday, no athletic games, and the people seem not to feel that they are deprived of any of their rights, but they are happy in the observance of the Sabbath day. 

Yet, among this fine people, with this culture and refinement, we find one difficulty in our missionary work, and that is the difficulty of an audience. We really should present our calling card or have a formal introduction before we can be invited into their homes. Many of the people through that area belong to churches that deny their people the right to read and converse on religious subjects. Many others belong to that group of "saved" people who have entrusted their salvation to their minister and feel that they can go happily along without responsibility. 

It reminds me of the prediction the Apostle Paul made in his epistle to Timothy when he said, "The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap unto themselves teachers having itching ears; and they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables." And it seems that that has become the truth in many places. We know that it is a truth that a closed shutter lets in no light. It makes no difference whether that shutter is closed because the light is too strong to bear or whether there is no light there to bear. If we get the truth before people, their mental shutters must be opened wide. It is one of the problems of the missionaries throughout that district to get people to listen to them. They are trying, through their own personalities and in other ways to get the mental shutters open — to get an audience. 

The missionaries feel their responsibility, and although we have had a long, -cold winter, they have found many means of presenting the 113 

Gospel to the people, so that we have found an increase in missionary activity in practically every department, and we have also found an increase in happiness because of the work done. I think our missionaries fully sense that when the Master said, "Ye are the salt of the world" and "Ye are the light of the world," he meant that for them also, and that they are to spread the savor of Christianity and so live that their lives will bring people to a knowledge of God. 

I think it is Fosdick who said of those verses that Jesus was saying to his disciples, "You are more than mere individuals; you are representing Me in the world; you stand for My honor and My success in the world." 

It is an interesting thing to note that every man has a power to stand for something more than himself. It is an interesting thing that Latterday Saints, wherever they go in the world, seem to stand for something, more than themselves. It is interesting, I think, for us as Latter-day Saints to occasionally check on ourselves, ask ourselves, what do we stand for in the community where we live. Among the people that we associate with, what human interests or what turn of character do we represent? It is a beautiful thing to have the satisfaction of feeling that we do represent the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We feel happy to have people know that our actions are determined by the principles of the Gospel. 

In 2nd Nephi, the twenty-eighth chapter and thirtieth verse, we read: 

For behold, thus saith the Lord God : I will give unto the children of men line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, and blessed arc those who hearken unto my precepts and lend an ear to my counsel, fcr they shall learn wisdom. For unto him that receiveth I will give more, and from them that shall say, We have enough, from them shall be taken even that which they have. 

Truly it is in the power of every Latter-day Saint to accomplish what the Lord has said, and if we will accept what he has given us he will add unto us; but if we say we have enough, then there will be taken from us even that which we have. 

Many people marvel at the happiness of the missionary and many question his truthfulness when he says, "It is the happiest time of my life." But they seem not to understand that some one who has analyzed the Master's life, truly said, "The source of the Master's joy was beyond the power of men and circumstances." Nothing that men or circumstances could do could rob him of his joy. We remember also that he said to his disciples, "My joy I give unto you, and your joy no man taketh from you." 

It is the missionary, then, who has this joy that is not at the mercy of men or circumstances, who can be happy though he labor all the day long and receive no welcome from those he approaches, because no man has power to take his joy from him. May God grant unto all missionaries this joy. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Now in conclusion may I say to the parents that we are happy to have your sons and daughters there with us. Sister Rich and I are doing our best to guard their health and keep them happy. We appreciate them, and we appreciate the missionary work that you are doing in the fine letters of encouragement and happiness that you write to them. 

May the Lord bless you and them and us, to carry to a successful conclusion this work we have begun, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

President of the California Mission 

My brothers and sisters : I thought that I had fixed matters so that I would not be called upon to speak at this conference, but it seems I am not a good fixer. 

I am thrilled to be here and to have felt the spirit that has been in each of the sessions of this conference. I come from sunny California. 1 bring you the greetings first of Alonzo A. Hinckley, one of God's noblemen, who is sojourning there for a time in an endeavor to regain his health. Since his arrival there he has gained three pounds in weight, but he is yet a very sick man 

I bring you the greetings of the missionaries, one hundred and twenty-three of them, — clean, noble, devout workers in this great cause. Recently the president of one of the districts said to me, "President Smith, Elder so-and-so is district president timber. He is laboring in this portion of the field. You can't move him to any other district because of the asthma which he has, and his mission will be finished about the time mine is. Will you make him the district president and let me be just a missionary?" 

That is the sort of spirit that our boys and our girls have, — a desire to be helpful, a desire to be unselfish; and it is their unselfishness and their lives that have touched so many people. 

I bring you the greetings of nine thousand members of the California mission — Latter-day Saints. In the branches now represented in the mission the increase in tithes for 1935 over the year 1934 was some twenty-five per cent. 

We have had some very beautiful experiences in this matter of tithing. I thought as President Richards was talking this morning, what a fine showing some of these branches and some of the wards of this Church make. My thoughts went to Chino valley, a little branch that has had five per cent of its membership in the mission field, and of the forty-two members that began the first of the year forty-one of them were on the tithing record before the end of the year. And the branch president said, "Well, the other one moved away or he would have been on the tithing record also." 

I intimated to my branch presidents that I thought it would be a 115  thing if every man, woman and child in the California mission could be upon the tithing record. In response to that suggestion I received a letter from President David Haymore of Douglas, Arizona. 

President Haymore said, "President Smith, there are two hundred and seventy-one members of record in the Douglas branch of the church, and at the end of the year 1935 there will be two hundred! and seventy-one on the tithing record." 

I smiled at the suggestion, but when the year ended and we counted up, to my surprise I discovered that President Haymore had made a mistake. He had two hundred and seventy-five tithe-payers and twohundred and seventy-one members in his branch. 

He told me this beautiful story. "President Smith, this has influenced my life with respect to the matter of tithing. A little child came in to see how many times he had paid his tithing, and as he checked over the record there was a penny here and a penny there and a nickel here. He noticed some of the other names that came under his initial, and he said to President Haymore, "Daddy's name and Mother's name are not there." 

President Haymore said, "No, Daddy and Mother haven't paid any tithing this year, my boy." 

So this little one went home disappointed and broken-hearted, and said to his mother, "Mother, Daddy's name and your name are not on the tithing record." 

That mother, with tears in her eyes, said, "Thank you, my boy; they will be there." And so they are there now. So a little child led them. 

I am delighted to have heard the report of our church activities and the great amount of money that has been expended throughout the past year. I know there has been an increase in tithes, from the reports I have heard from other wards and stakes and branches of the Church, and I am delighted to be a representative of the Church, happy to associate with the fine young men and women and the noble people amongst whom I live in sunny California. 

May God grant that we may ever have in our hearts a desire to test him. For you will remember that he said, "Try me and see." Amen. 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

Humbly I stand before you, my brothers and sisters, yet deeply grateful to the Lord for the privilege of representing at this great Conference the approximately one hundred and fifty missionaries and eighteen thousand Saints of the Southern States mission. They are looking to you here as their leaders and rejoice in every good report that reaches them of your achievements and accomplishments. 

When the Master was upon the earth, he was wont to say: "Know ye not that these things must be that the scriptures may be fulfilled?" GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I have sat here and contemplated what a marvelous fulfilment of the prophecies of the scriptures we see about us in the establishment of this Church in these valleys of the mountains. 

I desire to read a few words here today from the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, quoted by Moroni when first he visited the prophet Joseph Smith, in connection with the bringing forth of this great gospel dispensation. "And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people, * * * and he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth." 

That which has been said here during this Conference and that which we have observed indicate that the Lord has set up an ensign unto the nations. This great assembly, the. beautiful temple upon this block, these wise leaders who are here to teach us the way of eternal life, these wonderful singers who have come up to "sing in the height of Zion," and you brethren and sisters who have come from the valleys that have been made "to blossom as the rose," because the Lord has opened "rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys," are all evidences of the Lord's fulfilment of his promises. 

But the Lord did not indicate that he would set up an ensign by the erection of beautiful buildings and the subduing of the desert only, but he said he would assemble unto this land the nations of the earth, to teach them of his ways, which contemplates the appointment of men and women to labor in the vineyard at home and in the nations of the earth. Jeremiah expresses this thought in these words : "I will take you one of a city and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion, and I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding." Surely we have been taught of his ways and have received knowledge and understanding here at this Conference. 

Then Jeremiah tells us that the Lord would send for many fishers and they would fish them, and after for many hunters and they would hunt them from every mountain and from every hill and out of the holes of the rocks. I want to say to you fathers and mothers that we are mighty happy to have in our mission approximately a hundred and fifty of these "fishers and hunters," your sons and daughters, who are fishing and hunting the seed of Israel and gathering them into the fold, and it is my testimony to you that when men and women are called of God to become "fishers and hunters" they are endowed with a power that no man of himself can give. Therefore, when these missionaries go forth among the children of men they go armored of God to accomplish his purposes and gather his people, and their influence and power is felt wherever they go, as people who have met them are happy to testify. 

The other day, in passing through one of our large cities, I drove up to a door and said, "Do the Mormon missionaries live here?" To which the lady replied, "Yes, and they are the finest young men I have ever met." 117 

Upon another occasion, we sent missionaries into a new city to open up the work in that section. The city officials were not sure they wanted to permit them to engage in their work there. The lady with whom they were boarding said, "I have some influence in this city, 1 will see what I can do." She took these missionaries to her church the next Sunday and introduced them to her class and said, "They neither smoke nor drink, nor use tea or coffee; and they don't look like 'sissies,' either, do they?" Then she asked, "Which one of you in this class would be willing to do for your church what these boys are doing?" 

Following the visit of Elder Melvin J. Ballard at Jacksonville, Fla., on Dec. 8, 1935, one of the elders, with only thirty-five cents in his pocket, started out to return to his field of labor in South Georgia. He attempted to hitch-hike on the highway without the usual success, apparently for a wise purpose. About nine o'clock in the evening he found himself still quite a distance from his field of labor, so he decided he would "tract-in" (seek entertainment) for the night. 

After being unsuccessful at two homes, he called at the third and was met at the door by a minister of the Gospel. He introduced himself as a Mormon missionary, whereupon he was invited in. The minister explained that he was in deep distress — that his little daughter was very sick and the doctor gave them no hope of her recovery. By this time, they had entered the living roorii where the family were sitting, and the doctor was at the side of the bed upon which the little girl was lying. 

The minister remarked, "You believe in anointing the sick with oil, do you not?" To which the elder replied in the affirmative. He then added, "I wish you would anoint my little girl — I have prayed for her without avail," and he offered the missionary a bottle of olive oil. The elder asked if it had been consecrated, to which the minister replied, "I am afraid I do not understand what you mean;" so the elder suggested that he would use his own oil, as he had a small bottle with him, and he invited the family to kneel with him about the bed to engage in prayer before performing the sacred ordinance. They seemed rather reluctant as though they had given up all hope. The doctor remarked, "Maybe the Lord can save her but I cannot." The elder led in prayer and then administered to the little girl, and as he removed his hands from her head she relaxed, and the doctor immediately reached for her pulse as though he feared she was breathing her last. 

For about twenty minutes, the elder sat visiting with the minister and his family, at which time the doctor again felt the girl's pulse and remarked, "There is no need of my remaining any longer — your little girl will be all right. I have seen it with my own eyes and yet I cannot believe it." 

Addressing the elder, the minister said, "You were seeking a bed for the night, were you not?" And being informed by the missionary that he was, he explained that he was not prepared to accommodate hint, but that he was willing to take him to the hotel and pay for his room, or he would drive him in his auto wherever he wanted to go. He explained that his destination was sixty miles from there, but the minister was G ENE RA L C NEE FENCE 

])erfectly willing to take him that distance, and upon reaching his destination, the minister offered the elder ten dollars for what he had done in his home, hut he refused to accept the money, explaining the instruction of the Master to the Twelve when he sent them forth: "Freely ye have received, freely give." 

I thank my Heavenly Father for the privilege of laboring with the fine missionaries who have been sent out to "recover the remnant of his people" and "hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks," and for the marvelous manner in which he is opening the hearts of the children of men to receive their testimonies. 

God bless this people, this Church and our leaders and our missionaries, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

AUDITING COMMITTEE'S REPORT 

"Salt Lake City, Utah, March 31, 1936. 

President Heber J. Grant, Dear President : 

We have examined the Financial Report of the Church for the year 1935, which also includes the Presiding Bishop's department. 

The Church is free from indebtedness, its financial condition is sound, the accounting is modern and complete. We heartily commend the careful management of Church finances by the First Presidency and the General Authorities of the Church. 

Respectfully submitted, O. W. Adams, John W. Hart, John F. Bennett, 

Auditing Committee." 

EXPRESSES APPRECIATION OF SINGING 

I am very pleased indeed to express my deep appreciation of the beautiful singing that we have had by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, the Hyrum Stake Choir, and the Tabernacle Choir. I rejoice in the splendid work of Brother Frank Asper, of Brother J . Spencer Cornwall, and of all who have helped make this conference so interesting to those who have attended. 

AN INSPIRATIONAL CONFERENCE 

Considering that it is a week day, I feel that we have a very wonderful and splendid audience here this afternoon. I do not need to say to you people who have attended the conference that to me it has been a red-letter day in the history of the Church. 

I believe that we have had greater opportunity to carry our message 119  the world than ever hefore in our history. I am grateful for the inspiration of the Lord that has been manifested here in the speeches that have been made. I am glad that the brethren have been able to keep within the proper time limit in their remarks. Frequently there is not time for all to speak. We have thirty-three speakers; if each takes two minutes more time than he should, it amounts to one hour and six minutes. 

MEMBERS OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES ABSENT 

I regret that I overlooked announcing that Brother J. Golden Kimball has been absent from this conference on account of ill-health. Of course, you all know that Brother Joseph F. Merrill is in Europe presiding over the European missions. Brother Merrill is meeting with great success in his labors in Europe. Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley is in California where he is improving in health. 

An anthem, "Great is Jehovah," was sung by the Choir (Relief Society Singing Mothers), after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph L. Wirthlin, President of the Bonneville Stake. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The singing at the Friday sessions of the Conference by the Hyrum Stake Choir, was under the direction of W. H. Terry; the singing at the Sunday sessions was by the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Sister Charlotte O. Sackett directed the singing of the Relief Society Singing Mothers at the Monday sessions; J. Spencer Cornwall led the congregational singing at all the sessions. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of ilie Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 52 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 50 

Full significance of events not always realized, 51 — Time's vindication of a courageous man, 51 — Time's judgment upon another, 51 — The case of Stephen A. Douglas, 52 — Lincoln and the Mormon question, 52 — Time a friend to truth, an enemy to falsehood, 53 — The course we should follow, 53 — The path to glory and exaltation, 54. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 80 

Callis, Elder Charles A 29 

A judgment to come, 29 — Assisting in bringing people to God, 30 — The present a part of eternity, 30 — Continual improvement, 30 — The resurrection of the just, 31. 

Cannon, Bishop Sylvester Q 20 

What and where is Zion, 20 — Zion — where virtue and righteousness prevail, 20 — Opportunities for young people, 21 — Care in planning future, 21 — Cooperation in community welfare, 22 — Proper home training and Church activity, 22 — Learning a trade or profession, 22 — Responsibility of Church officers, 23 — Unity and activity bring progress, 23 — Upright living produces confidence, 23. 

Changes in Church Officers 4 

Church of the Air Broadcast 45 

Clark, President J. Reuben 46 

Christ, the Creator of the world, 46 — Personal appearances to man, 47 — Christ's birth and atonement, 47 — A glorious manifestation in this dispensation, 48. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 61 

An important lesson exemplified, 62 — Christ's message a spiritual one, 62 — Comfort in distress through spiritual enrichment, 63 — Seek after the erring ones, 63 — Falsehood and deception from the Evil One, 63 — Laws of the land should be obeyed, 64 — Daily revelations not necessary, 64 — "Love thy neighbor," 65. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Clawson, President Rudger 17 

The Savior's birth and mission foretold, 17 — Words of scripture set to music, 17 — Words of prophecy, 17 — The fulfilment, 18 — The Passion, 18 — The Glorification, 19 — The Resurrection, 19 — Our obligation to the Redeemer, 19. 

Colton, Elder Don B 109 

Daynes, Elder Joseph J 33 

Financial Statement 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 24 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

General Authorities of the Church 106 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Auxiliary Officers 108 

General Officers of the Church 107 

Grant, President Heber J 6 

Accomplishments under difficulties, 6 — Revelations in Liberty Jail, 6 — God with the Church, 7 — Friendly compliments, 7 — Responsibility of those called to office, 8 — Blessings through obedience, 9 — Change in sentiment, 9 — Record in scouting, 10 — Genealogical and temple work, 11 — A seminary in Wyoming, 11 — The worth of souls, 12 — A Gospel of forgiveness, 12 — Testimony, 12. 

Grant, President Heber J 13 

Gratitude for singing and music, 13. Grant, President Heber J 42 

Thanks the Hyrum Stake choir, 42. 

Grant, President Heber J 48 

For our temporal salvation, 48 — The Constitution should be maintained, 49 — Governments and laws,in general, 49 — The proper exercise of the priesthood, 49 — Quotes Articles of Faith, 50. 

Grant, President Heber J 56 

Title by adverse possession, 56. 

Grant, President Heber J 57 

Telegrams regarding Church of the Air broadcast, 57. 

Grant, President Heber J 76 

Regarding John W. Hart, 76. Grant, President Heber J 86 

"A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief," 86. 123 

Grant, President Heber J 106 

Presentation of General Authorities, 106 — Officers of the Church, 107 — General Auxiliary Officers, 108. 

Grant, President Heber J 118 

Auditing Committee's report, 118 — Expresses appreciation of singing, 118 — An inspirational conference, 118 — Members of General Authorities absent, 119. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 43 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 36 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 27 

Kirkham, Elder James M 89 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 96 

"Watch and Pray," 96 — Joseph Smith's experience, 97 — Transformed by divine light, 97 — Inspiring the souls of men, 97 — Remember the Almighty, 98 — The Sabbath a day of prayer, 99 — A fortification against evil, 99 — The miraculous effect of prayer, 99 — The greatest work in the world, 100 — Our most important work, 100. 

McKay, President David 2 

Financial statement, 2 — Statistics and other data compiled from the annual reports for the year 193S, 3 — Changes in Church officers, stake, ward and branch organizations since last October Confer, 4. 

McKay, President David O 45 

A significant principle, 45 — Service to others, 46. McKay, President David 57 

A far-reaching broadcast, 57 — Courage gives strength, 58 — A critical period, 58 — A return to the farm advised, 59 — Faithfulness to duty, 59 — Steadying the ark, 60 — Maintaining ideals, 60 — 

Courage in facing difficulties, 61. 

Pratt, Elder Harold W 104 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 94 

Rich, Elder Abel S Ill 

Richards, Elder George F 77 

"Doers of the word, not hearers only," 77 — An example of loyalty and faithfulness, 77 — Our indebtedness to the Lord, 78 — Working for the Lord, 78 — We are here for a specific purpose, 79 — For the salvation of men, 79 — A fulness of joy, 79 — Happiness through obedience to God's word, 80. 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 115 

Richards, Elder Wilford W 91 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 56 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 42 

Smith, Elder David A 101 

Smith, Elder George Albert 13 

Membership in Christ's Church a privilege, 13 — The Book of Mormon in Braille, 13 — Its distribution an important duty, 13 — A remarkable prophecy, 14 — In fulfilment of the Lord's promise, 14 — As a result of faith, 15 — A companion volume to the Bible, 16 — Offering the Gospel to others, 16 — Bears testimony, 16. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 72 

Beyond comprehension, 72 — An event of great significance, 73 — Keys of gathering bestowed, 73 — Elias and his mission, 74 — In fulfilment of prediction, 74 — Jewish tradition regarding the Paschal season, 75 — The coming of Elijah, 75 — The coming of the Lord is near, 75. 

Smith, Elder Nicholas G 114 

Smoot, Elder Reed 24 

Teachings of the Master necessary, 25 — The crime of indifference, 25 — Faith, lacking, 25 — Illiteracy in America, 25 — The free agency of man, 26 — America, the land of opportunity, 26 — Loyalty to nation and Church, 26. 

Stoof, Elder Reinhold 87 

Taylor, Elder John H 31 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 96 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 76 

Wells, Elder John 83 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 37 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 69 

In fulfilment of ancient prophecy, 69 — A courageous experiment, 69 — Teaching religion in the schools, 70 — The place of character in education, 70 — God and man — what they are, 71 — The kind of concepts needed today, 71 — Our character-training organizations, 72. 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 54 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 65 

A Few of the Books that will Help You to Understand "Mormon ism" 

The Book of Mormon 

The latest edition comes to you in four different bindings. Oi course the text remains the same but there are added features which make the edition more complete. 

Missionary Edition # -50 

Cloth binding, embossed 1.50 

Full Morocco 3.00 

The Gospel and Man's Relationship to 

Deity 

BY B. H. ROBERTS 

"It is to place within their reach a brief and simple exposition of the first principles of the Gospel that this work has been prepared, and is now presented to the youth of Zion; and it is the earnest hope of the author that by a patient perusal of these pages those who now believe the Gospel will find their faith strengthened and confirmed; and those who do not believe it will be convinced of its truth." 

Price f 1 - 2 ' 

The Story and Philosophy of "Mormon ism" 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Comprising "The Story" as told in addresses at Cornell and Michigan Universities and elsewhere, followed by an address delivered at the Panama-Pacific Exposition, entitled "The Philosophical Basis of 'Mormonism.' " 

Cloth * * 75 

In Search of Truth 

BY ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE OF THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE 

Bound in Art Cloth & 1 - 00 

This new book answers the questions, "What is Science" and "How does the Church view Science." A practical book for our THINKING, young people. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

"Mormonism 

and 

Freemasonry "This brief treatise is addressed primarily to the members of the Masonic fraternity. The author requests Masons and others who may read it to patiently consider its contents, and in a spirit of fairness and reason determine whether the ground taken by the writer is truth or error." 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

+ 2% Sales Tax in Utah Distributed by the 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







