11
Morning
05 10 1897
Elder Lorenzo Snow.
40
29-33

None

Personal appearance of the Savior— Promises made to the Elders— Have they been Fulfilled — Union of the Priesthood — Proper respect in Families.  
  
Brethren and sisters and friends, I hope during the short time that I address you this morning I may have the benifit of your prayers, and the exercise of your faith.  
  
At these general Conferences it is the privilege of everyone who attends to receive instruction, suited to his individual needs and benefits, of great worth, and if we pay proper attention to what is said and exercise the proper faith, there will be no disappointment.  
  
Now, I wish to read a few verses from the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110, which describes one of the most important events of our day.  
  
"The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us, and under His feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and the hair of his head was white like the pure snow. His countenance shone above the brightness of the sun, and His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last, I am He who liveth. I am He who was slain, I am your advocate with the Father. Behold your sins are forgiven you, you are clean before me, therefore lift up your heads and rejoice. Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name. For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here, and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house, yea, I will appear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house. Yea, the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house; and the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands, and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured upon the heads of my people. Even so. Amen."  
  
We have heard, brethren and sisters, very excellent principles, explained to us yesterday, and this morning by Apostle Richards, and our hearts have been made to rejoice in the contemplation of the positions that we occupy, of the prospects that are before us, and of the glorious records that many, and I hope all, have made in the past. It is strange, that there are so few that have come to an understanding that God has revealed Himself unto His people, that His voice has been heard, as I have just read to you,and for what He has accomplished through the Holy Priesthood that He has caused to be conferred upon many of His servants. Thirteen hundred or thereabouts of the servants of God are now traveling through the world as oracles of God and testifying of these most extraordinary facts, and are promising in the name of the Almighty, by virtue of the divine authority they possess, that those who will obey the Gospel which they are authorized to administer, shall receive a knowledge of these important truths. It is a marvelous fact that there are thirteen hundred men who are now promising in the name of the Lord and explaining how every person may know, and know effectually, know by revelation, that their promises are of the Almighty, that they have authority to thus prophesy, prophesy of that which is most important; in fact, there could be nothing of greater importance to mortal man than that which pertains to their prophecy, and all men have a right or the privilege of ascertaining, in a very simple way, whether that prediction is from God.  
  
This is indeed strange and wonderful. It is strange and wonderful to the world because such things have never been heard of or known for centuries. What is their prediction that is of such high importance to all people? Why, this: Having stated before the congregations of the world that they are authorized to preach the Gospel of life and salvation, that they are authorized to promise the gift of the Holy Ghost, that shall lead into all truth and show things to come, and shall testify in reference to their authority, then to make this prediction that such as will obey the simple principles of the Gospel, shall receive a perfect knowledge, a knowledge not by the reading of books, the Scriptures or any past revelations that may have been given, but they shall receive a knowledge of this from God Himself. Well now, all that is required of these individuals to know that which pertains to their salvation, exaltation and glory is simply to do that which has been made plain, very plain indeed by Jesus Christ and by the Apostles, as contained in the Scriptures of truth; to perform a few acts in relation to the principles of life or a few acts that will put them in possession, after proper preparation, of this important knowledge.  
  
Jesus Christ went down into the waters of baptism and was immersed there by John the Baptist, who had authority thus to do; and many others, in the days of the Apostles, performed those ordinances that pertain to the everlasting Gospel. They were baptized for the remission of their sins by one that possessed the authority which, those Elders that I mention now, possess. They possessed the authority to administer those ordinances — immersion in water for the remission of sins, the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. These simple acts were actually performed by the Apostles in former days, and by the Seventies that were sent forth, and by all who were sent to preach the fullness of the Gospel. All that these Elders require in order that their predictions may be fulfilled is that people now shall do likewise.  
  
Jesus, said on a certain occasion, that He would build His Church upon revelation: that is, Peter having received a revelation that Jesus was the Son of God and so saying Jesus replied, "Upon this rock will I build my Church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The system of salvation and exaltation and glory was of such a character that there was this grand feature about it, all persons might receive a perfect knowledge of its divine source.  
  
When we take into consideration the difficulties those have to meet who obey these principles we see the necessity that they should have a perfect knowledge of that which they have received, and thus the Lord bestows upon them the means by which they can contend against the difficulties and the persecutions and secure the blessings connected with these promises. When people follow the counsels of these servants of the Lord who are abroad preaching the Gospel, if they do not come to a knowledge of the truth of these promises from heaven after they have obeyed, they ought to declare this: they should announce this failure to their friends, and to the public. I suppose, I am now addressing six or eight thousand people, and probably three-fifths of them have come from the distant nations of the earth, to these mountain vales, and these are the principles that we taught them, that they should receive a knowledge of this work, they should receive the Holy Ghost that would testify to them of the truth of the saying of these Elders that they had authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel. Now, I ask, why are you here? Why are you sitting upon these seats? Why are you teaching your families and friends that these principles are of God, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, that Jesus came down and talked with His people, the sons and daughters of God, as He did in former days? Why do you teach these principles, and why do you sit here instead of repairing to your homes and declaring that you never received any such divine testimony, as was promised you?  
  
I think if strangers came to me, as Elders now go to the nations, and testified to me that they had authority to promise that the Holy Ghost would rest upon me after repenting of my sins, forsaking them, and obeying their message, and I did not receive any extraordinary or miraculous manifestations, I certainly would not leave my friends, country, and home, as thousands and thousands have done. But it is a fact that I am speaking to thousands here that have come from long distances, from many nations of the earth, that are here and have been here for years and years; why is it they do not rise up and deny that they or their friends ever received this testimony? In these verses that I have read in your hearing, it is declared that the Son of God appeared in the Kirtland Temple sixty-one years ago, and spoke there to His friends.  
  
Years ago on my Palestine tour, I was one day upon the Mount of Olives, where Jesus left the earth and ascended to His Father, witnessed by persons that were there present, and I did not doubt that I was at the place where, as I read in the Testament, that Jesus took His departure from. While I looked around and gazed about, I believed that I was there at that place; I believed that Jesus did actually take farewell of the world and go to His Father, because certain individuals say and did make a declaration that that was the fact. Now I did not see these persons that testified to this extraordinary occurrence. I saw no such persons; because it was over eighteen hundred years ago that this extraordinary circumstance occurred. But this that I have been reading in your hearing, occurred in this age. I was personally acquainted with the parties who saw this wonderful manifestation — intimately acquainted with Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. I was acquainted with Joseph Smith for years. And I know Brother Oliver Cowdery to have been a good man, honorable, honest, and truthful; although years after this, Oliver Cowdery left the Church for a while. He became proud and exalted, and left the Church; but the spirit and the testimony never left him, and after suffering the afflictions of the Lord, he repented and was very glad to come back into the Church, and he got back just in time to go into the other world, and that is just about the whole of it so far as Oliver Cowdery was concerned.  
  
Well now, these things are worthy the attention of the Latter-day Saints, and when we take them into consideration and bring them home to our understanding, what follows? Why, that we should be the best people that God has upon the earth, and far better than any other. The Lord has given us a Prophet, to give counsels in reference to that which pertains to the general interests of the Latter-day Saints continually, and He has blessed him abundantly. There is not one that can dispute the honesty and integrity of Brother Wilford Woodruff,our President. We know him. Years and years he has been testifying of these things of which I have been speaking, and he says he knows them, he says he understands them distinctly; and we ourselves should know them. Perhaps not quite as extensively as he knows them. For instance, an astronomer may know a thousand things in reference to the revolving of the earth in its orbit around the sun, and know a great many facts in reference to the sun that thousands are ignorant of; and yet these thousands that are perfectly ignorant of those many things, know one thing that this astronomer knows, they know that there is a sun, they see there is a sun; they know it just as well as he knows it. In reference to this Gospel and our prospects in the next life, there are thousands that know it just as well as President Woodruff knows it; and when the resurrection is spoken of, they know it just as well as President "Woodruff knows it. In reference to "Mormonism," as it is sometimes called, there are thousands that know it just as well as Joseph Smith knew it. They know it because God has revealed it to them perfectly.  
  
There is no man that knows the truth of this work more than I do. I know it fully; I know it distinctly. I know there is a God just as well as any man knows it, because God has revealed himself to me. I know it positively. I shall never forget the manifestations of the Lord; I never will forget them as long as memory endures. It is in me. There is something to labor for, there is something to sacrifice for. When the Elders go forth among the nations, they dare to say this; they dare to say that God has revealed himself. They dare to say that God has spoken to His sons and daughters as He did in former days, and they dare to say that He has heard the prayers of the house of Israel, He has heard the prayers of the honest in heart, and He has come down as He did in the days of Israel when they were in Egyptian bondage to deliver them; He has come down to relieve the distressed, and to confer upon them knowledge, intellectually. spiritually, and to place them in a country where they can be blessed and saved from that half-starvation in which many have been found where the Gospel reached them.  
  
Well, these are glorious principles that God has revealed to us, and our prospects are grand and glorious. Why, we could talk through all the days, the weeks and the months about the grand things that the Lord has prepared for those that are faithful and continue to the end. There should be greater union in our midst than we find today. There is a perfect union in the quorum of the Twelve. Should there not be a perfect union in that quorum? Most assuredly, every one would say Yes, a perfect union in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles; and whoever may be appointed to fill the places of those that are vacant, this union will still continue with us. And there is also a perfect union with the First Presidency, and should there not be? Every one will say, certainly, there should be. And should there not be a perfect union with the seven presidents of the Seventies? There most assuredly should be; we all say Yes. Should there not be a perfect union with the High Councils of the various Stakes of Zion? Certainly there should be, and there is a way to accomplish that union. And the same way with the various other organizations and quorums. Should there not be a perfect union with the presidencies of Stakes? Certainly, and if I were a president of a Stake, I would not rest day or night until I had union with my counselors. Should there not be a union with the Bishop and his Counselors? Most assuredly there should be.  
  
Well, what is more important? Should there not be union in the family? Should there not be union with the husband, who is the High Priest in his family and expects to be with them in the next life, should there not be a perfect union with him and his wife, or wives, and his sons, his daughters, his sons-in-law, and his daughers-in-law? Most assuredly there should. And why should any man be satisfied, why should any husband and father of a family rest satisfied until he effects a perfect union, that is, just as far as a perfect union can be accomplished? And in this matter the father should make himself just as perfect as a man can in this life be made perfect before his family. And the wife should make herself just as perfect as a woman can possibly do in this life. And then they are prepared to make their children just as perfect as they are willing and are capable of being made perfect. And the father and the mother should be very careful. The wife should never in the presence of her children speak disrespectfully of her husband. If she thinks her husband has done wrong (he might have done), she should never speak of it in the presence of her children. She should take him out of the presence of her children and there tell him of his faults, in a pleasant way, but never in the presence of the children speak disrespectfully of the father. And the father the same. He has no right to speak disrespectfully of his wife in the presence of her children. And I pray God to give the husband and wife the spirit and the understanding to correct themselves in such matters. I know that a great many of the difficulties that now appear, and the disrespect that we find in reference to the Priesthood, among young people, arises from this fact, that there have been difficulties in the home circle,and there has been disrespect expressed in their presence, of the father by the mother, or of the mother by the father. Now I know these things are so.  
  
Well, I see my time has expired. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and fill you with His Holy Spirit, that we may become sanctified, that we may be worthy to stand in the presence of God in time to come. Amen.  