14
Afternoon
05 10 1897
The General Authorities
4
43-44

None

None

were presented to the Conference by President George Q. Cannon, as follows:  
  
Wilford Woodruff, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world.  
  
George Q. Cannon as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Joseph F. Smith as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Lorenzo Snow as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the quorum of the Twelve Apostles — Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill and Anthon H. Lund.  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
Patriarch to the Church— John Smith.  
  
First Seven Presidents of the Seventies — Seymour Is. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, B. H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball and Rulon S. Wells.  
  
William B. Freston as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton as his first and John R. Winder as his second counselor.  
  
Franklin D. Richards as Church historian and general Church recorder, with John Jaques and Charles W. Penrose as his assistants.  
  
As the General Church Board of Education — Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon, Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith and John Nicholson.  
  
As Trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshippers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — Wilford Woodruff.  
  
John Nicholson as Clerk of the General Conference.  
  
All of the voting to sustain the authorities was unanimous.  
  
In presenting the names to fill the vacancies in the quorum of the Apostles and the First Council of Seventies, President George Q. Cannon said:  
  
It is well known to the Latter-day Saints that there are two vacancies in the quorum of the Twelve. Apostles, one through death, and another through the severance of a person from the quorum. We now propose to fill those vacancies, and present to the Conference the name of Matthias F. Cowley to be one of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
It may be well to state to this Conference that Brother Matthias F. Cowley is at present the second counselor to the President of the Oneida Stake of Zion. He is a man that has labored in the ministry very zealously, and is known, to all acquainted with him, as a man of worth.  
  
(His name was then put to the Conference, and he was sustained by unanimous vote.)  
  
It is now proposed that Abraham Owen Woodruff be ordained one of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
He has been a missionary to Germany, has acquired the language there, has labored very zealously in that mission, and since his return has been very zealous and indefatigable in his labors here among us. He is a youthful, but a promising man.  
  
(His name was then presented, and the vote to sustain him was also unanimous.)  
  
I may say, before sitting down, that the mind of the Lord was diligently sought for in relation to these appointments, and we can say to you that the mind of the Lord was obtained, and we know that the men who have been chosen are the men whom the Lord has designated to us to fill these positions.  
  
There is a vacancy in the Seven Presidents of the Seventies. It is now proposed that Joseph W. McMurrin be ordained to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Elder Edward Stevenson.  
  
(His name was presented, and he likewise was sustained by unanimous vote of the Conference.)  
  
I wish to add in relation to this appointment, the mind of the Lord was also sought, and this is as it came to us. Elder McMurrin is now on a mission in Great Britain, and is one of the Presidency of the European mission.  
  
"We wish to say to the Saints who are assembled here that neither of these brethren has known of this till now; so you must not be surprised if they are embarrassed. "When we decided upon it, it was understood that we should keep this to ourselves until they should be presented here. We did not want anyone to know about it or to talk about it, and they are as much surprised, I suppose, as any of you can be.  