10
Afternoon
06 04 1934
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
42-45

None

None

I appreciate the opportunity that is mine, to represent the division of the Church known as the Central States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have never permitted myself to aspire to such a position, or to even think about it, but the Lord, through his servants, has graciously permitted me to enjoy this opportunity. To me it is a rare privilege. I hope to be worthy of the confidence and the trust imposed in me. 

The people of the Central States Mission, most of them having been converted and brought into the Church under the presidency of President Samuel O. Bennion, are God-fearing, humble, sincere people. There are twenty-three organized branches and a considerable number of Sunday Schools in addition to the branches, with the usual Relief Society organizations and the Primaries that are common to each of the missions. 

These good people are faithful tithe-payers. They observe the Word of Wisdom as well as the people do in the stakes of Zion. They are trying, in their own way, and it is a good way, to keep the commandments of the Lord. They are well organized. We have a mission stake organization, so to speak, that is, a union board, which supervises the auxiliary work of the mission. 

During the month of May there will be a Mutual Improvement contest, which is held annually in Kansas City, Missouri, from which we hope to have the honor of sending a few delegates to join with you in your June conference. 

It occurred to me that it might be of interest to many people who know Horace Ensign very well, to have me tell you that he presides over our Wichita branch, and that delightful and rich voice of his, which has cheered and gladdened the hearts of many, is frequently heard in that humble congregation, and enjoyed by them. He is their spiritual father and their music master. They love him, and he devotes himself as assiduously to that work as if he were presiding over the most important branch of the Church. I know he would like to have me give you his greetings, because I can remember many a conference, in days gone by, when his voice has added to the pleasure of our conference. Others formerly prominent among you are living here and there in portions of our mission. 

As you know, the mission headquarters are in that city of early romance in church history, Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. I think I have never been in a community where the business men seem to be more united and of higher character than they are at Independence. They hold our people in high esteem. This has been made so, I am sure, by the very splendid public service rendered by President Bennion and his wife in that community. I find, in going about Independence, when I have to introduce myself, if I merely say I am the successor to President Bennion the door is open for me, and I am made welcome everywhere. Those good people send greetings to him. The thing I have noticed about the people of Independence is their devotion to high ideals. 

I remember, at a recent meeting of the Kiwanis Club, listening to a lecturer from Kansas City, who, in the course of his lecture, saw fit to tell a few stories that may not be properly told in a drawing room, among ladies and gentlemen, and he was not very well received. I remember particularly that at the close of the gathering, as we were separating to go to our occupations, the editor of the paper said to me: "Mr. Woodruff, how did you enjoy the talk?" "Oh," I said, "I have enjoyed things better than that." 

"Well," he said, "I didn't like it at all. I don't see why it was necessary for him to impose his stories upon us." 

I mention that because I want you to know that the people who now live in Jackson County, Missouri, are high-minded, clean-minded people, and they esteem the Latter-day Saints. They regard us as worthy people, and would welcome us back there in numbers if we should happen to want to go. 

The mission is in a prosperous condition. The people are happy. I am honored to represent them and happy to labor among them. I hope to be worthy of their love and confidence. 

I am happy to tell you that the missionaries are well and enjoying their labors, and they are laboring with reasonable zeal and diligence to carry the message of the Gospel to those to whom they have been sent. The harvest is great and the laborers are few. Through the Bureau of Information we receive many leads, many names of people upon whom we are asked to call. We can visit only a few of them. All over the mission people are calling and asking for Elders — can't we send some Elders? We can send them only those that we have, as far as they can go. They often become wandering Elders, at the present time. Only a few of them settle down in any community to labor locally. In order to cover the districts it is necessary for them to move about a great deal. But they enjoy their labors, and as I say, they are all well. 

We have no persecution at home or abroad apparently, that is, nothing to speak of. It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that the danger in the Church today is within it. I have found, as I go about the mission and over the Western States Mission, to some extent, the same — a disposition on the part of the people to want to find fault with each other, rather than to be happy with each other. I do not mean all of them; I mean some of them. When I come home I find the same condition here. 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, if we cannot be more united, if we cannot have more confidence in our leaders, those who preside over us, locally and generally; if we cannot live so that we may enjoy the spirit that comes to those who keep the commandments of the Lord, and who want to sustain his servants who preside over them and be in harmony with them. I am trying to teach the people, as far as it lies within my power, to examine themselves, to ask themselves the question: "Am I enjoying the Holy Spirit?" And in order to ascertain whether they do or not I say: "Find out whether or not you have the fruits of the Spirit in your lives, for the fruits of the Spirit are love and joy and peace and long-suffering and patience, and kindred qualities. If you are happy and at peace with all men, if you love your neighbor, then you enjoy the Spirit; but if you are unhappy and discontented, and if things are not going the way you think they should go, and you feel like you must reach out your hand to steady the ark, then perhaps the fault is yours." 

So the people are being urged to examine themselves, to see whether there is something the matter with them. I ask myself the question: What is the matter with Elias Woodruff? If I can find out what is the matter with myself, and keep myself in harmony with the Holy Spirit, then I feel like I am reasonably safe. Let me ask you, my brethren and sisters at home, as well as I would ask those people in the mission: Examine yourselves and see if you are in the faith. Do you believe the Gospel? Do you believe that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God? Do you believe that President Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God? Are you willing to take his counsel and advice, and follow it? Or are you a law unto yourself, guiding and charting your own course in life, determining what you think is right and what you think is the wrong thing to do? It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that there is the danger in the Church today. Let us examine ourselves. Let us be happy in our worship. "Adam fell," we are told, "that men might be; and men are that they might have joy." If we are not joyful and happy, then we ought to be. 

God bless you, I ask, in the name of Jesus, Amen.
