6
Afternoon
06 04 1934
Elder George Albert Smith 
31
25-30

None

None

I am very grateful today to be with you, my brethren and sisters, in this, the second session of our conference. I trust that the Spirit of the Lord will continue with us, that we may be edified under the influence of the same, and that when we go from here we may feel that it has been profitable and that we have indeed waited upon the Lord. 

A DIMINISHING FAITH IN GOD 

During the last few months some things have occurred that have been more or less distressing to me, one being the evidence that there is a diminishing faith in God. Only a few weeks ago I read in one of the large daily papers a statement of the result of a questionnaire that had been sent out to 500 Protestant ministers, men who are leaders in the churches of the world, and I was very much disappointed to discover that there were those among them who did not believe in a personal God, who did not believe in the divinity of Jesus Christ, who did not believe that there is a heaven, and 54 per cent did not believe in a personal devil. I might mention other things, Bible teachings, that were discredited by these men, who have been educated to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the Christian world. 

Recently I have met quite a number of missionaries, many of them young men, some young women, representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They have been able when they were called upon, to stand on their feet and testify to the truth of these things that are doubted by the men who are supposed to be leaders in Christian churches. 

AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE PURPOSE OF LIFE 

I fear that the condition of the world is due to a lack of understanding of the purpose of our being. They do not know about pre-existence. There are so many that seem to have no conception of it, and have no desire to know where we are going when our mortal life is ended. 

That was the condition which prevailed in the world when the Gospel was restored in the latter days. The Savior, in the meridian of time, delivered his message and gave to the people an understanding of the truth. Then, when he finished his work, after having organized his church, he left them, went back to his Heavenly Father and is enthroned in the heavens. We are the recipients of the benefits and blessings enjoyed by humankind as a result of his marvelous life here upon the earth. 

A little over a hundred years ago there were few people in the world who believed in a personal God with a body. But a manifestation came at that time to the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he was only a boy, not yet fifteen years of age, and he saw the Father and the Son and so testified. He also received visitations from other heavenly beings, and the Lord, through them gave him additional information for the children of men, and he, in his own way, gave to us, or to those who preceded us in the Church, an understanding of the purpose of life. The Lord blessed him in his ministry, but like many of the prophets who had lived before him, he became a martyr for the truth. 

DIVINE TRUTHS REVEALED THROUGH A PROPHET 

Before his death thousands of good men and women accepted him as a prophet and gathered at Nauvoo, Illinois, and erected a beautiful Temple. Mob violence deprived them of their homes and they were driven to the wilderness, arriving in this then desolate valley July 24, 1847. They believed in God the Eternal Father and in his Son Jesus Christ and accepted his Gospel as the only plan that would insure them a place in the Celestial kingdom. His description of heaven inspires us with a desire to foe worthy of a home there when our earthly lives are finished. A literal resurrection and a description of heaven and hell are made so plain that, to use a scripture, "a wayfaring man, though a fool, need not err therein." 

All that information that was given to Joseph a little over a hundred years ago has been passed on by a community of people that were driven from their homes in the East, who came to this western land and established themselves here. They have been subduing the land, building homes and cities, and in the meantime they have been sending missionaries into all parts of the world to disseminate the truth. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO MANKIND 

I can understand how careless men might be with the rights of others, if they believe that in this life only we have hope. They would not be as considerate of their fellows if they did not understand the purpose of life. There has been bequeathed to us who are here today, and our associates in this Church, the responsibility of delivering a message to the children of men, carrying it into all the world so that others will understand it, and so that those who do not know may be brought to repentance of sin, and turn to righteousness. 

I asked myself today, as I looked into the faces of this fine congregation, how many of us have performed our part? How many of these men who are in presiding positions have been in the world, and given their time and their means to divide with our Father's children the truth that has been restored again in this latter day? There are thousands of men in this audience, and it is probable that by far the majority of those who are here, holding the Melchizedek Priesthood, have been in the mission field. You have not only given two or more years of your lives as ambassadors of our Lord but you have borne the expense necessary to accomplish your missions, for which you may receive an eternal blessing. 

It is our duty to teach the truth. The Lord has called us to do that and we should qualify, not only to teach it to the world, but to live it in our own homes, in all our communities. Only in proportion to our observance of the teachings of the Lord will happiness come into our lives. 

To believe that we are the children of the Lord, that he is the Father of our spirits, that we are living eternal lives, is surely a comfortable feeling. To know that we may have the companionship of those we love throughout the ages of eternity is an inspiration. These blessings have come to us. The Lord has bestowed them upon us to prepare us to take advantage of our opportunities here, and to exemplify in our lives those precious truths that enrich us here and bless those with whom we associate. 

THE ONLY MEANS OF SECURING PEACE AND HAPPINESS 

There is much confusion in the world and there seems to be no way to remove it except by the power of our Heavenly Father. The wisdom of the world is failing, the scripture is fulfilled, and today the wisest of all men are seeking, by means of legislation, to bring about a better condition and a more wholesome life among the human family. They may strive in that way, but unless men have faith in God, unless they understand the purpose of life, they will not go very far. The people of the world must repent of their sins before the Lord can give to them the peace and happiness desired. No other plan will succeed. 

OUR PRIVILEGE AND DUTY 

So upon you, my brethren, who hold the Priesthood, much responsibility is placed. We have an understanding of the truth. It is your duty and mine to live the Gospel, and to disseminate the truth as we have opportunity. It is your privilege and mine to carry the message of life and salvation to the children of men. There are many who have no idea of the purpose of this Church. I have had men ask me: "Of what benefit is your church more than some other church?" I have tried, in a tactful way, to explain to them the difference. Any organization may band together for worship, but that does not give them divine authority. Any group of churches may mass together and organize community churches. That does not confer divine authority. Men may unite for good purposes, but authority from our Heavenly Father is only obtained in his way, and his way in former days was by calling and ordaining men and setting them apart for the work. The same thing is true in our day. 

PREPARATION FOR CELESTIAL GLORY 

So while we may see the beauties of other faiths, and they may teach precious truth, and many wonderful people are identified with the various churches, we must understand that only the Lord's plan will prepare them for a place in the Celestial kingdom. The purpose of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is to prepare us for the Celestial kingdom. The Lord has revealed to us that there are other kingdoms of glory, and other kingdoms not of glory; but in order that men might be prepared for the Celestial kingdom he sent his Only Begotten Son into the world. He overcame death and found the way of the resurrection, and delivered the message of life and salvation to the children of men. We know that, brethren, but our Father's children in the world do not understand it. 

Think of the responsibility that is upon us, if in carelessness or indifference we live our lives, not seeking to divide the truth with those whom the Lord loves as much as he loves us, and who are precious in his sight. I feel that there should be an awakening among some of the members of this Church. I think a greater effort should be made to divide with our Father's children all the truth that is deposited with this Church. 

DIVINE AUTHORITY NECESSARY 

People should be made to understand that just to bow before the Lord in prayer does not give them divine authority. To live up to the requirements that are made of honesty, virtue, truth, etc., does not give them divine authority. Our Heavenly Father has made it plain to the children of men that only under the hands of those who possess divine authority may we obtain the power to become members of the Celestial kingdom. Knowing that, how anxious we ought to be to disseminate that information and divide it with those who live in the world. 

I stand here today, fully convinced of the divinity of the mission of Jesus Christ. I know it as I know that I live. If I were recreant to that knowledge, if I failed to do my part, knowing that, what would my condemnation be? 

I am grateful that in this day and age the Lord has revealed the Gospel again. The Father and the Son appeared, men who held the Priesthood formerly came and conferred that Priesthood upon humble men and they in turn were commanded to confer it upon others. So the Gospel and the Priesthood have been made available to all who will qualify to receive the same, and that is the Lord's way. 

It is not sufficient that we pray, that we attend church. It is necessary that we possess divine authority, and it is the claim that we possess that authority that has brought upon this Church much of the persecution that has followed it from the beginning. But it is the truth and many of our Father's children are beginning to observe the effect of divine authority in this Church. They see the development that is made in the lives of men and women and I think there is more inquiry today after the truth, as taught by the Redeemer of mankind, than there has been during the last hundred years. I believe the way is opening, and the Lord is preparing the hearts of men, that they will be willing to hear the truth and accept it. 

PROGRESS OF CHURCH CAN NOT BE IMPEDED BY MAN 

What a glorious opportunity is ours! The Gospel has been preached in this very structure, from this pulpit, for more than half a century and we are the fourth, fifth and sixth generations in the Church now living, and all this time the adversary has opposed the truth, and he will continue to oppose it, but it is our duty to exemplify the beauty of it in our lives, that men, seeing our good works, will be constrained to accept the Gospel and to glorify the name of the Redeemer. 

Think of the men who have presided over this Church — Joseph Smith gave his life without hesitation, when the time came, but he had finished his work. The men who have succeeded him in the presidency have possessed divine authority. Each of them in their turn has been criticized. Fault has been found with their ministry, but they have been servants of the Lord and he has recognized them, and they have lived long, useful lives, and have blessed the people. 

The conditions are just the same today. The same influences that destroyed the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith crucified the Savior. The same influences that have betrayed the servants of the Lord in the past are in the world today. Knowing that and realizing how futile men have been to impede the progress of this Church how grateful we ought to be to know that this work is not the work of man, but it is the work of the Lord; that this Church, that bears the name of Jesus Christ, is directed by him, and he will permit no man or group of men to destroy it. He will not permit the men who preside over his Church to lead the people into error, but he will sustain them with his almighty power. He will magnify them in the eyes of good and great men and women. He will bless their ministry and it will be fraught with success. Those who oppose and find fault will not find joy in their opposition. Those who criticize and seek to destroy the influence of the leaders of the Church will suffer the result of their wrong-doing. 

THE ONLY PLAN 

But let us who know, those of us who have a testimony, go forth day by day and with love and kindness unfeigned go among these men and women, whether they be in the Church or out of the Church, and find a way to touch their hearts and lead them into that pathway that will insure them a knowledge of the truth. 

This is the Lord's work. As I said before, men may unite for prayer and thanksgiving, but that does not confer upon them divine authority. All the churches of the world might unite and agree upon one plan of worship, but that would not give them divine authority. And if all the churches of the world did agree to some plan, and decide that that plan would be sufficient for us here upon earth, that would not prepare men for the Celestial kingdom. The only plan that will prepare men for the Celestial kingdom is the plan that has been given by Jesus Christ, our Lord; and the only authority that will qualify men to teach and to officiate in the ordinances of the Gospel properly is the authority of Jesus Christ, our Lord. 

SHOULD MAGNIFY OUR CALLING 

Now, brethren and sisters, knowing that, how grateful we ought to be; realizing that, how anxious we should be to go about doing good. It is a slothful servant who waits until he is commanded in all things. Our Heavenly Father expects us to magnify our calling, no matter where it may be, no matter how humble our lot in life may be. Let us improve our talents, so that when the time comes for the Master to reward us according to what we have done, we may receive the blessing that was given to two of the three men referred to in the parable of the talents: "Well done, good and faithful servant." 

REJOICES IN COMPANIONSHIP OF CHURCH AUTHORITIES 

Again I say I know this is the work of the Lord. I am thankful for the companionship of the men with whom I am associated. I am grateful to stand at the side of the Presidency of the Church and among the Quorum of the Twelve and bear witness that I know that this is God's work. I am thankful for my heritage, grateful for the love and kindness that have been extended to me by those with whom I have associated. 

I pray God, our Father in heaven, that we, his people, may see and understand all truth, attune our lives to the righteousness of the teachings of the Gospel, and conduct ourselves in such a way that everywhere we go men may rejoice in our companionship. If we will do that our homes will be the abiding place of peace; our towns and cities and our countryside will be blessed of the Lord. If we will observe the commandments of our Heavenly Father we will not suffer for the necessities of life, beyond what we can bear, we will not lose the faith, we will not fall into darkness, but the light and joy of the testimony that comes from our Heavenly Father will fill our souls. That it may do so, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
