9
Afternoon
06 04 1934
Elder Miles L. Jones 
101
40-42

None

None

I feel my weakness, my brethren and sisters, in standing before you this afternoon, realizing, as I do, the great responsibility that rests upon those who undertake to speak in the name of the Lord. 

I am indeed happy to report to you this afternoon the activities of the East Central States Mission. I am pleased to say that the missionaries are enjoying good health. They are enjoying their labors. There are new fields being opened up from time to time, and they have the privilege and the opportunity of explaining the Gospel to many people, and many are being brought to a knowledge of the truth, and are receiving the ordinance of baptism by immersion, for the remission of sins; and after that, the birth of the Spirit by the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

I have had the privilege, while laboring in the mission, of meeting many men and women of prominence in various communities and have had the privilege of explaining the Gospel to them. 

Just a few days ago, in the city of Louisville, in conversation with a very influential man whom I had met several times before, and with whom I had left some literature — he put this question: 

"Mr. Jones, do all members of your church have the same abiding faith and assurance that some of you have?" To which I answered that that testimony comes through the Holy Ghost, which is conferred upon the baptized believer by those who hold the authority. Having been divinely commissioned and holding the holy Priesthood, they have the authority to perform that ordinance in the name of the Lord. Those who receive the ordinance of baptism and then the birth of the Spirit, through the laying on of hands, do have that abiding faith and that testimony burning within their souls, provided they live worthy of that blessing. 

Conditions have arisen that have given me a great deal of satisfaction. Just recently we had an application from three persons who desired to enter the waters of baptism. Not desiring to wait until the weather was more pleasant so that we could retire to the river, I called upon a very influential man who I knew was a member of the Board of Control of the First Christian Church. I had talked with him a number of times, I had learned some of his views, and I knew the position that he held. I called upon him and asked if it would be possible for us to arrange for the use of their baptismal font for this particular occasion, to which he answered very readily: "Yes, sir. I can make the arrangement for you, and will be very glad to do it," which he did. We had the privilege of going into the finest chapel in the city of Louisville, and those three persons entered the waters of baptism. 

I wish to say that the feeling that went out upon that occasion, and the spirit manifested, bore witness to all who were there of the divinity of the work; and the director and others, as well as the minister in charge, assured us that we could have the use of the font any time that we desired, absolutely free of charge, and that we were entirely welcome to the use of it. 

That is the spirit that is being manifested among the people of the world, generally speaking. A wonderful change has come over the people, and I am very thankful indeed for conditions as they exist. I want to say that there are thousands in the world today that are earnestly seeking after truth, and as the Gospel message is brought to their attention it is making an impression upon their minds. It is almost a daily occurrence that I receive letters from various parts of the mission, asking for more literature and more information in regard to our teachings. Thus we have the opportunity of corresponding with these people after which the Elders visit them in their homes and explain the Gospel to them; in this way many are being brought to a knowledge of the truth. 

As I view it, there is a wonderful harvest before us, not only for this year but for time to come because of the change that is coming among the children of men; and I ask you who are here in the land of Zion, where you have the privilege and the opportunity of attending your meetings, your Sunday Schools, and the various organizations, if you realize and appreciate to the fullest extent the blessings that you are enjoying. You should be thankful for the opportunity that you have, compared to that which prevails in the world. It is a great blessing to you and a blessing to all those who have this privilege and this opportunity. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that I have had the opportunity of laboring in the work of the Lord for a third time in the mission field, something over five years now. It seems a short time, but I have seen many things that have strengthened my testimony, and I have witnessed conditions upon several occasions that have been beyond the power and the wisdom of man to solve, but God has come to the rescue, the way has been opened, and the work has been carried on, I hope and trust, in a way that is pleasing to our Heavenly Father. 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have of the divinity of this great latter-day work, for I know, as I know that I stand before you this afternoon, that it is the work of the Lord, that it is the power of God unto salvation; that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior and the Redeemer of the world; and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of Almighty God, in establishing this work upon the earth for the last time. It will never more be thrown down nor given to another people, but will stand forever; and those who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith, down to the President who stands at the head today, even President Heber J. Grant, have been and are God's mouthpieces upon the earth. 

God bless you. Peace be with you, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
