11
Afternoon
06 04 1934
Elder Arthur Welling 
102
45-47

None

None

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to again bring greetings from the mission field, and to join in testimony of the truth and importance of this great latter-day work. I know, as I know that I live, that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and am grateful that we of the mission fields have the privilege semi-annually of coming up here "To the mountain of the Lord's house, — to be taught of his ways, and to walk in his paths." I am increasingly thankful for this testimony and privilege, and for my calling in the mission field. 

Some one has said that what men most need is something to hold them always at their best. Mormonism and the missionary system of this Church do just that. A story, abbreviated within time limits allowed, will illustrate: 

In a hall at Northwestern University is a bronze tablet memorial to "The Man Who Did His Best." And the legend accompanying it is as follows: 

A storm of unusual violence had swept Lake Michigan, destroying or disabling practically all vessels and strewing the shore with wreckage. As the storm abated, watchers ashore could see, far out on the lake, a group of survivors clinging helplessly to the wreckage of their crafts. 

For want of other means of rescue, one young man, a student at Northwestern, renowned among his fellows for his prowess in the water, resolved to bring what help was possible to those in distress by swimming to their aid. Stripped of excess clothing, he swam out and back, out and back, eighteen times, each time bringing to safety a sufferer from the wreck, until, completely exhausted, he fell unconcious among his fellows ashore. Admiring friends worked over him, and as consciousness returned, he looked into their anxious faces, his own brother among the number, and feebly asked: "Did I do my best?" 

In like manner, I repeat, Mormonism and the missionary system of the Church encourage the youth of the Church to do their best. They go into the mission field imbued with a testimony of the truth and with a feeling of responsibility to you, to the Church and to the Lord. They read with new meaning the first great commandment. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy mind. — And thy neighbor as thyself." And they begin really to live up to that standard. 

They learn afresh that "The worth of souls is great in the sight of God;" and they go out and try humbly to reclaim some of these souls. 

They begin to realize the meaning of the Savior's words: "He that findeth his life shall lose it; but he that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it." In borrowed phrase, "Who gives himself with his gift feeds three, himself, his hungry neighbor, and Me." And so, unselfishly serving this great latter-day cause, they grow as never before, and possibly never again; and "the power of God is in them." They love their work, and are magnified in the eyes of the people. Small wonder they remember these experiences as the happiest of their lives. 

And while the missionary is thus serving at his best in the field, what is happening here at home? Devoted parents follow anxiously the progress of the one away. Brothers and sisters often make little sacrifices that the missionary work may continue. Thus, each at his best, all share in the spirit of service and in the rare privilege and opportunity of carrying this great Gospel message to the world. 

I concur and rejoice in the testimony that friendliness is increasing in the world. There never was a better time for preaching the Gospel than now. Everywhere, among the better informed classes, this Church and people are held in high regard. But I venture the thought that friendliness alone is not enough. Salvation cometh not by sufferance of former critics; but by obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. That good men everywhere may come to know and love the truths of the restored Gospel, that our friends of the world may be induced seriously to examine the claim that God has again spoken from the heavens, and that this is verily the Church of Jesus Christ, established again upon the earth, for the perfecting of the Saints, and for the benefit and blessing of all who believe and obey its teachings, — all this is part of the high purpose and obligation of Mormonism's message to the world. 

In conclusion, I can think of no more fitting expression of the missionary spirit than Howard Arnold Walter's "My Creed”: 

I would be true, for there are those who trust me; 
I would be pure, for there are those who care; 
I would be strong, for there is much to suffer; 
I would be brave, for there is much to dare. 

I would be friend of all — the foe, the friendless; 
I would be giving, and forget the gift; 
I would be humble, for I know my weakness; 
I would look up — and laugh, and love, and lift. 

On my honor, my brethren and sisters, I will do my best to live up to the high privilege of missionary service. 

May the Lord continue his blessings upon the missionary work of his Church, and upon the people of the world, that they may find the truth and obey it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
