19
Afternoon
07 04 1934
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon
5
71-78

None

None 

I am impressed, my brethren and sisters, with this wonderful congregation, and with the spirit of this meeting, as well as those that have preceded it. This is a representative congregation of the Latter-day Saints. Here are represented practically all of the officers of the Church and a goodly number of the members thereof. I am happy to be with you. Yet I feel keenly the difficulty of speaking in the midst of this vast gathering. 

LABORS OF PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

I desire briefly to report to you my stewardship in the position that I fill, as a servant of this people and as one of the servants of the Lord. The labors and duties of the Presiding Bishopric are varied and extensive. I desire to state to you that we are doing our best to fulfil the duties and responsibilities thereof, to exercise judgment, accuracy and economy in all the matters entrusted to our care; and to see that honesty and integrity are maintained in every department of the work. While the duties and labors are many and diverse, we are endeavoring to so organize and systematize the affairs that you may be assured that every phase of the work with which we have to do is being carried forward promptly and thoroughly, and the most effective results possible obtained in every division thereof. I rejoice in this duty. I may say to you that I have never worked so hard in my life as during the time that I have been in, this place; and I have never enjoyed work so greatly as I have in this department. I realize that the Lord has blessed me more than I have been justified in receiving. I desire to carry on under the direction of my brethren of the First Presidency, and to do my best to advance the purposes of the Lord. 

PROGRESS OF THE CHURCH 

In addition to what has been presented in the financial and statistical report of the progress of this work during 1933, and since the last conference, I call your attention to the fact that in general there is an increase in the activities, and as far as can be determined, in the faith of the people. Notwithstanding the very seriously unfavorable economic conditions of the past year, there was a slight increase in the tithes of the people of the Church. There was quite a material increase in the number who paid tithing, which indicates the faith of those who have taken upon them these covenants. Unfortunately, there was not an increase in the fast offerings. Why that should be I cannot quite understand; because of the need of donations that should come through the fasting of the people, and their willingness to give for those who are in need. In other respects the activities have generally increased. There was a slight increase in the attendance at sacrament meetings and at ward Priesthood meetings. 

GROWTH OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

There was an increase in the number who bear the Priesthood of the Church, both in the Melchizedek and the Aaronic Priesthoods. The Aaronic Priesthood members now total, over 90,000. I believe that those who have the responsibility of these young men throughout the Church, in the stakes and wards and missions, are appreciating more and more the importance of training these young men and giving them personal consideration, so that they may become imbued with the spirit and power of their Priesthood, and be prepared for the responsibilities that will come to them in the future. 

GREAT MISSION OF THE CHURCH 

About a year before the Church was organized various men received revelations from the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith in some of which a particular expression was used. In the revelation given to David Whitmer the following words occur: "Seek to bring forth and establish my Zion." Now, I appreciate the fact that this work, which was declared to them in a prospective way, before the Church was organized, and which was revealed, at the time of the organization of the Church, as a great and marvelous work that was about to come forth — I realize that this work has a great destiny and a great mission before it. It has already been expressed in our hearing during these gatherings. That mission is especially to promulgate the Gospel to all mankind— to bring those who desire to know the truth to a knowledge and acceptance of the same; to promote generally the welfare and progress of mankind; to build better communities in which to live; and to prepare the way for the coming of the reign of peace. 

GREAT MISSIONARY WORK OF THE PAST 

Consider for a moment the fact that during the one hundred years that have elapsed since the Church was organized a marvelous work has been accomplished. The leadership of the Church, and all the officers and members thereof, in the past hundred years, have done a great pioneer work, first in the promulgation of the Gospel; second in colonization and empire building; and third, in cultural growth. Consider the tremendous effort that was put forth to open the doors of the many nations to the Gospel in those times when they were lacking in means and in men, with the unfavorable means of transportation and communication! What a wonderful achievement in the spread of the Gospel message in that hundred years! 

PIONEERING AND EMPIRE BUILDING 

Again, in the building of the settlements and the advancement of the people in a temporal way, what a splendid pace they set! We follow them from New York, through Ohio, Missouri, Illinois and Iowa; and then out to the Rocky Mountains; and we remember the growth and development that has occurred throughout the intermountain empire in the meantime. It is marvelous to appreciate! They were real pioneers. These men and women were not daunted by any unfavorable conditions. They carried on under the most adverse circumstances. They had persecutions to meet. Yet new communities were built and the borders of the Church extended. Here they were taught to build and beautify homes, farms, towns and cities, and to promote their local interests. 

SPIRITUAL AND CULTURAL GROWTH 

Then, in addition to the material growth, the Church members were being given spiritual and cultural development through the facilities of the Priesthood, the schools that were organized, the auxiliary associations, and through musical, dramatic and social features, even in the midst of frontier hardships such as we can scarcely appreciate. So the work has gone on, and the way has been prepared, in a measure at least, for the coming of the reign of peace. 

ANOTHER ERA 

Now we stand at the beginning of another hundred years — another era. What shall be the achievements of this people during that era? We are one hundred years nearer the reign of peace and the millennium. The results will depend largely upon our initiative — individual and collective. Conditions at the present time — men's thoughts and ideas — are changing rapidly. We realize to some extent from past experience how the thoughts and sentiments of mankind can be changed, but we also realize what remarkable changes must occur in human nature before mankind can be prepared for universal peace. 

FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES 

As has been expressed here, there are certain things that are fundamental, — that do not change so far as the Gospel of Jesus Christ is concerned. Among others the law of morality does not change in any age. The ordinance of baptism, as a means of bringing people into the fold of Christ, does not change at any time. And so with other eternal principles. Only by obedience thereto will promised blessings follow. It has been said that there is nothing so constant as change. There are policies that may change, habits and customs that may change, in the progress of civilization, to which men must adapt themselves. The Latter-day Saints are most progressive in adopting and adapting conditions to the situations under which we live, and that without sacrificing anything that is fundamentally important in the Gospel. We accept these changing temporal conditions. But the nature of these conditions which affect our temporal welfare must conform in principle to our spiritual ideals. 

THE CHALLENGE TO US 

Now, in what respects can we, as Latter-day Saints today, looking forward, carry on just as effectively as have those who have carried on this work from the beginning? It seems to me that there are three ways in which we should particularly direct our thought and effort not only toward ourselves as a people, but to the welfare and progress of men generally, and toward the preparation for the coming of the reign of peace. These three ways are similar to those referred to in the past history of this people. 

BUILD FAITH AND RIGHTEOUSNESS 

First, we should seek to establish the cause of Zion more firmly in the hearts and lives of the younger members of the Church. We should continue to build a structure of faith upon the solid foundations already laid. It is our obligation to increase the courage and determination such as has been evidenced by those who have led the people throughout the history of the Church. The establishment of Zion now justifies and demands even more whole-hearted effort. The entire freedom from persecution which we now enjoy should cause us to put forth our energies in larger measure to the solution of various problems which confront us, and which interfere with our progress. We should be thankful that we are now enjoying the friendliness and consideration of men generally. But we do not need in any way to sacrifice any principle in which w« believe, in order to enjoy that respect and regard. Being free from persecution, we should not be lulled to sleep, nor in any way slacken our efforts in behalf of the cause of truth. The development of greater faith will lead to a fuller observance of all Gospel principles and to greater unity. Likewise, in these perilous times we should, as a people, teach more extensively and practice the highest standards of virtue and morality. If we enjoy the spirit of the Gospel it will produce greater tolerance and consideration on the part of everyone of us toward our fellowmen everywhere. In the same manner we should be willing to forgive and have the desire to be forgiven of our shortcomings which will be the means of producing finer lives by all who practice such principles. 

ADVANCEMENT OF MISSIONARY WORK 

In the missionary work, just as has been done in the hundred years that have passed, it seems to me that there is a tremendous opportunity and responsibility. We have new means of transportation and communication, whereby time can be saved and the Gospel can be spread in wider circles than ever before. I think those means need to be adopted as fully as possible. It would appear that every appropriate facility for the spreading of the Gospel should be carefully considered and applied in the most effective way. There is a fine opportunity for initiative on the part of those who have the direction of the missionary work, to do it in such a way that it shall be advanced most profitably. Yet there is a fundamental feature of missionary work which we cannot neglect. That is the teaching of the Savior, both in the time when he was upon the earth, and in these days by revelation from the Lord, that we should preach the Gospel as nearly as possible without purse and scrip. Experience has everywhere proven, I think, that generally the missionaries who spend the least do the best work and have the greatest success among the people. The personal contact and conversations of the missionary with those who may be interested in the Gospel message is the important thing for which to strive. The personal testimony of the man who goes out in the power and spirit of his calling is most effective. Therefore, it seems to me that the distribution of literature and other efforts should be a means to the important end which is to get Gospel conversations with the people. 

DEVELOPMENT OF FINER CIVILIZATION 

The second way, I think, in which we can help to establish Zion is through the development of a finer civilization than has ever previously existed in the world. What makes a good civilization? I conceive it to be that condition of society in which every man, woman and child enjoys in fairness, equity and justice, the opportunity for steady progress in material, cultural and spiritual things, and protection against tyranny, oppression and evils of every nature. It is a condition where everyone is willing to do his or her part, and where good will and mutual helpfulness prevail. To the extent that any or all of these conditions are lacking today it is our opportunity to work together to endeavor to bring them about. The Church stands for the progress and welfare of humanity. Let us, therefore, apply the Gospel teachings to the improvement of social conditions. 

IMPROVEMENT IN EDUCATION 

We should strive to promote even better general education for our young people, wherein will be inculcated in larger measure an appreciation of moral and ethical principles and practices. We need to provide also for the application of theoretical instruction, to the problems which prevail in our various communities. There should be more vocational and applied courses suited to the conditions in the different localities, so that the young people may have the opportunity to fit into the local situations, and not have to drift away to other places and probably lose opportunities that might be theirs. It is to be expected that the teachers in all schools shall have characters above reproach and temperaments and habits such that their lives will prove a powerful stimulus for good with their students in their preparation for life's activities. 

IMPROVEMENT IN EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS 

Again, there is much room for improvement in employment conditions. It is important to strive to provide for every worker, first, gainful occupation; second, opportunities for recreation; and third, opportunities for religious activities. There should be worked out a basis of fair dealing applicable to all relations affecting employers and employees. There should be adequate means of conciliation and arbitration in all industrial disputes, in order to avoid the strife which results from failure to do this. I think we should work for conditions which will promote better protection for old age and for those who are incapacitated. 

WELFARE OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN 

Considerable is being done for the welfare of mothers. There can be still better care and protection provided for them. Those who pass through the shadow of the valley of death to bring forth life are entitled to enjoy safeguards to their health and that of their children. There should be suitable regulation of working conditions for women in order to insure the physical and moral health of the community. There should be assurance of the fullest positive development of every child. All children should be protected against unreasonable labor conditions and exploitation. But we must also remember the importance of training children under proper conditions to learn the value of work and the danger of idleness. I am not convinced of the desirability of the proposed federal child labor amendment, as it is drawn, which is now before the various states. It provides that "Congress shall have power to limit, regulate, and prohibit the labor of persons under eighteen years of age." I think those provisions are extreme. As former President Lowell of Harvard has wisely said: "We all want to stop the exploitation of children in factories, mines and industries of that nature. But we do not want interference with the home, or with the healthy and improving occupations of youth. Some people have no objection to confer such a power on the national government, trusting it will not be used. Some of us feel that to do so would be a mistake that we might hereafter greatly regret." 

BETTER COMMUNITY BUILDING 

A third way in which I think we can help materially to "establish Zion" is by the promotion of better community building, following up what the pioneers so splendidly started. There are so many ways in which we can work with all of our neighbors and fellow citizens to bring about better conditions. For instance, water is the very life blood in the growth of these intermountain communities. Therefore we should undertake as rapidly as conditions will permit to save every drop of waste water by possible storage. This present dry season only emphasizes this necessity. Careful geologic study should be given to possible sources of under water. The conservation of water supplies from year to year is very important. Further, there needs to be greater care and economy in the use of irrigation, power and municipal water supplies, to avoid, as far as possible, losses by seepage, evaporation and waste. Again, greater conservation of soil moisture in the maintenance of fertility spells the continued welfare and progress of our various communities. 

DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL INDUSTRIES AND RESOURCES 

The progress of every community depends upon the opportunities for employment either in agriculture, industry or business. Notwithstanding the fact that the manufacturing industries are not as general in our communities as in some other sections, every possible product that can be manufactured locally and sold profitably should be undertaken. Everyone in our local communities should undertake to thoroughly support our local industries by using their products. This is a very essential requirement for growth. Also we need to promote more real cooperative enterprises in this territory among producers as well as among consumers so that local people shall get the most direct benefit. The State of Utah, for example, is one of the richest in natural resources. Other surrounding states are, in many ways, similarly blessed. These resources should be developed, as far as possible, for the benefit of the citizens thereof and for the general progress of this commonwealth. 

MAKE OUR COMMUNITIES ATTRACTIVE 

I think we should continue the pioneering plans of the early settlers in the building of desirable communities. The planning should be toward providing for the welfare and opportunities of the. local people rather than toward increasing the population, with consequently greater unemployment. We should exercise care in the planning of tree-planting so as to provide pleasing effects through the proper location of trees on the streets and surrounding the homes, and through the selection of the proper hardwood trees to produce the best results. Setting apart of suitable property for natural parks and recreation grounds under conditions which will permit of very little cost for maintenance would mean much to the inhabitants and prove attractive to visitors. Much can be done by the united effort of all the residents in promoting public health, securing good water supplies, installing sewer facilities, maintaining sanitary conditions and preventing nuisances. 

BETTER HOMES MORE NEIGHBOURLINESS 

The future welfare of this people as church members and as citizens of this nation depends upon the spirit manifested in our homes. Irrespective of the cost or the extent of comforts in our homes, the important thing is that there should be love, kindly consideration and mutual confidence among all members of the household. No matter how humble the cottage may be, only the desire of improvement and attractiveness therein will produce the growth and unity necessary for the greatest joy and welfare of the family. In like manner, as love and kindliness produce peace and unity among the members of the family, so the practice of these same qualities in our relations with our neighbors and all those among whom we live will help to produce the same results in the community. As we learn to live in good will under these conditions we shall be spreading the spirit of peace in ever-widening circles. 

May our efforts constantly be to strive in all possible ways to help to "establish Zion," is my earnest prayer, Amen.
