22
Afternoon
07 04 1934
Elder John Wells 
108
81-84

None

None

I have been deeply interested in the teachings of the Gospel during this conference, and I am grateful for the privilege of being present. During troublesome times like the present, I believe we draw nearer to our Father in heaven and to each other. This thought has been expressed to me a number of times when visiting stakes of Zion. I have also heard many expressions of appreciation for the blessings which we are enjoying. While we may be poor in the things of the world, after all we still have with us the most worthwhile things of life — the Gospel, our testimonies of its divinity, our loved ones, and our associations in the Church. We have much to be thankful for. Henry Van Dyke has said these words: 

We should be glad to live because it gives us a chance to love and to work, .... to be satisfied, but not content, until we have made the best of our opportunities; to despise nothing in the world except falsehood and meanness, and to fear nothing except cowardice; to covet nothing of our neighbors except their kindness of heart and gentleness of manner; to think seldom of our enemies and often of our friends. 

I believe that the teaching of the Gospel is essential in our homes. Here there should be implanted in the hearts of our children a love of God, a love of fellow men, a love of service in this church, and loyalty to those who preside over us. The statement that "example is better than precept" is good, but example is not enough, for the teaching of the Gospel is vital for the development of the lives of our young people. 

Quite recently I heard the following remark by a young man who was reared in a Latter-day Saint home. He said, "I wish I were converted to the principle of tithing." He was reminded that he had before him always the example of his parents. Their example was not sufficient. There may be many young people in the Church who feel as did this young man. As parents, we have long since learned that the Lord requires of all those who earn or acquire means, one-tenth of their interest to be used for the maintenance of the Church in its various departments and for the support of the poor and needy; that it is a voluntary offering; that the payment of tithing should accomplish two things: By it we honor the Lord as the giver of all, and we subject our will to his law. As parents we are familiar with the law of tithing, but are we teaching it to our children and training them to observe it? 

The auxiliary organizations and quorums of the Priesthood are assisting us in our family life in teaching the Gospel to our children, but the responsibility of training a child "in the way he should go" is the duty of his parents. Some people consider that they have done their full duty to their children when they have fed and clothed them, given them shelter and education, and have put away money for them to inherit. More than this is required of Latter-day Saint parents. 

Children were regarded by the Hebrews as "gifts from God." At the age of five years, the Hebrew boy was placed under the special care of the father and was taught not only the duties of life, but was carefully instructed in the law and in religious obligations and devotions. We Latter-day Saints consider that our children are "an heritage from the Lord." 

Let us consider the word of the Lord pertaining to the responsibility of parents, as given in Section 68 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. 

After baptism the duty of the parents is continued: 

And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

The late President Joseph F. Smith expressed himself in these words: 

A great and important duty devolving upon this people is to teach their children from their cradle until they become men and women every principle of the Gospel; to endeavor as far as it lies in the power of parents to instill into their hearts a love for God, for truth, virtue, honesty, honor, and integrity. It does not need argument to convince our minds that our children will be just about what we make them. The little one begins to learn after it is born, and all that it knows depends upon its environment and the influences under which it is reared. 

Too great emphasis cannot be placed upon the early training of the child. It is the duty of parents to fit and qualify him for life. Habits are acquired and come from repetition. Doing a thing over and over again tends to make it a habit. Horace Mann says, "Habit is a cable; we weave a thread of it every day, and at last we cannot break it." This thought is emphasized in the following: 

I took a piece of plastic clay, 
And idly fashioned it one day, 
And, as my fingers pressed it still, 
It moved and yielded to my will. 
I came again when days were past, 
This bit of clay was hard at last, 
The form I gave it, still it bore, 
And I could change that form no more. 

I took a piece of living clay, 
And gently fashioned day by day 
And moulded with my power and art, 
A young child's soft and tender heart. 
I came again when years were gone — 
'Twas now a man I looked upon; 
He still that early impress bore, 
And I could change him nevermore. 

Faith in this great latter-day work and a knowledge of the principles of the Gospel should be instilled in the hearts of the boys and girls in their homes. 

While visiting in one of the stakes within the past few months, a mother of a family of four boys and two girls gave me her experiences in teaching tithing in the home. She was left a widow and had the responsibility of rearing this family of six children. On the day of each child's baptism the mother provided a small box into which the child was trained to deposit as tithing one-tenth of its gifts or earnings. She made it a point to see that the child received small sums of money for work about the farm, and whether ten cents or more, the mother was prepared to change the money so that the proper amount, one-tenth, could be placed in the box by her child as the Lord's tenth. This training, she said, has had a lasting effect upon the lives of her children. They are now grown; all are married; several have filled missions; all are active in the Church; and all are full tithepayers. She testified that this early training in the principle of tithing and its strict observance by her children has developed in them a living faith. Is not this method applicable in the home of every Latter-day Saint family? 

Through our example and teachings in the home can we not make this principle a habit in the lives of our boys and girls? If the child commences to pay tithing on its small earnings or income, it will not be difficult for it to pay on larger earnings. Parents should encourage their children to pay their tithing regularly to the bishop, and he should give the child who makes the small payment the same courteous attention and consideration that he would give to those who pay him on larger incomes. 

To be a tithepayer will strengthen the child's faith in God, for faith grows by works. It will increase his interest in the Gospel. He will feel a partnership in this great Latter-day work when he contributes of his means for the purpose of supporting the Church. It will develop in the child honesty, integrity, loyalty, and an appreciation of his parents and of the Gospel, and from this training there will come happier and better and more devoted men and women. 

Let us be diligent in teaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the home. Let us with kindness and patience train our young people in the payment of their tithes and offerings, so they will be fully converted to this principle and enjoy the lasting benefits and blessings that come through obedience to this law. May we not only teach the principle of tithing by example in the home, but also by precept. This is one of the principles of the Gospel with which I am familiar. I know its blessings in my own life. 

I am happy to testify that I know this great latter-day work of Mormonism is the work of God, brought forth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was ordained and appointed in the Celestial world to this great work of establishing the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, preparatory to the coming of the Savior to rule and reign on the earth. Amen.
