12
Morning
07 04 1934
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
48-51

None

None

The Lord giveth men weakness that they may be humble. In humility I earnestly invoke his aid this morning. 

The words of the poet come to my mind. They are as follows: 

On Christ the solid rock we stand; 
On other ground is sinking sand. 

What is there for our salvation outside of our Heavenly Father, our Savior, and the glorious Gospel which they have provided? There is nothing of real worth to the soul. 

A VISION OF DEITY 

It is a remarkable thing that two of the greatest prophets that ever lived commenced their prophetic ministry with a vision of Deity. The prophets referred to are Isaiah and Joseph Smith. In the sixth chapter of Isaiah — and many commentators think this chapter should have been placed first in the Book of Isaiah — the Prophet says: 

I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne * * * mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of Hosts * * * I heard the voice of the Lord. 

No quibbling here. This is direct evidence, the highest form of testimony. No living being can successfully challenge the truth of that statement. Every Christian soul accepts it as the truth, but can that testimony be proved? It can. It is proved by the fulfilment of prophecy, and the fulfilment of prophecy is one of the strongest evidences that a man is sent of God. 

That the prophet in the vision saw Christ in human form, as the brother of Jared saw him, there can be no doubt when the passage is deliberately compared with John 1 2 :41. "These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him." Isaiah was preeminent among the noble band of Old Testament prophets. His clear and striking representation of Jesus Christ and prophetic delineation of the person, work, and character of the Messiah deserved the praise the Savior bestowed upon him when in quoting his prophecies he said: "For great are the words of Isaiah.” (3 Nephi 23:1.) 

THE WORDS OF ISAIAH 

Centuries before the birth of the Savior, Isaiah predicted that wonderful event in this stately language: 

For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. 

Isaiah predicted the sufferings, death, and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ so vividly that his prophecy adds strength to the truth of the old axiom that prophecy is but history reversed. The prophecy as every Bible student knows was literally fulfilled. The prophet foretold the coming of the locomotive and the airplane. In the 29th chapter of his book Isaiah predicts the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. We testify that that prophecy has also been literally fulfilled, and that Joseph Smith translated that sacred record by the power of God. 

PROPHECIES THAT HAVE BEEN FULFILLED 

Is it not reasonable to conclude that if Isaiah's predictions concerning the Savior have been fulfilled, his prediction concerning the Book of Mormon has likewise been fulfilled? The Latter-day Saints know of a certainty that the prophecies concerning the Savior and the Book of Mormon have been fulfilled to the enlightening of their understanding and the salvation of their souls. 

The Creator said: 

So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth; it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. 

A SOLID FOUNDATION 

Consider the Prophet Joseph Smith. He beheld in glorious vision the Father, and the Son. Can any man on earth successfully contradict the testimony Joseph Smith gave of that vision? No, it stands as firm as the Rock of Ages. His witness is supported by the fulfilment of prophecy. The same source of Isaiah's prophetic power was the source from which Joseph Smith derived his prophetic gifts. 

When the Apostle Paul stood before Agrippa and Festus, he said: 

Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come: 

That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead. 

That was the yardstick that the Apostle Paul used. That should be the standard of measurement that the Elders of Israel should always use to keep their feet firmly upon the foundation of the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the teachings of ancient and modern prophets. And when they preach from this foundation they stand on solid ground, and the souls of the people are fed. 

PROPHECIES OF A MODERN PROPHET 

Joseph Smith was an inspirer of souls. He said he did nothing but what the ancient prophets said he would do. He was a fulfiller of Bible prophecy. Consider some of the prophecies which he uttered: The exodus of the Saints to the Rocky Mountains, where they would become a great and a mighty people; his prediction of the Civil War, twenty-eight years before it occurred — and only a month before that bloody conflict, statesmen were saying, "Peace, peace, there will be no war." But the God of heaven had spoken and desolation swept over the land. Oh, if those statesmen had only heeded the words, if they had only accepted the remedy, the solution which the great statesman-prophet, Joseph Smith, gave to them, a million lives would have been spared and eight billions of dollars in property would not have been destroyed! 

TESTIMONIES OF THOSE NOT OF US 

Joseph Smith founded the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A great American statesman, on the floor of the House of Representatives, referring to this great organization, said: "It is magnificent in its priestly organization and rivaled by no other institution in the world." 

Charles Dickens, the celebrated novelist, whose "Life of Our Lord" is appearing in some of the daily papers, declared before he visited a shipload of Mormon emigrants bound for America that he was going there to bear testimony against them. But when he saw the order, the neatness, the cleanliness, the prayerful spirit which prevailed there he said: 

There is a power in that Church, there is a remarkable influence among those people that is not witnessed in other institutions in the world. 

AN EXPERIENCE IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA 

Some years ago President Grant was in Atlanta, Georgia. A Universalist minister had converted his chapel into a sort of public forum, the ministers of the various religious denominations of the city were invited to occupy his pulpit and preach their religious sentiments. He propounded several questions that he requested them to answer, and two of these questions were as follows: "Do you believe that Jesus Christ is divine and the Son of God?" "Do you believe that there is a life after death?" The answers were not satisfying. 

Hearing of President Grant's presence in that great city the minister invited him to deliver a sermon and he placed in President Grant's hands the same questions that he had earnestly entreated the pastors to answer. President Grant did answer all the questions, and not in a negative way. 

He did not say, "It may be," or "I believe that such is the case," but standing before that mixed congregation the President said: "I know of a certainty that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. I know that there is life after death, and that the soul is immortal." The other questions he answered in an equally frank, authoritative way. 

At the close of President Grant's address the minister approached him with extended hands. I fancied that there was a trembling in his voice; there was a longing in his heart for something better than he had, for, as he held President Grant's hand he said to him: "I wish I had your earnestness, your sincerity, your faith, and your testimony." There was sadness in my heart for that man. 

WITH NO UNCERTAIN SOUND 

President Grant has always sounded the Gospel trumpet with no uncertain sound, so that the children of men could prepare themselves for the battle. In line with Joseph Smith and the Apostle Paul and all the prophets our President is speaking and doing the things that the ancient prophets declared would be done. We are rallying around President Grant and listening to his inspired counsels. The Gospel message is sounding in our hearts. With the help of the Lord, by keeping his commandments, we will go with the First Presidency and the rest of our leaders into the Celestial kingdom of God, which I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen.
