16
Morning
07 04 1934
Elder Don B. Colton
115
62-64

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, the last six months have been eventful ones in the Eastern States Mission. We have dedicated three chapels in that mission. A member of the Council of Twelve, Elder Stephen L. Richards, has visited practically every district in the mission. President Grant, during his stay in the East this winter, also went into many of the branches and districts of the mission, all of which we feel sure has resulted in great good. 

Reference has been made in this conference to the dedication, last November, of the Washington chapel. We regard it as one of the great agencies for missionary service in the Eastern States. Brother Edward P. Kimball has given an organ recital every day, I think, except one, since the chapel was dedicated. More than six thousand people have attended these exercises. They consist not only of the organ recital, but also a speech by Brother Kimball and in most cases the escorting of the company through the building. Between five and six thousand tracts have been distributed at the chapel. 

This does not include the many people who visit the chapel during the day, nor the special clubs and organizations which have held their gatherings there. 

Recently one organization of the Government, with a membership of about four hundred was entertained there. The Rotarians of Washington recently held their weekly dinner in our chapel. Some of the leading ladies' clubs of Washington have met there and have listened more or less to the story of Mormonism, which is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as explained by our brethren in charge of the chapel. We feel very grateful for this great agency for good in our mission. 

I have rejoiced in the exercises of this conference. There is an ancient Arabian proverb which reads something like this: "If thou hast two loaves of bread, sell one quickly and buy a rose. Something beautiful is as essential to the welfare of man as is bread." So I thought today, and also yesterday, particularly while listening not only to the inspired remarks but to the excellent music, that the spirit of all those who come to these conferences is being fed — fed with food as essential to the soul as that which is needed to nourish and strengthen the body. 

Two thoughts have been running through my mind ever since President Grant spoke. Religion is the master passion in the life of a man who believes in Jesus Christ. It is the mainspring of his life, the motor that carries him forward. Today there are two great influences at work to encourage and develop religion within men. The mothers of Israel are doing, in my judgment, one of the greatest services possible for this Church. May I speak to the mothers particularly who have sons upon missions. Continue, I pray you, to write them. Tell them of the deep feelings in your soul. It does them good. Let them know your feelings concerning the Gospel. 

One boy, speaking to me just a few days ago, referred to the fact that he had written home and expressed some doubt as to whether or not he was acquiring all that he should acquire upon his mission. His good mother wrote back and said: "My son, if you are acquiring a testimony of the Gospel, if in your soul there is coming a conviction that Jesus is the Christ, and that his Gospel has been restored for the salvation of the souls of men — if you are acquiring that, you are acquiring sufficient to justify your being upon a mission." 

I would like to say to that mother, and hope it will encourage all mothers, that boy, on that occasion, with tears in his eyes and emotion in his voice, said: "That much I am acquiring. I do know, as I know that I live, that Jesus lives and that his work is true." 

I am grateful for my mother, now gone to her reward. I am grateful that from her I acquired the first feeling that led me to seek God. How glad I am for parents who knew of the Gospel of Jesus Christ! 

The love of mother and its influence for good in the earth is perhaps only surpassed by the love of Jesus Christ. The power which he has exercised and is exercising in the world is the other great influence for good. 

Paraphrasing and abbreviating the words of another: Jesus was born in obscurity; never traveled more than two hundred miles from the place of his birth; never attended a university; had no newspaper; never wrote a book; the only property he owned of which we have any record was divided at the time of his death, at the end of a quarrel between soldiers; dying between two thieves; buried in a borrowed grave; — yet he has exercised an influence in the world that exceeds that of all the armies that ever marched, all the navies that were ever built, all the parliaments that ever assembled, all the kings and queens that ever ruled. The influence of Jesus in the earth has exceeded them all, and it is a glorious thing to be an ambassador of the being whose influence has been and is so potent in the world. 

We have been accused of not being Christians. Well, what does it matter anyway, if the accusation is without foundation? In this case it isn't true. We know that in his name and in his love and in his great Gospel plan is salvation, and in reality we are preaching his message to the world. And we say now — I say — that if the nations of the world would accept Christ and his teachings as taught by the Latter-day Saints all the problems of this weary world would be solved in a single day. 

God bless us and help us to know the truth. I know it and bear witness to you of its truthfulness today. God help us to know it and to live it, for it is the power of God unto salvation. I know whereof I speak, and bear this witness in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
