15
Morning
07 04 1934
Elder David A. Smith 
95
58-62

None

None

Yesterday afternoon I stood in uniform on the parade grounds at Fort Douglas. That uniform indicated that I held a position of some importance in the United States Army. On each shoulder I had insignia showing my rank; on the lapels of my coat the insignia showing the branch to which I belong. Men in uniform honored that insignia by saluting me, many of them did not know me, they were showing their respect for the authority as indicated by my uniform. I had witnessed death-dealing instruments and machinery, while overhead airplanes were roaring, diving to the earth, turning and looping, to show their power and strength. In the guard-house were confined men who had been disobedient to orders, on the parade grounds were men forming for review. 

As the commanding officer gave orders, which were passed from one to another, all executed them with precision and accuracy. They had been well trained and knew what to do. Every man was in his place, and rendered the service required of him without hesitation or confusion. 

During the time I was there I had in my mind another picture. I had left this building and hurried to that place to take part as an officer during the celebration of the state department of the Reserve Officers Association of the U. S. A. Here was a marked contrast. There I found a group of men trained and equipped to battle an enemy if an enemy should come upon us. They were soldiers and that was their calling and duty. Some of my brethren have inferred that it was not very becoming for one of my position to be engaged in such work. It is not of my choosing. I went in at the request of this government and have remained because we are all expected to do our duty. For the duration of eighteen years I have been at times under training. During that time I have never heard one of them — and I have mingled with men of the line and officers of every rank, up to that of commanding general — ever express a desire that we go into action. But I have heard them say that they wanted to be prepared to defend themselves should an enemy make it necessary for them to go into action. The Army of the United States is not training to invade the country of another, but they are training to be ready and prepared to defend their country if an enemy should come upon them. 

Now, as to this army which I see before me. The officers are not in uniform, no insignia of rank to designate their authority, but they are men nevertheless who have authority to serve and to give orders in a greater army, one commanded by our Lord and Savior. These officers are devoted to the great cause in which they are engaged. They are men who are self-sacrificing, men who are full of faith and of love. And when I say men I speak of our sisters also, for I am quite sure if it were not for the devotion of our wives and our mothers and our sisters, we would find it far more difficult to carry on the work that is required of us. 

This army is made up of deacons, teachers, priests, elders, seventies and high priests, with power far greater than that which comes to those who are engaged in this other army. 

I believe that Joseph Smith saw God the Father and Jesus Christ, his Son, and conversed with them. I believe that the Priesthood of God was bestowed upon him and his associates, and that that Priesthood has been passed down to us. We enjoy power and privileges through it. I say power, because in the Priesthood there is a power as witnessed daily where the Priesthood is found and exercised in harmony with the plan and promise of God. To have this Priesthood conferred upon one is not only a privilege but a great honor, and one who receives it and disregards its sacredness is a deserter. 

Some among us are asking for new revelations. I am not concerned as to whether new revelation is coming or not. I am just a little fearful that should new revelation come, especially if it should be of the type that some people feel we should have, too many of us would not be in a position to stand up under it, as evidenced by the failure to understand and follow that which has been given to us. I am concerned with that which has been received and the question of whether or not I am living in harmony with those teachings which have come to us through revelation by the power of the Priesthood. 

I am not so sure that we as a people as yet are sufficiently familiar with the revealed word which has been given to us to be in a position to receive new revelation; and I am quite sure that when we reach a point where we fully understand and observe that which has been given to us new revelation will come, and those whom the Lord has endowed with authority to receive revelations will receive them. For more than a quarter of a century it has been my good fortune, privilege and blessing to meet almost daily with the men whom we sustain as the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and whom we sustain as prophets, seers and revelators. With that acquaintance and that association there is no question in my soul but that when the time comes for us to receive more than the Lord has already revealed, it will come through them, or their successors. 

One of my brethren working in the Church Historian's office, said to me: "Brother Smith, I have been going over your sermons and compiling them. You have something human about that which you say. You are constantly appealing for help for the young man." It may seem that that is the only thought I have to express in these meetings. We are of necessity limited as to time. There are many other subjects I could use, but as a member of the Presiding Bishopric, a member of the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, there has been placed upon me a responsibility, and as I visit with you and see the reports that come in I think I sense that responsibility, and I don't want to be held to account for my failure to encourage my brethren to see that which I think I see. 

We have accomplished a most wonderful missionary work, and yet there is much more to be done. We don't have a guard-house. In this army punishment is of our own making. We go out to battle, and, unlike the Army of the United States, we are in a great conflict. Some of us don't know it, but we are. We have an enemy, an enemy we can't always see, an enemy which we don't always feel, because we have not been trained to see and feel. When we who hold the Priesthood and are honoring it and magnifying our calling in it, come in contact with that enemy, we are given to understand that he is an enemy and that we must defend ourselves with all the vigor and power of our manhood. We don't always do it. 

I dislike to make this statement, and would not do so were it not for the fact that I have heard it several times during the past year in different stakes of this Church: "But Brother Smith, we can't do it," — speaking of laboring with men who have become indifferent to the work of the Church and are falling away — "We are a little community. We know each other. All we do when we go to visit is 'kid' each other." What justification is there for such a thought? If we permit it, are we prepared? To me it has the ear mark of a slacker. I think a prophecy made centuries ago might give us some encouragement. The prophet Haggai said: 

Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes. Thus saith the Lord of hosts; Consider your ways. (Haggai 1 :6-7.) 

Are we not in that condition? Why is it? What has brought about this condition? How are we to overcome it or change it? Just one way.  only one, and that is to be true to the Gospel teachings and honor the Priesthood which has been conferred upon us. And those who are afraid to kneel in prayer with a wayward brother should first set their own houses in order; then when we have developed faith, manifest that faith through our works. When we do exercise our faith in our work the Spirit of God is manifest, whether in our own home or in the home of our neighbor, or in the lives of our neighbors, and the better the acquaintance the greater the opportunity for carrying into the life of our brother who is wayward that which will save him from the error of his ways. It can be done only through the spirit of prayer, not by "kidding," not by being afraid. 

Remember the statement of Paul to Timothy: 

I thank God whom I serve . . . that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day; 

Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. 

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. 

Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. . . 

Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. (2 Tim. 1 :3-9) 

The Savior said: 

Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven. 

But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven. 

And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me. (Matt. 10:32, 33, 38.) 

It is my opinion that if we want to succeed, if we want to bring peace in the earth we should stir up the spirit, the gift which is in us, by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority, being not afraid. Let us go into the homes of these our brethren who are wayward, and who because of inactivity have been blinded and see not the light, and pray with them and plead with them, that God may give them again the spirit of the work, that they may return into the spiritual light, and praise him for his goodness and his mercy. That will bring peace. That will put love into the hearts of men, and is the only way in the world in which peace and happiness and prosperity can come to the children of God in the earth. 

What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? 

Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. 

* * * * * * *

Shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works. 

Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well; the devils also believe, and tremble. 

But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?. . . . By works was faith made perfect. 

Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead. (James 2:14-26) 

May the Lord help us, I pray. May his Spirit rest upon us. May we understand that this Priesthood which is in the Church today has power and is manifest in the Church, through those who serve, not only as leaders, known as the general authorities of the Church, but you who labor in the stakes. 

God bless you, and bless those who serve with you, that we may carry the spirit of this work into every home, into the life of every individual, continuing untiring and unafraid, until we shall have won the battle and brought them back into the fold. God so help us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
