18
Afternoon
07 04 1934
Elder Melvin J. Ballard 
1
66-71

None

None

Fifty years ago this summer my soul was deeply stirred when, with groups of others, I went to the railroad station in Logan to receive home the body of Elder Gibbs, who with his companion, Elder Berry, had been assassinated while doing missionary work in the Southern States. I shall never forget the memory of that night, and the emotions that swelled through my soul in contemplation of the sacrifice of these noble missionaries. 

A MARVELOUS CHANGE 

I have heard since then the story of the whipping and the mobbing of many others. Since the last conference I paid my first visit to the Southern States Mission. In company with President Callis we were officially visiting that mission, and what a change in the fifty years! We held over thirty public meetings, attended by more than ten thousand people; not a bit of opposition anywhere. There were no newspapers, from the large city dailies to the country papers, that were not willing to carry all the space we asked, and they gave us notices and reports of our meetings that were as satisfactory as anything we could secure here at home. 

In one of the large cities of the South a public reception was held which was attended by the mayor of the largest city in that state, and he gave a eulogy on the Mormon people. Radios were offered to us. It did seem to me that the change was marvelous and I could not but thank God for it. The condition is similar elsewhere, so that we have indeed reached a new day. 

ENEMY SEEKING NEW MEANS 

What is the meaning and significance of all this? There may be some who are disturbed because the world speaks well of us. I am not alarmed at that. I rejoice in it, because I do see a new day dawning for the Latter-day Saints. We had to have our struggles and fight for the right to exist. We have won and achieved our objectives up to this point, and now we look forward to a glorious day that is yet to come. 

I would not have you think, however, my brethren and sisters, that the enemy of all righteousness has quit the fight. By new means he is seeking to destroy that which mob violence and martyrdom, bonds and imprisonment and slander, could not destroy. Every means that has been heretofore successfully used in the destruction of God's work in the dispensations that have preceded ours, has failed to date. The old prophets saw it fail, for they declared that in the last days — I am quoting now from a prediction of Daniel — "In the days of these kings," — these latter kings — "shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people. But it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

DAWNING OF A NEW DAY 

There was to be a new day. Nothing like it has happened heretofore, and so I am not alarmed that the kingdom is prosperous, and that at the end of an hundred years we discover it has achieved certain desirable goals. In the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, after having given us the fulness of the Gospel and established the Church with all the institutions and the doctrines necessary to perfect the lives of the people, he enjoins upon us to arise and shine and to become a light unto the nations. The old prophet saw this condition when he declared,

In the last days the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths. 

All this indicates a change that will come over the hearts of the children of men toward the work of God. They shall not come to persecute, but they shall come to learn of the ways of the Lord and to walk in his paths. 

SATAN’S ALLUREMENTS

I said a moment ago, however, that the enemy of this Church has not quit the fight. Nephi saw — and you will find it recorded in the twenty-eighth chapter of II Nephi — that in these days Satan would rage in the hearts of the children of men, and that one of the methods by which he would seek to destroy God's work would be to induce men who had entered into covenants to serve God to commit a little sin; to steal a little; to commit whoredoms a little; then he would assure them that they would be beaten with a few stripes, but that it would be all right. Thus he would deceive them and lure them away from their standards. 

Among other things Nephi said: "They have all gone astray save it be a few, who are the humble followers of Christ; nevertheless they are led, that in many instances they do err because they are taught by the precepts of men," — warning that the enemy, by new tactics, by new methods, would seek to destroy the work. I see the evidences of it. 

A CHANGING WORLD 

In this changing world — and we are in the midst of change — no standards are so sacred or so old but that they are being questioned today. I am not disturbed over this questioning age. I think it is the greatest age the truth has ever known, and that the truth could never grow as it should grow unless men are open-minded and are willing to ask questions and to receive light and information. Yet I recognize that there is great peril and danger that in the changes that are occurring we may discard many true, good, and beautiful things. So that there is need, as never before, to lift our standards in this changing world, and to rally our people to them. 

But we parents and teachers must be able to give a reason for everything we ask our children and our people to do. Thank the Lord there are good reasons for everything the Lord has asked us to do. I see danger, however, that in the desire for change many thoughtless ones will want to change stable, eternal practices and principles. I see the spirit of the enemy at work in seeking to destroy the standards of morality among men. From the time of my childhood, at my mother's knee, and in the Church, I was taught to keep myself as clean and as pure as the girl I asked to be my wife, the mother of my children; that next to the crime of murder was the crime of adultery. Yet there are those who would have the thoughtless believe that improper sex relations are all right as long as one is not exposed. The devil surely has paved the way with promises of immunity to those who would follow after his standards. 

TRUE TO OUR STANDARDS 

But will the world come to learn of this people if we live like the world? Suppose they abandon their standards, shall we do so too? No; no, we will carry on, loyal and true to our standards. You young men, descendants of that Joseph who was sold into Egypt, think upon him in the hour of his temptation, how he stood for chastity and for virtue! 

Let us be, therefore, men and women who are standard makers, not like the world. Any man or any nation who imagines that one can depart from these standards that the Lord established when he uttered the Ten Commandments and find peace and the solution of human happiness is sadly mistaken. 

We are also in danger from the spirit of abandonment, having repealed the Eighteenth Amendment. Some folks may be of the notion that the Word of Wisdom is also repealed, but thank the Lord that this Church still has a high standard to guide it, and not by compulsion or by force, but by persuasion, by appeal, with precious promises. These principles stand and will stand forever, and will continue to appeal to our people to live up to them. They are standards of honesty, standards of uprightness that will make any people great if they will only observe them. 

GOD’S WORK SHALL TRIUMPH 

So, my brethren and sisters, we ought to be aware of the new menace. I am not afraid of it. If the Latter-day Saint teachers and parents and leaders will forewarn the youth, I feel sure they will be as loyal and true to the truth as their fathers and mothers were, and that this new manner of assault and attack made upon the membership of the Church will be no more successful in destroying this work than have been mob violence, bonds and imprisonment, because God has decreed that this work shall triumph and shall not be left to another people. It is true that Satan will give revelations to lead the people away from the truth — pretended revelations to lead them into open violation of the commandments of the Lord — but I have confidence in the outcome. We have been through this long period of struggle to secure certain rights and privileges. We have been through the day of colonization, of migration and immigration; the settlement of the waste places; of building temples and tabernacles; of subduing the desert and securing the comforts and necessities of life, and the Lord has been with us in all these changing scenes. 

There are some who would be disturbed because they see no immediate objective before the Church. I grant you that where there is no vision the people will perish. But there is a vision before us if only our eyes are turned toward it, a vision of the most glorious things to be accomplished by this Church. We have reached a new day, and all these changes that have occurred, changing the attitude toward the Church, were necessary in order that we might be prepared for that new day that is before us. The day of demonstration has come to the Church, the day for it to arise and shine, in a world which has been crushed and humbled to the very dust — a world that is full of doubt and uncertainty and that is questioning and abandoning the creeds of men. 

Perhaps some of you have been reading articles such as "God save the Church," "What is Wrong with the Church?" and other articles that have been appearing recently, measuring the institutions of man and finding them wanting. One author says: "We waited eighteen hundred years for Christianity to reach the zenith of its power, and then it was utterly helpless to save the world from one of the greatest catastrophes which have happened — the world war. Why wait for Christianity to help us out of our troubles?" 

CHURCH NOT FOUND WANTING 

But the Church of Christ has not been weighed in the balance and found wanting. I grant you that men have done the best they could during the ages that are past, with the small measure of light they have had. But never since the Lord Jesus Christ, in the sacred grove, said of the institutions of men, that they had the form of godliness but lacked the power thereof, have these words been more generally accepted as true. Without the power to accomplish what the Gospel of Jesus Christ was destined to do men did the best they could. Joseph Smith could have done no better had he not received divine authority and the perfect Gospel plan at the hands of divinely appointed messengers from God. 

Now, for the first time in the history of the world, the Church of Jesus Christ has an opportunity to demonstrate that it has indeed the power, the knowledge, and the strength to meet and solve the problems of this world, and the world is willing to listen. They have been humbled so that the wisdom of the wise has perished and the understanding of the prudent is hid, and men are willing to listen today as they never have been heretofore. 

Oh, you Latter-day Saints, to your standards! Talk about abandoning the Word of Wisdom? Now is the time to rally to it and then show the world a race of men and women of physical, mental, spiritual, and intellectual strength, the like of which we have not seen. And that will come if we shall adhere to these Gospel standards. 

Those of you who are anxious to see the Church move forward in the solution of the economic problems and the establishment of that vision which once was given to the Church, known as the United Order — then immediately afterwards the Lord saw the necessity for training us, preparing us, and he gave us the law of tithing, which he called a schoolmaster — if you want to see that other thing come, pay your tithes and offerings, be honest before the Lord, for no man can live the Order of Enoch who has not learned how to honestly live the law of tithing. If you want to promote that glorious day, live the law of tithing. If you want to see the realization of all these glorious things spoken of by the prophets of old, subscribe to these Gospel standards. 

The world will come up to the top of the mountains to learn of the ways of such a people. Our opportunity I say, therefore, is to demonstrate what we believe — not so much by what we say as by what we do, for that, after all, is the most effective argument we can present to the world. That opportunity is ours today. 

A GLORIOUS FUTURE 

I see the hand of the Lord moving rapidly in the events of the world. He is preparing for our mission to be carried on, not only among this small handful of people that we have been an hundred years gathering up —we have been an hundred years gathering up but one branch of the house of Israel — but the day for the rest of that favored house is at hand. God is preparing the way. The day is soon to dawn for those who are of our family and of other branches of it. Activity such as we have never dreamed of will presently be ours if we shall succeed in realizing the hope the Lord had in establishing this work. Missionaries? We will need ten where we have needed one. I see no diminution, I see no end, but I see a glorious future awaiting God's work. 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord hasn't gone off and left the Church. He is working, preparing the way for it to function, to fill its mission, to come out of its isolation, to arise and shine. God is not retarding the work but there are some of us who are not living up to our covenants and our privileges. We might speed it on. Do not worry about the Church. The good ship is sailing on in the charted course God marked for it. The light is in the ship. The captain is not asleep. 

I bear witness to you that no man has ever presided over this Church who has been more willing to do what the Lord wants him to do than the man who presides today. God bless him and God bless the people, and help men to see the new highways that are ready for our feet, the new deceptions that will be offered, that we may escape the pitfalls that would lure us from our standards, that we may continue to be loyal and true, and go marching on victoriously with God's work, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
