21
Afternoon
07 04 1934
Elder Willard L. Smith 
170
80-81

None

None

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may have your faith and prayers during the few moments I shall stand in your presence to report, briefly, the labors in the Samoan Mission. I bring greetings to you from the members of the Church in Samoa. I believe I am safe in saying that they are one of the finest groups of people we have anywhere, in any of the mission fields in the Church. Naturally, they are a different type from the people we have here in Zion. They are, however, at heart one of the finest races of people, as far as they have an understanding of the things required at their hands by our Father in Heaven. My little stay here in Zion, since returning, has caused me to feel far prouder of them as a race than I did during my association with them. 

I thank the Lord that I have had the opportunity of bearing my testimony to the sons and daughters of Lehi, who I firmly believe were led into that land by divine providence. It is my firm belief that the native peoples in the islands of the sea are direct descendants of Father Lehi, who left Jerusalem six hundred years before Christ. I realize that it is impossible to find external evidence sufficient to prove that this is the case. In spirit, however, I think we all agree with this thought. 

We read in the appendix of the Doctrine and Covenants that it is necessary to carry the Gospel even to the islands of the sea. It has fallen to my lot to labor and preside twice in the islands of the sea. I presided at one time over the Tongan Mission and returned home not very strong physically. I was there during the World War. I returned to Canada, and while laboring there, trying to make a living for myself and family, word came to President Wood that we were asked to return, not to Tonga but to Samoa. This, of course, was a very great surprise to me. I thought that if I ever should return again to those lands it would possibly be to the islands where I was best acquainted. 

After I had consented to go I asked President Wood if he had forgotten that I returned home unable to carry my suitcase from the station. He said he had forgotten all about it. I returned home, however, this time perfectly well. 

I thank the Lord, from the bottom of my heart for the testimonies which have come to me and my family while laboring among that people. We have in the land of Samoa at this time more than four thousand members on our records. We have baptized, during the time that I have been there, 1,231 souls. So we have been somewhat successful, so far as performing baptisms is concerned. They find it very difficult, however, under the trying conditions in that land, to always live the Gospel as we would have them do. 

I wish to report this, however, that those who have received the Aaronic and the Melchizedek Priesthood, are functioning with a great deal of efficiency. While there I undertook to labor with the Priesthood. I felt that was necessary. Now we have only three branches in all that land that are directed by our Elders. We are operating now in some forty-two villages, and all the work in these villages can be carried on and supervised and directed by our native brethren. 

We also use the young men in the Aaronic Priesthood to teach schools, where the government of that land is not able to carry on the secular education as is required. I feel now that I was directed, in a sense, to labor with these brethren bearing the Priesthood, that they might be able to discharge the responsibilities which have come to them. We have not as yet sufficient capable men in that land to meet the requirements, but I feel that we have made progress there, although it may have been slow. Although we have been far away, we have been directed by the same good spirit that has directed the work here in Zion. 

It is not my purpose to take up more of your time, but I bear my witness that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that this is the true Gospel and that it shall never again be taken from the earth. My prayer is that my household and I may be able to remain firm and Steadfast and support those who preside over us. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
