39
Afternoon
08 04 1934
President Heber J. Grant
10
130-132

None

None 

I am very sorry that we have had to skip again five or six returned mission presidents who have not had an opportunity since their return to speak at a general conference. Notwithstanding that three of the General Authorities are away we have not been able to hear from all those whom we desired to address us. 

I have been pleased beyond expression with the very splendid meetings we have had. Perhaps we should begin conference at least one day earlier; or else, say, at 9 :45 and at 1 :45, and in this way get in an extra half hour each day; then perhaps we could get through and hear from all the brethren from whom we would like to hear. 

LAST CONFERENCE THE BEST 

It is a common phrase that our last conference is our best one; and I suppose the reason is that we have the proper spirit. Things have been so difficult financially during the past years that I believe there is a greater appetite on the part of the people spiritually than they had a year ago, and that accounts perhaps for saying that we have had a very fine conference, one of the best that I have attended since becoming the President of the Church. 

FAITH HOW DEVELOPED AND MAINTAINED 

I am grateful indeed for the advancement of the Church, for the faith of the people. Faith is a gift of God, and faith comes to each and all of us who serve God and supplicate him for the guidance of his Spirit. There is no danger of any man or woman losing his or her faith in this Church if he or she is humble and prayerful and obedient to duty. I have never known of such an individual losing his faith. By doing our duty faith increases until it becomes perfect knowledge. 

It has been a source of great pleasure to me to listen to the testimonies that have been borne here of an absolute knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. 

INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING SELECTING MISSIONARIES 

I wish again to ask the presidents of stakes — I intended to do it last night, but forgot — before recommending a man for a mission to sit down with him and find out if he is ready to go and if he is capable of representing the Church in the mission field. We do not want any more missionaries to be sent into the world to be reformed. Do not forget this. We do not want bishops to listen to the pleadings of fathers and mothers to send us young men who perhaps will smoke before they get across the ocean. We want every president of a stake to sign his name at the bottom of a recommendation and write a few lines on the recommendation form or write a letter with every recommendation, saying that he has interviewed the person recommended and found him to be in every way worthy to go into the mission field. If they do not do this we will have to send the recommendation back to them. We want them to know by personal conversation, by sitting down and talking with the young man or the young woman, that he or she has a willingness to go on a mission. I am not asking that they shall have a testimony; but I want them to be clean, and I haven't the least doubt on earth, if they go out clean and with a desire to serve, that God will give them not only faith but a knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged.  

BLESSES SAINTS 

I think that covers all that I want to say, except that wherein the power is given to me, with all my heart and soul, I bless the Latter-day Saints. I thank them from the bottom of my heart for their faith, and for their prayers in my behalf, and am grateful to have had their faith and prayers. I am stronger, and have more vitality, also have greater force, than I had thirty years ago when leaving to preside over the European Mission. I believe that all true, faithful, diligent Latter-day Saints have given to me the best that is in them, in supplicating God in my behalf, for his Spirit, for health, for vigor of body and of mind. I pray that God's blessings may be upon Israel and upon all honest men everywhere. I pray with all my heart that those who have made mistakes will repent; and by this we may know that they have repented — they will confess their sins and depart from them. 

God help them to do that, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer, Amen.
