34
Afternoon
08 04 1934
Elder John H. Taylor 
164
122-123

None

None

In these days of indecision, uncertainty, and confusion concerning the things that have to do with the economic life of the country, concerning education and science, it is not remarkable that men's hearts begin to fail them when they stop to consider the question of religion. It seems as though men are running to and fro, trying to find their way out, but because of the darkness it is more difficult than they anticipated to get into the sunshine again. 

As Latter-day Saints we have faith in God the Eternal Father and in this great work which has been established in our day. But even with all of the supervision and the knowledge and the guidance that we receive, I am afraid that our hearts waver at times and, if we are not careful, we begin to doubt regarding some of the things that have to do with God and his work. 

It seems to me that there are a few things that will help us hold on and steady ourselves, that will stabilize the faith we have in this work. One thing essential to the faith of the people is confidence in the leadership of the Church, in God's servants whom he has chosen to lead and direct his people. I say that unless we have that confidence and the determination to follow our leaders and accept their guidance and counsel, our faith will grow weaker, we will not have the strength to stand and do the things which God would have us do. 

I am not thinking only of the leadership of the General Authorities of the Church, but also of the leadership of the Stake Presidencies, of Bishops, the Priesthood of our Church, and the men and women who have been chosen to guide and direct the auxiliary work of the Church. It takes confidence in these men and women if we are to get from the spirit of the Church the things that God expects us to get. It is agreed that we are human, that we may make mistakes; but the few mistakes, if there are any that may come to us because of this leadership, are not comparable to the thousands of fine, splendid things that this leadership does for us. Their counsel, their instruction, the wisdom that God gives to them, so outweigh any possible harm that if we would keep our faith we must believe and have confidence in the leadership that God has given us. 

I think I would be the most miserable of men if I had to sit in an audience and continually decide whether the leaders of my Church were speaking by the gift and power of God or whether they were speaking of themselves. I have found in my experience that when I have followed the counsel and instruction given to me by my leaders, even though I could not understand the thing at the time, I have always come out better in the end, and God has blessed me because I have given my allegiance and confidence to the men who have a right to guide and direct me in the affairs of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and help us to keep in our souls love and confidence for those who preside over us, that we shall not be found wanting, that we shall not be found on the wrong side, that we shall not be found where criticism is, or allying ourselves with those who are trying to destroy God's work by trying to destroy our faith and our confidence in these men that we love as life itself. I bear you my testimony that these men are men of God, whom he has chosen and placed here, that we might find our way safely back into the kingdom of God under their supervision and direction. May God bless us to this end, I pray, in Jesus Christ's name, Amen.
