35
Afternoon
08 04 1934
Elder William R. Sloan
97
124-125

None

None

I bring you greetings, my brethren and sisters, from ten thousand Latter-day Saints in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Next Saturday and Sunday from seven to ten hundred people will assemble in Portland in our annual Mutual Improvement contest work. On Sunday evening we will broadcast our Music Festival over the Columbia national network, connecting fifty stations from coast to coast. 

Never before in my life, and I have been attending these conferences for many years, have I felt the same inspiration and cooperation that I have during the sessions of this conference. As I stand before this microphone gazing into the faces of thousands of people before me, how I wish that television were perfected, so that the world could witness this great congregation of people — men before me and behind me who are revered by thousands of people as God's servants; men who have served and are now serving their nation in offices of trust and responsibility — the governor of our state, and other men associated with him in the political field. Educators, presidents of colleges, and men from all branches of our industrial life are here. Then I look into the faces of the most queenly women in all the world. No purer women, no purer men can be found on God's footstool than are registered as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Some weeks ago I listened to a program over the radio at which time the minister in his prayer prayed thus. "Oh God, come down and make thy reality known!" In a recent magazine an article appeared descriptive of the chaotic condition among the Christian churches. The writer said the thing that was needed now was for God to come down and say "Hello" to the people of the churches. 

I listened to the testimony of our beloved President who in most solemn declaration bore witness of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of the visit of the Father and the Son who appeared to the young man in person. The vision was not an hallucination, it was a reality. The Prophet Joseph for seven years was under the divine tutorship of holy men, prophets who had lived upon this earth. Under their tutorship he was schooled and prepared for his great mission of ushering in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. I marvel that the world is so blind to the sublime truths. 

I think of the father of our country, George Washington, the man to whom we all pay homage, leading the armies of our country, at Valley Forge, and later as President of these United States. In the Congressional Library at Washington there are some 2,654 books treating more or less on his life, while here is a boy born in the humblest of circumstances, uneducated in the colleges of learning, and yet in the archives of the Church are to be found some 20,000 volumes giving something of the life of Joseph Smith. Many of them however are books from the pens of his enemies. 

Who is this man Joseph Smith? Who can understand him? Only members of this Church can appreciate that he was and is a prophet of God, and we sing with heart and voice, as we did today: 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah!
 Jesus anointed that prophet and seer! 
Blessed to open the last dispensation, 
Kings shall extol him and nations revere! 

This is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
