36
Afternoon
08 04 1934
Elder John V. Bluth 
128
125-126

None

None

I rejoice exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of again attending a general conference of the Church, in the things that we have heard, the testimonies that have been borne, the doctrines and principles that have been enunciated. 

This morning I had an hour of infinite enjoyment. I have not been blessed with a very sensitive ear. I have not perhaps, therefore, as keen an appreciation of musical sounds as have some, but I sat here entranced with joy, peace, and comfort in my heart and my soul uplifted to think I live in a day and age when such a thing as that could be given unto us. Not alone the artistry of the message brought to us by the choir and the organ, but the spirit and the power and the vitality that accompanied it, bear testimony unto our hearts. I can echo the wish that has been here expressed that the world could have been here and heard. Much of the prejudice which we contend with now would be dissipated, because people would see for themselves; but now they are not even willing to listen for fear they may be convinced of something contrary to that which they have always heard. 

We have had a very severe winter in Canada, but milder weather has come now, and we are grateful for it. We have had considerable sickness at various times among our missionaries, but they are now all well and very grateful to our Heavenly Father for their health. There has been considerable disunity among members of the Church in the past, fault-finding and criticism, but much of that has disappeared for which we rejoice. 

We have but few missionaries. We had to withdraw from four of our districts. We hope the times will change and that more help will be given, that we might re-establish ourselves there and continue the work. 

I might say that up until the present time we have had one thousand per cent more baptisms this year than we had a year ago during the same period. That sounds big, but it is not so big as it sounds. At this time a year ago we were able to report but one baptism, and this year we have had ten thus far. I wish that we could realize a continuation of that kind of increase for the entire year. That is possibly beyond us, but I do pray that my brethren and sisters in the mission field, and that you all may exercise your prayers to the end that our labors may be so fruitful there that we shall be able to draw the people away from the delusions in which they find themselves, and from their self-centered and satisfied feeling. One lady expressed it in this wise: "I do not want any of your tracts or any of your teachings. I do not think it is fair for us to read or listen to anything that will weaken our faith in our own church." When they thus set themselves against the truth, do not wish to listen to it, lest it might cause some sacrifice to accept it, of course they lose the blessing we offer unto them. It touches our hearts, but we can only go to others and seek to bring them the Gospel. We have joy in our labors. We thank God for the privilege of working in this cause and seeking to bring souls unto him, and in a humble way be his assistants in the accomplishment of his great and glorious work. 

I have a testimony of the truth and the divinity of this work. I obtained it fifty-eight years ago in Stockholm, Sweden, when I accepted baptism at the hands of one of our brethren who became a bishop of one of the wards in this city, and that testimony has never gone from me. I rejoice in it; I treasure it; I know nothing so great in my life as the possession of that testimony, and to be assured of the truth, to know where we are going, and that only we ourselves can hinder our progress and our advancement, and, eventually, our joy and exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God. 

May God bless you and me and all of us who are his covenant people, in giving of our means, our talents, and our ability to God's work, that this work shall spread and that righteousness and truth may fill the whole earth, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
