38
Afternoon
08 04 1934
Elder Joseph J. Daynes
174
130

None

None 

I am delighted, my brethren and sisters, to be here to represent the Western States Mission. I rejoice in the opportunity that has come to me to be called to this responsible position. I love it. It is wonderful. 

We have in our mission some of the noblest and finest Elders and lady missionaries ever sent out by the Church. Our work is progressing, our baptisms are reaching high numbers. I want to say that during this past month we have baptized forty-two souls. Our tithes for last month show an increase of 133% over the same period a year ago. 

We love our work, we bring you words of greeting. God has blessed our mission. It is a delightful place to be. We hope there will be many young men and young women come into our mission. We can teach them the Gospel, they will enjoy their labors, and I am sure that excellent results will follow. 

I was thrilled with the broadcast this morning by the Choir, and wish to pay a tribute to them. Having been raised in the environment of music I can appreciate the wonderful work that they have done. Music mellows the heart, softens the soul, brightens the intellect, and increases one's interest in eternity. It develops love and brotherly interest, thaws out the iceberg soul, permits the tears to flow, and fills one's heart with a desire to serve God. 

I thank God that I am a member of this Church. It is marvelous and wonderful. I rejoice in the very delightful way the non-members of the Church receive us. Prejudice has gone, interest is to be found everywhere. We find friends everywhere we go. The Lord is blessing our work. 

I know that the Gospel is true. I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet, and the Western States Mission stands one hundred per cent behind the President of this Church in their desire to serve and to do their part as God directs them. 

May his peace and favor attend each and every one of us in our desire to serve him, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
