19
Afternoon
06 10 1903
President John R. Winder. 

Distinction between gathering of the Saints and Salvation Army colonization — Law of tithing — Acceptance of principles of the Gospel would benefit the world— Sacredness of Temple work. 

I am very glad, brethren and sisters, to have another opportunity of meeting with you in this conference, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be abundantly poured out upon us this afternoon, as it has been thus far. 

Two or three things were mentioned yesterday that I have thought about today. One was in relation to gather. A comparison was made between the gathering of the Latter-day Saints and the colonization or gathering of the Salvation Army. It struck me very forcibly that there was no proper comparison between them. The gathering of the Latter-day Saints was inaugurated by revelation, through Joseph Smith the Prophet. It is part and parcel of the Gospel of this last dispensation, and it was preached in a very early day. I remember distinctly that when I first heard the Gospel there was little said about the gathering; but, it was very remarkable that every person who received the Gospel began to prepare to gather with the Saints. When they received the Gospel they received the spirit of gathering with it. As I understand it, the Salvation Army is simply colonizing. Consequently, I think there is considerable difference between the gathering of the Latter-day Saints and the colonization of the Salvation Army. 

Another matter mentioned was in relation to tithing. It was stated that some of the Christian denominations are commencing to pay tithing. Now, I remember that as long ago as when I was a member of the Church of England, the principle of tithing was taught in that church. But, there was one difference between the tithing collected there and the tithing of the Latter-day Saints: one was collected by law, the other is a voluntary contribution. I have known a parson to send his team into the grain field and take the tenth shock of grain out of the field, if the man did not pay the money. I have seen this done myself. So it is nothing particularly new to them, though it may be to the Methodists. I look upon the tithing of the Latterday Saints as entirely different to that practised by other denominations. The principle of tithing came to us by revelation, the same as did all the ordinances of the Church. 

Again, while the brethren were speaking of these organizations accepting some of the principles of the Gospel, it occurred to me that it would not be a bad thing if they accepted every one of the principles of the Gospel, provided they practised them, because it would have the effect to better the condition of all the people in the world. I have the same opinion regarding that as I have in relation to the ordinances in the temples. It has been said that things are taught in the temples which cannot be spoken of outside. I want to tell you — and you who have been there know what I say is the truth — that every principle taught there is of a holy and sacred character. They are all calculated to make people better, to make better fathers, better mothers, and better citizens of the United States. This statement could be verified by thousands in this congregation. So true is this that one president of a stake has commenced to organize the people in his stake to go to the temple and work for the dead; and one reason he assigns for doing this is that the people who attend to ordinance work in the temple make better members of a ward, better fathers and mothers, and better citizens; consequently he wants all the people in his stake to go to the temple, and partake of the blessings and spirit of that holy house. I think this is an example that might well be followed by other stakes of Zion, where they are so situated that they can do it. The Prophet Joseph Smith said shortly before his death, that the one thing that was exercising his mind more than any other was in relation to the ordinances for the dead. It is true, a considerable work has been and' is being done in our temples. About 2,490,000 ordinances have been performed in all the temples, and about 78,000 have been performed during the past year in the Salt Lake Temple. But we can do more. If this is as important as the Prophet Joseph said it was surely it is our duty to attend to it, and not put it off when we have the opportunity. This is a matter worthy the consideration of all the presidents of stakes. Let them encourage their people to go to the house of the Lord, and redeem the dead. 

May the Lord bless us in all our labors, and may we so live before the Lord that we may always have a claim upon His promised blessings, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
