21
Afternoon
06 10 1903
Patriarch John Smith. 

A reference to the past — Encouragement to faithfulness — The youth should prepare for the work of the ministry. 

My brothers and sisters, it is with peculiar feelings that I stand before you on this occasion. For one thing, it -is rather unexpected to me. I feel to ask for your faith and prayers, that something may be brought to my mind that shall edify you and myself. I have listened attentively to the remarks made by those who have addressed us during this conference, and I bean testimony that what has been said to us is true and profitable. Those who have talked to us have done so under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. The counsels they have given to us are good, and should sink deep into our hearts, and cause us to profit by what we have heard. 

In looking at this congregation, my mind reverts to early youth. In my association with the Church, from its early history up to the present, I have seen vast changes among the people. When I look around and try to discover those who were companions of my youth, I find they are getting very scarce. I met one man this morning who was a member of the Church in Kirtland, Ohio. He is the first one I have met for a long time. Very few remain of those who were my companions in Nauvoo, and I sometimes become lonesome, because the faces of those I was acquainted with then have faded away. In their stead, others have become prominent, and as has been predicted, we have become a srreat and mighty people in the valleys of tht, mountains. 

I want to encourage the Saints to faithfulness, and diligence in the performance of duty. Realizing that our time in this probation is short, we should strive to perform the labors and duties enjoined upon us in that way and manner that shall meet the approval of our Father in heaven. I often hear people speak of a hobby. If I have one, it is to exhort my young brethren especially to faithfulness, to diligence in duty, to listen to and be guided by the whisperings of the Spirit, and to acquire learning and information that will prepare them for the duties of the future. The Gospel must be preached to all nations, kindred, tongues and people, and our boys must learn their duty and prepare their minds for that important work. We understand that the greater the harvest, the more harvest hands we need. I exhort the boys particularly to prepare themselves for the ministry; to attend Mutual Improvement associations and schools; get their lessons properly, and be ready when they are called to go on missions on this continent, or to the other nations of the earth, or upon the islands of the sea, that they may go with an understanding of what they are sent for, and be qualified to carry the message of life and salvation unto all those who will listen. In this Church every person has certain duties to perform. We understand that we should pay tithes and offerings, and attend to our prayers. We also understand the meaning of the old adage, Do unto others as we would they should do unto us. Let us act according to our understanding, that we may fill our mission upon the earth in honor before God. 

May the blessings of our Heavenly Father attend all Israel. May He continue to guide us in the true path, and fit and prepare us for every event of His providence, and, when we have finished our course, may we be worthy of the blessings He has in store for His people, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
