4
Afternoon
04 10 1903
Elder James E. Steele. 

(President of Bingham Stake.) 

This seems to me an awkward position to occupy, but although I feel somewhat out of place, I am very pleased to have the privilege of making a report of the Bingham Stake of Zion. The Bingham Stake is located in the southeastern part of Idaho, in what is known as the Snake river valley. It is a part of the old Bannock Stake, or, as it is known now, the Fremont Stake. We number about ten thousand souls. We have seven or eight hundred families, scattered over a large area of country. We have twenty-four wards  seven branches. All of the wards are fully organized, and, so far as I know, all the ward organizations are complete. All the Stake offices are full, with the exception of one, and that is the President of the High Priests' quorum; the President moved from our Stake, and the vacancy has not yet been filled. Our High Council is complete, and its members are doings a good work. The Presidency of the Stake have been united on every question that has come up for our deliberation since the Stake was organized, in 1895. We are united with the High Council, and with all our Bishops. We are also united with the presidencies of the Stake auxiliary organizations. As far as I know, there is no contention but that can be readily settled between the members themselves. We have had but one or two High Council trials since the Stake was organized. The Stake Presidency meet every Thursday, at 2 o'clock, and deliberite upon the things pertaining to the welfare of the Stake. The High Council and the Sltake Presidency meet once a month and counsel together for the good of the people. 

We hpve a very prosperous community and the people are doing exceptionally well. We were largely in debt a few years ago. Many people who moved into the Stake from Utah had formerly lived on a city lot or o«i a *>mall tract of land, possibly not to exceed five acres, and when they got into the Snake River valley and procured from 160 to 640 acres, th -y thought they could buy all things they wanted, and more too, because th^y had so much land at their command. But they soon found out their mistake, not, however, before many of them had to mortgage their homes to secure their indebtedness. I am very pleased to report today that these mortgages have largely been lifted. Our counsel tcy the people has always been to keep out of debt. They are now trying to comply with it, and are relieving themselves of that bondage. Our crops this year have been very good. We have the Snake river to draw from for our water supply. Our land is very productive, and consequently we are prosperous, as a rule. I feel that the Lord has blessed the country. The blessings that were petitioned for upon the land by President John Taylor, in 1884, have been realized by :he Saints of the Snake River valley; end I feel that the Lord will continue to bless us if we will only keep His commandments. That He has done so is my testimony to you this afternoon. 

I have a testimony of this great latter-day work; I know it is true. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the living- God, and those who have succeeded him in the Presidency have been men whom God nas recognized. They have been blessed and clothed with authority to lead and direct the affairs of His work from the beginning up to the present. I feel with all my heart to sustain them, to hold up their hands, and do my part so far as I have power. I ask God to bless us, to uless our President, to bless his associates, and to bless all Zion, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
