9
Overflow
04 10 1903
Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 

To the Latter-day Saints these great gatherings are a source of strength and hope, and enjoyment. I believe that, through thus meeting together and partaking of the Spirit that the Lord pours out upon His children, and by receiving the words which are spoken by the servants of the Lord, we go home filled with a greater incentive to serve God and to keep His commandments. 

We should be impressed with the remark of President Smith this morning, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is not a temporary organization, but that it is an organization which is permanent, 'which is and will be everlasting. It has been founded by God Almighty, and He has placed His stamp of approval upon. His people, and will ever do so, if they will keep His commandments and walk in His paths. To the Latter-day Saints, the walking in the paths of righteousness, the keeping of the commandments of God, and the enjoyment of the Holy Spirit, ought to be a source of satisfaction and gratification beyond the power of words to express. We ought to strive, individually, to make the Church of Christ stronger. The Church ought to be strong, because of the multitude of its members; and each member should take a particular pride in adding strength to the Church because he or she is a member of it. 

We have the privilege of knowing of a surety that this is the work of God. It is no chance proposition with the Latter-day Saints; it is a surety. There is no doubt in the mind of a conscientious and fully converted Latter-day Saint that God, the Father, and Jesus Christ, His Son, the Savior of the world, appeared in person to the Prophet Joseph Smith. That is a knowledge that is possessed by tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints, and it is a knowledge, furthermore, that can be gained and possessed by every individual born into this world, if that individual will but follow the instructions given of the Lord whereby men can come to a knowledge of the truth. "Why, our children know it; the little boys and girls of the Sabbath schools know it. They are taught it, and learn .it in their associations with one another and with the people of God; and the Spirit of the Lord which is upon and in them bears witness to them, even as children, that the things their parents teach, and which are taught by their Sunday school teachers, and by those who hold the Priesthood, are true. The Spirit of the Lord bears that witness, and there is no doubt in their minds; it is a knowledge; it is just as simple and easy to understand as the simplest proposition that any child may learn. Notwithstanding this, there are those in our midst for the purpose, so they say, of reclaiming us, and converting us to the standard of Christ, as they term it. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands in this world today for purity, for honesty, for righteousness, for virtue, for truth, for nobleness, and for every good, beautiful and glorious principle that has ever been made known to man. The Church of Christ stands for all these things, and it is the only organization in the world today that has the pure Gospel of Jesus Christ, as the Savior Himself taught it when He was upon the earth. It is just as ridiculous for those not of us, who do not understand the Gospel of Christ, who have not a knowledge of it (except from a sectarian standpoint, which is not a knowledge,) to come among the Latter-day Saints and declare unto them that Joseph Smith was nor a Prophet of God, as it would be for a teacher to go among our school children who have passed through a  of grades and declare unto them that two plus two does not make four. It would be just as ridiculous for them to do that as to declare that the sun does not appear first in the morning in the east and that it does not disappear from view in the evening in the west. It would be just as ridiculous, and is, for men and women to declare to the Latter-day Saints, who have a knowledge of the truth, that they are mistaken as it would be to tell them that water will not seek its own level, or that it will of itself rise higher than its source. 

The Spirit of God has borne witness to the Latter-day Saints that these things are true, and we know they are true; therefore, it is foolishness for men to come into our midst and declare unto us that these things are false; we know better. It is God's truth revealed from heaven, confirmed in our souls by the Holy Ghost, which we have received by the laying on of hands by those who have been ordained of God and upon whom has been conferred the holy Priesthood. Consequently, that is the reason there are so very few ever converted from the Church of Christ into the churches of those who pretend to be of Christ. One of our friends here, a minister of the Gospel, complained bitterly a short time since, because, said he, "After a man has been a Mormon, no matter what he does, if he can be converted and is won away from the Church, he is of no use to us anyway; he is of no use to anybody. We can do nothing with him, as those ideas hang to him while he lives and are always cropping out to disturb the doctrines which we have to teach him." If they only knew it, if they who fight the Gospel of Christ in anyway whatever, from the pulpit or the press, only knew that all of their efforts in contending against the trutn and endeavoring to bring the Latter-day Saints into a false light would be reactionary and would be overruled by an all-wise Providence for the good of His Church, they would perhaps not work so hard as they do. If they only knew that in converting an individual who has had a knowledge of the truth and has fallen ,, or who has gotten into the dark, and doubts, through sin and transgression — for men can fall from a knowledge of the truth only through disobedience of some kind — if they knew th.*t in winning such persons from us they were but adding strength to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and were weakening their own organizations in gaining such individuals, they, perhaps, would not be so anxious to get them. 

It is obvious that if you take from any proposition, from any mechanism, the weak parts, those parts that threaten the rest of the machinery or the rest of the organization, you strengthen that organization; and if you take that weak portion and add it to yourself, you do not add strength to yourself, but weakness instead. Now, take those Latter-day Saints who are in transgression and who have joined other churches, some people think they are converted from the truth, but they are not; they have lost a knowledge of the truth through their transgression, and when they are cut off from the Church of Christ and join some other organization they weaken that organization, and it makes the Church of Christ stronger because of the absence of those persons in transgression. We would be pleased to have them repent; but some people, you know, will not repent; they cannot repent. On the other hand, take the ministry of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that Church which sends forth its ministers with divine authority to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ and declare repentance to the world, whom do they convert? Is it those who have been ostracized and cast away from all religious doors? No. Is it those who are in transgression in the other churches, or in the world among men? No. Who is it? Why, it is the people who are most devout, who are most conscientious in serving God, so far as their knowledge and light goes. They want to serve the Lord, and they are striving to serve Him; they are prayerful; they are meeting-goers; in fact, those converted to the Church of Christ are the very best parishoners  are to be found in the churches of the world. In other words, they are the strongest individuals to be found in the various organizations of Christendom, and in gaining them we add strength to the true Churcn. We see the evidence of this fact when we look around at the hundreds and thousands of good, noble, conscientious, devout men and women who have been fathers and mothers of such men as Brother McMurrin and Brother Allen here, and tens of thousands of others who are making or have made their mark in this land, who are endeavoring to build up the Church of Christ on the earth, and who are a benefit to any community, wherever they may be. It is fathers and mothers of other young men who shall carry on the work of God in the world that our Elders are converting in Christendom. In adding such people to the Church we add strength to it, and we make the sectarian churches weaker every time one is won from them and is brought to a knowledge of the truth. 

We stand, as I said, for truth, for honesty, for honor, for integrity, for everything that is good, my brethren and sisters, and those who will not yield obedience to these principles and nvho will not serve God, must, sooner or later, be cast off from the true Church of Christ. People who are sinful and unrepentant, people who are in transgression, men and women who are wicked in their hearts and who will not repent, can never enter into the kingdom of God; and no man or woman who is full of iniquity and sin can stand in this Church very long; no, they will be weeded out. There are sins, my brethren and sisters, which may be committed that cannot be repented of in this life, nor will they be forgiven in this life nor the life to come, and men and women who commit these sins cannot be retained in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Show me another church in the world that invariably excommunicates men or women because of transgression or wickedness: there are none. Murderers, whoremongers, keepers of saloons, gambling hells and brothels, the doers of all evil, may be members in the denominations of the world. Apparently there is no sin a person can commit that would cause other denominations to excommunicate one of their members from their churches. A member can repudiate the church, and then there is nothing else for the church to do than to cast him out. The Catholic church would not even do that in by gone years; they would burn them at the stake, and then pray for their salvation. As a general thing, no matter how wicked, or what the occupation of a man may be, he can occupy the very best pew in the church, if he will but sustain it with his means. That cannot be done in the true Church of Christ. We must serve God; we must keep His commandments; we must eschew the very appearance of evil and do that which is right to retain our standing in the Church, which has been founded in this earth by God, the Father, and by the Son, Jesus Christ. If your deeds are such as were mentioned by Brother Wells, that is, if they are not known by men, let me assure you that God knows them, and while you may continue in this secret sin a member of the Church, a professed member of the Church, the day will come, my brethren and sisters, if those sins are not .repented of most sincerely, God, the Eternal Father will separate you from those who are faithful, and will cast you out from His presence and from His salvation, because of your sins. Therefore, we say, repent, ye Latterday Saints; repent and call upon the world to repent. You wno are warned, warn your neighbors; you who have a knowledge of the truth, teach your children; you who know that God lives, bear your testimony to the world, that all may have the privilege of knowing that God lives and that this is His Church, and that the Latter-day Saints are God's people. 

Now, may the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters. M,ay you be benefitted in this conference and go forth and serve the Lord with singleness of purpose, and with an eye single  the glory of God and to the building up of His kingdom, that the earth may be prepared for Christ's reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, when we may bask in His approbation and smiles of approval because of our faithfulness in doing His will and carrying out the counsel given to us through His servants. May the Lord bless us to this end, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
