Overflow
04 10 1903



ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MURRIN. 

It is very gratifying, my brethren and sisters, to see the hosts of Latter-day Saints who have assembled upon this the opening day of conference, to worship the Lord. I have rejoiced, in common with you; in the excellent spirit that was present in the meeting this morning, and greatly enjoyed the instructions that were imparted by the President, and by Apostle Grant. I  hope that we may be blessed in this meeting with the same spirit, that our hearts may be made glad in the things of God, and that we may feel it is a blessed privilege we enjoy to be numbered among the Saints in this last dispensation. 

I cannot help but feel that there is, in this great assemblage, a remarkable evidence of the glorious fact that as a people, as a church, we are in existence by the appointment of our great Father and God; that our organization has not been produced by the wisdom of men, but has come from above. We are assembled in this house, which has been erected for worshiping purposes, and in the Tabernacle there is a vast concourse of people, but these two buildings are not sufficient, and there is an open air meeting on the grounds of this block, that those who are outside of these buildings may also have the opportunity of hearing the servants of the Lord. "When we think of the small beginning of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and then view the host of people assembled upon this block today, we ought to feel that the words of the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, are verily coming to pass. We heard Elder Grant this morning refer to the fact that it had been predicted by the Prophet that there was to come a time when the Latter-day Saints would no longer find an abiding place in the state of Illinois, or any other state in the east, but that it was their destiny, and the decree of our Father in heaven, that they should go to the Rocky mountains; and that the time was to come when they would be a great and mighty commonwealth. We truly witness the fulfillment of this prophecy in the conditions that prevail today in this state, and in the suricunding country; and yet we only witness a fulfillment in part. It is easy to see that it is the destiny of this people to spread out, and become much greater than they are at the present time.  

In some of the travels that I have made of late I have been impressed with the fulfillment of this prediction. 

It has fallen to my lot to visit the stakes that are established in Arizona, and the stake in Mexico, and also the stakes in Canada— or the stake there formerly that has been divided recently — and to visit the people who have been established in the Big Horn basin, in Wyoming. In making these journeys I have been greatly impressed with the feeling that the words of the Prophet of the Lord are having a remarkable fulfillment. I am confident that, in the future of this work, they will be completely fulfilled. We are not yet the mighty people we are to become in the midst of these mountains. It is the decree of our Father in heaven, it was His decree ages ago, before the Prophet Joseph had an existence upon the earth. It was the theme of the ancient prophets when they thought about Zion and the latter times; when . they were filled with the inspiration of the Almighty. At those times they wrote and spoke of the latter days, and they were 'filled with the inspiration of the Lord in talking of Mount Zion, in describing its barrenness; and in saying it was the destiny of the people of the Lord in the latter times to subdue the wilderness, and to make the barren places blossom and become beautiful. This has been our mission, as a people, to subdue barren land, to go out into new sections of country and open up locations for habitation, that the increasing multitudes might have place on which to dwell. While we hear from time to time, from the leaders of the people, that it is not profitable, nor in harmony with the spirit and genius of the work in which we are engaged, for members of the Church to be running hither and thither in search of new places for homes, it has always been, and I suppose it always will be, necessary for locations to be selected, under the appointment of the Priesthood, that room may be made for the Israel of God. It gladdens my heart, and fills me with joy, when I witness the condition of the people, and the growth and expansion that is and has been taking place. While there are many thousands  people assembled here, we are but a small multitude compared with the hosts assembled in the various wards of Zion in religious worship today. We are but as a drop in the bucket when compared with the tens and hundreds of thousands who know that God has spoken, that the words of the prophets are beginning to come to pass, and that Zion is being established in the tops of the mountains, in fulfillment of those prophecies. 

We are not only fulfilling the predictions of the prophets in relation to our location, but there is abundant evidence in the doctrines that are advocated, that were revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, to establish the fact that we have not been organized by the wisdom of men, and we are very thankful for it. It has not been in the power of man, in any age of the world, to give the children of men an organization such as we have today. There is nothing like it recorded in history from the beginning of time down to the present day. There can never be anything like it, unless it be revealed from God; it is above and beyond the wisdom and power of men. 

In visiting the California mission recently, I was greatly impressed with the feeling that we should rejoice in the doctrines of the everlasting Gospel, and in the evidences that exist in the revelations that have been given through the Prophet Joseph Smith proving his divine inspiration. I desire to read a few words that were written by the Prophet Joseph: 

"Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning, and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again in their infant state, innocent before God." 

I thought of these words when I met with the Latter-day Saints in the city of Los Angeles. A few months ago a great gathering of ministers of the Presbyterian church, after discussing this doctrine for a long time, having believed and taught that infants who had not been baptized, or who had not been christened, were damned, decided that this doctrine should no longer be a part of their faith. How was it, I would like to ask, that Joseph Smith, without any theological education, so far as the education given by men is concerned, could write these glorious words, "Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning, and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again in their infant state, innocent before God?" Who can consistently disbelieve this glorious doctrine announced by Joseph Smith? Every child, it matters not of what parentage, whether white or black, bond or free, Christian or pagan, through the atonemtnt wrought by the Redeemer of men, is made innocent before our Father in heaven. This doctrine was announced in another revelation, from which I desire to read: 

"But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from before the foundation of the world, through mine Only Begotten; wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children until they begin to become accountable before me." 

This revelation was given in 1S30, at the commencement of the wonderful work in which we are engaged. Inasmuch as men of wisdom and education, from a worldly point of view, have been discussing this doctrine for many years, we might well ask the question, how was it that Joseph Smith received this knowledge so much in advance of his time? For it is a long time since Joseph Smith announced, in the name of the Redeemer, this truth that has recently been adopted by one of the greatest religious roganizations extant among men, and that is now believed by millions of others. 

It is too much to believe that Joseph Smith discovered this by his own wisdom, that he studied it out himself. But it is very reasonable for us to assume that it was revealed to him by ouf Father in heaven, and accept its truth without any argument. He made the startling announcement — for it was startling in the day in which it was given — that all children are saved, through the atonement of our blessed Redeemer. There is a breadth, there is a depth, there is a  to that doctrine that stamps it as= coming from a divine source. This same doctrine is stated, in positive language, in the Book of Mormon, in the writings of the Prophet Moroni, who lived on this continent many years ago. It has always been understood, and always been a doctrine of the Church, whenever there has been an inspired Priesthood among men. God never created His children to damn them, without giving them an opportunity to hear and understand His precious word. 

"Well, I say when I think of these things — and they are only one or two of the truths revealed to the prophet, it is burned upon my soul that Joseph Smith was called of God; that he was a prophet of God; that he did not establish an organization according to the ideas of men; that he did not introduce as doctrines the ideas of men; that he gave to the peoples of the earth principles of eternal truth, as they were revealed to him by our Heavenly Father. 

I do not feel that it would be proper for me to trespass longer upon the time. I rejoice in this glorious work. I thank God with all my soul, and I have never found words to express my gratitude, that my parents, in the long ago, away off in Scotland, in the great city of Glasgow, heard and believed the everlasting Gospel. O, I thank God their hearts were touched. I thank the Lord they were converted, and that they were drawn into the fold of the good Master, and that because of their faith, and their firmness, and their love of truth, they came to Zion, and I was born in these mountains of Israel and was reared in the midst of the Latter-day Saints. In traveling through the cities of the old world, especially in my father's native land, and witnessing some of the things that are to be seen there, and in thinking of what might have been, I felt as though I could fall down and worship my father and mother for my birth here, for their coming out of the world, and believing the truth of God, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am not a believer in Joseph Smith because of my birth. I know by investigation, I know through prayer, and I know through revelation  the Almighty, that the doctrines given through Joseph Smith are the doctrines of the everlasting Gospel, the power of God unto salvation. It is the truth; it cannot he destroyed; it cannot be overturned; it cannot be stopped in its advancement, in penetrating the hearts of men, in gathering the honest from the nations of the earth. It cannot be stayed. God has so decreed it, and God has always fulfilled His decrees, and will continue to do so. 

God help us to believe the truth and to sustain it. and to maintain and uphold the authority that God has given us, that we may be blessed, is my prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD J. WOOD, (President of Alberta Stake.) I am very pleased, my brethren and sisters, to meet with so many of the Latter-day Saints. It is also a pleasure that we are favored with such a beautiful day, and that so many of the Latter-day Saints have come together to worship. 

I feel honored in being requested to represent the Alberta Stake, in the far north. The people there are as good as can be found in any of the Stakes of Zion I have visited. I regard it as a privilege to live with the Latter-day Saints and to be associated with them. I will state, for the benefit of those who are not acquainted with our people in the north, that we are in a prosperous condition; that the stake is building up and increasing in numbers. Our people are prospering financially; and improving spiritually. The wards are becoming numerous; and consequently our stake has been divided recently. We very much appreciated the presence of the First Presidency, and a number of the Twelve Apostles, at our last quarterly conference, which was held in September at which time the Alberta Stake was divided, and a new Stake, known as the Taylor Stake, created. I am grateful to be associated with you in this conference, and to be a partaker of the good things and the good Spirit that is felt by all of us. I have always been proud of bearing the name  Latter-day Saint. It is gratifying to know that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands for advancement continually, that it teaches all of us to become better men and Women, better boys and girls, better from the cradle to the grave. 

In listening to the remarks of Brother McMurrin, the object of our being here on earth, and the glorious privileges we have of being members of the Church of Christ, came to my mind forcibly. I see those present who have gathered from many nations of the earth, and who have a desire to learn what will be best for them to do in order that they may please their Heavenly Father. It is sometimes a great sacrifice for our brethren and sisters to come from their homes in the different nations. I have been on a foreign mission and know something about the difficulties they have to pass through; and I esteem a man or woman who extends the hand of kindness to them when they emigrate to this country. 

I have been reading, while sitting here, a beautiful hymn on prayer, a subject which should receive consideration from all of us: 

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, 

Uttered or unexpressed; The motion of a hidden fire 

That trembles in the breast." 

How beautiful it is to come together and -engage in prayer. In listening to the appropriate prayer this morning by Brother Penrose, I thought what a desirable thing it is to know how to express ourselves in prayer. Our children should be taught at home to pray, and in the different organizations for the training of youth. How gratifying it would be if all children knew how to pray, and properly understood what to ask for. 

"Prayer is the burden of a sigh, 

The falling of a tear, The upward glancing of an eye, 

When none but God is near." 

We should accustom ourselves to pr-ay in secret, and thus have communion with our Heavenly Father; and exercise faith that our prayers may be answered. In my experience, I have never seen a prayerful member of the Church go astray. 

"Prayer is the simplest form of speech 

That infant lips can try, Prayer, the sublimest strains that reach 

The Majesty on high. 

This is a particular point to which I wish to call attention: Through prayer we are made one, a nd there is nothing impossible for us to accomplish when we become a united prayerful people. In that condition we would more fully appreciate th e authority of the Priesthood here upon earth, and cheerfully carry out what the servants of God ask us to do. 

"The Saints in prayer appear as one 

In word, in deed, in mind, While with the Father and the Son 

Their fellowship they find. 

God bless you. Amen. "Trust in the Lord" was sung by a quartet of the Temple Choir. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

My brethren and sisters, it is very inspiring to me to observe the congregating of the Latter-day Saints at a general conference of the Church. It increases my faith and causes me to rejoice, because it is an evidence of the fact that God is with His people. It is a manifestation of the love that is in the hearts of the people for the precious truths of the everlasting Gospel. It is an evidence that the Gospel is bearing fruit among the Latter-day Saints, and that a people is being raised up with a desire to know the will and the mind of the Lord. They come from the far north and the far south, from the east and the west, and from all the Stakes of Zion. Representatives from all the settlements of the Latter-day Saints, have come up hither to worship the Lord our God, and to be taught in His ways. 

Of course there is plenty of room for improvement; but I do not know of a people who have so great a desire in their hearts to overcome their weaknesses and imperfections, and to grow in the knowledge of God, as do the Latter-day Saints. We are probably the only people who believe in immediate  from God; at least, I have never come in contact with any other community that so generally believes that God manifests His divine will to the individual man or woman, and that through the observance of the laws which have been revealed, and the commandments which have been given, we can grow in the knowledge of our Heavenly Father. I do not know another community that is seeking to gain salvation by inculcating the doctrine that "this is eternal life; To know Thee, the only true and living God." We are the only people I am acquainted with who are endeavoring to come to a knowledge of God, in order that we might indeed obtain eternal life. In evidence of this desire, the people come up from all parts of Zion to hear the living oracles of God, those who have been called and ordained to stand at the head of this people and to deliver unto them the word of the Lord. When I observe the great concourse, not only in this building, but in the larjje Tabernacle, and out in the open air on this block, as referred to by Brother McMurrin, and see our streets literally thronged with the multitudes who have come to the city of the center stake of Zion, that they might be taught in the ways of the Lord, I tell you, my brethren and sisters, it is an inspiring occasion to me; and it fills me with a desire and with an ambition to know more, and to advance and grow in the knowledge of God. It thrills my whole being, from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, because I realize that these feelings not only fill my bosom, but they are in the hearts of this great multitude of Latter-day Saints. 

"By their fruits ye shall know them." What is the Gospel of Jesus Christ doing for us? In what manner are we being bettered by yielding obedience to the laws of God, as contained in the principles of the Gospel, and as made known to us through His servants from time to time? Are we refraining from those things that are forbidden, and are we seeking to do works of righteousness. I believe that a great and glorious work is being accomplished in this direction among the Latter-day 2!> 

Saints, and that there is a desire in their hearts to overcome their petty weaknesses and faults. 

A short time ago I had occasion, which I frequently have, of talking to my own boys. I desired to show them the difference between an honest man and a thief. You know, of course, that there is a great deal of difference between these two propositions, and how easy it is to learn to distinguish the two men. You may see a man walking along the street, a man who is known for his good works, and you know him by his every day conduct, and some will say, 'There goes an honest man." Now, how did they find out that he was an honest man? There are a great many men of whom we do not bear this testimony. We do not feel at liberty to speak of some men and say that they are honest men, simply from the fact that they have never been caught in doing a dishonest deed, not by any means. A great many thieves have not been detected. There are many men and women who are dishonest, and yet they have never been convicted, for it has never been found out by anyone; but, because of something in their conduct and lives, no one would ever say of them that they are honest. With the honest man it is different; there is something in his character that manifests itself. Honesty oozes out of his very being. You can see in every act of his life that he is honest and upright. He does not do anything in a stealthy manner; it is not born in him, and It does not manifest itself in his daily life. It is the Gospel that is developing these traits of character in the Latter-day Saints. It is the observance of the law of tithing that is helping to develop noble attributes in the children of men. We learn to overcome our selfishness and greed for gain, inasmucn as we live according to the laws of the Gospel. That is what the Gospel will do for us. By observing those principles which our Father has revealed to us we are enabled to show the positive features of honesty, and not the negative features of dishonesty. We live above the law when we manifest honesty, integ and virtue; these attributes are characteristics of Latter-day Saints. That is the effect the Gospel is having upon all those who are striving to live up to its divine teachings. I rejoice in this Gospel that we have received, for the reason that it lifts us up and brings us nearer to our Father in heaven; and when these fruits are being made manifest among" the Latterday Saints we have cause to rejoice. 

There are many men who are dishonest and many who are thieves. Now, I would not like to accuse a young man who works in a store of being a thief simply because he may put his hand into a barrel of nuts and take and eat one of them. If that young r.*an should ^do that in the presence of his employer, it might probably be said that he received the silent consent of his employer; but, if he waits for an opportunity when no one is looking, and takes and eats one of those nuts, that is the act of a thief. If a person, with the intent to deceive and to rob, ana with such thoughts in his heart, takes that which does not belong to him, it is a stealthy act, and he is a thief. Many persons have developed this quality, though they may not have been detected and arrested; they are thieves; everybody acquainted and familiar with such an individual will feel there is something in his nature that debars confidence. You cannot trust him. An employer would not entrust him with his money, or give him the control of his business. 

Now, we have been reading in the papers recently of people called shoplifters, who enter into stores and, when no one is looking, will put an article under their cloak or secrete it in some manner and carry it off. One "lady" that I heard of took a beautiful and valuable hat, worth about $30 from a certain dry goods establishment, without being seen. The hat was missed the same night, and all the clerks were asked if they had sold it, but they said they had not. The following Sunday one of the employes of the store discovered a lady at church with this identical hat upon her head. Next Monday morning it was reported, and a bill for $30 was sent to the lady, and a check came back very promptly indeed. I might mention the fact to the ladies that there are some advantages in taking your hats off in church. (Laughter.) I would not like to infer, though, that there are ladies here who have on hats that do not belong to them. That is one instance in which a thief came to light. There are others who are suspected of doing the same thing. Why? Because there is something in their conduct that does not inspire confidence. 

Now, the Gospel teaches us to love honesty for honesty's sake;, to love virtue for virtue's sake, and to exhibit the positive qualities that go to make up our individual characters. A person who has this reputation and the confidence of the people, and in whom you can see the manifestations of honesty on every hand, will be trusted, and no one will suspect him of doing anything wrong; they would think it absolutely impossible for a person of that kind to be guilty of a dishonest act. That is what I like to see demonstrated and exhibited among the Latter-day Saints. 

I also have a testimony that this is the work of the Lord in which we are engaged. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet sent of God. Every where we see the evidence of his divine mission. A few of those evidences were pointed out by Elder McMurrin here, and I was very much pleased with the testimony he bore. Such a testimony can be enjoyed by all of us. How grateful we ought to feel to our Heavenly Father, we who have been born under the new and everlasting covenant, for the great privilege we have had, and for the blessings we enjoy. I, too, am grateful that my parents embraced the Gospel and came out to the land of Zion; and that they sacrificed all they had in the world and identified themselves with the people of God. I am proud of the fact that my father yielded obedience to the principles of the Gospel. I am proud of the heritage he has given to me. O how I wish I could make others feel the same as I do re the privilege of being born in Zion. 

Have we obtained the testimonies that we have from our parents? No. The testimonies that we have gained have come through the inspiration of the Spirit of God, "For no man knoweth the things of God but by the Spirit of God that is in him." A few days ago I was conversing with a brother, a good Latter-day Saints, at least I had always considered him a good Latter-day Saint, and he is generally reputed to be one — and he told me, much to my astonishment, that he was rather skeptical as to the Latter-day Saints having a knowledge that this is the work of God. He said, "we get up and bear testimony that we know that this is the work of God, that we know Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; but I arm a little skeptical on that point." He further said, "When I went on my mission I made it a point never to say that I knew these things to be true." I said: Well, brother, some men have come to an absolute knowledge of those things. "Well, possibly," said he, "but I hardly think they have." We got to talking of the sons of perdition, and he said he did not believe that Judas knew that Jesus was the Christ. I said, Perhaps not; but Peter knew it, because our Father had revealed it to him, and if Peter had done what Judas did, there is no Question but what he would have become a son of perdition. Then, I said, there was also the Prophet Joseph Smith who saw the Father and the Son. He said, "I am a little skeptical about that." I was astonished. This man, claiming to be a Latter-day Saint, felt that he could not believe that with all his heart. He said that when he was on his mission he only testified once that these things were true; he said he could not help himself on that occasion. He stated to me that he believed with all his heart that this was the work of God; that he was willing to die for it, if necessary, and to do anything on earth to further it; but he said he would not say he knew the Gospel was true. On the occasion referred to he said he could not help it; he felt  his whole being that if he did not declare that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God he would be damned. I told him he would have been damned if he had not borne this testimony, and that the reason he felt and spoke as he did was because he had the Spirit of God, for no man could know that without he had the Spirit of God. I took it for granted he would thus learn that the reason he does*not know it now is because he has not the Spirit of God. 

My brethren and sisters, let us live in such a way and manner that we may enjoy the Spirit of God at all times, that we may have a testimony of the truth, and never doubt that the Father and the Son appeared to the Prophet Joseph at the beginning of this great latter-day work. We oaght to feel greatful in our hearts that this testimony is with us. May God help up to be faithful to the end, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER S. ALLEN. (President of Taylor Stake). 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very much in need of your sympathy and the Spirit of the Lord while I stand before you this afternoon, because I feel very weak indeed in addressing this vast audience. 

I certainly appreciate the privilege of meeting with the Saints in general conference, and I appreciate the friendship, love and confidence of the Latter-day Saints. 

"While I have never had the privilege of going abroad among the nations of the earth to promulgate the Gospel in which we are engage J, I have spent perhaps the best part of my life in a foreign land— or at least what is to the people of the United States a foreign land— in Canada. I am glad my lot has been cast in that land. A great many people in Utah and other places know but little about Canada; they feel we are away off on the outskirts, and that we do not have the advantages enjoyed here and elsewhere. Of course, there are many things you have and -"ojoy that we do not have. But we  say that the Lord's hand has been over us for good. President Card was called by President Taylor to go there. I remember that, about fifteen years ago, President Card related a dream he had. He said that when he first went to Canada everything looked forbidding, and only a few of our people accompanied him to that country the first season. He dreamed he saw a hive of bees, or at least a few bees, and more continued to come, until the hive they had entered became too full, and they swarmed and went out, and other colonies were formed. Now, that dream has been fulfilled, I have lived to see it. The beginning in that country was a very small one, but the Saints have kept "swarming," and new settlements have been formed, until they became so numerous that the stake had to be divided and a new one created. While we have had a great many difficulties to contend with, which are incidental to the establishment of homes in a new country, the hand of the Lord has been over the people. T presume the Taylor stake of Zion, which was organized about a month ago, is the smallest stake in the Church, that is as to the number of wards; we have but three at the present time. However, we have between 3,000 and 3,500 people in those three wards. . They are the newest settlements of our people in Canada, two of them having been founded about four years ago, under the direction of President Woodruff and President Snow, and the other is only about two years old. Now, while we are a very small stake in that country, we do not expect to remain thus long. I believe that within three years the Taylor stake will be larger than the whole of the Alberta stake was previous to the division. We have a large country to grow in, and when the dividing lines between the two stakes were set, Apostle Taylor said it would extend from the United States boundary line to the north pole; so we have much room in which to grow. 

I do not believe in people leaving their good homes in Utah to go to Canada. I believe the advice President Smith gave in the morning meeting was good; I know it is, for I have had experience in that country, and I would not advise people who own comfortable homes to go to Canada. There is much room for good homes in that country; but we do not want people to emigrate to that land without the advice and consent of those who preside over them. 

There is a great gathering of young people in that land; the Lord has blessed us abundantly in that respect. The last census shows that one-third of the entire people are under eight years of age; so, within 25 years we will build up a great country there, without any more emigration to assist us. 

The Saints there have a good name. We are striving to build up the kingdom of God, and are interested in all the affairs of Zion. We like to mingle with the brethren and sisters of other stakes to learn how they are doing things. I was much gratified, on my way from Canada, to see the improvements in meetinghouses in Pocatello stake, and also in Utah stake, which I visited recently. We attended Priesthood meeting in Provo yesterday and gained something there. The progress the Saints are making is gratifying to me. We in Canada hope to prove to the king, and his representatives who preside over the affairs of the Dominion, that the Latterday Saints are what they profess to be, a God-fearing people. We desire to become a people who will be recognized as the most virtuous in all of the king's domains; that is what we are striving to be, and I believe we are at the present time. We aim to be the most honest and most law-abiding people that the king has. We desire to set an example in all of our settlements to all people who are looking for that which is good, noble and elevating. 

I believe ours is the only district in western Canada where prohibition prevails. The laws in Canada permit the people to decide whether liquor shall be sold in their settlements or not, and if three-lifths are in favor of its not being sold, it is prohibited, so far as open saloons are concerned. The "Mor" in western Canada have the name of being the only community that has taken advantage of this law; the saloons in our midst were abolished a little over a year ago, and we now have none. 

In all our organizations we are doing a good work; and, although we are a long way from headquarters, I feel we are not behind some of "the other stakes in many things. Our Sunday schools are doing exceedingly well, as are also the Mutual Improvement associations; and, while we have but two stakes in that region today, I believe we will have many within a few years. 

The Lord has blessed us temporally, but we feel that the temporal blessings are" not those the Saints should seek for most. There are things more important for the Latter-day Saints than temporal blessings — though if we can get the temporal along with the spiritual, so much the better— but we feel, as Latter-day Saints, that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and the principles it teaches are dearer to us than anything else on earth. If all our people will continue to feel that way, honor the Priesthood and strive to magnify it in all the affairs of life, we will become a power for good in the king's dominion. 

I presume there are hundreds here this afternoon who know the Gospel is true, that the Book of Mormon is true, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith established, through the help of the Lord, the work of God upon the earth. They know this and do not guess at it. I know that the Church and Kingdom of God is with us, the Lord has given that testimony to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, and I could not deny, it, for He has manifested the truth of this work to me on many occasions. 

If all the Latter-day Saints, and especially those who hold the Priesthood, could fully understand the great responsibilities they have taken upon themselves in receiving a portion of the Priesthood, and live up to their knowledge, we would be a much greater power in the land than we are today. I have  in the papers, that, in referring to the success and advancement of the Saints, they attribute it to various causes. Some say it is irrigation that has made the Latter-day Saints great; others say it is the cunning of the financier, because of the money accumulated through the tithes of the people. But we know these things are only a secondary consideration. We know that the Priesthood which the Lord has restored to the earth in this day and age of the world, and the power it gives to us, and our being baptized into one body and one spirit, is the foundation of the success of the great latter-day work. Take these away and we will be just as other men and women are. I wish that all the Latter-day Saints could realize and feel alike in relation to these things; and that every man who holds the Priethood, could realize that nearly everything depends upon how we magnify that Priesthood. 

The people of the nations of the earth, some of them, recognize that there is a power with the Latter-day Saints that they do not meet elsewhere. The people of Canada, those who have launched large colonization schemes, acknowledge there is a peculiar power with the Latter-day Saints .that has enabled them to become established in that land, and that has helped them to accomplish all they have done. They cannot understand this, but they acknowledge it; and they know there is some characteristic of the Latter-day Saints, something in their communism that holds them together that is not found in other communities in the Northwest Territories. The Latter-day Saints in Canada have made greater progress than any other colonies have done in the same length of time. "We attribute this to the blessings of the Lord, to the power of the Holy Priesthood and to the Spirit we enjoy; and I rejoice in all these things. I wish that all men would be honest and sincere enough to investigate the principles of the Gospel that the Latter-day Saints are promulgating in the world. 

I feel well, my brethren and sisters, and rejoice that my parents embraced the Gospel, and that. I have been born  the new and everlasting covenant; I fear if I had not been thus favored I would not now be a member of the Church. I am grateful for all these things, and for the progress the Latter-day Saints have made. I hope to see Zion arise and shine until she becomes the glory of the whole earth, and that all men and women shall feel to say, "Let us not go up to fight against Zion because of her terrible ones." May th"e Lord bless us, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

To the Latter-day Saints these great gatherings are a source of strength and hope, and enjoyment. I believe that, through thus meeting together and partaking of the Spirit that the Lord pours out upon His children, and by receiving the words which are spoken by the servants of the Lord, we go home filled with a greater incentive to serve God and to keep His commandments. 

We should be impressed with the remark of President Smith this morning, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is not a temporary organization, but that it is an organization which is permanent, 'which is and will be everlasting. It has been founded by God Almighty, and He has placed His stamp of approval upon. His people, and will ever do so, if they will keep His commandments and walk in His paths. To the Latter-day Saints, the walking in the paths of righteousness, the keeping of the commandments of God, and the enjoyment of the Holy Spirit, ought to be a source of satisfaction and gratification beyond the power of words to express. We ought to strive, individually, to make the Church of Christ stronger. The Church ought to be strong, because of the multitude of its members; and each member should take a particular pride in adding strength to the Church because he or she is a member of it. 

We have the privilege of knowing of a surety that this is the work of God. It is no chance proposition with the Latter-day Saints; it is a surety. There is no doubt in the mind of a conscientious and fully converted Latter-day Saint that God, the Father, and Jesus Christ, His Son, the Savior of the world, appeared in person to the Prophet Joseph Smith. That is a knowledge that is possessed by tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints, and it is a knowledge, furthermore, that can be gained and possessed by every individual born into this world, if that individual will but follow the instructions given of the Lord whereby men can come to a knowledge of the truth. "Why, our children know it; the little boys and girls of the Sabbath schools know it. They are taught it, and learn .it in their associations with one another and with the people of God; and the Spirit of the Lord which is upon and in them bears witness to them, even as children, that the things their parents teach, and which are taught by their Sunday school teachers, and by those who hold the Priesthood, are true. The Spirit of the Lord bears that witness, and there is no doubt in their minds; it is a knowledge; it is just as simple and easy to understand as the simplest proposition that any child may learn. Notwithstanding this, there are those in our midst for the purpose, so they say, of reclaiming us, and converting us to the standard of Christ, as they term it. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands in this world today for purity, for honesty, for righteousness, for virtue, for truth, for nobleness, and for every good, beautiful and glorious principle that has ever been made known to man. The Church of Christ stands for all these things, and it is the only organization in the world today that has the pure Gospel of Jesus Christ, as the Savior Himself taught it when He was upon the earth. It is just as ridiculous for those not of us, who do not understand the Gospel of Christ, who have not a knowledge of it (except from a sectarian standpoint, which is not a knowledge,) to come among the Latter-day Saints and declare unto them that Joseph Smith was nor a Prophet of God, as it would be for a teacher to go among our school children who have passed through a  of grades and declare unto them that two plus two does not make four. It would be just as ridiculous for them to do that as to declare that the sun does not appear first in the morning in the east and that it does not disappear from view in the evening in the west. It would be just as ridiculous, and is, for men and women to declare to the Latter-day Saints, who have a knowledge of the truth, that they are mistaken as it would be to tell them that water will not seek its own level, or that it will of itself rise higher than its source. 

The Spirit of God has borne witness to the Latter-day Saints that these things are true, and we know they are true; therefore, it is foolishness for men to come into our midst and declare unto us that these things are false; we know better. It is God's truth revealed from heaven, confirmed in our souls by the Holy Ghost, which we have received by the laying on of hands by those who have been ordained of God and upon whom has been conferred the holy Priesthood. Consequently, that is the reason there are so very few ever converted from the Church of Christ into the churches of those who pretend to be of Christ. One of our friends here, a minister of the Gospel, complained bitterly a short time since, because, said he, "After a man has been a Mormon, no matter what he does, if he can be converted and is won away from the Church, he is of no use to us anyway; he is of no use to anybody. We can do nothing with him, as those ideas hang to him while he lives and are always cropping out to disturb the doctrines which we have to teach him." If they only knew it, if they who fight the Gospel of Christ in anyway whatever, from the pulpit or the press, only knew that all of their efforts in contending against the trutn and endeavoring to bring the Latter-day Saints into a false light would be reactionary and would be overruled by an all-wise Providence for the good of His Church, they would perhaps not work so hard as they do. If they only knew that in converting an individual who has had a knowledge of the truth and has fallen ,, or who has gotten into the dark, and doubts, through sin and transgression — for men can fall from a knowledge of the truth only through disobedience of some kind — if they knew th.*t in winning such persons from us they were but adding strength to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and were weakening their own organizations in gaining such individuals, they, perhaps, would not be so anxious to get them. 

It is obvious that if you take from any proposition, from any mechanism, the weak parts, those parts that threaten the rest of the machinery or the rest of the organization, you strengthen that organization; and if you take that weak portion and add it to yourself, you do not add strength to yourself, but weakness instead. Now, take those Latter-day Saints who are in transgression and who have joined other churches, some people think they are converted from the truth, but they are not; they have lost a knowledge of the truth through their transgression, and when they are cut off from the Church of Christ and join some other organization they weaken that organization, and it makes the Church of Christ stronger because of the absence of those persons in transgression. We would be pleased to have them repent; but some people, you know, will not repent; they cannot repent. On the other hand, take the ministry of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that Church which sends forth its ministers with divine authority to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ and declare repentance to the world, whom do they convert? Is it those who have been ostracized and cast away from all religious doors? No. Is it those who are in transgression in the other churches, or in the world among men? No. Who is it? Why, it is the people who are most devout, who are most conscientious in serving God, so far as their knowledge and light goes. They want to serve the Lord, and they are striving to serve Him; they are prayerful; they are meeting-goers; in fact, those converted to the Church of Christ are the very best parishoners  are to be found in the churches of the world. In other words, they are the strongest individuals to be found in the various organizations of Christendom, and in gaining them we add strength to the true Churcn. We see the evidence of this fact when we look around at the hundreds and thousands of good, noble, conscientious, devout men and women who have been fathers and mothers of such men as Brother McMurrin and Brother Allen here, and tens of thousands of others who are making or have made their mark in this land, who are endeavoring to build up the Church of Christ on the earth, and who are a benefit to any community, wherever they may be. It is fathers and mothers of other young men who shall carry on the work of God in the world that our Elders are converting in Christendom. In adding such people to the Church we add strength to it, and we make the sectarian churches weaker every time one is won from them and is brought to a knowledge of the truth. 

We stand, as I said, for truth, for honesty, for honor, for integrity, for everything that is good, my brethren and sisters, and those who will not yield obedience to these principles and nvho will not serve God, must, sooner or later, be cast off from the true Church of Christ. People who are sinful and unrepentant, people who are in transgression, men and women who are wicked in their hearts and who will not repent, can never enter into the kingdom of God; and no man or woman who is full of iniquity and sin can stand in this Church very long; no, they will be weeded out. There are sins, my brethren and sisters, which may be committed that cannot be repented of in this life, nor will they be forgiven in this life nor the life to come, and men and women who commit these sins cannot be retained in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Show me another church in the world that invariably excommunicates men or women because of transgression or wickedness: there are none. Murderers, whoremongers, keepers of saloons, gambling hells and brothels, the doers of all evil, may be members in the denominations of the world. Apparently there is no sin a person can commit that would cause other denominations to excommunicate one of their members from their churches. A member can repudiate the church, and then there is nothing else for the church to do than to cast him out. The Catholic church would not even do that in by gone years; they would burn them at the stake, and then pray for their salvation. As a general thing, no matter how wicked, or what the occupation of a man may be, he can occupy the very best pew in the church, if he will but sustain it with his means. That cannot be done in the true Church of Christ. We must serve God; we must keep His commandments; we must eschew the very appearance of evil and do that which is right to retain our standing in the Church, which has been founded in this earth by God, the Father, and by the Son, Jesus Christ. If your deeds are such as were mentioned by Brother Wells, that is, if they are not known by men, let me assure you that God knows them, and while you may continue in this secret sin a member of the Church, a professed member of the Church, the day will come, my brethren and sisters, if those sins are not .repented of most sincerely, God, the Eternal Father will separate you from those who are faithful, and will cast you out from His presence and from His salvation, because of your sins. Therefore, we say, repent, ye Latterday Saints; repent and call upon the world to repent. You wno are warned, warn your neighbors; you who have a knowledge of the truth, teach your children; you who know that God lives, bear your testimony to the world, that all may have the privilege of knowing that God lives and that this is His Church, and that the Latter-day Saints are God's people. 

Now, may the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters. M,ay you be benefitted in this conference and go forth and serve the Lord with singleness of purpose, and with an eye single  the glory of God and to the building up of His kingdom, that the earth may be prepared for Christ's reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, when we may bask in His approbation and smiles of approval because of our faithfulness in doing His will and carrying out the counsel given to us through His servants. May the Lord bless us to this end, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 

My brethren and sisters, I have no desire to prolong the meeting. We have had a good one, and very much excellent counsel and admonition, and I trust that each one of us will make it the business of our lives to carry them out. 

I wish to remind the brethren and sisters who are here of the counsel given by President Smith this morning, that just as far as possible you will attend the conference meetings tomorrow and the next day, until the conference ends. 

I have been very much impressed with the remarks of all the brethren, and especially the las* remarks of Brother Hyrum in regard to the teaching of our children, and I desire to say just a word or two on this subject. Recently I enjoyed the honor and privilege of accompanying President Smith and his party to Canada, and the Big Horn. In the Big Horn Stake of Zion I had occasion to stop all night in various places, and I believe that, at every place where I stayed, before they had prayer at night, the family was called together and sat down and sang a hymn, one of our sacred songs, and they were attended by the influence of the Holy Spirit. A chapter was read from the Book of Mormon or the Bible, and, if time permitted, some remarks were made upon it for the benefit of the children. The father, mother, and children, each in turn, from time to time offered the family prayer. Now, this is a very simple thing. I enquired of the President of the Stake if that was the practice of every family in the Stake, and he said he believed it was; it had been counseled. I wish to say that this is a very good practice. It has been recommended to us time and  again, by the Presidency and other brethren of the Church. It simply means this, my brethren and sisters: That it is establishing- the Church of God in our homes; it is establishing the worship of God around the family altar, and I believe if we try it we will find that good results from it. I desire to carry it out myself, in order that I may consistently recommend the same to others. I believe that the great cause, possibly in about nine cases out of ten, of the transgression of our children, and the cause of skepticism in some instances, is not that they naturally drift away, but because they have been neglected; we have not sat down and talked to them. We have got to establish the order of heaven in our families, in the spirit of prayer and supplication, and must teach our children the principles of divine truth. 

I want to say another thing to the Latter-day Saints: If you have any grievances against any of your neighbors or against the servants of God who stand in authority in this Church, do not talk about those grievances before your children. I give that out as the word of the Lord. If you do, you will poison the minds of your children, and the day will come when you will regret it, when you would like to fill their souls with interest in the work of God and with the spirit of this Gospel, and then you will remember you have poisoned them. I give this counsel because I feel impressed with it. 

Now, just one more item occurs to my mind. I suggest to the brethren and sisters, and especially the Presidents of Stakes and Bishops of wards, that when they attend conference in Salt Lake City they should take advantage of every opportunity afforded at the meetings for informing their minds in regard to the work of God. I do not mean by this our attendance alone at the general assemblages, but also at the other meetings we are invited to attend. (The speaker here invited the Saints, especially those in authority, to attend the Religion Class meeting to be held at the close of this service.) God has established these auxiliary organizations in the Church for the ed and training of our children, and no man is justified in depreciating them, in casting any reflection upon them, nor in saying they are not necessary in the work of God. Every sound Latter-day Saint will welcome every institution in this Church as a help in the education of our children in the principles of the Gospel. 

I bear my testimony to the truth of this work, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. This testimony comes to us by the Spirit of God; and, outside of this, they of the world are proving he was a Prophet of God. Brother McMurrin, in speaking of the Presbyterian Church dogma regarding infant damnation, which they have taught for the last 250 years, might have added that the Methodist Church is adopting the law of tithing. The Epworth League also has made a covenant to give onetenth of its income to the service of the Lord. The sectarians are now adopting what the Prophet Joseph Smith taught over seventy years ago. They are not doing it to sustain the Prophet, but it proves he was a Prophet, for he said the Gospel would revolutionize the world. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang: , 

"Now we'll sing with one accord, For a Prophet of the Lord," etc. 

The benediction was offered by Elder Stephen L. Chipman. 


