Afternoon
06 10 1903


PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Distinction between gathering of the Saints and Salvation Army colonization — Law of tithing — Acceptance of principles of the Gospel would benefit the world— Sacredness of Temple work. 

I am very glad, brethren and sisters, to have another opportunity of meeting with you in this conference, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be abundantly poured out upon us this afternoon, as it has been thus far. 

Two or three things were mentioned yesterday that I have thought about today. One was in relation to gather. A comparison was made between the gathering of the Latter-day Saints and the colonization or gathering of the Salvation Army. It struck me very forcibly that there was no proper comparison between them. The gathering of the Latter-day Saints was inaugurated by revelation, through Joseph Smith the Prophet. It is part and parcel of the Gospel of this last dispensation, and it was preached in a very early day. I remember distinctly that when I first heard the Gospel there was little said about the gathering; but, it was very remarkable that every person who received the Gospel began to prepare to gather with the Saints. When they received the Gospel they received the spirit of gathering with it. As I understand it, the Salvation Army is simply colonizing. Consequently, I think there is considerable difference between the gathering of the Latter-day Saints and the colonization of the Salvation Army. 

Another matter mentioned was in relation to tithing. It was stated that some of the Christian denominations are commencing to pay tithing. Now, I remember that as long ago as when I was a member of the Church of England, the principle of tithing was taught in that church. But, there was one difference between the tithing collected there and the tithing of the Latter-day Saints: one was collected by law, the other is a voluntary contribution. I have known a parson to send his team into the grain field and take the tenth shock of grain out of the field, if the man did not pay the money. I have seen this done myself. So it is nothing particularly new to them, though it may be to the Methodists. I look upon the tithing of the Latterday Saints as entirely different to that practised by other denominations. The principle of tithing came to us by revelation, the same as did all the ordinances of the Church. 

Again, while the brethren were speaking of these organizations accepting some of the principles of the Gospel, it occurred to me that it would not be a bad thing if they accepted every one of the principles of the Gospel, provided they practised them, because it would have the effect to better the condition of all the people in the world. I have the same opinion regarding that as I have in relation to the ordinances in the temples. It has been said that things are taught in the temples which cannot be spoken of outside. I want to tell you — and you who have been there know what I say is the truth — that every principle taught there is of a holy and sacred character. They are all calculated to make people better, to make better fathers, better mothers, and better citizens of the United States. This statement could be verified by thousands in this congregation. So true is this that one president of a stake has commenced to organize the people in his stake to go to the temple and work for the dead; and one reason he assigns for doing this is that the people who attend to ordinance work in the temple make better members of a ward, better fathers and mothers, and better citizens; consequently he wants all the people in his stake to go to the temple, and partake of the blessings and spirit of that holy house. I think this is an example that might well be followed by other stakes of Zion, where they are so situated that they can do it. The Prophet Joseph Smith said shortly before his death, that the one thing that was exercising his mind more than any other was in relation to the ordinances for the dead. It is true, a considerable work has been and' is being done in our temples. About 2,490,000 ordinances have been performed in all the temples, and about 78,000 have been performed during the past year in the Salt Lake Temple. But we can do more. If this is as important as the Prophet Joseph said it was surely it is our duty to attend to it, and not put it off when we have the opportunity. This is a matter worthy the consideration of all the presidents of stakes. Let them encourage their people to go to the house of the Lord, and redeem the dead. 

May the Lord bless us in all our labors, and may we so live before the Lord that we may always have a claim upon His promised blessings, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Comprehensive redemption — Salvation include 8 dead as well as livng — Sacredness of work done in Temples. 

The subject Brother Winder alluded to — work for the dead — is a very interesting one. It is a principle peculiar to the Gospel as preached by us. There are churches whose members believe in praying for the dead; but we believe in working for the dead. It was a new thing when the Prophet Joseph laid this principle before the world. The Christian world had been taught for hundreds of years that death ends all with man; that if he did not believe in Christ at his death there was no hope for him. When you consider the small number of the inhabitants of the world who have heard of the name of Christ, and then think of all the rest being damned because they did not obey that which they had never heard, the inconsistency and injustice of such a doctrine as that is very apparent. The Gospel of Christ was formulated in love. God is love. He loved His children so much that He sent His Only Begotten Son, who gave Himself a sacrifice for the sins of all. Jesus came and filled His mission. His name has been preached to the nations for centuries. Yet the Christian world today does not constitute a third of the whole population of the globe. The other twothirds do not believe in Christ, and when they die, according to some, their chance of salvation is gone. We believe that the Gospel is much broader than this. We believe that the plan of salvation, formulated before this earth rolled into existence, was framed by heavenly beings who could see the future, and who understood what would take place, and were able to provide for the salvation of all who should inhabit this earth. They did so. We have learned, through the Prophet Joseph, that there is a possibility for those who have departed, to hear the truth, to believe in God and in His Son, to repent, and to have the ordinances of the Gospel performed for them. I know that many have held that these doctrines are blasphemous; but they are . They are principles that give hope unto men. You have heard perhaps of the Dutch chief who was converted by the Christians, and, as he was going to step into the waters of baptism, he asked what had become of his father and his forefathers. The priest who was to baptize him, being a little more zealous than wise perchance, told him they had all gone to hell. He stepped back and said, "Then I want to go where they have gone." Now, those who hear the Gospel today may ask where their forefathers have gone, and it can be said to them, "They all shall hear the name of Christ, for the Gospel will be preached unto them. If they have not heard it here, they will hear it yonder; and every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess His name." Remember, it is the spirit in man that hears, and understand?, and wills. This tabernacle of clay is not capable of these functions. The spirit uses the different senses to obtain perceptions from the outer world. And when the spirit, after leaving the body, goes into the spirit world, it can still think, and will, and reason. The intelligent part of man does not die. At some time or other, those authorized to preach the Gospel will minister unto the spirits in the spirit world and lay before them the glorious principles of truth. When the thief on the cross asked the Savior to remember him when He came into His kingdom, Jesus saw that the man was penitent, that he had a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and he comforted him with the promise that "today shalt thou be with me in paradise." I do not think He held out a fallacious hope to this man when He said that he should be with Him in paradise that day. I believe that when the Savior's spirit left His body hanging upon the tree, it went into paradise, and He gladdened the hearts of the spirits there with the glorious tidings that He had conquered, that He had given His life for their redemption, and that everything they had done in their worship pointing forward to His great sacrifice had been , thereby giving validity to their acts. 

What joy must have filled them when they heard this! But He did not visit them alone. He went further into the spirit world. He visited the spirits in prison who had once heard and rejected the Gospel. He preached the Gospel unto them, so Peter tells us. Peter also gives us to understand who they were. They were the antediluvians who rejected the message of salvation as preached by the Gospelpreacher Noah. These heard the voice of the Savior in the spirit world. No doubt they had ample time to consider and repent of their acts, and were longing for the time spoken of by Isaiah, when the prison doors should be opened and the captives should go free. Christ did this, according to Peter's (testimony. Why did He preach to them? Some have held that He did so to tantalize them over what they had lost. Oh, no! That was not the mission of Jesus. He preached glad tidings unto them, and He opened their prison doors. An opportunity was given in the spirit world for them to receive and obey the Gospel. So with our forefathers, who died without a knowledge of the purposes of God. They will have a chance to hear and receive the Gospel. 

Jesus, in His interview with Nicodemus, laid down the law which must be obeyed by all who shall enter the kingdom of heaven. "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." In other words, the law was laid down in the eternal councils that baptism is necessary to salvation. But the spirits cannot be baptized. How, therefore, can they obey this law? It must be borne in mind that Jesus extended this law to all. Some have gone so far as to say that it includes little children also; but the Lord has revealed unto us that children, before they arrive at the years of accountability, are without sin, and therefore it is noi necessary to baptize them, baptism being for the remission of sin. On one occasion Jesus held up a little child and said unto His disciples, "iGxcept ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." On another occasion, in speaking of children, He said, 'Of such is the kingdom of heaven." But after they arrive at the years of accountability they must obey this law. This law applying to all men, how shall those who have died obey It? ^-od. m His mercy, has provided that others may perform this ordinance for them in the flesh, and this vicarious work is attended to in temples. "We thank the Lord for this glorious doctrine. It raises our hopes for those whom we love and who did not obey the requirements of the Gospel in life. We rejoice that they can have the opportunity in the other life. But those in this mortal life must be baptized for them. 

This is not a new doctrine. Paul understood it, and used it in his day as a strong argument in favor of the resurrection. Of what use would it be to baptize anyone if there were no resurrection? Read the 29th verse of the 15th chapter of First Corinthians: 

"Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" 

When in England I attended the funeral of a member of the English church and heard the officiating clergyman read the beautiful chapter containing this verse, I wondered what they thought of that verse. But they read it and never commented upon it. I see, though, that Dean Farrar in his book on "The Early Days of Christianity," says, "If Christ preached to dead men who were once disobedient then Scripture shows us that the moment of death does not necessarily involve a final and hopeless torment for every sinful soul." Now, we believe that the law laid down by Jesus to Nicodemus must be obeyed, and that men in the flesh can obey it by proxy for those who have departed. For this reason we have built temples. Tou may say we have only a small number of temples, that very few can enter there, and that the myriads of spirits in the spirit world cannot be  by the mere handful of people who are performing vicarious work here on the earth. In answer to this I will say we believe there will be ample time in the future. We do all that is in our power while God gives us days to live in, and we know there are many more going to join the ranks of the Saints. The Gospel will spread, this land will be the land of Zion, temples will be built in various localities, from one end of it to the other, and the Saints of God living in the Millennium will have this precious labor to perform. Then the veil, I believe, will be much thinner between the spirit world and this; and we will work for the dead, not only in faith that those for whom we labor will accept the Gospel, but with an actual knowledge that they are longing for the work to be done. I look upon the work for the dead as a most glorious principle. 

While I am speaking about the Temples, I want to make a declaration here before you, my brethren and sisters. We have been accused of entering into covenants in those holy edifices which are unpatriotic and against our government. Now. I declare here solemnly before you that there is not a word of truth in it; that nobody is called upon to take oath or covenant that militates against our government in the least degree. On the other hand, I will say that those who obey the covenants they enter into there will be better citizens because of it. They cannot help it, because they make covenants there to serve the Lord, to do right unto their neighbors, to live pure lives; and when men do this they will be the best citizens. I suppose there are thousands before me in this Tabernacle who have gone into our temples, and they know it is true what I say. I would not dare to say this before you, if it were not so. I hear that sectarian organizations are going to bring up the alleged endowment oath against Senator Smoot, arguing that he is not capable of giving allegiance to the government on account of the oath he is said to have taken in the Temple. First, there is no oath given or taken; but sacred covenants are entered into; and , there is not one — I say it again — that is against the government or against a man being patriotic and sustaining the laws of his country. 

Brethren and sisters, I feel well to be present with you. I have rejoiced in this conference. I hope the spirit of it will go with us to our different places of abode, and that the spirit of Zion may grow, and union and prosperity prevail amongst the Saints. I ask this in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

A reference to the past — Encouragement to faithfulness — The youth should prepare for the work of the ministry. 

My brothers and sisters, it is with peculiar feelings that I stand before you on this occasion. For one thing, it -is rather unexpected to me. I feel to ask for your faith and prayers, that something may be brought to my mind that shall edify you and myself. I have listened attentively to the remarks made by those who have addressed us during this conference, and I bean testimony that what has been said to us is true and profitable. Those who have talked to us have done so under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. The counsels they have given to us are good, and should sink deep into our hearts, and cause us to profit by what we have heard. 

In looking at this congregation, my mind reverts to early youth. In my association with the Church, from its early history up to the present, I have seen vast changes among the people. When I look around and try to discover those who were companions of my youth, I find they are getting very scarce. I met one man this morning who was a member of the Church in Kirtland, Ohio. He is the first one I have met for a long time. Very few remain of those who were my companions in Nauvoo, and I sometimes become lonesome, because the faces of those I was acquainted with then have faded away. In their stead, others have become prominent, and as has been predicted, we have become a srreat and mighty people in the valleys of tht, mountains. 

I want to encourage the Saints to faithfulness, and diligence in the performance of duty. Realizing that our time in this probation is short, we should strive to perform the labors and duties enjoined upon us in that way and manner that shall meet the approval of our Father in heaven. I often hear people speak of a hobby. If I have one, it is to exhort my young brethren especially to faithfulness, to diligence in duty, to listen to and be guided by the whisperings of the Spirit, and to acquire learning and information that will prepare them for the duties of the future. The Gospel must be preached to all nations, kindred, tongues and people, and our boys must learn their duty and prepare their minds for that important work. We understand that the greater the harvest, the more harvest hands we need. I exhort the boys particularly to prepare themselves for the ministry; to attend Mutual Improvement associations and schools; get their lessons properly, and be ready when they are called to go on missions on this continent, or to the other nations of the earth, or upon the islands of the sea, that they may go with an understanding of what they are sent for, and be qualified to carry the message of life and salvation unto all those who will listen. In this Church every person has certain duties to perform. We understand that we should pay tithes and offerings, and attend to our prayers. We also understand the meaning of the old adage, Do unto others as we would they should do unto us. Let us act according to our understanding, that we may fill our mission upon the earth in honor before God. 

May the blessings of our Heavenly Father attend all Israel. May He continue to guide us in the true path, and fit and prepare us for every event of His providence, and, when we have finished our course, may we be worthy of the blessings He has in store for His people, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Lottie Owen sang sweetly the song entitled: 

"Oh, Dry Those Tears." PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. Latter-day Saints a free people. 

We will now present before the conference the names of the general authorities of the Church.with the earnest desire that all the members of the Church present, who by reason of their good standing before the Lord are entitled to the privilege, will express their will according to the God-given agency that every man in the world enjoys.and which is not lessened, but rather increased, in all those who have made covenant with God by sacrifice and through obedience to the principles of the Gospel. The freedom of the Latterday Saints has never been curtailed or lessened one whit by their becoming members of the Church of Christ. Rather has it been enlarged. There are no freer people upon the face of the earth today than the Latter-day Saints. They are bound to the Church by no ties or strings, but their own conviction of the truth. And whenever a man makes up his mind that he has had enough of what is called "Mormonism," all he has to do is to make it known and we will sever the bond that unites him with the body, and let him go his own way, only bearing toward him the feeling of sympathy and of true brotherly kindness, and wishing him still the mercies of God. We will cry, Father., have mercy upon him, because he knows not what he is doing. For when a man denies the truth, when he departs from the right way, when he rejects the right of God to counsel in the affairs of men, he is either ignorant or wilfully wicked, and it only excites our pity for him. As the Savior cried upon the cross, so will we cry in the same spirit, Father, forgive him; have mercy upon him; for he knows not what he does. Therefore, we expect only those to vote at this time who are members of the Church in good standing; but all such we do expect to vote, according to their own free will, whether it be yea or nay. However, we wish it distinctly understood that no questions upon these mat will be discussed in this conference; for this is not the place to discuss questions of difference or of feeling that we may possess one towards another. Still we can manifest our approval or our disapproval by the uplifted hand; and if there are any disapprovals, we will have them heard and adjusted later on, but not here. 

THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

of the Church were presented by President Joseph F. Smith to be voted upon by the conference, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith as Propnet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

As President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, Francis M. Lyman. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Ciawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, and George A. Smith. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies — Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education, Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, John Nicholson, George 

H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, and John R. Winder, with Arthur "Winter, as secretary. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian and general Church recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, O. P. Whitney, A. M. Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the conference. 

Evan Stephens, as leader and conductor of the Tabernacle choir; Robert T. McEwan, as first counselor and secretary; George C. Smith, as second counselor and treasurer; John J. McClellan, as organist; and all the members of the choir. 

RELIEF SOCIETY. 

General Officers and General Board of the Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, general president; Annie T. Hyde, first counselor; Ida S. Dusenberry, second counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, general secretary; Clarissa S. Williams, general treasurer. 

Board— Jane S. Richards, Sarah J. Cannon, M. Isabella Horne, Romania B. Pratt, Susan Grant, Martha A. Cannon, Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards, Ellis R. Shipp, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Phebe Young Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Merrilll Horne, Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Margaret A. Caine. 

ADDITIONAL MISSIONARIES. 

Harriet Ann Badger, Sophia T. Nuttall, Mary T. Smith, Mary A. C. Lambert, Rebecca E. Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Leila Merrill Allen, Priscilla Smith, Hattie B. Harker. 

RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES' CLASS. 

Emma A. Empey, superintendent; Margaret C. Roberts, instructor; Phebe Young Beatie, corresponding secretary and treasurer. 

OFFICERS OF THE DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; Joseph M. Tan, second assistant general superintendent. 

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD. 

Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace Cummings, Abraham O. Woodruff. 

George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, general treasurer; William A. Morton, business manager. 

Joseph F. Smith, editor Juvenile Instructor; George Reynolds and Joseph M. Tanner, assistant editors; George D. Pyper, business manager. 

Y. M. M. I. A. 

Officers of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement associations: Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; Heber J. Grant, Brigham H. Roberts, assistants; Thomas Hull, secretary and treasurer; Evan Stephens, music director. 

Aids: Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Matthias F.Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Le Roi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudgier Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Bryant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, Brigham F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner, Hyrum M. Smith, William B. Dougall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Ovando C. Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon. 

Y. L. M. I. A. 

Officers of Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement associations— Elmina S. Taylor, president; Maria Y. Dougall, first counselor; Martha H. Tingey, second counselor; Ann M. Cannon, secretary and treasurer; Mae T. Nystrom, corresponding secretary; Joan Campbell, recording secretary. 

Aids— Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Lillie T. Freeze, Susa Young Gattes, Minnie J. Snow, May B. Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Alice K. Smith, Elizabeth C. McCune, Ruth M. Fox, Julia M. Brixen, Helen W. Woodruff, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze. 

Alice C. Tuddenham, choir leader; Mattie Read, organist; Lizzie Thomas, assistant organist. 

PRIMARY BOARD. 

Members of the general board of Primary associations — Louie B. Felt, president; Lillie T. Freeze, first counselor; Josephine R. West, second counselor; May Anderson, secretary and treasurer; Olive L. Derbidge, assistant secretary; Euphemia I. Burnham, recording secretary. 

Aids — Aurelia S. Rogers, L. Lulu Greene Richards, Isabelle S. Ross, Camilla C. Cobb, Edna L. Smith, Eliza Slade Bennion, Fanny Woolley, Josephine G. Smith, Ida B. Smith. 

RELIGION CLASS BOARD. 

Members of Religion Class Board— Anthon H. Lund, general superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant general superintendent; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent; L. John Nuttall, general secretary; John M. Mills, Henry Peterson, Horace Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Matthias F. Cowley, Hyrum M. Smith, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Louis A. Kelsch, John H. Evans. 

Board of Examiners of Church Schools— Jos. M. Tanner, Benj. Cluff, Jr., George H. Brimhall, Joshua H. Paul, James Linford, Jos. M. Tanner, general superintendent of Church schools. 

EUROPEAN MISSION. 

Elder Heber J. Grant to succeed Elder Francis M. Lyman as president of the European mission. 

All the voting was unanimously in the affirmative. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

How the will of God can be known— All offices, callings and authority embraced in the holy Melchisedek Priesthood— Material affairs of the Church. 

If I regret anything at all, it is that we have not time to hear the testimonies of many more of the brethren who are in attendance at this conference. Nothing would delight me more than to have the privilege of remaining here and listening to a score or two of presidents of stakes, presidents of missions, and other prominent men who are at this conference representing the different interests of the Church. I regret more than anything I can think of in connection with our conferences, that we do not have more time, and that we cannot hear from more of our brethren. But I think the time so far has been well employed, and I trust that all that has been said, all the counsel that has been given, the exhortations that have been offered and the admonitions that have been voiced, will be blessed and sanctified through the spirit of truth to the good and encouragement of all who have heard them. 

The one thing now that I desire to impress upon the minds of my brethren of the Holy Priesthood is that we should live so near to the Lord, be so humble in our spirits, so tractable and pliable, under the influence of the Holy Spirit, that we nvill be able to know the mind and will of the Father concerning us as individuals and as officers in the Church of Christ under all circumstances. And when we live so that we can hear and understand the whisperings of the still small voice of the Spirit of God, let us do whatsoever that Spirit directs, without fear of the consequences. It does not make any difference whether it meet the minds of carpers or critics, or of the enemies of the kingdom of God, or not. Is it agreeable to the will of the Lord? Is it compatible with the spirit of the great latter-day work in which we are engaged? Is the end aimed at likely to advance the Church and to strengthen it in the earth? If its trend is in that direction, let us do it, no matter what men may say or think. I know, as I know that I live, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When I say this, I say it with a full understanding 1 of th e meaning of the term. It is the Church of Jesus Christ. It is not the church of man. The Lord laid the foundations of it. It was He who inspired the boy Prophet, Joseph Smith, and gave to him wisdom and understanding to organize the councils of the Priesthood and to establish His Church upon the foundation of prophets, apostles, evangelists, and inspired men. It was the Lord Jesus who restored the Holy Melchisedek Priesthood, through the instrumentality that He used; and all blessings, all offices, all callings, and all authority in this Church come under and are embraced in the holy Melchisedek Priesthood, which is after the order of the Son of God. There is no office growing out of this Priesthood that is or can be greater than the Priesthood itself. It is from the Priesthood that the office derives its authority and power. No office gives authority to the Priesthood. No office adds to the power of the Priesthood. But all offices in the Church derive their power, their virtue, their authority, from the Pristhood. If our brethren would get this principle thoroughly established in their minds, there would be less misunderstanding in relation to the functions of government in the Church than there is. Today the question is, which is the greater — the High Priest or the Seventy, the Seventy or the High Priest? I tell you that neither of them is the greater, and neither of them Is the lesser. Their callings lie in different directions, but they are from the same Priesthood. If it were necessary, the Seventy, holding the Melchisedek Priesthood, as he does, I say IF IT WERE NECESSARY— he could ordain a High Priest; and if it were necessary for a High Priest to ordain a Seventy, he could do that. Why? Because both of them hold the Melchisedek Priesthood. Then again, if it were necessary — though I do not expect the necessity will ever arise — and there was no man left on earth holding the Melchisedek JPriesthood, 

 an Elder, that Elder, by the inspiration of the Spirit of God, and by the direction of the Almighty, could proceed, and should proceed, to organize the Church of Jesus Christ in all its perfection, because he holds the Melchisedek Priesthood. But the house of God is a house of order, and while the other offices remain in the Church, we must observe the order of the Priesthood, and we must perform ordinances and ordinations strictly in accordance with that order, as it has been established in the Church through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors. 

I am aware of the fact that there are those who in the past have held different views to this. They may still hold different views; and if they do,, they will have to change them by and by, if they ever get a correct knowledge of the Priesthood. No office of an Apostle, no office of a President, no office of a High Priest, or a Seventy, or an Elder, is greater than the Melchisedek Priesthood. I hope you will understand that. If an Apostle has any authority at all, he derives it from the Melchisedek Priesthood, which is after God's order, and he cannot have it in any other way. There is no authority except it comes from that Priesthood. It holds the keys of the administering of blessings, ordinances and promises upon the heads of all the members of the Church. Out of the Melchisedek Priesthood grows the Lesser Priesthood, which is called the Priesthood after the order of Aaron. This is an appendage to the Melchisedek Priesthood. The office of an Elder, of a High Priest, of a Seventy — all the offices in the Church are simply appendages to the Melchisedek Priesthood, and grow out of it. You can read the revelations regarding this in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and you must see it just as I have told it. 

Now, I think I can say. without any reservation, that the brethren who are placed in charge to look after the interests of the Church are doing their whole duty to the utmost of their ability. Brother Clawson, in his discourse, alluded to the condition of our book* and records of tithing. Never since the Church was organized were they in so perfect a condition as they are today. We can tell you the name of every man, woman and child in the Church who pays tithing, and we can tell you exactly what they pay. Not only so, but we have records by which we can show the names and the number of the members of the Church who are not tithepayers. Furthermore, we can tell you that not one dollar of the tithings of the Church is used for any purpose except that which is legitimate and proper, according to the necessities of the Church. I say to you, too, that we are paying the debts of the Church, and the tithing is being used carefully and exclusively at present to meet all current expenses and to cancel our obligations, both bonded and note. I am happy to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that the people are doing as well in this direction, if not better than they have ever done before, with the exception, perhaps, of one year. There was one year wherein more tithing was paid than has been in any one year since; but we presume that was the result of unprecedented prosperity, and we are not disposed to measure subsequent years by that one, but rather to compare them year by year, on a consistent basis. It gives me pleasure to say to you that if you will continue to do your duty in this matter, it will not be long before the Church will owe nobody except God. So far as I am concerned, I have not cared particularly whether I shall live a long or short time; still I may say it would be pleasing to me if I could have the privilege of living until every dollar that the Church owes shall be paid, and a handsome surplus remain in the treasury. I want to see that day, if the Lord is willing. But if He is not willing for me to live till that day shall come. I intend at any rate to carry out that purpose to the best of my ability, and to work to that end so long as I do live and am permitted to occupy my present position. Moreover, I say to you that I have two strong, staunch, faithful counselors to assist and encourage  in this endeavor — Presidents Winder and Lund. I think if there is one of the three of us more inclined to be liberal than the others, perhaps it is Brother Lund. His generous, large soul sometimes expands a little farther than Brother Winder's or mine. We do not disagree about it, but we try to be economical and prudent, and eke out that which we have. We are endeavoring to assist the widow and the fatherless, and, as far as our means will go, the different wards and stakes of Zion, in the erection of their meetinghouses. We are trying to do the best we can for the maintenance of our temples and for the continuance of the work that is going on in them. And this requires considerable means. According to our means and the obligations resting upon us, we are doing handsomely, I think, for our Church schools, of which we have a number and they are a credit to the people and to the cause of education. We have at last succeeded in completing the Deseret News building, the foundations of which were laid by President Lorenzo Snow. We have also completed the Deseret News annex. These buildings are truly a credit to our city, but they have been a source of great expense to the Church. They are both costly buildings, especially the main one. built solidly and in the most expensive way, and will stand as a monument to the city for many years to come. They are now paid for, and that obligation is off our hands. Now we have undertaken to assist — not to do it all — in the erection of a Latter-day Saints hospital in this city, where the sick and unfortunate of our people may be taken in an emergency. It will be conducted under the auspices of the Latter-day Saints, and we hope to be able to assist in completing that and still go on paying our debts. But if anybody possessing a surplus of means is generous enough to voluntarily contribute towards the erection of that hospital, we will be glad to receive it from him. Others do such things, but we have not many rich among us, and therefore we do not expect so much from our brethren; but where men have abundance of means and desire to put  of it where it will do good, if they will offer it freely to this hospital, we will accept it with our blessing, and with the blessing of the sick and unfortunate that may be taken there in time to come. The blessing of all will be upon the generous giver. Still we expect to be able to go on with the building until it is completed — that is, the main part. By and by. doubtless, it will have to be enlarged to meet our necessities. Then again, we want the good sisters who have contributed means in the past for the erection of a woman's building in this city, for which a piece of land was designated, to understand that their efforts in this direction are not in vain. Inasmuch as you have contributed your means and have it in safe keeping, it will come in very nicely when we begin to lay the foundations of a memorial building to the name and honor of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and in that building the Relief society, the various quorums of the Priesthood and the general Authorities of the Church will have official habitation and offices. "We will erect a building, I hope, that will be creditable to the Church— not, however, until we pay our debts. We do not want to begin to incur new debts until the old ones are wiped out, nor then if we can avoid it. But when we get the means and are otherwise in a position to do it, we hope to put up a building on the old Deseret News corner that will afford headquarters to the presidency of the Church, the Twelve Apostles, the presiding Bishopric, the Seven Presidents of Seventies, and the general and auxiliary organizations of the Church. So we do not want you sisters to be discouraged because you do not see the work going on just at present. "We have not used your money; in fact, you control it, and it is where you have put it. It will be there, and perhaps bring you in a little interest, until we get ready to use it. "When that time shall come, we will then call upon you to help build yourselves and us a home. 

I feel happy in this work. I know it is good. I feel it in every fibre of my being. I am satisfied that the Lord's  is over His people for good, and that He is lengthening the cords of Zion and strengthening her stakes. I have not been able to travel as much as I would like, but I have had the pleasure of visiting, this summer, our settlements in Canada, in Oregon, and in the Big Horn Basin; and wherever I have gone I have seen unmistakeable evidences of God's blessing and approval upon the people. On all sides there are evidences of progress, of increase, of the development of the resources of the land, and of building up and strengthening the stakes of Zion. I feel in my heart that the Lord will continue to bless and prosper Zion. As an evidence that He is doing so, we see that the devil is not dead yet, and he won't die as long as the work of God is alive in the earth. 

The Lord bless Zion. Peace be unto you, my brethren and my sisters, and in all your habitations. The peace and blessing of God be upon your families, upon your flocks and your herds, your substance, and all that He has made you stewards over, that these things may be sanctified unto the Lord and blessed of Him to your good and continued happiness in time and to your exaltation in eternity. God bless these faithful men who preside over the stakes of Zion, with their counselors and the members of the High Councils, and the Bishops and their counselors. God bless the presidents of Seventies, the Presiding Bishopric, the Twelve Apostles, and all those who are engaged in the labor of the ministry, until the Saints shall be brought to a knowledge of the truth unto the perfect stature of a man in Christ Jesus; that we may know as we are known, and not be tossed about by every wind of doctrine and by the cunning craftiness of men whereby they lie in wait to deceive. God deliver us from the snares of the adversary, and from the traps that are set for our feet and the pits that are dug for our destruction, and make us to prosper in the land now and forever, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, The angels are coming to visit the earth. 

The conference then adjourned for six months. 

The stenographic work in taking an account of the proceedings was done by Arthur "Winter. 

By request, President Smith pronounced the benediction. 