Afternoon
04 10 1903


PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Obedience to truth the basis of freedom— Sin productive of bondage— Preparatory work for the coming of Christ. 

I sincerely ask an interest in your faith and prayers. I desire to speak to you under the influence of the Holy Spirit, for anv other influence would not edify us. I rejoice in seeing this large attendance at our conference. It manifests to us that the Saints are desirous of coming together and receiving the word of the Lord. 

I was very much interested this morning in the remarks of our brethren who spoke to us. President Smith told us to be free, and not to be the slaves of sin. On one occasion, our Savior, i,n addressing the Jews who believed on Him, said to them, "If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed; and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." They said to Him, "We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Te shall be made free?" Jesus answered them, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin." In other words, the slave of sin. Tho Lord has commanded us that we shall loose the bands of wickedness and break every yoke. Now, we want to enjoy the blessing embodied in the words of Jesus: "The truth shall make you free." The Lord wants us to be free. In fact, one of the objects of our coming upon the earth was to be made free, and to learn the right use of freedom, or free agency. The Lord does net want us to be slaves, or even servants, in the sense of being in bondage; but He wants us to be His free sons and daughters. He wants us to learn the right use of free agency. The man who abstains from sin and from indulgence in sinful pleasures is not a servant or slave; he is a free man. Too many there are who do not understand this, and who lack the moral courage to use their free agency and do that which they know to be right. Too many there are who are afraid of what others shall say. Latter-day Saints, be not afraid of what others' may say; but be afraid of what He who knows the inmost thoughts of your hearts shall think and judge of you. The man who chooses to continue in the word of Christ, not only in the hearing but in the doing of it, though it may deprive him of the good opinion of many, shall know the truth, and the truth shall make him free indeed. We should examine ourselves, and find out whether the truth has made us free, or whether we be still slaves to those influences that we know are not of God. Are we doing the things which God has forbidden? If so, it is time for us to loose the bands of wickedness and break every yoke. It is time for us to get out of bondage, and feel within ourselves that we are free indeed. 

When the Gospel was first preached to us we were full of doubt and darkness. By obeying the word of God we received an assurance that we had  a covenant with Him, and that He had accepted us. Doubt and darkness left us. The light of the Holy Spirit filled our whole beings, and we felt that we were free. Have we continued to be free like this? Have we not, in too many instances, yielded to temptation and indulged in that from which we had covenanted to keep ourselves free? I am afraid that too many of us will find this in our history. My exhortation is, Let us learn to know ourselves, and to know how we stand with our Heavenly Father; and, knowing this, so shape our course that we can gain His favor. 

We rejoice in the fact that the work of God is growing in the earth, and that He has been with His servants in their labors to promulgate the glad tidings of salvation unto men. Our missionaries have gone to nearly all lands, and are proclaiming the will of our Heavenly Father and telling men that the time is quickly approaching when Christ will come the second time. When He came the first time, He descended below all things that He might redeem mankind, but He will come in glory to the earth, with His holy angels, to meet His Saints. That time is approaching. Much will have to be done, no doubt, before Christ will come to reign upon the earth. How long it will be we do not know; but we know this: the work in which we are engaged is the preparatory work for His coming. We call upon the whole world to repent, to turn unto God, to have faith in Him, to keep His commandments, and do the things which He has ordained for salvation; then lead such lives that they can say in truth that they havte taken upon them the name of Christ. 

We, the Latter-day Saints, partake of the Sacrament Sunday after Sunday, and every time we do this we make a covenant with the Lord that we will take upon us the name of Christ, and always remember Him, and keep His commandments. This covenant should not be an idle one. We should not lightly partake of the holy emblems of the flesh and blood of Christ; but in par we should form a strong resolve in our minds that we will do these things which the one who blesses the bread and the contents of the cup pronouces. When we say amen to his words, we make them our own, and we should show in our lives that we mean to keep the covenant which we make. 

The Gospel of Christ as revealed unto us is the same as formerly. "When John was shown that an angel should come with the Gospel, he was not told that it should be a new Gospel, but it was the "everlasting" Gospel — always new, and yet everlasting; the same Gospel, with no change in it. How thankful we are, brethren and sisters, that the Lord has been so gracious unto us that we have heard the glad tidings of the Gospel and received a testimony of its truth- Let us show our gratefulness unto our Heavenly Father by keeping His commandments and performing every duty required of us. It is the surest way to happiness; in fact, there is no other way by which we can be happy than by keeping the comandments of God. Choose any other way; feel in your hearts that you can do as you please — you have your free agency— and it will not be long till you find that the words of the Master are true when He said, "Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin." There is nothing that grows quicker upon anyone than indulgence in sin. It shows a person how weak he is. Those who are sunk in degradation will at times remember when they were innocent and good, and then wish they were back in that state; but when they attempt to get there they feel how weak they are, for they have become the slaves of sin. This should not be the case with us. After we have made covenants with the Lord, we should show ourselves strong enough to carry them out. 

The Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, instructed His people to abstain from certain things in their diet, and if they would do it, certain blessings were promised. If I should ask you, Do you believe the Prophet  that revelation from God? I know you would say, Yes; and yet, how many of us are there who do not keep it? I allude now to the Word of Wisdom. Is it hard to keep? Yes, to those who have indulged in the things forbidden. They have found that the bands have become so strong that they can hardly break them. But the Lord commands us to do this. Let us show that we have strength. If we have it not, let us pray our Heavenly Father for strength to withstand these things, so that we can feel in our hearts that we are trying to live according to the commandments of God. Science gives evidence that the counsels given in that revelation are true and for man's best good. Now, as we believe not only that it is a word of wisdom, but that it is the will of God, let us resolve that we will keep it. Abstain from the use of tobacco, which is so hurtful to the constitution of man. Abstain from strong drinks, and from the use of tea and coffee and the excessive use of meat. Whatever there is in that commandment, let us make it the rule of our lives. Will we regret doing this? I remember my uncle said to me when I would not take these things — and he happened to offer me nearly every one of them — "It may be the best not to use them, but you are losing many pleasures in life by abstaining from them." I do not feel that this is the case. If we have not accustomed ourselves to them, we will not miss them. Those who have accustomed themselves to the use of such things and abstain from them will feel a greater self-respect and more strength to overcome other weaknesses. 

My counsel to the, Latter-day Saints is to keep the AVord of Wisdom, also to remember their covenants, lead holy and pure lives, and keep the commandments as contained in the law and given in the Gospel. Remember the poor, keep the Sabbath day holy, pay your fast offerings, and let not your donations to sustain the poor be forgotten. Remember your tithing, and every duty required at your hands; and if you do, you can approach our Heavenly Father in confidence and trust, like a child to its natural parent, and ask for the things you desire, and they will be yours. God bless you all. Amen. 

ELDER LEWIS S. POND, (President of Bannock Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, in reporting my labors and the condition of the Bannock stake of Zion, I sincerely trust I may be actuated by the Spirit of the Lord, that what I say may be directed thereby. In the stake of Zion where I preside, our numbers are not great. We have only 10 small wards, and about 2; 200 souls. In a general way, the people have been prosperous; but for years past one portion of the stake has been laboring under adverse circumstances, on account of having to haul water from four to seven miles. Two or three years ago, however, the stake was called upon to assist the people to get a portion of the waters of Bear river, at a cost of about $60,000. That has been accomplished, and many people are enjoying the benefits therefrom, though there is still a great indebtedness to meet. But that covers only a part of the arid lands in the stake, and the people in some instances have become discouraged. There has been a spirit of restlessness prevailing, and many in adverse circumstances, as well as some in better circumstances, have had this spirit. Some who have held stake and ward positions have felt they were at liberty to pull up and go to other lands just as they pleased, and the effects have been detrimental. Others have sought the counsel of those who presided over them, and have gone to seek better places, with the permission and blessing of the Priesthood. 

The stake presidency have always been united in their labors, so far as the work of the stake is concerned; and the High Council have been assiduous workers in helping them carry the great responsibilities. They have been called to act also as home missionaries, and have done a good work in the midst of the people. The organizations in the Priesthood are complete, with the ex of one or two vacancies, which will soon be filled. One ward is at present without a Bishop, on account of that officer resigning and moving to another place. The auxiliary organizations are in a prosperous condition. Those who preside in them are energetic, and willing to do all that is possible. They travel a great deal amongst the young people, and their labors are productive of good. Most of these organizations hold sessions through the winter months only, as many of our young people go away from home during the summer season to earn a livelihood. 

In a general way, there is a splendid feeling in the stake. Of course, as in other stakes, I suppose, we have a few that seem to think they do not have time to serve the Lord; they are more willing to give their time and attention to the things of this world. There is too much of a spirit of speculation prevalent in the stake; and those who visit the different wards complain that some of the people do not serve the Lord as they should do. Many have incurred great debt, and I am sorry indeed to report this condition. Many have been prosperous, and have sought to enlarge their possessions, the result is you can hear them say, "what shall I do to meet my obligations?" The implement men, and other agents who pass through our settlements, seem to have greater influence over some of Ihe people, in a financial way, than do those who preside in the Priesthood. Many are buying far beyond their means, and in working to meet their obligations they are depriving themselves of privileges they might have in serving the Lord. , 

I believe our numbers are increasing a little. The water is being secured for arid lands, and people have begun to come in and enquire for homes among us. Some who moved there to be on the outskirts, still want to be on the outskirts, and are selling their homes and moving again. A number of very desirable brethren and sisters have joined us recently, and we invite more to come and make their homes with . Generally speaking, unity prevails in the priesthood. Those who are active and energetic are stronger in the faith, I believe, than they ever were. "We are striving hard to bring about a still better condition, both spiritually and temporally. Our wards are usually well represented in Priesthood meetings, as are the auxiliary organizations also; and in a general way the people take home the counsels that are given, and try to practise every principle that will make them better. 

I trust the Spirit of the Lord will continue with us during the sessions of this conference. I bear testimony that I know the work of the Lord is here. I testifi' to you, my brethren and sisters, that »in fulfillment of the Savior's words 1 if we will draw near unto Him He will draw near unto us. I have proved this in my own experience; the freedom and joy which has been spoken of during the conference has come to every Latter-day Saint. The better we serve the Lord, and the more diligent we are in His service, the greater amount of the Spirit of the Lord we enjoy, and the easier it is for us to make necessary sacrifices. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be with us continually, and that Ave may take the spirit of this conference to our homes, so that the people in general may be benefitted thereby. I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. STEELE. 

(President of Bingham Stake.) 

This seems to me an awkward position to occupy, but although I feel somewhat out of place, I am very pleased to have the privilege of making a report of the Bingham Stake of Zion. The Bingham Stake is located in the southeastern part of Idaho, in what is known as the Snake river valley. It is a part of the old Bannock Stake, or, as it is known now, the Fremont Stake. We number about ten thousand souls. We have seven or eight hundred families, scattered over a large area of country. We have twenty-four wards  seven branches. All of the wards are fully organized, and, so far as I know, all the ward organizations are complete. All the Stake offices are full, with the exception of one, and that is the President of the High Priests' quorum; the President moved from our Stake, and the vacancy has not yet been filled. Our High Council is complete, and its members are doings a good work. The Presidency of the Stake have been united on every question that has come up for our deliberation since the Stake was organized, in 1895. We are united with the High Council, and with all our Bishops. We are also united with the presidencies of the Stake auxiliary organizations. As far as I know, there is no contention but that can be readily settled between the members themselves. We have had but one or two High Council trials since the Stake was organized. The Stake Presidency meet every Thursday, at 2 o'clock, and deliberite upon the things pertaining to the welfare of the Stake. The High Council and the Sltake Presidency meet once a month and counsel together for the good of the people. 

We hpve a very prosperous community and the people are doing exceptionally well. We were largely in debt a few years ago. Many people who moved into the Stake from Utah had formerly lived on a city lot or o«i a *>mall tract of land, possibly not to exceed five acres, and when they got into the Snake River valley and procured from 160 to 640 acres, th -y thought they could buy all things they wanted, and more too, because th^y had so much land at their command. But they soon found out their mistake, not, however, before many of them had to mortgage their homes to secure their indebtedness. I am very pleased to report today that these mortgages have largely been lifted. Our counsel tcy the people has always been to keep out of debt. They are now trying to comply with it, and are relieving themselves of that bondage. Our crops this year have been very good. We have the Snake river to draw from for our water supply. Our land is very productive, and consequently we are prosperous, as a rule. I feel that the Lord has blessed the country. The blessings that were petitioned for upon the land by President John Taylor, in 1884, have been realized by :he Saints of the Snake River valley; end I feel that the Lord will continue to bless us if we will only keep His commandments. That He has done so is my testimony to you this afternoon. 

I have a testimony of this great latter-day work; I know it is true. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the living- God, and those who have succeeded him in the Presidency have been men whom God nas recognized. They have been blessed and clothed with authority to lead and direct the affairs of His work from the beginning up to the present. I feel with all my heart to sustain them, to hold up their hands, and do my part so far as I have power. I ask God to bless us, to uless our President, to bless his associates, and to bless all Zion, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Duties and responsibilities of the Saints — Word of Wisdom — Consistent treatment of strangers who come among us. 

My brethren and sisters, I am most happy in the privilege of being with you in this conference, and in listening to the words that have been spoken by our brethren of the Presidency, as well as the reports made by the brethren representing some of the Stakes of Zion. 

The duties and responsibilities that rest upon the Latter-day Saints are manifold. But no duty should be more sacred to them than a proper observance in their own lives of the rules and regulations established by the Redeemer of the world to maintain purity, uprightness and consistency in all the walks of life. If the claim we make be true, that the Father and the Son visited the Prophet Joseph Smith and revealed to him the character of the mission designed for His people, and that mission was to call the children of men to repentance; and if we have been made partakers of the truth, and sub to the conditions associated with our entrance into the waters of baptism, the consistency of our lives should be such that its impress will be made upon the minds of all with whom it may be our privilege to mingle. . No * matter how little they esteem the faith we represent; no matter what their prejudices have been, or how they may have been engendered; if it shall be found, in our companionship with them, that our lives are above reproach, and our course is in keeping with the declarations we send forth to the world, that impress will cause men and women to change their views, and to regard with favor and consideration those of us who are obedient to the moral principles and doctrines of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. It may be that many, forming their judgment without an understanding of the purpose and mission of the Latter-day Saints, may fail to appreciate the character of the ministry of the Saints; but it has been my experience.as I have mingled among the children of men, that the more thoughtful and prudent are deeply impressed with that proposition presented in the scriptures, "by their fruits ye shall know them." It is not difficult to lead thoughtful men and women to believe in the man whose life is morally correct, who by his actions and sayings shows himself to be temperate, upright and exemplary, wherever he goes and with whomsoever he mingles. I am led to believe that our mission in the world, as the chosen people of the Almighty, will be more perfectly accomplished by the upright character of the lives we lead in our homes and social gatherings, in the impress made by the discharge of private obligations, and the fulfillment of such public duties as may be required at our hands, with highmindedness, and a determination to uplift and better the moral conditions of those with whom we mingle, than it can be in any other way. The world today presents thousands of openings for men who are strictly sober, who refuse to use intoxicants under any circumstances, and who, in the fulfillment of their duties in lift, have displayed a proper regard for the 

Tights and liberties of their fellows, and handled with consistency and honesty the trusts reposed in them. I believe that, in the providences of the Almighty, it is His purpose to equip and prepare His people to become the aids and helps in government, in all parts of the land. But we can never attain the place it is His purpose we should until we have thoroughly indoctrinated ourselves in an understanding of every moral principle, and have a full comprehension of the great responsibility imposed upon us in the handling of obligations and trusts. Our lives must be in harmony with everything that is pure, honest and upright. 

The faith we have received covers every principle necessary to the equipment and preparation of men and women for the duties and responsibilities of the temporal as well as the spiritual life. The doctrines of the Redeemer affect not only the spiritual wellbeing, they apply also to the moral and temporal welfare of mankind. He laid upon each one the obligation to observe the moral principles and doctrines of the Gospel, and that it is his duty to conform to the ordinances of God's house, and walk in harmony with the rules laid down by Him. He also pointed the way to the great possibilitiese confronting our Father's children, sought to impress uport*them, in such form that there could be no misunderstanding His purpose, His wishes as affecting their conduct in life. "Thou shalt not lie," was the declaration of the Redeemer of the world. Are we obedient to the mandate? Have we followed this rule? Have we written upon our minds the thought that the duty is ours to guard against the possibility of being a liar? "Thou shalt not steal," is the declaration of the same great leader of men. Are we mindful of that declaration? Has it truly found lodgment in our hearts? Is it written in the fibers of our being? Are we applying it as thoroughly in the discharge of the duties that rest upon us as we should do? Let eve';' man and woman ask themselves these questions, and see if the answer can truthfully come from their own lips, These  given by the Redeemer to the world have been accepted by me, and have been applied in my own life to the best of my ability. "Thou shalt not commit adultery." "Thou shalt not kill." "Though shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." Are these propositions with us in spirit and in truth? Have they riveted themselves upon our minds in such form that wherever we go, and with whomsoever we mingle, we maintain ourselves free from these grievous errors against which the warning voice of the Redeemer was uttered. I trust we have weighed these propositions rightly, thoroughly comprehend their import, and are striving to comply with them, so that none can question the consistency of our utterances and examples. 

President Lund, in his remarks, touched upon the question of the observance of the Word of Wisdom. It is a singlar thing that there should exist any necessity, among a people so fully taught in regard to the sacredness of that requirement of the Lord, for repeated admonitions . concerning it. It was first given to us as instruction from the Lord, without constraint, and later more fully impressed upon our minds by the declaration of the prophet of God that it was in force upon us as a requirement. But little by little we drift with the stream, and it is difficult to find among the Saints entire families that are truly seeking to be in harmony with that principle. What a work could be accomplished in the world today if every man, woman and child who have been baptized into the Church would truly practise that principle! What an influence in the world for good we would be if ourselves, our children, and our children's children, would follow the good example, in this respect, of the patriarchs of the past! Men and women say, sometimes, they are too old to do it. If the generations who were conversant with the restored work of God, in the early rise of the Church had as fully obeyed the requirements of the Gospel as they should have done, concerning the Word of Wisdom, there would now be found but few of our sons recreant to their responsibilities in the line of temperate and consistent lives; there would more rarely be found among our daughters those whose lives are rendered unhappy because of nervous troubles, superinduced by the use of narcotics forbidden by the law of God; there would more seldom be found boys or old men shattered in their physical structures by the use of tobacco, and in large measure unfit for the duties and responsibilities of life. There would be a still larger number of men and women so fully established in every moral principle, and every temperate thought and idea, that wherever they went in the world their conduct and example would write itself upon the minds of men and impress them most favorably. , 

Upon one occasion it was my privilege to be in company with a large body of gentlemen, a number of whom were of our own faith. In this assembly was a man quite eminent in the sphere in which he moved. He had been an intense temperance orator and laborer in temperance interests. After studying and watching the character of the people who formed that association, he made this remark to me: "I have not discovered in this company a single man claiming to be of your faith who is a user of intoxicants or tobacco; and while I have been in their companionship I have not heard one of them profane the name of Deity." This had made a wonderful impression upon his mind. If this so impressed one man, what would be the impression upon the world at large if, as a people, we would fully apply these laws in our lives as we mingle among the children of men? 

My brothers and my sisters, these are questions for our consideration. They are for us to weigh and study. Before us is the world, to whom the truth of the Gospel we have received is to be preached. It must be carried to every land, to every people. Its extension and spread can be brought about more successfully by the honesty, the truthfulness, the temperance and the industry of those who have received the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, than by all  words that we may speak. The conditions that surround the people, the efforts they make to hold themselves in subjection to the divine will, impress those who come into their companionship. 

I say to you that the principles of the Gospel are true; every one that God has revealed is true. He has laid the foundation for the development of His great work upon legitimate lines. He knows the condition of His children in all the world. He has put upon us the responsibility of establishing in our own homes, so far as may lie within our power, the elements of truth in such form that its impress will continue to grow and spread until all shall come to an understanding of the Gospel and receive it. 

Standing here before you, I desire to bear witness to the correctness of the views presented by President Smith, in sending forth his warning voice against the tendency to get into debt. The growth of business, the enlargement of our own concerns, the hope of a successful issue as we step into the business world, lead us into further investments, until perchance we And we have completely overreached ourselves. It is these matters that we want to guard against. Not that we should not take advantage of e^ery desirable opportunity for legitimate business. We should seek to secure means as far as we can consistently tP a id in the development of our commonwealth, to provide for the needs and necessities of those who are dependent upon us, and to open the door by which they who are in need may be furnished employment. Nor should we forget those who come to us as strangers from strange lands, and are of our own faith. These are matters upon which ajl of us should reflect. Another thought presents itself to my mind, it is this: I believe there is a degree of negligence upon our part in looking after, as fully as we should, the strangers that come into our midst. Men drop down among us who may be of our faith,, and who not being conversant with our language, find themselves in a trying situation. I am fearful that  same thoughtful attention is not now given to this class of people that was extended to them in former day^: and that too frequently they pass into the society of persons who embitter their minds against the truth, causing them to regret their alliance with the Latter-day Saints. I hope you will think of these things, my brothers and my sisters, and that, so far as possible, all things will be done upon your part that shall tend to guide these newcomers along the pathway of truth and righteousness. People gather sometimes on their own responsibility, and drop into neighborhoods without realizing the character of their surroundings. Our thoughtlessness, perchance, permits them to pass beyond the pale of our communion into the hands of others who impress them with the thought that what they have come to receive is not here, and that they have been misled. 

My brothers <^nd my sisters, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus is indeed the power of God unto salvation. Every one of us should obey its requirements. The souls of our fellowmen should be most sacred to us; and, so far as lies within our power, we should put them in the way of the accomplishment of a life work that shall be creditable to themselves and prove a blessing to us. The Gospel is true. May heaven enable us to obey its commandments, live in harmony with its principles; fulfill the duties and responsibilities that rest Upon us, being true to our obligations! guarding the rights and liberties of ourselves and of our fellowmen that the well-being of all our Father's children shall be, indeed, sacred to us; and that we shall not faij in the accomplishment of the proclamation of His word, the establishment of His work, the betterment of the condition of His children; that when we shall march forward to our reward, He may say to us, "Thou hast performed thy part in Judgment and mercy, and hast blessed those with whom thou hast mingled, and iniured none." May heaven's blessings abound with you; and may the truth extend and spread until righteousness shall prevail among the children  men, and the Gospel of the Lord Jesus ameliorate the condition of the human family, causing them to glorify the name of the Savior of the world, and His truth as it has been revealed in the day and age in which we live, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Unfold, Ye Portals Everlasting." 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 

An era of opportunity — About indebtedness — Keal objects of mssionary work — Progress of auxilliary organizations— Duties of parents — Respect for Church officei s. 

My dear brothers and sister, I trust that the Lord may inspire the words I shall speak to you. I feel deeply interested in the work in which we are engaged, and in the general welfare of this people. I know that the Lord is accomplishing a great and a marvelous work through His servants and handmaidens, who have been obedient to the principles of life and salvation as revealed, in these latter days, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is .indeed, pleasing to hear of the growth of the stakes of Zion, and the splendid prospects there are before us at home. This is an era of opportunity for the Latter-day Saints. There never was a time I can remember when there were so many excellent opportunities before this people for the development of their resources, for home building, for the cultivation of the soil, for the establishment of industries, and for employment. Today men who want work can And it. The establishment of various industries has opened new avenues for the employment of both young and old, and there need be no unemployed among us. If we can only keep busy, and retain the Spirit of the Lord, we will be able to maintain our standing as the people of God. 

While most of the reports have been very pleasing, it is lamentable to hear of the indebtedness existing among the Latter-day Saints, as reported by some of the brethren. How many have mortgages upon their homes today, notwithstanding we have been always counseled not to go in debt? True, there may be conditions when men, in order to save their honor, are compelled to incur debt; but such cases are rare. We have been counseled all the time in regard to this, and also in regard to other things we have not been entirely obedient to. The result is, many of our Elders, when called to go into mission fields, and labor to spread the Gospel among those) who sit in darkness, have to excuse themselves, for the reason they are under an obligation of debt, and are therefore unable to respond to the call. This, indeed, is an unfortunate condition of affairs. We ought to be obedient to the counsels of the servants of God. We should be willing and prepared to go wherever and whenever we are sent, and perform whatever labor we are called to engage in. No matter how apparently insignificant the labor may be, if we are where the Lord wants us, we ought to be satisfied. In listening to Brother Grant, it occurred to me, that his report would at least be encouraging to some of our mission presidents, who probably feel they are not accomplishing as much in spreading the work as they would like to do, and who receive no encouragement but that which they get from the Lord. Here is Brother Grant, one of the best preachers we have in the Church, and eleven other missionaries who have been fifteen months in Japan and have baptized only three souls, yet, no doubt, they have labored with as great diligence as any missionaries could do. Our mission is not to go out for the sole purpose of seeing how many we can baptize. Our mission is to convert people, and we want to be sure they are converted before they are led into the waters of baptism. We do not want people to accept the Gospel and afterwards turn from it. Better that they had never received it. We should be satisfied they are thoroughly converted to the principles which God has revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith before they are baptized. While, perhaps, conversions in the world have not been numerous during the past year, yet the  of the Elders have been assiduous and untiring; they have been determined that people should understand the Gospel before being encouraged to accept the ordinances of baptism, and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. Some of our pessimistic friends entertain the idea that the work of the Lord is not advancing much, but that idea is not correct; there never was a tim|e when such excellent reports were received from the various auxiliary organizations as are being delivered today. I am sure there never was anything like it in the history of Mutual Improvement and Sunday school work. It is encouraging to know that the young men and women born in the Church, and those who are being brought into thle Church today, have such a good understanding of the Gospel that they rarely apostatize, or place themselves in a condition that makes it necessary to excommunicate them. Of course, here and there we hear of apostasy, or transgression; and yet I know wards in this Church, that have beien organized fifteen or twenty years, where there has never been a case of immorality on the part of the members. Wte must bear in mind we are a large body of people, and, of course, we hear occasionally of cases of transgression; but I maintain that such things are becoming less and less frequent among us. I believe that, as a rule, the young men and young women feared in this Church will not permit it to be truthfully said of them that they have disregarded the faith of their fathers and mothers, and gone astray. When children go astray, and exhibit no faith in the Gospel, I believe that, In nine cases out of ten, they are from families wherein the parents have never taken the pains to gather their children around them, and teach them the word of God, morning and evening; where they have never taught them to pray, or where, in their children's presence, they have spoken evil against the Priesthood of the Son of God. They may not have wanted their children to become apostate, and yet they have, perhaps unconsciously, sown the seeds of  in their hearts by speaking evil of those whom it was their duty to sustain and uphold. 

To make good Latter-day Saints, we must respect our ward teachers, and teach our children to do the samte. We must respect our ward and stake officers, not ignore them and yet profess great devotion to. the president of the Church, or to the Twelve Apostles and other men in high standing. The man who in his heart is loyal to thte president of the Church is the man who honors his Deacon, his Teacher, his Bishop, and his stake officers; he does not jump over their heads, on the slightest excuse, and go to the president of the Church with little questions and troubles that ought to be settled at home. I know there are among the Latter-day Saints men who, if President Smith should ask them to do anything, would get up and do it in a hurry; but if their Bishop or their ward teacher asked them to do anything they would think it too insignificant. I think they are insignificant, for the reason they have not learned to honor the order of the Priesthood of the Son of Cod. They have not learned to respect the men whom the Lord desires them to sustain. If I were choosing a body of men who could be depended upon to always do the right thing in this kingdom, I would choose men who honor the Deacons, Teachers, and Bishops, who uphold the lesser as well as the higher Priesthood; and who are good, reliable men in their respective wards, not men who work only on dress parade. Almost any one will do that, but it is not every one who will get down and dig, who will work in the wards, and labor diligently for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God when probably they are seen only by the Lord. If I were presiding ovjer a mission, I would think very little of an Elder who would work only when I was with him, or who, if he were not told just what to do, would sit down at mission headquarters and do nothing. 

It is in these little affairs of life that we show our love for the work of God. 

If we really love the work, there is nothing, no matter how small it may be, that we will not be glad to do for the upbuilding of the kingdom, whether it be seen of men or not. God sees and knows our labors, and he will reward ua sooner or later, according to the deeds done in the flesh. Therefore, I pray that we may give more attention to the details of life. Let us take time to instruct our children in the principles of the Gospel, that they may grow up with faith in the Lord; and do not shift this responsibility on to the Sabbath school or the Mutual Improvement Association. Let us instill into the hearts of those in our own homes the spirit of the Gospel, and through the consistency of our lives,, and the help of our Heavenly Father,, inspire others with faith in the work God has called us to represent. The Latter-day Saints are as a light set upon a hill, which cannot be hid. People watch our actions and note our lives. What a beautiful thing it would be if we were all living according to the laws of the Gospel, as we ought to do! How many more people would have their hearts touched by tne truth if we were living it in our homes, as we are taught to do. The trouble is, my brethren and sisters, we do not take seriously some of the principles of the Gospel that have been revealed. From their actions, many Latter-day Saints evidently think that wnen the Lord gave the Word of Wisdom He was not in earnest, that He did not mean what He said; for they have gone right along drinking tea and coffee, and smoking, as if not a word had been said. They have been telling their children all the time that these things are not good for them, and yet they themselves have been indulging in them continuously. What will such parents say if their children turn away from the truth, and point to them as the cause of it? What if a son or daughter- shall say, "The reason I have no faith in this latterday work is because my father and mother were inconsistent in their lives, they taught me to do what they would not do themselves? Will parents seek to destroy faith in the hearts of theirchildren in this way? Those who do, the sins of the children will be upon their heads, just as sure as the Lord lives. 

God bless you, my brothers and sisters. May He give us the spirit of this work. May we understand that the time has come when we must be Saints in the home as well as in public position; that we must honor the Priesthood of the Son of God in the ward, as well as in the stake and in the Church. If we would be blessed, we must take the counsel that has been given here in regard to being free, temporally and spiritually — free from sin and free from debt. May God put it into our hearts to receive this counsel as it comes to us from time to time, and give us courage and strength to carry it out. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn which begins: 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah; 

Jesus anointed that "Prophet and 

Seer" — 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Benediction by Presiding Patriarch John Smith. 


