8
Afternoon
06 10 1939
Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 
154
34-36

None

None

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that it will never become commonplace to worship beneath this dome. This building speaks of the best, it reflects the wisdom, the originality and the genius of the men who established this commonwealth. 

It is a very impressive thing to look into the faces of the men and women who are the leaders of the Church after a hundred years of its establishment. 

We have all been impressed and inspired with this Conference. The official declaration of the Church with reference to war, those who wage unrighteous war, will have a place among the historic documents of the Church. 

It well becomes us to ponder carefully the words of the President of the Church. He is the mouthpiece of the Almighty to this people, he is entitled to the inspiration of his high calling, and those who listen in obedience to his word will be blessed. 

The American people need their thinking clarified in these troubled days. It is most gratifying to all of us and to all who have had the opportunity of listening this morning to the noble and courageous words of one of the Presidency of the Church, a really great utterance in times like these. 

So far as peace is concerned and our attitude toward war, our path is made plain. In former days prophets were also statesmen, and that is the case now. God be praised for men who have the vision and the courage and the capacity to help us in these times; we need it. 

All Latter-day Saints and all thoughtful Americans feel that our last defense as a great democracy is righteous behavior, that the peace and perpetuity of this government depend upon the lives of its citizens, and no other people have a cleaner and deeper appreciation of the privileges and blessings of the great government that shelters us than have we. 

This report is my last official act as the former president of the Northern States Mission. The three and a half years that we presided over that mission were and always will remain memorable years. We formed a great attachment for the Saints in the Mission, numbering nearly five thousand, including the stake. The contact with those who are not members of the Church was very pleasant. 

But the most enduring and impressive experience that goes with missionary work is contact with your boys and girls who are the missionaries of the Church. This was a delightful, personal, intimate contact, the kind that builds friendships that last forever. This comradeship is inspiring and enduring. There is no experience sweeter than the experience which comes with one's contact with young men when their hearts are touched with the fire of the Holy Ghost when their visions are expanded, and their souls are warmed with gratitude to their parents and with a love for humanity. After all, this is one of the proofs of the divinity of Mormonism. The ingenuity of man never devises a plan quite comparable to the missionary system of the Mormon Church for building character in man. The Almighty in his mercy has reserved some of his very choicest blessings for the poor. The widow who toils and makes sacrifice to maintain her son on a mission is compensated many times. No matter how bitter or hard the sacrifice is, if the son makes good, all this sacrifice is sweetened and sanctified. 

The Stake President who offered the opening prayer told me this morning that not so long since he had his returned missionaries together and the mothers of the returned missionaries. He had the boys speak and then the mothers, and I am prepared to say that what the mothers said had a penetrating effect that no ordinary eloquence could have. I hope the time will never come when the worthy sons of the poor will be denied the blessed experience of a mission, for after all the sons of widows are among the best of missionaries. 

A missionary experience creates a militant attitude for the truth, the spirit of a crusader grows in one's heart. I am sure you will not interpret what I am about to say as a self-righteous utterance. For three and a half years in common with other missionaries I have pleaded to the best of my ability your cause and the cause of righteousness in the world, and now I want to come home and plead with you, for you have a great reputation to live up to, to live your religion. You have demonstrated your devotion in the most practical way. You have been loyal to the Church and its leaders, and valiant in the testimony of Jesus, and it is only a commonplace to say to you that demonstration is the story that tells. No argument is so eloquent, no appeal so powerful as a demonstration of what Mormonism will do. My brethren and sisters, if we are converted, if our religion carries over and manifests itself in our lives we preach a sermon that cannot be answered. 

We have the truth, and we say it in humility, but in confidence, and I want to say whenever I have the opportunity, that if we have faith enough — the plain, simple faith, the faith of our fathers — to live the simple principles of our religion, we are destined in the very course of events to rise to a proud place in the world. No opposition can stay our progress if we only have the faith to live our religion. There is no substitute for the intrinsic, simple matter of fact faith of the men who laid the foundations of this Church. 

You are asking me how you can demonstrate, what you can do? May I suggest one thing. My brethren and sisters, if every father here and every mother here will religiously observe family prayers, and ask all their children to participate, it will build faith in the hearts of your children, you will have a better influence in your home, you will do better. The Lord will be inquired after. Try this for six months, and I promise you that the spiritual morale of the Church will be stepped up. No man need be rich to pray, no matter how humble the home is the voice of prayer can be heard there. I well remember when my father came home from a General Conference many many years ago, and said: "The President of the Church has asked all the people to put their houses in order." He called us together and said to mother, "I want you to see that these children pray when I am not here." She did it. Nothing was more helpful. 

I would like to endorse the discourse preached here this morning with such fervent eloquence by the Presiding Bishop of this Church. 

It cheers and gladdens one's heart to be with you. God bless you. Amen.
