10
Afternoon
06 10 1939
Elder Elias S. woodruff
99
40-41

None

None

I very humbly pray that the Lord will bless me in the few words I may say to you this afternoon by way of reporting my missionary labors in the Central States Mission. I have been away since the 8th day of March, 1928, eleven and a half years. During that time I labored first in the Western States Mission, and later in the Central States Mission. I was released and returned home on the 2nd day of July, this year. It has been a glorious experience, and I have had the pleasure and the joy of sharing affectionate regards with a good many people. 

I was checking through my books and records, and I find that I have received and introduced into the missionary field 703 Elders and lady missionaries in that length of time. When I think that perhaps I have had some influence upon their lives for good, I find myself humbly and gratefully happy because of it. 

Prior to my mission, laboring as a bishop. I had a great deal of pleasure in laboring with the young men of the Aaronic Priesthood. In that time I have no record of how many, but I am sure between 100 and 150 Priests were ordained Elders and sent into the field, who had been influenced, I am sure, for good in the Priests' Quorum in the ward where I presided. This is not said boastfully. It is said because I appreciate, from the very depths of my heart, that I have had the opportunity of doing some good. 

I can tell you that the Central States Mission is in excellent condition, and that the administration of the affairs of that mission, now in the hands of President John F. Bowman, is being ably conducted. Brother Bowman is taking up his labors with vigor and earnestness, and I hear nothing but good reports of his labors. The people are pleased with him. They are learning to love him, and are inspired by his utterances. Brother Bowman has the gift of speech, and he is able to stir his congregations and his people, who love to hear him speak. He also has the gift of friendship. He makes friends quickly, and I am sure that they will be permanent and lasting and will bring him much joy. 

Frequently visitors coming into the mission field used to tell us that they noticed a spirit in our meetings that did not seem to be prevalent in the wards or stakes of Zion, and we rather got the impression that we were more spiritual than you are, and we felt, perhaps, that was very well. But I want to testify to you that since I have returned I find the same humble, sweet, fervent spirit in the stake where I labor, and among the people with whom I come in contact. 

It has been a great pleasure to me to notice the great improvement and the advancement that the Church has made. I think perhaps you don't quite understand how fast we are growing, when you see it day by day. You go away a while and come back. It is like the wandering son who returns to the family and doesn't know his own brothers and sisters, they have grown up so. I find our stakes thriving with activity— at least the stake in which I live. I find the boys of the Lesser Priesthood active, striving to become standard quorums. I find a fervent spirit among the brethren. 

I have had some experience out in one of the stakes, with the Welfare organization, and I find the same spirit there. I have had the pleasure of sitting down with a few bishops and going over some of their budgets and problems, and I find them mighty anxious to discharge their duties. Altogether it has been a joy to come home, and to begin to be actively associated with the work of the ministry here. 

I remember a good many years ago, when I used to go East every year for the Deseret News, one man said to me one time: "Chicago is a very wicked city, isn't it?" I said: "I don't know. I never saw anything wicked in Chicago." "Well," he said, "it is." I said, "I don't know a thing about it. I have never seen anything but good, every time I ever went there." It made me think of a story they tell in the South. An Arkansas man and his family concluded to change their place of residence, so they put all their belongings in a wagon and drove along the road. On the evening of a certain day they came to a village. Sitting on a front porch was a citizen of the village. The driver stopped and said: "Hello." The man on the porch said: "Hello." "What place is this?" said the driver. The man gave him the name. "What kind of people live here?" "Oh," he said, "what kind of people live where you come from?" "Oh," he answered, "a lot of liars and beggars and thieves." "Well," he said, "they live here too, just like the people you used to be with." 

So the driver went on a little farther, and in the next town, in response to the question: "What kind of people live where you come from?" he said: "A lot of good people." "Well," said the man, "there are a lot of good people here too. Come on in and be one with us." 

I think, brethren and sisters, we find what we look for, largely. I want to testify to you that the Church at home, as far as I can see, is behaving itself mighty well. It is a great pleasure to be associated in the local ministry. 

I am grateful to my heavenly Father that I have been counted worthy, by him and through his servants, to perform these missions. Now I am grateful that I am permitted to return home again and be active in the affairs at home, for I have discovered that it is not pleasant to be inactive. 

May God bless you. May the Church continue to grow and thrive, as it is its destiny to do, I humbly ask, in Jesus' name, Amen.
