13
Morning
07 10 1939
Elder Reed Smoot 
39
45-47

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I do not know when I ever enjoyed the first day of Conference as I did yesterday. Every word that was spoken was, in my opinion, inspired by our Heavenly Father, and I have heard a number of people who have come into my office since yesterday's meetings express the opinion that I have just expressed to you now. These Conferences are only known as such by the people who know the history of our Church. There is no other organization that I know of that has gatherings of such a percentage of the people as does the Mormon Church in these General Conferences. 

THE WORLD WAR AND ITS DEBT 

I hope that the wars that are now taking the lives of so many people will cease and not grow in any way, shape, or form to widen the scope of those involved in them. I have prayed to my Heavenly Father that nothing would happen that America should become involved and take a part in this wicked war. We were involved, at least we accepted such involvement, during the great World War. It left an indebtedness that has been a burden on the taxpayers of America, and I am fearful now, that the increase in indebtedness that has been made since our indebtedness was reduced from $26,000,000,000 to $16,000.000,000 will far exceed the original amount I have just named. In fact, we are past it now and I see no immediate change for the better. I know some people will say, well, what is $40,000,000,000 to this great country? I think perhaps I could explain it so that you might have at least some idea of what really means. Supposing there were some unknown power who decided that the minute the Savior was born he would deposit $40.00 in some known receptacle, and if he had continued making similar deposits every minute since the Savior was born down to the year 1933, he would have had just $40,000,000,000. So you can see what it means. I am very thankful indeed that our people, our Church are avoiding obligations that they cannot meet. I thank the Lord that the Church stands today with no obligation whatever and that it is perfectly able to take care of all demands made upon it. I have thought sometimes that it is about the only institution that stands in that position. 

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG'S STATEMENT ABOUT RELIGION 

Our religion embraces every truth pertaining to mortal life — there is nothing outside of the pale of it. It matters not what the subject be, if it tends to improve the mind, exalt the feelings, and enlarge the capacity. The truth that is in all arts and sciences forms a part of our religion. Faith is no more a part of it than any other true principle of philosophy. Were I to give you a lecture today upon farming, would I be speaking upon a matter that transcends the bounds of our religion? Agriculture is a part of it as well as any other truth. Were I to lecture on business principles of any kind, our religion embraces them, and what it does not circumscribe, it would be well for us to dispense with once and forever. 

That is a statement that was made by President Brigham Young. I read it from the book, "The Man and His Work," page 211, and I thought when I first read it, how well it would apply not only to our own people, but to the people of the world. I wanted to say that much upon that subject. 

A WRITER'S OPINION OF PRESENT CONDITIONS 

Edward Nelson Dingley, in his book, "Unto The Hills," makes this statement: 

Never before since human thought appeared, have the problems for individual, for society and for the Nation seemed more tremendous than now. It is common-place to say that there is seething unrest, doubt of the sanctions of religion, a suspicion that something is going to happen to destroy our so-called civilization and our government. Swiftly moving events appear to challenge existing institutions — social, economic and religious. There is mingled dread and hope. Are the institutions, religious as well as political, sufficiently strong to stand the test of the coming years? Or is there to be a crash, a groping in the dark and a new world? 

CONDITIONS FOLLOWING WAR 

That is well said, and the wars that are taking place now take place because of the greed of some men for power. Thousands and thousands of unknown men will be slaughtered, leaving homes without a head, children unprovided for, and no foreign country will ever be able to care for the dependents. They never have in the past wars. America has tried it to a limited extent, aye, more than any other nation could think of, but the world is in an unsettled condition. I pray to my Heavenly Father that conditions may right themselves and this wicked war shall come to an end quickly. 

BLESSINGS OF GOD HAVE BEEN WITH THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I feel that the blessings of our Heavenly Father have been richly and abundantly given to his people. I know I utter your feelings when I say what I have in my heart to say. May the Lord bless the Presidency of this Church; give them wisdom and judgment to meet every requirement and fulfil the same acceptably to him. And I know that the Mormon people everywhere feel in their very souls that the Presidency of this Church are giving the best advice and instruction that mortal man can give. May the Church as a whole realize the position that they now hold, where no evil power is driving and mobbing them, as was the case in the beginning. I think the devil thought then that if he could destroy the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Church would fail; that if he destroyed the homes and brought about the driving of the people into an unknown part of this country, they would soon fade away and people would abandon the Church. How mistaken he was. God has blessed his people. He has qualified and particularly blessed every president of this Church — peculiarly qualified him, I might say — for the period in which he has served. 

They are loyal to the country; loyal to the Church, and no matter what happens, they are loyal to our Heavenly Father. Peace and God's blessings be with you, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
