20
Afternoon
07 10 1939
Elder Alfred C. Rees 
267
71-76

None

None

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a divine institution. The men who have directed it, and who are now directing it, are men of God. That is my testimony to you today. It has been my testimony throughout my life. It has only been corroborated, intensified and strengthened through the experiences that came to me while presiding over the East German Mission. For when men, upon setting you apart, can outline to you in minute detail the experiences which are before you; can tell you some of the objectives that lie before you, to be achieved, that will challenge your industry, your humility and your integrity; and when in the course of your missionary experiences, these blessings and promises are literally fulfilled — there is no room for speculation or doubt as to the source from which those men, who are called of God to lead this Church, derive that inspiration and knowledge. It was not due to their skill in diplomacy, not on account of their acquaintance with world affairs that they were able to outline specifically the unusual experiences which should come to me at a very peculiar time in the whole history of our Church operations in Germany; at a time of historic note in the development of a social philosophy undertaken by that great government. No. They spoke as the spirit of revelation and inspiration dictated their words. 

It is my pleasure to tell you that in the East German Mission there are nearly eight thousand faithful Latter-day Saints, men and women of unquestioned devotion and integrity. Today we should be mindful of them, as we are of all of the Saints in Europe, who have suddenly been left to their own devices. As we think of them, we cannot escape the conclusion that they must be experiencing anxious despair and discouragement; that they are both amazed and confused in their present plight. May our prayers ascend to our Heavenly Father that they may be preserved against the ravages of war and against all the other concomitant evils that go with that tragic conflict. 

It is my pleasure to report the very happy, constructive and helpful visits which we received from the General Authorities. President Clark paid us a flying visit and gave us the benefit of his wisdom and deep understanding of world and Church affairs. It was a stimulating occasion. President and Sister Lyman were also with us. President Lyman had the opportunity to be the guest speaker before one of the most influential business groups in Germany. He was introduced as an Apostle of this Church. Sister Lyman spoke before an outstanding and select group of social workers representing governmental and private agencies. They bestowed upon her every possible courtesy and consideration and received her in the most gracious manner. As usual, she acquitted herself in a most creditably charming way. After her presentation of the work being performed by the Relief Society, she was literally bombarded by those who wanted to know more about our unusual achievements. 

Later, Elder and Sister Sylvester Q. Cannon came. Although their visit was short, we enjoyed their companionship immensely. 

Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and wife made a tour of the mission, and everywhere were received with joy and gladness because, as you know, Brother Smith is known as one of the clearest exponents of our faith. They were glad to hear an unqualified, unadulterated presentation of the Gospel in simple terms. The Elders flocked about him and showered him with the many questions that were agitating their minds. In the most gracious manner Sister Smith supplemented and complemented Elder Joseph Fielding Smith's activities among missionaries and Saints. 

It was our pleasure to take them up to the present war-torn city of Danzig, where we were guests of the government at a dinner, and a trip through the famous harbor. Everywhere, every conceivable courtesy was bestowed upon them. At one place, nine hundred Saints met; just in one district — evidence of the eagerness with which our people looked forward to the appearance and visit of one of the General Authorities. 

The visit of President Grant was an unforgettable event. Everywhere people mentioned the sweet influence which that venerable leader had upon them, his quiet demeanor, his outstanding physical vigor, his clarity of understanding, the rich spirituality which radiated from him. 

Many events appear to us as unimportant incidents; yet in them all we see the hand of the Lord guiding, operating, directing. It was just a little over a year ago that we received instructions from the First Presidency to remove all our Elders out of Germany and take them to Denmark. That came as a great surprise to us, because we had little concern about the movements about us. Perhaps it is like a wheel; there is less agitation at the center than on the rim. The farther one is removed from the theater of activities, the more violent the agitation. 

I went to the U. S. Ambassador to inquire what his thoughts were about the gravity of the situation. He regarded it as trivial and of no consequence. Yet we were told by the Authorities of this Church to take our Elders to Denmark. We did so. A year later that order was repeated. Some were disposed to look upon that first venture as a useless procedure. But what an effective, may we say, fire-drill, that proved to be. So when the word came this year to take them to Denmark, and then eventually home, they merely had to repeat all the details of the procedure of the preceding year and that too without let, hindrance or delay. They were all safe on neutral soil within thirty-six hours. Surely the Lord works in a mysterious way. Then it was that every Elder looked back upon that previous experience and said: "Now we understand." 

We have been given every conceivable courtesy at the hands of those in charge of the government. What has been achieved in that direction has not been the work of any one man or group of men. The hand of the Lord has been made visible. He knew that events were coming to a climax. It seemed to all of us who were laboring in that mission, that we were being literally, veritably pushed by some unseen power into activity because the time was short. Now we look upon our activities as unmistakable evidence of that fact. 

The Saints in the East German Mission are devoted tithe-payers, not only in the amount paid, but in the number paying. Those of us who are interested in genealogical work will be pleased to know that through a complete change in the plan of organization, something new perhaps has developed in that work. Customarily there were about five thousand names gathered a year. Each Sabbath they were reminded: "There will be a genealogical meeting held this week. Please come." There as here, only a sprinkling attended. Then we raised these questions among all of the people of the mission: Did the visit of Moroni have any great purpose? Why did he come three times in the same night? What was his message? Do you believe it? Was that merely a beautiful phrase, or did it have real meaning? Will it be a fact that we who have been privileged to come upon the earth to receive the Gospel will be held responsible for utilizing this blessed opportunity, and that our loved ones who are beyond the veil, who have never had that privilege, will hold us responsible for their redemption and salvation? Where do we stand? What will be the nature of the meeting and the reception when we see them on the other side? Can we then conceivably be idle respecting their salvation and our own? 

These thoughts were implanted in their hearts, with the result that they solemnly entered upon a real constructive, helpful activity. Strange to say, we dismissed all genealogical classes and in their stead set up in the mission a supervisor (the Elder who is here today); a supervisor over each district — thirteen in number; a supervisor over each branch — seventy-eight in number. Then in each branch we appointed a committee of young and old people and instructed them in all the details of the mechanism of preparing the temple forms. These branch members were then assigned to visit the homes of the Saints by appointment. They went into these homes and began gathering and recording names. After one year, under that plan of organization and stimulation, instead of only five thousand there were eighty-six thousand names gathered — six thousand above the goal of eighty thousand. At the outset we said, "Let every one be responsible for ten names." We compared that great concourse of those beyond the veil with assemblages in this building. That vast number — eighty-six thousand — would fill this magnificent building over ten times — those who will be there to greet us when we pass beyond to give an account of our stewardship. 

You mothers and fathers will be glad to know something about the splendid young men with whom Sister Rees and I were privileged to associate. When people speak of sacrifice they surely don't understand the rich compensation that comes with the privilege of being identified with these dynamic, hopeful, inspirational young men, who come into the mission field to find themselves; groping and hoping that some time they will be able to understand the Why and the Wherefore. And then to see these young men return from their missions to you with a burning testimony of the divinty of the Gospel — and clean. What a compensation! 

We have often said to the Elders: "There is no sacrifice in this Church. If we in the missionary field can think of a sacrifice, it is only when we are not mindful of our opportunities." The only sacrifice is on the part of those who are supporting us, when we are derelict. Otherwise it is the most profitable and best investment that can come to any one who is supporting a missionary, even if it be a widow who must take in washing to maintain that young son who represents all her hopes, aspirations and ambitions. 

Guiding and inspiring these young men and women constitutes the greatest opportunity and obligation of a mission president. 

At this point I want to call your attention to the power, the force and the value of the mission mother; how at every point she supplements the work of the mission president. Her influence among the young missionaries is without limit. If she is a woman of abiding faith, she  it, and unconsciously these young men absorb it. She plays one of the most important roles in all the missionary service. 

It was very refreshing indeed to me to hear the scholarly, constructive, sound presentation given by President Clark yesterday respecting our international relations. We are disposed to criticize people of other nations because they have permitted themselves to be subjugated; yet that is only a repetition of history from time immemorial. There have always been Esaus, individually and collectively, who have been willing to sell their eternal, priceless possessions for temporary values and conveniences. That is not peculiar to the people beyond the ocean. We may well wonder whether we, ourselves, are being captured by that same glamor. 

This is a land of liberty. But as President Gark pointed out, there is one stipulation: that we shall serve the Lord according to the commandments which he has given us; then, and then only, will it be a land of liberty. We must be mindful of the fact that two great civilizations once thrived upon this continent, this same continent, with the same soil, the same potential wealth, the same opportunities, — and yet they passed into oblivion. It was to them, too, a promised land. 

We are faced with a challenge. Have we superior intelligence 5 Have we the clarity of vision, have we the spirituality, to make this, and to continue it, a land of liberty? Civilizations have come and gone, never on account of economic poverty, but rather on account of their moral laxity, their low spiritual standards. Upon the gravestones of every defunct civilization could properly be written this epitaph — if we can put it in alliteration — "Purchased; Plundered; then we Perished." 

When people are in the throes of despondency, and economic uncertainty, and are threatened with revolution, some one comes forward with a dazzling slogan, and the masses accept it. People can be purchased. The temporary visible gains are exchanged for permanent possessions. It is not peculiar to any one time or to any one people. 

A short time ago I was called before the Chief of Police in Germany, and these challenging questions were put to me: "Why are you here? Who invited you? How do you differ from the other Christian churches?" He said: "You recall that we are attempting here to establish a certain social philosophy. We do not need any importation." How would you have answered? My answers were evidently sufficiently satisfactory for we were granted the privilege of continuing our operations in that land. 

Just yesterday I was very happy to receive from our mission headquarters in Berlin the statement: "All is going well," and with this addition: "The Lord is with us." Anticipating the present eventuality, an organization of local brethren was set up. They are going forward, much to our joy and happiness, and I am sure, to the satisfaction of the presiding brethren. It will be a difficult thing for our Saints in Europe to understand why they should be left to their own devices. When we returned from Denmark last year, we had to answer that question. Our reply was put in the form of questions: 

"Is this Church being divinely led?" "Yes." 

"Are those men who now stand at the head of this Church men of God?" "Yes." 

"What would you have done if you, as mission president, had received word from them, not a suggestion, but the command, to do as we did?" 

They saw the light. 

My brethren and sisters, it is difficult for us to understand the outstanding advantages we have over all the other nations of the world. May I, in closing, merely give utterance once more to my complete agreement with the statement of President Clark and the First Presidency, that it needs the moral force of America to bring peace into the world. Without that moral force any settlement in Europe will not be based on justice or fairness. It will not be the American way. After all, there is no thesis, there is no philosophy of life that will or can bring permanent peace into the world. We must look to the Gospel of Jesus Christ which takes care of all the needs of humanity and will eventually lead us back into the presence of God. 

My prayers are for the safety of Zion, that we may prepare ourselves to do what the Lord has outlined for us to do; so that when the world comes to us to learn, we may be prepared to teach — I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen.
