23
Afternoon
07 10 1939
Elder Richard L. Evans 
247
86-90

None

None

To occupy the position behind this pulpit is always an overwhelming experience, and one to which I never expect to become calmly accustomed. I ask that the Lord will give me help in expressing adequately a few of the thoughts that have been circulating in my mind during this Conference. 

OUR MESSAGE NOT OF MAN 

As I have traveled up and down the Church this past year, I have become very thankful that it was not my message that I was carrying. I have become increasingly aware that of myself there is nothing that I could tell the Latter-day Saints concerning their happiness or their eternal progress. I have also become aware that there is nothing that we have for those who are not members of the Church, except as the Lord has given it to us, and except as it finds expression through us. 

It has been one of my obligations to conduct the tourist service in this auditorium, following the nation-wide broadcast of the Tabernacle Choir each Sunday morning, and also the Sunday afternoon Tabernacle services on numerous occasions, and as the faces of the thousands of searching men and women have passed before us here I have been led to have a deep sympathy for those men who by reason of their profession or the expediency of making a livelihood, must stand before their fellow men to preach, teach, persuade, or convince in any field of learning or any department of life except they know within their souls that that which they speak is the truth. Except they have that connection they are blind leaders of the blind, and the blind don't lead the blind very well. 

For a moment or two this afternoon I would like to say something concerning the first of the first principles of the Gospel. Faith may be considered to be a trite subject to many who have an idea that everything that could be said about it has been said, but it is not so with the Latter-day Saints because we live so much of our lives by faith, and I doubt very much that the last word will ever be said upon it. 

FAITH A SURE FOUNDATION FOR KNOWLEDGE 

The things we do by faith gloriously transcend those things we do by mere knowledge. Moving mountains is a trivial thing to those who have it. By faith and its attendant works the world was created, and worlds may yet be created. 

I am not an unbeliever in the world's factual knowledge. I stand in respect before men of sincere and profound learning in any field. I am grateful that two university degrees have become attached to my name, and I had rather fondly hoped that they would not be the last. I thrill to the achievement of those men who push farther out the frontiers of human knowledge. But I have learned to know that all men of academic training are not alike, and I have learned to know that there are many men possessed of great funds of factual knowledge who lack wisdom. 

I have learned to know that when you find a man of learning who has faith, you may travel with him into new worlds of thought, and beyond horizons as yet not traversed by humankind, with joy and with safety. But when you find a man of learning without faith, you may not travel with him in safety to any destination. 

HAPPINESS THE GOAL OF REAL PROGRESS 

I am not unmindful of the material progress of the past fifty years, exceeding, as it has, all previous recorded history, and of those facilities and comforts with which it has surrounded us. I am aware that under the sea, in the air, and on the land, man is master — master of almost everything but himself. But the measure of progress, after all, is human happiness both here and hereafter, and except these things can be translated into terms of human happiness, both for the present and for the future, our progress is not what it would seem to be on the face of it. I think we should look at it and analyze it carefully and ask ourselves honestly whether we and our generation and our world are happier than our grandmothers and our grandfathers and their generation and their world? When we can answer that question we have stated the true measure of our progress. 

I do not see a particularly happy world about me. As I read the newspaper or turn on the radio, mostly I hear of its pains and the hopeless cries of distressed men and women. The Victorian age, with all its ruffles and its horsedrawn carriages, left men with a sense of faith and security. The Napoleonic wars before it were as a Sunday School picnic compared to the present scene before us. All this chaos is not the product of faith, but of unbelief. 

I am fully aware that the man of cold and calculating intellect, largely devoid of faith, often makes a great factual discovery. But he is usually not impressed with its moral implications. He does not see his discovery in relation to the purpose of life and the ultimate destination of man. 

But in this day, when good and evil have both taken on refinements, it is not enough to discover a fact or perfect a machine. All things must be interpreted and evaluated and used in terms of human progress here and hereafter, and it is only the man of faith who can do this — who can convert the findings of scholarship and research into ways of mortality and give eternal meaning to all of the facts of the universe that are as yet or may be discovered. 

I am quite mindful of the fact that scholarship and research cannot be confined within the limits of a narrow, misguided, man-made dogmatism. The history of the middle ages and the renaissance proved that. But I am also mindful of the fact that scholarship and research must confine themselves within the scope of truthful representation, and that the uncontrolled speculations of men must not be spoken for truth except as they have been demonstrated to be so. Men have a right to think what they want, but they also have an obligation to label their thoughts properly, so the unseasoned searcher may not be deceived. 

A LESSON TAUGHT IN A STORY 

There was a book published a year or so ago containing a writing by one Eric Knight. It deals with the story of a Yorkshireman, and is called The Flying Yorkshireman — the story of a man who believed that if he had enough faith he could fly. The author carries us through a good many pages of sincerely humorous situations, and we are not aware of the fact, as we read, that we are being preached to, and that before the story shall have finished there will have been borne in upon our hearts an unforgettable lesson that will long remain with us. I would like to quote that lesson as I received it from that story. 

An old scientist has gone to interview the flying Yorkshireman, and he says: 

"The * * * education of the * * * world abhors that which surpasses factual knowledge. So your newspaper men will write all about mass hynotism and wires * * * and auto-suggestion. They'll use a lot of phrases they don't understand, about matters they cannot comprehend. They'll find any excuse but the simple truth — that you are capable of levitation — in other words that you can fly." 

And in response to the flying Yorkshireman's question as to who he was, the scholar replied: 

"I'm just a student at the Research Center. I'm trying to find out how to defeat the rebellion of man's body and brain against modern life, modern foods, modern thoughts. Why is cancer growing — mental ills? Why do cells multiply malignantly? * * * 

"You and your kind" (referring to the man who could fly) "have been tortured, drowned, and burned at the stake * * * all because the world is weak and ignorant and inhuman. * * * You see the world will do anything but believe. Although they see they won't believe. Even back when the world was much simpler they wouldn't. They tried to explain it within their knowledge. * * * And so, even today man will get an explanation to satisfy him within our present limited knowledge. Today that knowledge is even more fiercely narrowed between the bits of misinformation that we scientists have predigested for man. And you . . . arrive in a world in which the more we prove the less people believe. 

"For you have come to a world where * * * surgeons perform miracles; scientists prove matter lives forever, and mathematics show that the hereafter in time and space is indisputable. And all this in a world that no longer believes in miracles and the hereafter. The more we prove, the less the rational mind believes. There is no more faith, simple and blessed. For the world has had too much proof and too much logic * * * and in getting them we have lost the faculty of having faith in the incomprehensible." 

HARMONY OF FAITH AND KNOWLEDGE THE HOPE OF THE WORLD 

We may thank our Father in heaven that this generalized description does not apply to many among us. There are things of which we have not seen the substance, of which we are more surely aware than many things that we have seen. I have never seen God nor a resurrected being, nor the place where departed spirits dwell. But I have read the words of God. I have seen them operate in the lives of men. I have read the testimony of those who have seen him, and I have approached him in prayer and my prayers have been answered. I know that he is there as surely as I know there is an invisible something which carries my words far beyond this auditorium by that force or power or energy, or whatever it may be, which carries my words far beyond the limits of this auditorium, but which no one has ever seen. 

There is very little hope in knowing that two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen make water, unless these other things we know also, but it is glorious to know both. Some day I hope to know all things, but since there is an infinite process, I hope always to have the thrill of learning new things, but always hand in hand with faith, and to the end that human happiness and progress may be furthered. 

I hope that we shall always have freedom of thought, freedom of research, freedom of scholarship; that science and discovery will go on and on. But I hope also that the world's factual and material knowledge will never again so far outstrip our moral and spiritual use of them as they have done in the past decade. 

I hope that we and our children may always have faith in our homes, in our halls of learning, in our halls of government, in our churches, and in all the ways of life. 

By this faith that I have I know that no fragment of truth in whatever field will ever be found that does not fit harmoniously into the great mosaic of the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the welfare of men, the children of God. What more could mortal man ask? It makes life all that it could well be. 

By this same faith I know that God lives, that he has spoken and does speak through prophets; that Joseph Smith was his prophet, through whom the restoration of the Gospel was brought about, and that the same authority has been with all his successors whom I hope to follow all the days of my life. I am grateful for this faith which amounts, so far as I am concerned, to knowledge. 

I think the last word will never be spoken on the subject of faith, and I hope that all the factual knowledge of this world may be harmonized with all that lies beyond the realm of the limited knowledge and material boundaries for the glory of God and the exaltation of his children. 

This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
