17
Morning
07 10 1939
Elder Richard R. Lyman 
17
55-59

None

None

I wonder if your hearts have been as much touched with this fine message of my missionary companion from Sweden, President Gustive O. Larson, as my heart has been touched. His clear, fine voice has expressed the power and glory and beauty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as it is being preached in the European Mission. 

My patriotism has been stirred today, as it was stirred yesterday. I have in my veins the blood of America for ten generations. That patriotic Gospel message delivered by President Grant for the First Presidency, and those patriotic appeals of President Clark, followed by the ringing voices of the Singing Mothers, with a granddaughter of President Brigham Young singing in her clear voice the lead of that thrilling appeal, "God Bless America" — these combined to create in this historic, sacred building a situation most dramatic. 

A TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I desire to add a word or two to what President Clark said about my beloved friend and intimate associate, Elder Melvin J. Ballard. He and I have sat side by side for more than twenty years in practically all of the meetings of the General Authorities of the Church, and in the many meetings of the General Superintendency and the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association of the Church. I have listened to the melody of his remarkable voice as by my side he has sung so sweetly and effectively these songs of Zion. I have missed him greatly. I have longed for him tenderly as you, his many friends, have done also in this Conference. And I want to say, as did President Clark yesterday, God bless and sanctify to our good the great messages of that mighty man which he preached and sang so effectively into our hearts and into our souls and into our lives during these many years. 

STUDYING AND UNDERSTANDING THE SCRIPTURES 

I desire on this occasion to say a few words in the form of an appeal, the purpose of which is to awaken in the hearts of Latter-day Saints an increased interest in reading, studying, learning and understanding the scriptures. I regard it as important for all of us to read the scriptures more frequently, to understand the scriptures more thoroughly, and to live more accurately in accordance with the high ideals laid down therein. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR RELIGIOUS TRAINING 

For the purpose of teaching the Gospel more effectively and more thoroughly than it seems possible to teach it in the ordinary religious services and in the sessions of the Sunday Schools, the young people's organizations and other institutions usually conducted in connection with the regular church work and activity, the Prophet Joseph Smith founded the School of the Prophets; President Brigham Young endowed and established the Brigham Young College at Logan and the Brigham Young University at Provo; President Anthon H. Lund was instrumental in organizing Religion Classes throughout the Church, and during the administrations of President Joseph F. Smith and of President Heber J. Grant 12 institutes of college grade and 101 seminaries of high school grade have been established. In these institutes and seminaries 150 educators well trained in the teaching of the Gospel are employed to give week-day religious education to our young people who are doing high school and college work. 

All of this has been done to give the people of the Church unusual opportunities to study the great fundamentals of religion, to become acquainted with the doctrines of the holy scriptures, and to have awakened in them a desire and an ambition to live in accordance with the very highest religious ideals and standards. These and many other efforts put forth by the Church and its leaders indicate the intensity of the interest that has existed in the Church and in the minds of its leaders in the study, understanding and practice of the teachings of the scriptures. 

THE BIBLE AS A TEACHER 

In the deed of trust given by President Brigham Young for the Brigham Young University are these words: "The Old and New Testaments * * * shall be read and their doctrines shall be inculcated." In an address delivered in Salt Lake City May 29, 1870, he states: 

The doctrines contained in the Bible will lift to a superior condition all who observe them; they will impart to them knowledge, wisdom and charity, will fill them with compassion and will cause them to feel after the wants of those who are in distress or in painful or degraded circumstances. They who observe the precepts contained in the scriptures will be just and true, virtuous and peaceable at home and abroad. Follow out the doctrines of the Bible and men will make splendid husbands, women will make excellent wives, children will be obedient, families will be happy, nations will be wealthy and all will be lifted up above the things of this life. 

In the Juvenile Instructor for April, 1912, President Joseph F. Smith wrote: 

That which characterizes above all else the inspiration and divinity of the scriptures is the spirit in which they are written and the spiritual wealth they convey to those who faithfully and conscientiously read them. Our attitude, therefore, toward the scriptures should be in harmony with the purposes for which they were written. They were intended to enlarge man's spiritual endowments and to reveal and intensify the bond of relationship between him and his God. To be appreciated, the Bible and all other books of holy writ must be studied by those who are spiritually inclined, those who are in quest of spiritual truths. 

STATEMENTS OF SCHOLARS 

Many years ago that great Biblical scholar, Professor Richard G. Moulton, who edited and who prepared the introductions and the notes for The Modern Reader's Bible, said of the scriptures: 

'We have done almost everything that is possible with these writings. We have overlaid them, clause by clause, with exhaustive commentaries; we have translated them, revised the translation, and quarreled over the revision; we have discussed authenticity and inspiration, we have mechanically divided the whole into chapters and verses, and sought texts to memorize and quote. There is yet one thing left to do with the Bible; simply to read it. 

That great American statesman and life-long student of the Bible, William Jennings Bryan, said: 

My father, as devout a man as ever lived, early impressed upon my youthful mind the value of the teachings of Solomon. He would call me in from work a little before noon and read and comment on a chapter in Proverbs. I am afraid I did not always appreciate the priceless wisdom of the book from which he read. But when he died, just after I reached my twentieth year, I recalled his interest in the words of Solomon and I read Proverbs through once each month for a year. I so fully share the high estimate that he placed upon Proverbs that I have lost no opportunity to commend them to young men. 

It has been said that it is not what we eat but what we digest that gives us physical strength. And so we might say, it is not what we read but what we remember and what we apply in our daily lives that gives us mental power and spiritual development. This important element of study and application is impressively stated by that great poet and philosopher, John Ruskin, who said: 

Everything that I have written, every greatness that has been in any thought of mine, whatever I have done in my life, has been simply due to the fact that when I was a child my mother daily read with me a part of the Bible and daily made me learn a part of it by heart. 

METHODS OF STUDYING THE SCRIPTURES 

I wonder how long it has been since you or I read the Book of Proverbs. And when we did read those wise sayings of Solomon, did we do so merely as readers or did we do so as students with pen or pencil in hand and notebook close by? 

My appeal, therefore, is not merely for a greater reading of the sacred writings but for a more careful study and application of their teachings and for learning parts of them by heart. A real student, one who is reading with genuine earnestness for the purpose of actually acquiring knowledge, usually has at hand two books, one from which to read and the other in which to write. He does his reading with pen or pencil and a notebook close by, and in the book he makes a record of those items which he regards as most important, those he desires to remember and to apply. The physical act of making the note helps to impress the thought upon the mind of the reader. Writing makes thinking clearer. Many broadly educated men and women owe much to the habit of "reading and studying with a pencil." 

Another fundamental I would like to impress upon your minds anew today is that we learn to do by doing, we learn to talk by talking, we learn to write by writing, we learn to apply by applying, we achieve real growth and development by earnest and effective application. 

A STUDY OF THE SCRIPTURES URGED 

I urge that we ourselves learn and that we teach our children to learn thoroughly important quotations from the scriptures,as well as the important stories, morals and doctrines therein presented. And since the Gospel is to be preached to all the people in all the world, and further, since this preaching is the most important work to be done by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, it is of great importance that we, the members of the Church, prepare ourselves as best we can to assist with this great work; and in order to do this effectively we must become familiar with the language of holy writ, we must understand it accurately, enjoy its beauty and also become so imbued with its divine inspiration that we shall not only be willing but we shall be glad to do our very best to live in accordance with the teachings and ideals therein contained. 

Educators, including our beloved Karl G. Maeser, have recommended that an hour be spent at the dinner table when parents and children might discuss together the sacred scriptures. At such a time an important and profitable exercise would be the memorizing of important quotations. By thus discussing the scriptures and by learning and repeating quotations, the young folks of the family would be laying a wellnigh perfect foundation for doing missionary work later. 

BENEFIT OF MEMORIZING THE SCRIPTURES 

What an excellent and valuable accomplishment it would be if all the adult members of the Church would, during the next six months, learn a few important quotations from the scriptures and teach their children to learn with accuracy the same quotations. May I, on this occasion, suggest as examples two of my own favorite quotations and add a little comment concerning each of them. These are: John 3rd chapter, 16th verse, and Matthew 22nd chapter, 37th to 40th verses. 

It seems to me that all who desire in their hearts and have the ambition in their souls to struggle to follow the unselfish example and teachings of Jesus ought to know thoroughly, ought to be able to quote accurately and to remember always John 3:16: 

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

And now that other quotation, Matthew 22:37-40, which is the M. I. A. theme for the whole Church for the season 1939-40; 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. 

Since nearly two thousand years have passed since Jesus came to bring peace on earth, uttered these inspired words and gave the world these teachings, and further since at this very moment all the nations of the world are preparing for war or for defense at a previously unheard of cost and rate, and further since a number of the great nations of the world are actually at war and are carrying on a conflict in accordance with the methods of the savage and the barbarian, rather than to be settling their differences and their grievances by those methods of arbitration and mutual understanding, which civilized people these days are trying to learn and to apply, — I say because of all these conditions, there is, I think, no topic more deserving of special attention, consideration and understanding, during these terrible days of strife and warfare, than a study of the scriptures and in particular that portion of holy writ which has to do with the life and labors and teachings and example of Him who is called the Prince of Peace, of Him who is our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. 

LOVE NECESSARY TO WORLD PEACE 

And now let me conclude with emphasis on the importance of understanding and applying these words: 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

With love of this kind in all human hearts such destructive forces as hate and prejudice, poverty and beggary, crime and war, would be everywhere greatly diminished if not completely eliminated from the world. Love for our Heavenly Father and for one another, as stated in the words of the Master himself, is the greatest and most fundamental element of religion. 

May the day be hastened when all will aim to read, understand and live in conformity with the mighty and important elements of religion as these are presented in the sacred scriptures, so that love and peace, charity and good will, may be found everywhere in the world, I humbly pray. 
