15
Morning
07 10 1939
Elder W. Francis Bailey 
265
49-51

None

None

My brethren and sisters: The few minutes that I occupy this morning I trust that I shall be directed by the Spirit of the Lord in bringing to this splendid congregation a report on the mission activities in the Hawaiian Islands. 

It is indeed a privilege to bring to you the greetings of the Saints and of the missionaries laboring in the Hawaiian Islands, and to be here to hear the testimonies of the leaders of the Church who to me are indeed real servants inspired of the Lord and who radiate through all the spirit of kindness and great wisdom. 

It has been a great blessing and a joy to the people of the Hawaiian Islands to have frequent visits from the Authorities and leaders of the Church, and the Saints, and all who have been there have been greatly blessed because of their visits and the many wonderful messages which they have left in that land. 

To gaze into the countenances of this large congregation of Saints who are blessed with responsive hearts to things godly, lends inspiration and testifies to me that the works, the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated. Just so long as he has such a large army of righteous members of the Church upon whom he can rely to carry the responsibilities of this work, his words will all be fulfilled as he has predicted. 

Opportunities to serve in the Church and live the Gospel are always before us. Unexpected responsibilities frequently come and so it is imperative that we ever keep bright the armor of righteousness, and that we gain an understanding of truth and of faith in the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and Joseph Smith, the Prophet. 

Several years as a missionary among the descendants of Lehi, who were hidden away in the islands of the sea, have brought to me an understanding that through faith and contact with truth the shades of darkness could be banished and the light of God can be let in, and as this light comes in the promises of God are fulfilled and the windows of heaven are opened and rich blessings are poured down upon the heads of those who serve the Lord. 

During the intervening seventeen years between my first mission and my recent labors in the islands, great growth has been noted in the Church work. A temple, though not operating daily, is playing an important part in bringing blessings into the lives of the people. Through the able assistance of missionaries the president of the temple is daily bringing the message of life and salvation to many tourists and strangers who visit the beautiful temple and the grounds and then remain to hear the message which brings promise of life and salvation to all. 

The Oahu Stake, daily growing in efficiency, is also fulfilling its purpose and bringing rich experiences into the lives of its members. With one-half of the population of the islands residing on the island of Oahu, the missionary work is being continued there, and in cooperation with the stake missionary force we are working together under the direction of the Hawaiian Mission. 

The two missions, the Japanese and the Hawaiian, as is the case at present, and a stake, all laboring together in one area may be a somewhat unusual situation, but these three organizations are working harmoniously together and are doing very effective work. 

Several large Sunday Schools and Primaries organized among the Japanese people evidence the splendid work which is being done under the direction of the mission president and the missionaries. 

In the Hawaiian Mission there are eight district and forty-six organized branches. These are all efficiently operated by local Saints, and all the auxiliaries are functioning where sufficient membership will permit. The Saints are well spiritually, and their daily lives are testifying to the efficacy of Mormonism. The leavening influence of their righteous living is being recognized and manifested in the very kindly and material interest shown by the men of prominence in the Islands. Assistance in obtaining chapel sites, in the erection of buildings, and in other ways is most generously given. These men are aware that to the man or woman who lives and believes Mormon teachings there comes greater understanding of and ability to meet life's problems. Many are reading the books of the Church and have, upon frequent occasions, expressed appreciation for the good work being done by the members of the Church. 

A number of missionaries have returned to the Islands and other members of the Church have gone to make their homes there, and these are contributing much to the Church organizations in this land and because of their faithful service wholesome reactions are coming among non-members of the Church. 

I wish to express appreciation and compliment the parents and families of missionaries who have labored and are laboring in the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaii has been greatly blessed by their presence and work. They have honored their parents and have brought great blessings unto themselves. 

My testimony has been greatly strengthened by my sojourn among this wonderful people, by seeing their faith, and I realized as I went throughout the various islands that there still resides in that land the spirit of that great missionary, George Q. Cannon, and of those who followed after him, and the spirit of those men who performed such magnificent work is directing and guiding the labors in that land. 

My testimony is that God lives, that Jesus Christ his Son made possible eternal exaltation, and that through Joseph Smith truth was again restored to the earth, and the path of man was lighted in his search for joy and happiness. I praise the Lord with a thankful heart for the many blessings he has given unto my family and me and for the privilege which came to us of going into the mission field. I hope and trust that I shall be worthy of the responsibilties which may come. I have a testimony of the divinity of the Gospel, and I fully realize that the Lord is merciful and gracious unto those who fear him, and delights to honor those who worship him in truth and righteousness unto the end. May we prove faithful unto the end, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
