16
Morning
07 10 1939
Elder Gustive O. Larson 
266
51-55

None

None

It is good to be home again in Zion and participate in another General Conference. It is good also to meet again all those fine missionaries with whom it was our privilege to labor in Sweden. I should like to say that never before have Sister Larson and I had the privilege of laboring with such a choice group of young men and women as we had there under our direction. Never shall I expect to find better loyalty and devotion to the work than was generally exhibited by these young people. Also, I would like to say that our appreciation for the leadership of our Church has never reached such heights as in our association with those leaders with whom we had the opportunity of associating while in Europe. May I add also that I am happy to be assigned now to have supervision of the Institute of Religion in Cedar City where I shall have opportunity for association with many of these young people who are singing in the choir today, representing Cedar City and the Branch Agricultural College. I was more or less associated with the Branch College for ten years prior to our assignment to Sweden, and I know of the desire on the part of the faculty there to educate not only the hand and the head, but also the heart of these young people. They are keenly alive to the need today for spiritual development. 

Under normal conditions it is a privilege to live in Sweden. The wonderful landscape of that country is only exceeded by the wholesome generosity of those progressive people. It is true that they cannot use the expression "The biggest in the world," as often as they good-naturedly accuse us of doing, but their inventiveness has contributed much to the world's progress. Many things which America produces today in boasted quantities had their origin over there. 

But there is no greatness in things; true greatness centers in personalities and in the proper use of things. In the application of the inventions of the past century to human good, and in organization for social welfare, we in America can yet learn many things from our Scandinavian friends. In their care of the poor and aged, in strict censorship of the movies, in the interest of their youth, in their silent traffic, and their cooperatives, and particularly today in socialized medicine they can offer us much food for thought and study. 

The war has, of course, suddenly interrupted and overshadowed the things that engaged our serious attention in Sweden a few weeks ago. But with the hope that missionary work will be resumed there upon the conclusion of the war — God grant that that may be soon — I should like to make a few observations relative to the work in which we have been engaged. 

We have made some progress in Sweden during the time we have been there. Especially in the breaking down of prejudice against our people and in the making of friends among all classes, high and low, we have been particularly fortunate. Never before has the Swedish press responded to Mormonism so liberally and so favorably. The American Harmony Singers, known throughout Sweden as a Mormon Missionary Chorus, have appeared almost each month on the national radio broadcast with their own programs since last winter and always they have left the radio offices with an invitation to come again. The American Harmony Singers have given concerts and song services to which thousands have been attracted who have heard the message of the Gospel. Everywhere the missionaries have reported that because of the friendship-creating activities of this chorus, and such activities as basketball, doors are being opened to them that were never open before. I mention basketball because I understand there are those who do not fully appreciate the use of sports, and their propriety, in missionary service, but I am sure that if you could be close to the problem as we were, on the front lines, and could feel the friendship that was created, you would feel differently about it. Just one instance: two missionaries were sent into a city in northern Sweden from which the Mormons were driven twenty-five years ago. They went there at the request of the police who wanted them to train a basketball team. These young men not only trained the police basketball team, but four or five other teams in that city. Whenever they played their tournaments the name of "Mormon" blazed out favorably in the headlines. Last Spring I received a letter from the chairman of a large recreational center in Sweden, who lives in that city, thanking me for having stationed missionaries there, and asking us to continue them there, not only because they were training basketball teams, but because they were having such a wholesome influence on the Swedish youth. That is what I mean when I shall refer later to "activity" in missionary service. 

In spite of all these instances of progress that we can name from various missions, the return on our expenditures, and our efforts in Europe have not been altogether satisfactory. If we measure results in terms of effect upon the missionary himself, we have cause to congratulate ourselves for it is a wonderful experience for them, and no mission president receives greater joy than he does through seeing these young men and young women grow under responsibility. But if we measure in terms of effective preaching of the Gospel as reflected in increased membership, then there is much room for improvement. 

One avenue through which I feel that we can improve a good deal is to more nearly adapt our missionary methods to modern conditions. For instance, the Sweden of today is not the Sweden of seventy-five years ago when all Europeans were looking wistfully toward America as the land of promise. In those days our missionary methods applied admirably to conditions. The call to Zion opened up the flood-gates of emigration to Zion in Utah. Today, with the gates of emigration closed, we must adjust our methods to helping them live the principles of the Gospel there. True, our task is still to call men out of "Babylon" to "Zion," but instead of a change of residence today it means a change of life in their own communities. In other words, we should try to help them, in a sense, to build Zion in their own land, and this, it would seem to me, calls for, if not less preaching, at least more "activity." 

As we have continued preaching the restored Gospel in Sweden, we have constantly pointed to its expression in the building of Zion in the tops of the mountains. We have never failed to remind our listeners that their own countrymen have helped in this important work, but while we have been pointing to the Church in Utah as a practical application of the Gospel, the Swede has been asking us, "yes, but what about its practical application here in Sweden?" On every side they see other churches contributing to the special good through community projects, but we, aside from our preaching and our limited group activities, have been too exclusive. There is need for some element, in addition to our preaching, that will vitalize our message, just as the call to Zion vitalized the message of the missionaries some seventy-five or fifty years ago. If we could participate, for instance, in the youth movement of Sweden, by establishing Scout camps under M. I. A. direction and under the leadership of some of our splendid Scout missionaries; or if we could establish children's summer camps under direction of the Primary, we would then be making a place for us in the community life of Sweden. The M. I. A. has already demonstrated its pulling power on youth over there by means of its sports activities, its folk dancing, and its music, and it can continue, and do an even better job, if it only has the proper facilities for carrying on its program. 

The war has made us doubly appreciative of the security of our American homes, and we should demonstrate our appreciation through closer obedience to the laws of God than ever before. In Europe today, just as in the last war, all fighting nations are claiming that God is on their side and undoubtedly many are sincere in both camps. But there is a question of much deeper significance than that. During the dark days of the Civil War when everything looked hopeless for the Union, a friend came to President Lincoln and asked, "Mr. Lincoln, do you believe that God is really on our side in this war?" The President replied, "I am not concerned whether God is on our side or not. What I am concerned about is, are we on the side of God?" 

Our Heavenly Father does not take sides arbitrarily in our human conflicts. It is up to us in our blundering strife to decide whether we make him our ally or not. And the test of allegiance is simple enough. There is no road to God which does not lead through the heart of man. Our Heavenly Father does not need our personal aid. We cannot feed and clothe him; we cannot minister to his wants or give him encouragement. But millions of his sons and daughters here on earth need just these things, and he has said to us, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye do it unto me." The test of whether we are on the side of God or not is whether we are ministering to relief from human suffering and adding to human happiness. If we are contributing in the least to human misery and want we are fighting against God. This is true of individuals just as it is of nations — and it seems to me it is proper that we should analyze ourselves now more than ever before to determine the direction of our allegiance. 

Men take the pure ideals of their souls 
And lock them fast away, 
And never dream that things so beautiful 
Are fit for every day! 
So counterfeits pass current in their lives. 
And stones they use for bread. 
And starvingly and fearfully they walk 
Through life among the dead, 
Though never yet was pure ideal 
Too fair for them to make their Real. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a reality. It has been restored to us in our day through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is our privilege and our responsibility to carry its message as widely as possible. It is in the discharge of this responsibility, if at all, that we can consider ourselves a chosen people. Let us try to make the ideals of the restored Gospel a little more nearly the realities of our everyday experience, and let us not lose faith in the mercy and the justice of an overruling power. 

A few years ago the giant zeppelin, "Akron," was moored in San Diego. It was about to leave for San Francisco when a serious accident occurred. The men who were holding the ropes were awaiting the signal to let go when a sudden gust of wind tore the Akron from its moorings and swung them from their feet. As the zeppelin shot upward, most of them dropped without accident, but some of them were not able to let go and were carried into the air. One young man by the name of Bud Cowart held on to the rope. He saw two of his companions drop to their death but he hung on. As the ship soared above the city into the clouds, all hope of rescue from earth disappeared. If help was to come to him now, it must come from above. Bud Cowart did not know what they were doing on the Akron but he believed that they were aware of his presence and that they were deeply concerned about him, and in that faith he hung on. The zeppelin swung above the clouds, and for a seemingly endless hour he hung at the end of his rope, and then he felt a new movement; something was drawing the rope upward. Gradually he neared that huge ship, until at last it blotted out the sun. Then he felt strong arms take hold of him and pull him in. They had been mindful of him on the Akron and his faith was vindicated in a saving power from above. 

My brothers and sisters, in these trying times when life's ship seems to be rocking dangerously, and threatens to break from its mooring, may we continue to hold on with faith in a God of mercy and justice. But we cannot just wait for him to rescue us. We must do something toward working out our own salvation. May we so organize our lives and our efforts that we make a glorious partnership with him, and in double strength go forward in our attack upon not only our problems but his, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
