30
Afternoon
08 10 1939
Elder Joseph F. Merrill 
21
116-122

None

None

To me the spot on which I stand in this historic building is hallowed, long since made so by the presence here of many great prophets and leaders who have gone to their reward. Among them were five presidents of the Church. So I never stand here to speak without feeling very humble and therefore dependent upon the Lord for whose inspiring Spirit I always most earnestly pray to help and guide me. 

THANKFUL FOR LEADERS 

I have been thrilled by things said at every session of this Conference. When I heard President Grant Friday morning read the masterly document by the First Presidency affecting the war situation and President Clark give an able amplification of it, I thanked the Lord for our First Presidency. 

An outstanding theme of this Conference is the keeping of the two great commandments. I desire to make some remarks touching a few high points of a topic that has some relation to this theme. In these remarks I shall try to be plain and direct so as not to be misunderstood but entirely free from unfair or hurtful statements. I propose talking a few minutes about some purported causes of unemployment and to point out some conditions that must prevail if lasting remedies for unemployment are found. 

LATTER-DAY SAINT BELIEF PRACTICAL 

With true Latter-day Saints their religion is a very real thing. It is a part of their lives, entering as a guiding factor into every day life and setting up standards by which to measure the rightfulness of conduct. Hence they profess a religion that is very practical, one in which faith and works are inseparable. 

They accept the declaration of the Apostle James "that faith without works is dead." (Jas. 2:19.) It is therefore not uncommon for them to listen to speakers at religious services discuss affairs of every day life and indicate how religion has a bearing on them. Hence in the remarks I am about to make I trust I shall not depart too far from an occasional practice. 

WANT THE CAUSE OF UNREST IN THE WORLD 

Confusion, unrest, uncertainty, fear and warfare continue to characterize our times, both nationally and internationally. Within our own country the primary superficial cause may be ascribed to want in its many aspects — want of employment, want of money, want of security, want of power — to mention only a few of the many types of want. 

Labor wants employment and, in recent times, very often on its own terms. And if these are not forthcoming, strikes, struggles and fighting with all their attendant evils frequently take place. The want of money for one or more of the many things that money will buy is almost universal. And this want is often so intense that it employs any means deemed necessary to reach its objective, however criminal and wicked they may be. The want of power seems to be a desire growing apace with more and more people, and the want of security is a feeling common to everyone. 

Unemployment is an evil so old that its date is unknown. But in our fair land it has become a serious problem only in recent years. So new with us is the problem that we seem not to know how to solve it; at any rate, we cannot agree on methods of solution. The result is a lot of loose thinking and a fertile field for the propagation of demagoguery. 

It is frequently said that what we need to make us prosperous is more purchasing power in the hands of the people. But a statement of this obvious truth may not indicate how this power is to be secured. And here is where demagoguery enters with its fantastic solutions, some of which are well known and are urged to the entire satisfaction of many loose thinkers. 

FORCES WHICH CAUSE UNEMPLOYMENT 

But all will agree that need of employment is basic. The vast size of our unemployed rolls is sometimes ascribed to our super machine age which has resulted in releasing workers faster than it has absorbed them. 

Discussing this topic, an internationally known engineer and statesman in an address given a few weeks ago said the engineer through his development of huge tools has brought a social revolution into the world out of which have sprung a lot of problems. Nevertheless the use of these tools has vastly increased the freedom of man who is now able to produce fifty or even a thousand times more than before. The tools of industry are saving "rivers of sweat from the backs of men and infinite drudgery from the hands of women. * * * This engineers' revolution is the greatest emancipation of mankind from toil and worry in the history of the world," says this authority. 

But, he admits, this revolution has not been all satisfactions, for some free minds also invent new and ingenious forms of wickedness and they sometimes use the new tools to oppress and exploit their fellow men. 

Lately, he says, a clash of various forces has washed the nation up with 11,000,000 unemployed. Here enter the sociologists, the economists, and the politicians with their remedies. And some of them are not tied to facts, so they can be highly imaginative. "Being imaginative, they can be oratorical. Being oratorical, they can be impressionistic. And being impressionistic, the little questions of quantities and measurements do not dampen their spirits." 

So, our authority says, these loose thinkers accuse the engineers with loss of jobs due to new labor-saving devices. Yet we know that new inventions bring new articles, new industries and new services which make new demands for labor. As a matter of fact, he says, less than one-third of new inventions effect labor-saving; while two-thirds of them produce new articles and thus new jobs. 

REMEDIES SUGGESTED 

Now, while some people fear there are no new frontiers in sight — no important new discoveries and inventions to make that will open up new industries affording new employment — our authority believes the record does not justify these fears. He believes, however, that something has gone wrong in the functioning of industrial life. He points out that we have gone through nine years with seldom less than eleven million people out of employment. And to quote, "unless there be a better solution than the confused thinking now current, there are no productive jobs in sight for them." Hence, to continue quoting, "to get our people back to work is the vital humanitarian problem of our day." And "pending its solution," he says, "the Government must provide against destitution. But support by the Government can offer no security or hope of the future." 

He suggests that before a remedy can be found we go outside the field of mechanistic economics and demagogic politics and seek the help of the engineer, expecting him to find and study the facts and out of them evolve practical remedies. He believes that if this were done the engineer would find "the real cause and the solution for these 11,000,000 fellow Americans now in distress." 

I have thus given a very brief but perhaps inadequate abstract of some of the things Mr. Herbert Hoover said in an address printed in the August, 1939, number of Mining and Metallurgy, a technical journal. I refer to this address because it is a timely discussion of some phases of our greatest economic problem — unemployment. But I am sure there are some factors related to the problem that Mr. Hoover does not mention in his able address, possibly for lack of time. 

Mr. Hoover correctly points out that invention has opened up vast new industries and given jobs to millions of workers. But he admits there has been a lag of employment, and everyone knows it has been growing larger and more ominous. His proposed solution would undoubtedly be helpful but likely far from complete, unless, indeed, there were a revolution in men's attitude toward one another. 

Going back to June, 1928, we find the Reader's Digest presents a condensed article by Professor Irving Fisher under the title, "Full Employment — Prosperity's Problem." Among the statements he makes are the following: 

Secretary of Labor James J. Davis notes that during the recent marvelous progress in installing automatic machinery in industry, new industries have failed to develop fast enough to absorb the men dispensed with. The result is the anomaly of growing unemployment during an extended period of increased business activity. * * * Estimates of unemployment find that since 1923, the manufacturing industries have dispensed with a million workers, and the farms with another million, while during a period of record haulage railways have laid off 100,000 more. Another 100,000 have been laid off in the coal regions. To this total of 2,200,000 must be added the 1,000,000 already unemployed in 1923, and the increase of 3,000,000 more of employable age since 1923, due to growth in population. * * * The Labor Bureau conjectures that 4,000,000 workers remained unemployed at the close of 1927. * * * 

There is plenty of evidence that the increased output per worker accounts for a considerable displacement of men in industry. Federal Reserve Board figures indicate that between 1919 and 1929 the output per worker increased by 34% in factory production. The United States Labor Bureau puts the increase at 51%. Though industries have substantially increased their production, the rapid mechanization of industry and better management methods have temporarily displaced men faster than new jobs could be created for them. 

Professor Fisher next outlines ways of absorbing labor, some of which have been in operation during the past ten years. But with what results? A reliable publication in the engineering field recently said the "United States has five million more workers than 10 years ago (1929) but three million less on pay rolls," making 8 million more unemployed now than then. Thus our authorities point out that unemployment has been increasing during the past 20 years, notwithstanding new inventions and the resultant growth in new industries. Are we not cherishing a will-o'-the-wisp in our comforting hope that somehow new industries will solve the problem of unemployment? 

We now pass to another reference illuminating another phase to which unemployment is said to be due. 

In a recent article under the heading, "The Forgotten Public," William Starr Myers says in the July 6, 1939, number of Public Utilities that "recent legislation, designed to place in the hands of labor leaders every advantage possible and which at the same time deprives employers of reciprocal rights of any kind, makes it impossible for the employer to bargain on even terms with the representatives of his employees. * * * In other words the employer is not now in a position to acquaint his employees with the real facts in any given situation." For under the law an employer cannot deal directly or indirectly with his employees, if they have chosen a union as their representative. The law as it now stands is charged with hampering employment. 

The facts are, it is said, unemployment in this country was never so great, amiable relations between capital and labor were never so poor, taxes were never so high, amounts paid for relief under one title or another were never so vast, the debts of the government never so enormous, struggles for place and power never so fierce, in short, the future outlook for a united, prosperous and happy country, governed along the lines indicated by our Constitution, was never so dark. 

But at best the situation is extremely complex. Certainly authors of panaceas that assume the situation is readily solvable must be classed as amiable cranks. But as I see it, in all the confusion, in all the struggles there stand out certain things when stripped of all their subterfuges and camouflages as clearly as a noon-day sun. What are they? My answer is greed and selfishness. Yes, I know there will be many denials of this harsh conclusion. But I believe the conclusion is correct just the same. 

METHODS OF LABOR UNIONS 

Labor unions are getting stronger and more numerous as time goes on. Labor is demanding more and more of the things it deems good to have — higher pay, shorter hours, closed shops, a larger voice in management and government. Many other organizations — those of professional, technical, skilled and vocational people — have likewise progressed in what practically amounts to the closed shop. These groups have used various methods to reach their ends — those deemed best suited to accomplish the purpose. They have gone to law-making bodies with pleas for license and regulatory laws, urging that the "public good" demands the enforcement of such laws. The public good is always held up as the motive, never any intimation given that the proponents want these laws — always containing a "grandfather's clause" — to keep their fields from becoming crowded by new entrants. For this purpose also standards of qualification of new entrants are raised from time to time. Then, when the supply of entrants is controlled, up go fees for service. Numerous illustrations will occur to all observers so specifications are unnecessary. In general the "ins" are always trying to stay in and the "outs" are always scheming to get in. 

STRUGGLES BETWEEN CAPITAL AND LABOR 

And so in all of these struggles what do we see? We see capital and management seemingly actively at work devising ways and means to produce, operate and get results with the fewest employees feasible. Local illustrations are the three million and seven million dollar projects, respectively, much heralded because temporarily they put people to work. It appears that ten million dollars will be profitably invested and yet no service to the public seems likely to be cheapened. But these investments will likely put many present employees out of work. Idle money goes to work, many needy employees go to idleness, public interests go to the discard, and the people seem to be lulled by the claim that progress requires these changes even though people suffer thereby. The thought that jobs come before modernity is ridiculed as archaic. 

But capital has its defense. The claim is that labor laws backed by oppressive and unreasonable demands of labor leaders drive management as far as possible from having anything to do with labor. 

In practice, then, the operations of both capital and labor multiply the difficulties affecting employment, thus increasing those for the public. Hence it seems both capital and labor are very unwise, childish and shortsighted — using mild terms — for out of their utter foolishness has largely grown the biggest and most difficult problem of our country — unemployment. And unless there is face-about by all concerned — and this includes the public — this problem will probably increase in magnitude and intensity with the passing years, and result in changing profoundly the order of society we inherited from the fathers. 

PEACE WILL COME THROUGH KEEPING GOD's LAWS 

In modern America the love of substance and power waxes hot while the love of man waxes cold, a condition that the Church Welfare Plan and the teachings of the Church are striving hard to correct among the Mormon people. What is the remedy for the conditions indicated? Fundamentally, I think, it is a deep and thorough-going repentance by all grades of society — the elimination of greed, selfishness and sin, the recognition of the truth that we have a Father in heaven, that all men are brothers, that righteousness only will bring peace and security to peoples and nations — this being the only basis upon which a peaceful, happy America can be built. Strong danger signals are flashing in every direction. Before it is too late let us in America promptly and sincerely turn to Christ our Redeemer and practice his teachings, that we might escape the calamities that otherwise will surely befall us. In other words, let us remember and keep the two great commandments, making these realities in our own lives and thus by example as well as precept teach them to others. I pray that we may so worthily approach our Heavenly Father that he will give us strength, wisdom and power to do these things, which I do in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
