31
Afternoon
08 10 1939
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon 
5
122-125

None

None

It is a source of great joy to me, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you this beautiful day in this great Conference in peace and security. We have occasion to rejoice in the conditions which surround us. Our communities are making steady progress in temporal and spiritual pursuits, in righteousness and peace. We are fortunate in being free from distress and trouble such as prevail in many other localities. I am grateful for these things. I desire in my heart to do that which will be for the greatest advancement of this work and for the welfare of this people, because I know that this work is true and that it is intended for the eventual salvation and exaltation of everyone who will accept and observe the eternal principles which lead into the presence of the Lord. 

APPRECIATION OF BLESSINGS 

I appreciate the kind consideration of my brethren of the First Presidency and that of the Council of the Twelve and all the other General Authorities of the Church. In like manner I am grateful for the confidence of all the people — the stake presidencies, the bishoprics, and all the other officers and the members throughout the Church. I desire in my heart and soul to give the very best that is in me to help to accomplish the work that is before us to do, because this work is a glorious work, and justifies every effort on our part to help to bring about those conditions which will promote the greatest unity, faith and love among this people and promote righteousness in the earth, and to encourage our fellowmen who are honest in heart to come to a knowledge and understanding of these divine principles which have been made known to us by the Lord. 

HONOR TO PARENTS 

The Lord has been very kind to me throughout my life. I have enjoyed many blessings, and I appreciate the opportunity of doing my part, in fulfilling my responsibility along with you in the accomplishment of the work that is before us. I have never sought for any place or position in this Church nor in life, but I have been greatly blessed. Many opportunities and privileges have been extended to me in the Church, and I have been placed in many positions of responsibility. I acknowledge the blessings of the Lord in great power upon me. Through the consideration of my brethren I have been given many opportunities for service. I was born of goodly parentage. I testify to you that my father and mother gave their lives for the welfare of the Church and the advancement thereof. They came to this western land as pioneers in 1847. They suffered many privations in their early lives, and gave their best efforts in endeavoring to advance this Cause. 

A LAND OF GREAT PROMISE 

This western hemisphere is a land of great promise. On this land the New Jerusalem will be founded. The predictions of prophets who lived upon this land of America some twenty-five hundred years ago, are clearly portrayed. When Lehi and his family came from Jerusalem toward the promised land of America, the Lord revealed to Nephi the following: "Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper and shall be led to a land of promise, yea, even a land which I have prepared for you, yea, a land choice above all other lands." Again he declared through the Prophet Lehi (II Nephi 1:6, 7), these words: 

"Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity." 

Again the Lord spoke to Jacob in that same period as follows (II Nephi 10 :19): "Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed, and them who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the land of their inheritance; for it is a choice land, saith God unto me, above all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they shall worship me, saith God." 

The Prophet Jacob speaks further (II Nephi 10:10-13): "But behold, this land, said God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land. 

"And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. 

"And I will fortify this land against all other nations. 

"And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God." 

AVOID ENTANGLING ALLIANCES 

These are a few of the significant promises that have been made with regard to this Western hemisphere and the people who shall dwell upon the same. Promises have been made that if they will do the will of the Lord, if they shall serve him, they shall receive many blessings; and if, on the other hand, they fail to observe these laws, principles, and commandments, they shall fail of the blessings. Inasmuch as we are told the Lord will fortify this land against all other nations, is it not true conversely, that the Lord will not have us, the peoples of these lands, make any entangling alliances with those who dwell upon the other hemisphere? It is our responsibility to be true to these principles and the order of these lands upon which we dwell; and with all due respect to the other lands, that we shall not enter in any agreements or connections with them that will in any way interfere with our continuing to follow the laws and instructions of the Lord regarding this promised land. I believe that this concerns us. I think that the present conditions under which we live indicate plainly that we are justified in maintaining a loyal attitude toward these nations and a neutral attitude toward all other nations, in order that this land of America — this promised land — shall become a place for the growth and development of the people who shall dwell here, and who, if they desire to enjoy the blessings of God, shall receive promises and blessings which will come to them only through the observance of righteousness, good will, and kindliness. So, there is a charge placed upon every human soul who comes here; and I think we ought to sense the importance of encouraging this nation and every nation upon this hemisphere to follow up their opportunity and seek to live righteously, justly, and fairly. We sing that beautiful song, "God Bless America," and in connection therewith we desire the blessing for this great land. There is a responsibility upon the people of these countries to fulfil conditions which will enable us best to accomplish the purposes for which we are here. 

THE JAMESTOWN COLONY 

In that connection I am reminded of a promise made some twenty-two hundred years later, or about three hundred years ago. At that time what was known as the Jamestown Colony came to America; and the London Council of Virginia, through whom they were sent, gave them instructions. They came under very auspicious circumstances. They were the first permanent English settlement upon this land. They started out, apparently, with great promise of the future. These words of instruction were given to them at that time: 

"Lastly, and chiefly, the way to prosper and achieve good success is to make yourselves all of one mind for the good of your country and your own, and to serve and fear God, the Giver of all goodness; for every plantation which our Heavenly Father hath not planted shall be rooted out." 

I say they were the first permanent English settlement upon this land; but they did not last a very great length of time. Twelve years after they arrived here in 1619, the first legislative assembly upon this continent was established, and in the same year slavery was first adopted in these thirteen colonies. In 1676, some seventy years after they came here, they were practically destroyed through Bacon's Rebellion, apparently because they had failed to live up to the principles and qualities which promised them permanence of settlement.

BLESSINGS COME ONLY THROUGH ACCEPTANCE OF PROMISES 

I would like to call your attention to the fact that in all these lands of this western hemisphere, as well as all over the world, the Lord desires the welfare and progress of mankind, but, in desiring that welfare and progress, there are several conditions which must be fulfilled; and the main condition is that they must live in harmony with the will of the Lord and seek to do that which he desires all mankind to do — to accept the principles of righteousness and truth and observe them. That challenge is to every man and woman in this nation and on this continent, and to the American people especially we desire to call attention to the fact that they shall receive blessings upon this land through the observance of the will of the Lord, and to them especially is charged the responsibility of living in harmony with these conditions. 

EXERCISE OF FREE AGENCY IN RIGHTEOUSNESS 

And then, finally, it is of the utmost importance to every one of us as Latter-day Saints to realize that only through serving God do we gain true success and liberty. We have received these covenants; we have received these blessings; we realize how important they are for our welfare and for the welfare of every human soul. We sense the fact that promises that the Lord has made are being fulfilled upon those who are endeavoring to do his will and keep his commandments. The right of choice is ours as to whether we will do his will or that of the adversary. The Lord will not exert any compulsion, and the Evil One cannot, except as we yield to his temptation. I pray that the Lord may help us to sense how important it is that we should live up to every expectation, fulfil every requirement, live in harmony with every principle of truth and righteousness that is intended for the welfare, progress and advancement of the work of the Lord in this land and in these latter days, in the fulfilment of his promises in this dispensation of the fullness of times. 

I desire to testify to you that this work is true; that it is the fullness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that the work done by the Prophet Joseph Smith is true; that he was endowed with the spirit and power of his calling; that he was the instrument in the hands of the Lord in instituting this work in the fullness of times for the blessings and salvation of mankind. I know that our Eternal Father lives and that his Son, Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and the Mediator between us and our Father, lives and will be the means of bringing to pass righteousness in these days to all those who live in harmony with his principles. I desire to live to be worthy of the blessings of the Lord and the confidence of you, my brethren and sisters, throughout my life. I do it and ask it all in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
