9
Afternoon
07 10 1932
Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 
154
33-35

None

None

My heart is beating fast with nervous anxiety. I have been coming to this tabernacle a long time but this is the first time in my life that I have ever spoken in a general conference. 

No person ever enters this historic building without a feeling of solemnity. Standing here I am admonished of my own limitations, of my own weaknesses. It would be arrogant for me to assume the role of an instructor. 

When I came this afternoon I observed for a short time the men who came in and took their places in the section assigned to Presidents of stakes. The brother who sat next to me said: "We have both lived to see one generation of men go and another rise to responsibility." That is true. I very well remember the first time my father brought me to conference with him. I remember the men who used to come to conference in his day — John R. Murdock of Beaver, Canute Peterson of Sanpete, William Paxman of Juab, Abram O. Smoot of Utah, Angus M. Cannon of Salt Lake, and men of that type. 

In those days there were few stakes. I remember those men well. All of that generation has passed and a new generation is here. They were interesting men, men of heroic mould, of great faith, of pronounced individualism, rugged men, but men of fine extraction. Many of them knew very little of what is symbolized by the three R's but they were educated. They were great men, made great by their experience, by the faith which warmed their hearts. They have gone and so have many of their problems. 

I remember in my father's home we did not even have an electric light when I lived with him. There was no plumbing in the house. We had stoves and cedar wood. I never heard a telephone in that house. He never saw an automobile, never went to a moving picture show; he never heard the roar of an airplane or listened to the magic of the radio. 

I suppose if my father were permitted to return and survey just for an hour the agencies that are at our command — could see what we enjoy, I think he would say to me: "My boy you are living in the millennium." But we are not. We are not living in the millennium but the progress that has been made is tremendous. All of these wonderful things are commonplace to us now. The first time I heard the human voice over the air I thought the wonder and marvel of it could never become commonplace, but it has. 

The other morning I went into a farmer's house. The radio was turned on and I heard Lord Gainsborough speaking from London upon "International Peace," and I heard it with clearness. If I were to say to my father: "You can get in an airplane at your home in Fillmore and be at conference in Salt Lake in an hour," he would think it impossible. His life was simple. He wrote very few checks and consequently he never had an overdraft. (Laughter.) He had to answer comparatively few questions. When I went to stake priesthood meeting they talked about roads and canals — things of that kind. We do not do that now. That was perfectly legitimate in that day. These men carried over into the details of their daily life their religion. It was the thing that animated them, that inspired them, that permeated all they did. They were men of great faith. Very many of them knew the Prophet Joseph. They stood close to Brigham Young. There was never in their minds the shadow of a doubt. 

It is true that we live in larger houses and wear better clothes and eat finer food. But I need not tell you, my brethren and sisters, that if we ever forsake the plain and puritanic virtues to which they were committed our day will be a brief one. The machinery which my father used on his farm is largely obsolete. The furniture which he had would not bring much in a second-hand store, but his religious practices are not obsolete. If they ever become so among those who bear his name I am certain there will be the element of travesty in it. These men were made great by their faith, and that same faith applied to this day will make their children great. 

I cannot think that Mormonism is all in the past, its achievements are not all in the past tense. The present tense requires its application. 

I remember some of the stories that I heard in those days — this is typical. In the settlement of Spanish Fork the original settlers were given a small piece of land, perhaps five acres each. Two young men from Scotland came there — brothers. One remained in Spanish Fork, the other moved away. The man who remained was given his allotment of land and, inspired by this possession, he worked with a zeal that made him forget all his troubles. He never knew when the sun went down, he knew that every stroke of his arm would bring something to him and to his household. As a result of his thrift he was able to get five acres more. One day the bishop said to him: "Here is William, he hasn't any land and you have ten acres." William was a shiftless sort of man. The bishop said to this Scotch brother: "I want you to give him five acres of your land." To appreciate this trial of faith please bear in mind his nationality. (Laughter.) He said to the bishop: "Well, I will think it over." He did. On a fine fall day like this he was plowing in the field. He had thought it over carefully. He said: "Whoa!" and the horses stopped. Standing there he said: "Joseph Smith was a prophet; Mormonism is true; let them have the land." 

Here is another one: A man had gone on a mission and left his wife and children poorly provided for. One night when all of the flour had been used one of the children before going to bed prayed that the Lord would open the way so that they could have more flour. The mother listened to it and thought about it and got the inspiration. No sooner had the children gone to bed than this woman discovered among her scanty belongings a little yarn and she went busily to work knitting. Finally she had a small pair of stockings knitted. In the morning she said to the boy: "Take these stockings and this bread pan over to our neighbor and see if he won't give you some flour in return for the stockings." The boy did so-and came back with the pan filled with flour. 

I like that kind of faith. That is faith backed by works. They had to couple their faith with works in those days. Roads were not built just by saying prayers. 

I remember one time while traveling in the southern part of the state I saw a man with a thin, frail team of horses attached to a loaded wagon. He was sitting down at the base of a hill and was figuring on something. I said to him: "Lee, what are you doing?" He replied: "I am trying to figure myself over that hill." Besides figuring it took muscle and energy to get over the hill. 

A man in Idaho told me this story. I like this also. He said: "You know we used to ford the Snake River here, and when it was high it was dangerous. Your uncle and another man had to cross the river. They had a light wagon and a small team and when they got in the middle of the stream it looked as if the thing would capsize, and one of them said, 'I want to pray.' The other man said, 'I prayed before I got into this stream. You get into the back of this wagon and hold the bedding in and keep this box balanced, and when you get on the other side then you can offer your gratitude." I like that quality of faith also. 

My brethren and sisters, I love the faith of my father. I am grateful to all the powers that have made possible the privileges and opportunities that seem to have come unasked to me. When I review my own insignificant life I cannot help thanking that if there is a modicum of patriotism in my blood I owe to this cause the best I have got. It meant much to my father, it has meant much to me. God help me to be true to it. I have never been on a mission. Many of you brethren have been on missions; but I cannot help thinking that the most effective way of preaching Mormonism is to live it at home. Mormonism, like everything else, must be measured by its fruits, and whether we will or not the lives of the plain men and women all down the line must be the gauge by which its power and efficacy will be measured. The way to preach Mormonism is first to live it and to build up within one's self a victorious and triumphant personality. Somehow when a man is grappling with his own weaknesses, when he garnishes and sweeps his own soul he gathers strength, an indefinable strength that comes from no other source. You never saw a Latter-day Saint who was vitalized by the spirit of the Almighty who was afraid. 

I have this on my desk so that every morning when I come to my office I can see it, this statement of the Savior recorded in the fifth chapter of Mark — five simple words: "Be not afraid, only believe." If every Latter-day Saint will cherish those words we can easily weather every storm and rise triumphantly over every circumstance. All we need is the faith of our fathers burning within our own souls and we will carry on. 

God bless the men and women who are here who represent the faith and leadership of this great Church. The Almighty must have confidence in you or he never would have called you to this high place. May his spirit sustain, inspire and bless you to constant and heroic endeavor in defense of this cause, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen.
