1
Morning
07 10 1932
President Anthony W. Ivins 
13
3-5

None

None

This is the first general conference of the Church, my brethren and sisters, so far as I remember, at which the President of the Church has not been present to direct the proceedings. You are all advised no doubt that President Grant is in Chicago at a hospital recovering from an operation to which he has recently subjected himself. 

PRESIDENT GRANT'S ILLNESS 

The question may be asked, and has been, why did the President of the Church go to Chicago for treatment when there is a Latter-day Saints hospital here in Salt Lake City, with efficient expert surgeons and doctors to give medical care to those who may be in need of it? He went because the people who were consulted in regard to his condition, which was critical, admitted that there was no one here whom they felt could be trusted with the particular treatment to which it apparently became necessary for him to subject himself. So after careful consideration it was decided that he should go there for this treatment. 

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 

I have before me a telegram just received from him which I am sure you will agree with me demonstrates the wisdom and the necessity of the action which was taken. It is addressed to me to be delivered to this congregation of Latter-day Saints, and is as follows: 

"Extend to the Saints in conference my love and blessings. My gratitude to them for their faith exercised and prayers offered in my behalf. I have been greatly blessed. I feel sure conference will be profitable and enjoyable as they have always been. Regret not being with you. Earnestly praying the blessings of the Lord to attend the Saints both at home and abroad and also all honest people the world over, 

Affectionately, 

Heber J. Grant." 

The telegram received this morning from the President indicates his rapid recovery. The physicians, however, who have the case in charge consider it wise that he remain at the hospital until he is so far recovered there will be no danger at the time he shall leave it. 

GRATITUDE FOR IMPROVED CONDITION 

This is a great source of relief and gratitude to God our Father to his brethren associated with him, the presiding authorities of the Church; and I am sure this congregation of people and the Latter-day Saints wherever they may be participate in this expression of gratitude. 

We are here in this conference as usual to be informed in regard to the condition of the Church, the people who constitute its membership, and to receive from those who will be selected to address us instruction, admonition and exhortation as the Spirit of the Lord may prompt them to express themselves. 

CHURCH OUT OF DEBT 

First, let me say to you, notwithstanding the reports that are being industriously circulated by people who have been excommunicated from the Church because of their transgressions, but who now assume to dictate its affairs and instruct us in regard to the procedure that should be followed at this conference, to the effect that the Church is heavily involved in debt, that its property is mortgaged — I heard only yesterday that this block and all of the buildings on it were under mortgage — I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Church is not in debt to anyone, not a penny. No one holds its notes. There is no mortgage on the property that belongs to it or that ever has belonged to it, unless it has passed into other hands and been mortgaged by them. It is true that in this time of depression the revenues of the Church have suffered just as yours have suffered, but thank the Lord, through your devotion to the law of tithing, there are funds sufficient to carry on, and we have no apprehension so far as the future is concerned. 

I am making this statement that you may not be disturbed regarding this particular report and many others similar to it which are only designed to embarrass the Church and to lead its members and others who are not members of the Church astray. 

PROGRESS IN THE MISSIONS 

The missions of the Church. It is true again that because of the financial condition of the people the number of missionaries who are engaged in carrying the message of the restored Gospel to the people of the world has been reduced. People have not the funds that they formerly had with which to maintain themselves or their sons or daughters in missionary work. But there are still a sufficient number of Elders In the field that reports show that the results are perhaps more favorable than they have been before for many years past. Converts are constantly being made; baptisms are being solemnized; the organizations of the Church are being maintained in the different missions, stakes and branches of the Church, probably in better condition today, from the point of view of organization and results accomplished, than they have ever been before. This is again a source of great satisfaction to the brethren who direct the Church. 

RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION 

The schools of the Church, like everything else that pertains to us, have of necessity been somewhat limited in their activities, but the fact remains that in the most prosperous period in the past of our Church school system instruction was given to 8,687 students, children of Latter-day Saints. These Church schools, numbers of them, have already been discontinued, and it is the policy of the Church to entirely discontinue the system as it formerly existed, substituting for it a system of instruction that meets far more people than ever before. According to the statistics which are before me, the seminary system of the Church during the past year — and they do not cover the latter part of this year, which will greatly increase this number — has given religious instruction to 30,862 Latter-day Saint children. The pupils who are in attendance at the high schools are registered in these seminaries. I shall not read all of the statistics before me, but a very large percentage of all the children eligible to registry are registered in these seminaries. 

We know it was a great disappointment to the people of the Church when the Church schools were discontinued. It was to us. We did so regretfully, but we do know that we are giving religious instruction now to nearly four times the number of children that we instructed in the Church schools when they were at their peak. So we believe again in the good result which is to come from this change. 

TEMPLE WORK 

The temples of the Church have never before been so busy as they are at present. The people, perhaps because so many are out of employment — that might have something to do with it, but not altogether — their minds are turned more towards the ordinance work which is performed in the temples for their progenitors, with the result — I haven't the figures before me — the general result has been reported to us, we get these figures monthly — temple work being accomplished is greater than ever before in the history of the Church. 

THE WORK OF THE LORD 

These particular items, my brethren and sisters, I am referring to because they are fundamental to the work of the Church. They are institutions which belong to it. They are sound, every one of them, just as the Church itself. It is the work of the Lord restored to the earth with a promise never before made to a people so far as we are aware, that its priesthood should continue, and that means that the Church itself shall persist until it shall ultimately triumph. 

This is a dispensation the greatest that was ever ushered in in the history of the world, because it comprehends all that has been before it and all that shall come after it. 

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

May the Lord help us to magnify our callings, the responsibility which rests upon every member of the Church. For when we identify ourselves with it, when we enter into the waters of baptism, when the hands of those in authority are laid upon our heads, conferring upon us the keys of the holy priesthood, we enter into covenant with the Lord that we will discharge that responsibility, magnify it in our lives by example and by precept, every man bearing witness to his neighbor; and in that manner the Gospel will spread rapidly among the people of the world, who are at last coming — the honest thinking people of the world — to understand the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it really is. 

God bless you, I pray, my brethren and sisters, help you and help me to magnify this important responsibility that is upon us, I ask through Jesus Christ. Amen.
