7
Afternoon
07 10 1932
Elder George Albert Smith
31
21-30

None

None

As I look into your faces this afternoon I think I fully sense the responsibility that rests upon me, and I sincerely pray that the Lord will bless me that the words I utter may be those that he would have me speak. 

Grateful For Blessings 

I do not know when I have felt happier or more grateful for the blessings of life than I do today. There are so many things for which we have reason to thank our Heavenly Father, this temple block with its unusually fine buildings and beautiful flowers and shrubbery being only one. When I realize that our people came from a land rich agriculturally, made their way across the great plains after being driven from their comfortable homes in Illinois, and came into this then desert-waste to build up the Church to the glory of God; and as I observe how he has transformed the desert, I know that I for one have much to be grateful for. 

DEVOTION AND SACRIFICE OF THE PIONEERS 

Recently we traveled four hundred miles over a portion of the old pioneer trail, and stood at the side of one grave containing bodies of fifteen of the members of this Church who gave their all for the cause and passed on to their reward, and hundreds of Others lie in unmarked graves. 

I have been on that trail over which barefoot, hungry and weary, in the cold of winter and the heat of summer, thousands of our people wended their way into this valley, buoyed up with the hope that they could here worship God according to the dictates of their consciences. Today when I think of this marvelous land in which we live, this world-famed temple block, this edifice that has been dedicated to the worship of our Father in heaven, it seems to me that we who are here ought to examine ourselves and check on our lives and see whether or not we are living up to our privileges and are worthy of that which the Lord has given us. He has said: 

"Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." 

It was in order that we might know what his will is towards his children that he gave Joseph Smith, the boy prophet, the latter-day revelation which resulted in the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Then some of the very stalwarts of the earth were pricked in their hearts with a desire to know the truth, and the missionaries of the Church sought them among the nations, and the pilgrimage to this western world began. The community comforts that we enjoy here are the result of their faith and devotion. 

RESPECT FOR THE NAME OF DEITY 

It is worth our while sometimes to just check over what the Lord said to the children of Israel through Moses when they were in the wilderness. I note that among the things he commanded them was this: 

"Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain: for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." I hope that the members of this Church who have had the Ten Commandments and all the glorious truths of the Old Testament and the New Testament placed before them for their understanding, and have been instructed in our day by latter-day revelation — I hope, I say, that not any of these would be so thoughtless that they would take lightly upon their lips the sacred name of our Father in heaven. 

THE SABBATH DAY 

He also said: "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy." That seems such a little thing for us to do in return for the blessings that we enjoy. But to forget that it is the Lord's day, as some of us appear to do, is ungrateful. He has set apart one day in seven, not to make it a burden, but to bring joy into our lives and cause that our homes may be the gathering place of the family, that parents and children may assemble around the family hearth increasing our love for one another. And if we do what our Heavenly Father would have us do we will go to his holy house upon the Sabbath day and there partake of the sacrament in remembrance of the sacrifice that was made for us by the Redeemer of mankind. 

Honor, the Sabbath day and keep it holy, Latter-day Saints, and it will bring to you great joy and our Heavenly Father will bestow upon you the blessings that result from obedience to his advice and counsel. 

"HONOR THY FATHER AND THY MOTHER" 

He says further, "Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may he long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." It seems to me that it ought not to be necessary to say anything of that kind to a people like you who are sitting in this house today. Surely we honor our fathers and our mothers. Surely this people, above all other people in the earth, should be grateful for father and mother. Perhaps we know more than other people what it means to be blessed to come through a lineage, in this latter day, that has accepted the Gospel of our Lord and conformed their lives to its teachings. It is comforting to think of father and mother. Honor father and mother! Surely that is a privilege. It is one of the joys of my life when I feel that I have done something that will bring comfort to my father and mother. I felt that way when they were here and now that they have passed to the great beyond I would like to so order my life that honor twill come to their names and that when I meet them they will be glad to welcome me home. 

I think that the Latter-day Saints should be stressing these admonitions of our Heavenly Father, teaching our children by example as well as precept that it is a privilege to honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, that it is a real blessing to honor our fathers and mothers, that in this day when the world is so depressed — in a day when people are tempted to do things that perhaps they would not do under other circumstances! — it is wise for us to- remember what the Lord has said and to read these Ten Commandments. I will not read them all, but I shall refer to one or two others. 

THE SACREDNESS OF HUMAN LIFE 

"Thou shalt not kill." Many people in the world do not seem to realize what a terrible crime it is to take human life. When they become angry, for justifiable reasons as they think, they do not hesitate to destroy human life. Sometimes a life is taken in order that money or property may be seized. And yet there is no crime that a human being can commit that will so far alienate him from the blessings of eternal life in the celestial kingdom as murder. No other crime is equal to it. I think that it is our privilege in this Church to teach our children, while in their tender years and while they are growing up, the enormity of the crime of taking human life. I feel that our Heavenly Father would justify this people if we would stress, if I may be permitted to use that term, in our homes and in our chapels the sacredness of human life, and the seriousness and importance of living, and cause these boys and girls who are growing up to understand how terrible it would be to commit the awful crime of murder, so that they would not be tempted under any condition so to do. 

PURITY OF LIFE 

"Thou shalt not commit adultery." In our day it does seem to me that the people of the world have gone far astray. There are many who stand in high places who have forgotten the sacredness of pure living and who are forfeiting the opportunity God gave to them to increase their power for happiness in life and to give joy to others. They have surrendered their virtue in order to satisfy their passions, with the result that they cut themselves off from the companionship of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father and follow the tempter who seeks to destroy them. 

Latter-day Saints, teach your children to Observe the moral law. Surround them as by the arms of your love, that they may have no desire whatsoever to partake of the temptations to evil that surround them on every hand. I want to say to you that there is something more for us to do than l to send them to Sabbath School, to Primary, to Mutual, and these other Organizations in the Church. It is important that we as their fathers and mothers shall teach them and not only teach them but train them in the pathway of our Heavenly Father, that they may understand the importance and seriousness of the things that confront them in life. 

What a privilege it is for parents to sit down in their own homes, surrounded by a family of pure boys and girls given to them by our Heavenly Father, their spirits begotten by our Father in Heaven! What a joy it is to have them mingle together partaking of the blessings of our Heavenly Father and rejoicing in the companionship of his Spirit, and to have them so trained in their younger days that while developing to maturity they have maintained the purity of their lives! 

PITFALLS OF THE ADVERSARY 

My brethren and sisters, I plead with you that with more earnest, with more thoughtfulness, more patience than ever before, you safeguard the rising generation from the pitfalls that the adversary has laid for their feet. Many of our picture shows, radio programs, magazines, books, etc., are unfit for respectable communities, and unless we neutralize the influence of these things by wholesome teaching and environment, bringing to the youth the benefits derived from knowing the lives of good men and women, teaching them the virtues of the prophets and the meaning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, some of those whom we love may slip away from us, and when it is too late we will realize that we have been sleeping on our privileges. 

Let us teach our children to be pure in their lives, to be upright. Teach your boys to safeguard the virtue of their sisters and their girl companions. Teach your daughters to safeguard the virtue of the boys they associate with by restraining them from taking too many liberties in this day when so many liberties are considered proper. 

I am talking to you, and through you I hope I am talking to those with whom you contact. It is not only our mission, to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ and live it, but it is our mission to send into the world our sons and daughters as they are called upon from time to time to labor in the ministry of the Church. As they go they should have been so trained that they would be adamant against the temptations of the adversary; they should be as pure and virtuous and righteous in their lives as it is possible to be, and then the influence of their very presence will be felt by those with whom they contact. The Spirit of God will not dwell in unclean tabernacles, but his Spirit will dwell with those who keep themselves clean and sweet. 

Therefore, let us major, if we may use that term, in rearing our boys and girls under the influence of the Spirit of God, that the adversary will have no power to lead them astray. 

"THOU SHALT NOT STEAL" 

"Thou shalt not steal," is another of the commandments. It is astonishing how many men and women who have always lived good lives will yield to temptation to take that which does not belong to them. For the past few years we have been passing through a change. There seems to have been a letting down in the matter of honesty. Our Heavenly Father knew that we would need this commandment when he gave it. It was not given just to be written into the scriptures and then laid upon the shelf. It was given to be proclaimed upon the housetops, if need be. It was written that the Elders might go among the people and call their attention to the sorrow and distress that would follow the taking of that which does not belong to them, when they do it without permission. 

"Thou shalt not steal." This commandment was given to ancient Israel and punishment was meted out to those in that day who were dishonest. It is binding upon us today and I want to say to you that the punishment that is meted out to those who are dishonest in our day, when they are apprehended and haled before the courts of the land and punished for their crimes, is insignificant when compared with the spiritual punishment that befalls us when we transgress the law of honesty and violate that commandment of God. 

THE REPUTATION OF OTHERS 

"Thou shalt pot bear false witness against thy neighbor." Within the last few days I had brought to my attention what appeared to me to be a serious violation of this law. A great and good man who has sacrified much in the world to bless mankind, and has been helpful to many people, had his character assailed and his name was bandied around upon lips of individuals unworthy to be his companions. They did it to gain selfish advantage. They whispered falsehoods about him hoping to injure his reputation and in some way benefit themselves. Of course in due time they must atone for their injustice and be humiliated for they cannot escape retribution. 

"Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor" is in the same category as the other commandments our Heavenly Father has given to the children of men. I hope that not any of the members of this Church would stoop to injure the reputation of any soul because they had some object to gain. I hope that we would not accept lightly a reproach or unkind word from one individual about another and pass it on in the community to the detriment and harm of a good man or a good woman, or to the detriment of a bad man or a bad woman, if it be not true. I think that this community ought to be setting an example. I think that the Elders of this Church ought to honor their place among the people, and when there is a disposition to criticize, find fault and malign and misrepresent those who are seeking to do good in the world, not remain silent and be cowardly, because it does seem to me that is what it amounts to sometimes, but in the courage and majesty of the spirit of our Heavenly Father we should restrain in a way that will bring to their senses those who go about viciously misrepresenting their fellows. 

"Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." During the upheaval we are passing through, when there is so much uncertainty about the future there is great need for every good man and woman to hold as a precious gift the reputation of our fellows. We should cultivate a feeling and desire to bless and benefit our kind. It should be my privilege to restrain those with whom I may associate from speaking evil of others.; I believe that when the Lord gave this commandment to ancient Israel he expected those of us who understand it to assist in making it effective and in restraining as far as possible the untruths that might be scattered abroad from time to time about those who are our associates. 

THAT WHICH IS THY NEIGHBOR'S 

The Lord says further, "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's." 

In other words, our Heavenly Father has given us this law. We have a right to appreciate and enjoy to the full the things that come into our hands as a result of our own efforts. We have a perfect right to enjoy to the full these things that come to us in a temporal way, but just the moment that we begin to desire that which belongs to somebody else, just the moment we begin to look about to see how we might obtain that which is not our own and become covetous of that which belongs to our neighbors, just so soon do we forfeit the spirit of our Heavenly Father, and we have gone into the devil's territory and are in his power. 

KEEPING IN THE LORD'S TERRITORY 

A good man who was a counselor to President Brigham Young said upon one occasion, "There is a line of demarcation well defined. On one side of the line is the Lord's territory, and on the other side of the line is the devil's territory. If you will stay on the Lord's side of the line the devil cannot come over there to tempt you or to annoy or distress you. If you go onto the devil's side of the line just one inch you are in his territory, you are in his power, and he will seek to draw you just as far from that line of demarcation, that division line, as he can, knowing that if he can keep you in his territory he has you in his power." 

Those who disobey these Ten Commandments of our Heavenly Father, no matter in how small a degree it may be, have gone into the devil's territory, and it is time that we as members of this Church, living in this day and age of the world, should understand that. No man can do that which is wrong and stay on the Lord's side of the line. No man can violate the Word of Wisdom and be on the Lord's side of the line. We choose where we will be. God has given us our agency. He will not take it from us, and if I do that which is wrong and get into the devil's territory, I do it because I have the will and power to do it. I cannot blame anybody else, and if I determine to keep the commandments of God and live as I ought to live and stay on the Lord's side of the line I do it because I ought to do it, and I will receive my blessing for it. It will not be the result of what somebody else may do. 

FOR THE PROTECTION OF OUR FATHER'S CHILDREN 

Therefore, living in this day when there are so many temptations, the Word of Wisdom ought to be stressed among the people of this Church. Our Heavenly Father, knowing the calamities that would come upon the earth, knowing the evils and designs that would exist in the hearts of conspiring men, gave to us the Word of Wisdom by revelation and warned us and forewarned us of what would come to pass. It does seem that every attempt of the adversary has been made to neutralize the advice of tour Heavenly Father. I hope there are no members of this Church, who have been honored with the priesthood, who would in any way weaken the power of God to bless his children by seeking to place temptation in their way, or who would think it an insignificant thing to try to break down the barriers God has raised for the protection of his children. I hope that as men and women, with the knowledge that has been bestowed upon us, we will resist day by day with such power as we have the right to resist, every attempt of evil to break down and destroy the morals, the character and the virtue of our people, and the sons and daughters of God wherever they may be. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation to those who believe and who obey its precepts. We have been better taught than the world. We cannot make the excuses of the world if we fail. How grateful I feel that I am this day in the midst of a group of men and women who desire first of all to honor God and keep his commandments. 

SERVANTS OF THE LORD 

I sincerely regret that our beloved President is absent from us because of illness, that Brother Ballard and Brother McMurrin are not with us for the same reason. Brother Widtsoe is in Europe in the line of his duty. The other General Authorities are all present. All these men are servants of the Lord and I can sustain them with all my heart. 

TO TEACH THE PEOPLE 

I am thankful to be associated with an organization that has provided so well for the teaching of its people. Only last night I attended a meeting of one of the finest groups of women that may be found in all the world — the National Relief Society of this great Church — and what power they possess to carry forward their department of the work of our Heavenly Father. Then we have Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Associations, Primaries, educational institutions and genealogical societies. All these our Heavenly Father has given us to bring us to a knowledge of the truth, and oh, how wise we are to desire to know the truth, and to live up to the teachings of the truth when once they come into our lives. 

THE ATTITUDE OF THE EVIL DOER 

This day from the depths of my soul I thank my Heavenly Father for my membership in his Church. I thank him for the warning that has come to me through the revelations that have been given to this Church, and among them I am reminded of a portion of the 28th chapter of II Nephi, indicating the attitude of the evil doer, which I read as follows: 

"And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God — he will justify in committing a little sin." 

Think of that — the suggestion that a little sin will be justified. Yet in the very first revelation contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, that which is known as the Preface, we find these words: 

"For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." 

Yet there are those who would say that because it is a little sin our Heavenly Father does not care. Continuing the quotation from II Nephi: 

"Yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words." 

Think of what that means, the whisperings of the adversary to lie a little. Whether it be a lie intended to effect a religious organization, a business organization, a political organization, or an individual, the lie will brand the one who tells it, and sooner or later he will have to account for the wrong he has committed. 

''Yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved, in the kingdom of God." 

That is what the adversary of righteousness is saying to the children of men. That is what Lucifer who goes about defiling the people is breathing into their souls. That is the kind of doctrine that is being disseminated in the world by some of those who ought to be the leaders of morality and also of righteousness. But to you, my brethren and sisters, the obligation has been given that you must refute such things as these when you know of them. 

We read further: 

"Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this manner, false and vain and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark." 

THE CUNNING OF THE ADVERSARY 

And then further: 

"And others will he pacify, and lull them away irate carnal security, that they will say: All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well — and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is none — and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance. 

"Yea, they are grasped with death, and hell; and death, and hell, and the devil, and all that have been seized, therewith must stand before the throne of God, and be judged according to their works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them, even a lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment." 

That is the word of a prophet of the Lord, spoken hundreds of years ago of what would exist in the world, and I bear you my witness today, my brethren and sisters, that that is a condition that does exist in the world in the day and age in which we live. And as your brother, I plead with you that in the dignity of your membership in the great Church of the Lamb of God you resist the insidious temptations of the adversary and that in your homes and elsewhere you teach and exemplify virtue and righteousness. See that the teachings of the Lord are so disseminated that every soul that comes within your portals will enjoy the blessing that is the result of the companionship of the Holy Spirit. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY 

I know this is God's work. I know the adversary is awake; his end is drawing near and he is putting forth every effort in every conceivable way to blind the eyes of the children of men. Therefore, watchmen upon the towers of Zion, see to it that you do not shirk your responsibility. See to it that you do not turn aside from the opportunities that our Heavenly Father has placed in your way to be helpful. Let us go forward loving our fellows always desiring their uplift and blessing, carrying the Gospel message in such a way that the adversary shall have no power to stay it. And then in the end, when life is completed and we stand in the presence of our Father in heaven, may, we because of the work we have accomplished and our devotion to our Father's children, receive from him that glorious welcome home, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord," I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
