11
Afternoon
07 10 1932
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
2
41-43

None

None

I bring you greetings from the Saints and missionaries in the Central States Mission, who are loyal to the Church and who are working, I think, as faithfully as could be expected. I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that the work of the Lord is growing and though these times are trying the hearts of men and women both in the field and at home, I am positive that there is an increased faith found among the youth of Zion. 

I have had an opportunity to measure in a way the standards of the Latter-day Saints as I find them expressed through their boys and girls whom they send into the mission field. I am sure that faith is increasing and that the younger men who come out now, and the young women also, have a firm testimony of the Gospel. It is true that this testimony has to be developed, but when it is developed it becomes a power within them. It is inspiring to be associated with them. Only today, by way of example — and I think I can mention it with freedom — I talked to a young woman whose sweetheart is in the mission field. When he first came into the field he had a severe trial, that of losing his mother. He felt as if he must go home. Later, he was tempted more than ever to return, because he was fearful of losing his sweetheart. She, however, wrote him that if he came home on her account it would be of no avail, for she would not want to receive him. 

To me that is another testimony to the faith and integrity of the youth of our people. That the Lord is blessing them, is manifested continually by the boys and girls who fill places in the field as missionaries. 

We do not know just how much we are accomplishing in our work, but I bear witness that there is faith in the hearts of the children of men who have joined this Church in the mission field, and they are diligently performing their duty. Many of them are taking the place of missionaries in these times when we are not able to get the help we need, and in a way it is a blessing in disguise, for many men and women who ordinarily would not be found doing missionary work are active now in the preaching of the Gospel, in the holding of cottage meetings, in the holding of sacrament meetings, and in visiting branches of the Church in different parts of the mission. Where missionaries formerly had to do it the local people now are taking the responsibility of carrying on that part of the work, and as a result we find an increased faith and growth and a development such as we have never seen before. I am sure, my brethren and sisters and friends, we need have no fears if we do our part. I am just as sure as that I am alive that if I do my part the Lord will do his. I know that the responsibility of carrying this Gospel to the world depends upon the Latter-day Saints, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve and those who are associated with them. 

We have important work to do. Every man who has a position in this Church has his work to do, and I think that the Lord fills him with a desire, if he will seek for that desire, and gives him the inspiration, the wisdom, the vigor and the power to carry on the work. The Lord's purposes will not fail. I am not fearful in the least about it. I have never known, in all the years I have been in the mission field, a weakness in the Church of Jesus Christ; neither have I ever seen successfully assailed, either by word or pen, one of the principles of the Gospel which have been restored through the revelations of Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith. 

So the work of the Lord is positively established in the world. I take great pleasure in bearing my testimony to you that I know that this is the work of God. If I had time this afternoon I could tell you why I know it to be true. My brethren and sisters, if we will do our part, if we will fit ourselves, if we will be as clay in the potter's hands in carrying out the wishes of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, I have no fear. We cannot do anything without his help. It is his work, it is not ours. It is his Father's work. That is the testimony he bore when he was on the earth: "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

That same challenge is in the world today. The Lord has established his Church in the earth in this day and brought the people unto this land to build up his kingdom and the great plan that he formulated in the beginning. He has to do it through his sons and his daughters under the direction of our Savior, Jesus Christ, and it could not be done in any other way. 

I know that the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ is placed in the men who hold the power of presidency today; I know that Heber J. Grant is at the head of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by divine appointment. I know that he was ordained to that calling as Joseph the Prophet was before him. If you will read the thirteenth chapter of Alma, third verse, you will find the authority for it. I know that the men he has selected to be associated with him in the Quorum of the Twelve, are men of God, and that in their hands the Lord has left his work. They conduct the affairs of the Church under the direction of the Lord Jesus Christ, and this work will be found growing stronger every day. 

May the Lord help us to sustain it by sustaining ourselves, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
