19
Afternoon
08 10 1932
Elder Hugh B. Brown 
156
71-75

None

None
In harmony with the song which has just been so impressively sung, may I refer to the words of the poet Cooper, taken from that sacred hymn, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way:" 

Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, 
But trust him for his grace. 
Behind a frowning providence 
He hides a smiling face. 

His purposes will ripen fast, 
Unfolding every hour: 
The bud may have a bitter taste, 
But sweet will be the flower. 

Blind unbelief is sure to err, 
And scan his work in vain. 
God is his own interpreter, 
And he shall make it plain. 

I should like to read two verses from the book of Joel: 

"Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand; 

"A day of darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains: a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever the like, neither shall be any more after it, even to the years of many generations." 

For four years and more 1914 to 1918 — the greatest of world wars raged on the European and Asiatic frontiers, to which the continents of America and Africa contributed their full share. Twenty million of the physically finest men of the nations were among the casualties. Then came so-called peace. But during the fourteen years that have ensued we have had some twenty wars and the distracted, nerve-racked, panic-stricken world has witnessed the most disturbing period of alleged national and international harmony ever known. 

Perhaps never in history have the leaders of nations been more earnest in their desires for lasting peace, but never before have men been so much concerned about the future. They see in coming events dangers to our civilization. May I refer briefly to what some of them have said? The Prince of Wales, speaking to the young people of the British Empire, this year, at Albert Hall, in London, said: 

"We have before us today a world sick with fearful doubts, weary with repeated disappointments, a world of troubled nations, whose vital need is courageous faith. It is an era of potential plenty, when confidence should be supreme, yet we see in almost every land wide-spread distress and perplexity." 

In their call to prayer at the opening of the year, the Moderators of the Churches of Scotland wrote to their people: 

"The complicated problems and haunting uncertainties which loom ahead in 1932 cause stout hearts to quake and quail." 

Dr. Widtsoe, writing from Europe in April of this year, said: 

"The distress that covers these European lands has never been more serious in written history. There will have to be some tremendous readjustments before peace and prosperity will rule these lands again." 

Frank H. Simonds, the noted international writer: 

"No one in Europe, holding responsible office, is blind to the fact that the whole continent is sinking into an almost indescribable state of economic and financial prostration." 

W. T. Ellis: 

"Mankind is befuddled and bewildered, and even cloudy today, because it has lost the landmarks of faith, and the sense of a Supreme Being and His eternal law. We have got to get down to the everlasting verities of life. That means that the world must hear with new distinctness and understanding, 'thus saith the Lord’," 

I refer to these expressed opinions of well informed men not to emphasize the seriousness of the situation but that the challenge of it might be recognized. Surely the duty of the church today is first to call attention to existing conditions; and secondly, if possible, point the way out. 

The Christian Advocate, a Methodist paper, makes this statement: 

"The Church of Jesus Christ is under a heavy responsibility, in these times, to lead the masses out of economic bondage in which they suffer. That is its commission, as truly as it was the high calling of Moses to free the serfs of Egypt from their industrial slavery. The economic motive, which is the motive of finding a chance to live, is the weightiest consideration in the midst of the millions. Already we clearly see the set of the tide. He is blind who does not see it. He is worse than blind who will not." 

World leaders are directing their attention to the vital need of religion. One says: 

"The world in its misery and impotence awaits that redemption and relief which religion only can give." 

Professor Ladd of Yale says: 

"The call of the world of men today, which is most insistent and intense, if not most loud and clamorous, is for a rehabilitation of religious faith." 

One of our scientists detects the dawn of what he calls "scientific spirituality" and he says: 

"Happily there is dawning upon our age a scientific spirituality, a new type of mind, that studies the truths of faith with the care, caution and candor of science, keeping the warmth and glow and power of faith." 

Another recognizes the value of religion in these words: 

"While I rejoice in the advance of science, I deplore the desuetude of regular religious services, with their encouragement of worship and prayer, for the good reason that personal experience and the study of history convince me that this absence of the religious habit leads to an ugly chaos in private and public morals and to a subtle lowering of the sense of beauty." 

And further we read: 

"What great deliverance could come to the unnumbered thousands suffering from hidden complexes, exaggerated inferiority, inward conflicts, fear, phobias and anxieties, all leading to ineffectiveness and unhappiness, if religion were to harness its incomparable dynamic to the fine tools of personal and analytical psychology." 

We were reminded yesterday by President Hinckley of some of the characteristics of our fathers. How they met and overcame their difficulties and obstacles. We were told they were men of courage and resourcefulness, men whose religion was a dominant factor in every decision; men who understood something of the dynamic of religion as mentioned by our modern writers. Our fathers recognized the value of spiritual leadership and the course of their intensely practical lives was determined by it. They had faith in God and with that faith courageously met their problems and hopefully faced the future. 

This challenge of our background issues directly to the young men and women of the Church in this crisis. It will not be long until this work will pass to the shoulders of your sons and daughters. It will not be long until these presiding officers, who have borne the brunt of the battle for so many years, will be released and the work will devolve upon the young men and women of the Church. How well are they prepared? 

I corroborate and should like to emphasize the splendid tribute which President Harris paid to the young people of the Church. My contacts with them inspire me with the thought that this is truly the work of God, and that he is raising up an army of young men and young women to carry it forward. We recently called upon them in one of the stakes to respond to the great duty of helping their less fortunate brothers and sisters. Their faith in the Church was manifested by their hearty response and willing sacrifice causing us to feel that the older members need not fear for its future. These young people, with the help of God, will carry on. They have not forgotten the promises of the Lord, made through the same prophet Joel, from whom we read this afternoon. Later in the same chapter he says: 

"And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God, and none else: and my people shall never be ashamed. And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions." 

For years we have been teaching our theology, and successfully teaching it to the world. We must now make practical application of our religion; must again refer to and apply in our daily lives the words of the Master as recorded in holy writ. May I read some of them: 

"Love one another." 

"By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples." 

"By love, serve one another, for all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." 

"When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." 

"All things whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them." 

"Bear one another's burden, and so fulfil the law of Christ." 

"Above all things, clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity as with a mantle." 

"Remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support, that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken." 

"Inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me." 

"Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard." 

It seems to me that the application of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the most important task before us today. As I listened to Elder McKay this afternoon, telling us of the millions of young people outside the churches whose hearts are not being touched by religious instruction, I thought, this Church must furnish leadership for the world, must show the way out of this serious economic situation by calling attention to the message of Jesus and by applying the principles taught by him. 

The young people of the Church have asked, What is the Church doing to lead the way out? And the answer has been given in this conference that from the time of its organization doctrines have been taught, advice and admonition have been given, which, if followed, would most definitely meet the need of the hour. The leadership is here if we have the courage and faith to follow it. I am sure the young people of the Church have such faith. I feel that they will respond to the call that is now made of them. I believe that they will do, as the Apostle Paul advised when he said: 

"Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. 

"Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. 

"For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. 

"Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. 

"Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. 

"And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; 

"Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. 

"And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: 

"Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints." 

I testify to the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I testify that I know this is his work. I know he is at the helm. Though there may be troublous times ahead of us, we have the absolute assurance of victory. There may be and will be "days of darkness and gloominess" as predicted in the first scripture read, but we know that he whom we serve will see us through. Let us not be content to call attention to the predictions made concerning the calamities which are to befall the nations, but rather emphasize the glorious promises of final victory and peace. 

God grant that we may put on the armour of faith, that through living the Gospel of Jesus Christ we may provide leadership for the world, for I believe it will yet be demanded of us. I pray for his Spirit and blessing upon us, that we may not be afraid, that we may not talk gloom or despondency or discouragement, but we may emulate the lives of our fathers, and with courage and resourcefulness and absolute faith in God go forward to meet the battles and problems of this age. I promise you, my brethren and sisters, that with that faith we will conquer. May it be so, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
