18
Afternoon
08 10 1932
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley 
12
69-71

None

None

This is a very great privilege and a very grave responsibility. I will be happy if the Lord shall inspire me with his Holy Spirit and enable me to speak that which he would have me say. I believe in the spirit of inspiration. In this mature period of my life I have long since learned, in this Church, that if I am left alone I am weak indeed; but not if inspired and in the cause of truth. There is no power that can overcome the man who is inspired of the Lord and who speaks in defense of righteousness. 

I come with a cheering report from the California Mission. No man could live in California a winter and a summer and not feel led to speak well of that great country, as well as of her people. The California Mission includes most of California, most of Arizona, and most of Nevada, and represents millions of choice people. Our place in that mission seems to be firmly taken. Our numbers there increase steadily. Our stability seems to be assured. The happiness of the people is continuous. I find a satisfaction among them that is very gratifying. Thousands, many thousands. I think possibly forty thousand people, members of the Church, are in that locality; perhaps more than that; many of them in organized stakes. The mission proper, outside the boundaries of these stakes, includes about twelve thousand people, among them some of the choicest in the world. 

The presidents of those sixty-three branches, with their counselors and the heads of the auxiliary organizations, include men and women who know the truth and live it, who love the Lord and love his children, and are respected by all men. 

From the point of good works and improvement, measured upon every line that we measure in this Church of Jesus Christ, things are favorable. The righteousness of the people is increasing. They may be worried; many of them, being wage-earners, are left on reduced wages and shortened hours that they are permitted to labor, and many of them only have occasional opportunities to labor to earn their living. Financially I should say that perhaps they were never worse off. Spiritually I should say that I think they were never more prosperous. From point of health I bring you good report. 

Now, relative to the missionary work, I could easily call for help, and know that it would be a hard matter to receive it. I think I have made a report that the missionary force there has dropped from the high point at one time when men and women commissioned of the Lord went from place to place over that great area, lifting their warning voices, when we had as high as two hundred and twenty-one. Today it will sound serious to you when I shall make the report that there are but twenty-five full-time Elders and eleven sisters in that field. 

If we had to look after the work of all of that great group of people and try to do the work that was formerly done by missionaries that were sent out from Zion, you will understand readily that we would be in a very helpless condition. But we have fortunately not been left to suffer as these figures would indicate. We have called for help from among the many down there who know the truth as you and I know the truth, and who live it as faithfully as we have ever dared to live it or ever could live it; who hold the same priesthood, have the same love of God in their hearts, the same love of his children, and a courage that is built up by being out in a world that offers resistance — I say among that group, when we called for help, the response was wonderful. One hundred and six Elders and thirty sisters have been appointed, and the service they are rendering is marvelous in its result. They stand upon the streets as fearlessly, as boldly, as your sons and your daughters have done in days gone by, and testify of the restored Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. In their homes, as they go to and come from their work, at the bench, or wherever they labor, they manifest righteousness before all men. Their lives are eloquent sermons. When they appear at the door of a house and introduce themselves as commissioned servants of the Lord Jesus Christ, it may be at the home of a neighbor who works side by side with them; and whenever that is the case the door opens, the Elder enters, he offers his message, invites the members of that household unto the Lord Jesus Christ, and testifies to them of this great work. So the efficiency of that great mission and the results of the labors of the missionaries in that mission indicate that the work has not slackened but that it moves on. 

Never have I had greater joy in all my life, in all the Church work that I have ever done. It has seemed to me that the greatest joy comes in the proclamation of the Gospel. That early experience of my younger manhood days, in far-off Holland, three years of service, has always been one of the bright spots of my life. That same love and joy was renewed a few years hence when I was permitted to labor under the kindly direction of President Callis in the Southern States Mission. And now, out in the California Mission, that comes back with the same gratifying, satisfying, blessed results. 

I bear testimony to you of these young men with whom I am permitted to labor, clean in attire, clean in body, honest in heart, qualified in intelligence and in learning and in understanding of the truths of the Gospel. With these fundamental requisites, lighted up by the inspiration of the Almighty, they go forth with hearts aglow, and their testimony is burning. To be associated with them, to feel the spirit of their young manhood, and the strength of their faith, stirs my soul to the very depths. The Saints love them, I love them, and I tell you we are one. The Lord loves them and he magnifies them. Their influence is holy wherever they go. They love these truths. They fear no man. They have a courage that never surrenders. They, I tell you, are the very salt of the earth. 

It is very impressive to see these young men, in the strength of their manhood, and these young women, when the day comes that you can tender unto them an honorable release — to see them as they stand and know that this relationship is being broken in part, and hardly know what they shall meet when they reach home — and they break down and say: "May the Lord grant that I may retain forever this spirit that leads me not only to love God my Father, but to love his children and seek their salvation and their welfare." It brings them home qualified to carry responsibility. My prayer is that they shall be used, that in this high point of qualification to serve they shall never rest, but that they shall go on with this service forever and forever. 

I leave my testimony with you of the joy that I have in declaring that which I do know. I tell you that there is no joy that equals the joy of having that which you know the world needs, and offering it unto them as the power that will lead them out of their troubles, settle all the doubts in their hearts, and lead them on to salvation. This is the glorious work that we are proclaiming, and it is for the world, for the salvation of the world, and God leads it to victory. That is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
