12
Morning
08 10 1932
Dr. Franklin S. Harris 
155
49-51

None

None

I do not think it would be possible for anyone to be more surprised than I am this morning upon being called to address you. I have enjoyed very much the meetings of this conference; I always enjoy these meetings. For, something like twenty-nine years, the period that I have been accessible to the conferences of the Church, I have never missed one if I have been in the state, and it seems to me that each of these conferences has its own peculiarities, its own type of advice, counsel and admonition. I should not like to be without the inspiration that comes to me by attending these meetings. 

In these days, when everything of the past is being brought up for review, our religious activities, our Church, and everything else, come in for consideration. Recently in the East, I read something that had been written by some minister in which he said that the old people of the Church were incurably "Mormon," but that the young people showed some hope of being alienated in their affections for the Church, and that there was hope that in time these young people would withdraw and become Christians. This set me to thinking, and since it is my work to be with the young people of the Church I believe I am prepared to speak on this subject with some authority. At the University I come daily in contact with about fifteen hundred of them from all parts of the Church. It is also my privilege to travel throughout the Church and meet young people. 

I am prepared to refute, in the most emphatic terms, any allegation that the young people of the Church are not loyal to it, to its authorities, and to its teachings. Of course there are not one hundred per cent of the young people who continue to adhere to the Church. There are not one hundred per cent of Americans who continue to be loyal to the government of the United States. There is no cause that has one hundred per cent support. But it is my firm conviction that there has never been a time, in the history of the Church, when the young people were so firmly rooted in the fundamental principles of the Gospel as today. 

Almost daily young people come to my office and tell me of their devotion to the Church, of their growing conviction of the truth of its doctrines, of their determination to spend their lives in its service and in advocating the doctrines for which the Church stands. There are those, of course, who have their periods of doubt, and I do not blame them for their doubts, because after all the knowledge of another person cannot save an individual. It is necessary for a person to think the thing out for himself. He must have doubts and misgivings in order that those doubts and misgivings may be overcome and that he may get a philosophy of his own. Consequently I never worry if a young man or young woman expresses some doubt and wants to think the thing out for himself. I know that this type of real thinking is a thing that will eventually bring them back to a loyalty to the Church and an understanding of its principles. 

The thing that I do object to is the lack of interest. This it seems to me is the most dangerous thing we can have, and if I see a person, particularly a young person, who says he has no interest in religion, then I have misgivings. 

I want to bear my testimony to you that the Gospel of Jesus Christ contains those principles that are satisfying to any thinking man or woman. I have no apology to offer for it. I believe that some of our people make a mistake by being somewhat apologetic for the Church, for its history, or its doctrines; but as far as I am concerned, I have no apologies whatever to offer for it. 

It has been my privilege to see, more than most men, the peoples of the world, to study their philosophies, to observe their systems in practical operation and to know the hearts of the people; and the more I study the rest of the world the more I love Mormonism. Not that I have anything against any people; I know of no people with whom I have come in contact for whom I do not have honor and whose point of view I do not respect; but knowing these other conditions I have greater love for Mormonism, for its leadership, for its doctrines, for its institutions, for what it can do for man here and hereafter. 

So when I come in contact with the young people I tell them to go about in their excursions seeking for truth. I say: Look it all over; investigate it all; because I am not at all afraid of the results. I hope that we, as a people, do seek everywhere for truth. We have no monopoly on the truth. Theoretically we take it all from whatever source it comes. Other people have truth, and I believe that we should seek it far and wide, and adopt it wherever we find it. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that the young people of the Church are entirely worthy of the confidence of their parents. I think they are the best young people the Church has ever had at any time, notwithstanding there are differences of opinion on this point. I believe the young people are the most temperate, the most moral, the most intellectual that the young people have ever been at any time in the history of the Church. I bear testimony to you that with the passing of each generation we shall have more loyalty to the Church, we shall have more consolidation and a stronger Church. 

I fervently pray that I may be worthy to be among the humble workers of the Church, that I may be able to set a proper example, and that I may assist in advancing this great cause. I ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
