27
Afternoon
09 10 1932
Dr. Elmer G. Peterson
157
101-104

None

None

I shared with, all of you this morning, my brethren and sisters, an unusual emotion as we witnessed the nation-wide broadcast which emanated from this stand. I could not help thinking, as that nothing short of miraculous event transpired, of the very brief period of time which had elapsed since those first companies of pioneers found their way over the forbidding desert, and through the equally forbidding mountains, to this historic spot now marked by the great edifice in which we meet and the other edifices on the Temple block. 

It has been only eighty years or so since those pioneer companies traversed practically half the continent, and I presume even the most visionary of them had little understanding of the tremendous significance of the developments which were taking place. Those developments are nothing short of revolution so far as human affairs are concerned, expressing themselves in a miraculous mastery by men of the forces of nature under the ministrations of science and the arts, and accomplishing also tremendous results of a social and secular character. 

The world, indeed, of which we are a part is now quite a different world from what it was when those first companies found their way here. Of course the miracle is not entirely in these evolvements of science, marvelous as they are, but in the fact also, I believe, that from those small beginnings there has arisen a great company of people actively devoted to the development of the truth. 

I happened to be teaching in the state of Oregon at one time when a prominent American leader came through that marvelous state. The people there of course were anxious to show him — it was Woodrow Wilson who was making the trip — the impressive natural resources of the state of Oregon — the fisheries, the great lumbering industry, the commerce, the orchards, mines and ranches; and Mr. Wilson — he was then a candidate for the Presidency — indicated his great pleasure at seeing these resources. There happened to be in Oregon at that time a man who had attracted national attention because of the reforms which he was seeking to initiate in government and in social affairs. His name was Uren. He was seeking to bring back to the control of the people the great agencies of government and the agencies of service otherwise which in part, lamentably a large part, had departed from their control. Mr. Wilson said he was deeply interested in the forests, fisheries and other resources of Oregon, but he was infinitely more interested in what was, as he expressed it, under Mr. Uren's hat. In other words he felt the spiritual need as superior to the material in the people's efforts to exalt themselves socially, politically and otherwise. 

Well, I am always impressed as I come to these gatherings of the Church, the like of which probably are not duplicated upon the face of the earth, by the unanimity of sentiment upon the things about which the people here are thinking, by the powerful organization here for purposes of righteousness, by the positiveness with which the working of good is undertaken, all manifestations of spiritual undertaking. 

There are of course two bases of testimony of any religious work. There is the basis of faith, which is not much to be argued about. It is a matter of possession or non-possession. Such things, for instance, as the reality, the actuality, or otherwise of that great event which transpired in the Sacred Grove. Now a person believes that or he does not believe it, or he is in process of developing a faith in it. But after all, this event and other comparable events such as the miraculous manifestation to Paul on the road to Damascus, the occasion when Moses came down from the mountain and reported the event which resulted in the code known as the Ten Commandments, not replaceable even in this modern complex and learned age by the man-made compilation of laws — these things are matters of faith. However profound our belief may be in them — and the event in the Sacred Grove takes its place in history with the other events which I have mentioned — they are matters of faith and not subject to the same scientific analysis as are other aspects of religion which are not matters of faith but which are, nevertheless, bases of testimony. Not being subject to analysis or scientific proof in no sense invalidates these great occurrences. My own confidence in them is as complete as though they were phenomena admitting of direct analysis and proof. 

My life has been spent largely in dealing with young people. As we all know, the greater deductions and generalizations which set themselves up in people's minds, usually as a result of long periods of time and of experience, are not, frequently, the possession of youth. The young look usually for those things which are called scientific, which might be called rational. Not that these other great manifestations are not rational if we had a deeper knowledge of things — indeed, in some ways, disbelief in them is one of the greatest irrationalities even with our present knowledge; yet there are foundations for the development of our own faith that are eminently rational; and I have found that these are reliable things upon which to build the faith of the young in a religious or in an ethical or social or any other similar way. 

I was once talking with a young member of the Church who had spent some time in study in the East in a professional school; and he remarked while on his way back to take up his practice in a neighboring state that one of the things the Church would have to do was to get away from the old practice which he associated with what we call temple work, ancient devices and practices which civilization, he said, had long since outgrown. He was asked what, in his judgment, was the most prevailing weakness in the society with which he was so familiar in the place where he had studied, one of our large cities. He said he thought that possibly the greatest weakness there as elsewhere in the centers of population was a breakdown, in the relations of the sexes, that promiscuity had succeeded chastity, and that the standards of fidelity in family life that had been taught to us as an integral part of Christian belief were falling down pitiably in what we call civilization. As our discussion revolved around the question of temple ordinances and the care and sacredness which guard the great relationships of sex, relationships which are the very source and fountain of life itself, it was asked if after all, aside entirely from the spiritual realities which underlie temple work, the safeguarding of these relationships was not sufficient to justify every expenditure and every energy which goes into this sacred work? 

Here is a rationality that is clearly obvious, rational of course because it has a deep spiritual significance as a basis. There are many others. 

One of the weaknesses of present government is a breakdown in what we call democracy; and the great peoples of Europe, from whom practically all of this audience have come, are looking about for a substitute, and some of them are trying substitutes by way of dictatorships and what not. They are anxious to find a cure for the weaknesses that have expressed themselves in democratic institutions. Indeed, in the thought of many observers, democracy is on trial. It does not require very extensive analysis to reveal that among the many rationalities of Mormon faith, our own faith, is that which expresses itself in the essential democracy which pervades this great organization. I doubt if anywhere upon the face of the earth a congregation with greater individual self-respect could be assembled than this congregation here, where the sense of the actuality of brotherhood, which is the essence of democracy, exists in such abundance that there is no doubt in the minds of the humblest, as well as all others in this congregation, as to the equality of privilege and opportunity which he shares with every one else in this great social union, and as it applies to our own Church this great priesthood. 

A careful thinker, after living some time in the state teaching in one of our institutions, once asked me why it was that there were no hereditary ruling families developed in the history of the Church; and I expressed the opinion, which I had not very carefully thought out, that one reason for it was that there was such actuality in the brotherhood which existed in the Church that those families instead of tending to intermarry within themselves disseminated their strength throughout the body of the Church. 

Rationality expresses itself in the processes which relate to the Word of Wisdom, sometimes considered a more or less extreme doctrine. One of the dangers of our present civilization is the danger of indulgence, expressing itself in addiction to drugs of a terrible and devastating character, an indulgence that threatens the very virtue of modern society. A person who observes the Word of Wisdom is free from the danger of addiction to drugs. If the preachment called the Word of Wisdom had no other value than to keep at least five, six or seven hundred thousand people free from the withering curse of addiction to the more deadly narcotics and other drugs, that great doctrine would have justified itself. 

Of course these and similar doctrines that could be mentioned are not negative. They are not primarily for the sake of preventing people from doing bad things. Their great virtue consists in the fact that they build up individually and thus socially strength which becomes a powerful weapon for righteousness. These things have appealed to me as I have analyzed the doctrines of the Church which constitute a philosophy, aside from the religion, the spirituality that is in the doctrine, a philosophy so profound that it is beyond the comprehension of the most learned and the most intellectual, a profound formula for the living of clean and wholesome lives, and infinitely more than that of course, a formula by means of which a people united together can preserve and build up those great strengths that hold out the possibility of finding expression in the fulfilment of the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, the exaltation of mankind. 

It would not be proper for me to occupy more time. I rejoice with you in the accomplishments which represent themselves here individually in this audience and in the many, many thousands more who are listening in today, in the social cleanliness which is expressing itself, and in the militant organization which exists here for continuing the battle of truth. 

May God bless us to be worthy of this great fellowship I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
