12
Afternoon
06 04 1939
Elder Carl F. Eyring 
231
47-48

None

None

This is precious time. I trust that I may bear my testimony that you may know that I believe in this Church and that I appreciate the heritage which I have received. 

I have enjoyed the music of this Conference. In the mission field we are delighted with the music which comes from this Square. The broadcasts from Temple Square help us in our missionary work. 

It is a pleasure to be at another General Conference. We of the missions, just as you of the wards and stakes, depend upon the inspiration of General Conference to motivate us to greater diligence as the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. As we worship together, we more fully sense the power we are, and the added power that we might be, as defenders of the way of life preached and exemplified by the Master. In the mission field, probably more than at home, we keep asking ourselves the question, "What unique message do we have for the world?" This question becomes the more significant because so many well-informed and intelligent persons are free with the conclusion: All churches are good, select the one that suits your taste. Apparently the selection of churches takes too much of the same attitude to be found in the selection of an automobile. Thus if we are to convert, we must not only present an acceptable religion, but we must develop first a conviction that it does matter which church is selected. 

What is our unique message to the world? First of all, we bear testimony that Jesus is the Christ. In no uncertain terms we declare that the teachings of Jesus will save the world from slipping downward under the grip of materialistic and pagan philosophy. We testify that the way of life outlined by Jesus will preserve peace, and will eliminate poverty and suffering. We reaffirm that the attitude of "love thy neighbor as thyself," together with a practical application of this principle, will bring us out of our social and economic chaos. What the world needs is not more assent, or even belief that Jesus is the Christ, but a faith in him, a faith that will cause humanity to find the answers to its problems in the basic principles he taught and not in the teachings of self-appointed teachers who set up panaceas — short-cuts that lead down blind alleys. 

Further, we bear testimony that through a miraculous origin we bring to the world a Gospel restoration which is simply an additional testimony that Jesus is the Christ and that God really does care to have his children follow the way of life of his Son. 

The Christian world has accepted the Bible. Through this scripture Christians generally gain their testimony of Jesus, but through modern divine aid we extend to the world added testimony that Jesus is the Christ. In the preface of the Book of Mormon we read, "and also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the eternal God, manifesting himself to all nations." In brief, we notify the world that a people on this continent had unique religious experiences, similar to those received among the Hebrew prophets, and that the ancient American prophets testify that Jesus is the Christ. But we do more than present to the world this ancient scripture, the Book of Mormon. We present the teachings of modern prophets; we present the vivid and convincing testimony given to us this morning by our beloved President, as he quoted from the Doctrine and Covenants (Sec. 76:22-24). We need the current testimonies of our leaders who are our contemporary prophets. 

Our greatest message to the world, then, is the declaration that Jesus is the Christ. We wish for all men that they might have faith in Jesus Christ. We claim that only through him and his teachings may the inhabitants of the earth be saved from chaos. We further testify that through divine appointment and selection we have been charged to bear this testimony to the world and to live the Christian life so completely that we shall truly be a light set upon a hill. This call of the Priesthood is truly a call to greater service, a call to the colors of improved and superior life. This is the type of testimony that we strive to bear to the world. 

I am very happy to report that your sons and daughters are maintaining and bearing this testimony. We are grateful to you, the fathers and mothers of these sons and daughters, for the support which you are giving the New England Mission. I can report progress, a fine condition among our branches, greater interest in Mormonism, and a splendid development among your sons and daughters. 

God bless the leaders of this Church. We are back of them with our loyalty. We declare that this is the work of the Lord, and that Jesus is the Christ. Amen.
