14
Afternoon
06 04 1939
Elder William T. Tew, Jr. 
239
51-52

None

None

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be here this afternoon, and to meet with you in General Conference on this memorable occasion. I read not long ago from the pen of one of our great American religious preachers that there is no such thing upon the earth today as the true Church of Christ. I rejoice that a hundred and nine years ago in the little town of Fayette, Seneca County, New York, at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sr., the Prophet Joseph Smith, as the Lord's instrument upon this earth in this dispensation, organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and, according to the Lord's word in the preface of the Doctrine and Covenants, it is the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which the Lord is well pleased, speaking of the Church collectively and not individually. 

I rejoice in my membership in this great organization. I rejoice in my privilege of being in the mission field with my family, presiding over the East Central States Mission. I am happy to report to you parents who are here this afternoon, and to you parents who are perhaps listening in on this occasion, that during the past three months I have visited every district and almost every branch of the East Central States Mission. I have contacted your boys and your girls in their conference assemblies, and in their mission field experiences, and in the missionary testimony and report meetings. I rejoice in the growth and the development, and the spirit that accompanies those young men and young women as they bear testimony of the truth of the Gospel. 

During the last month, just previous to coming to this conference, I spent my time visiting five of our districts. Forty-one conference sessions were held; two outstanding M. I. A. banquets were put on, and I believe that I can report safely and conscientiously that Mutual Improvement work in the mission field is the key position that captures the interest, the attention, and the devotion of our young people, and makes of them real, genuine Latter-day Saints. 

In the East Central States Mission we have almost 14,000 members on our records. I regret to say, however, that we do not know exactly where a great many of these members are; they have moved from place to place without leaving their new addresses. 

We also have in the mission field 106 Elders and lady missionaries today. We are bringing back, or have brought back during the month of March, 14 Elders and lady missionaries who have filled missions in the East Central States. 

We find in the East Central States a very great need of teaching the people the Gospel of Jesus Christ. So many of them have been converted through emotional appeal, which seems to be the method of procedure in a great many different denominations in the world. I read just a few days ago that one of our great American preachers defines religion as a great psychological experience. To me that is far from the truth. Religion to me is the actual practising of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in our daily lives. It is a life process, my brethren and sisters, and it is my hope and prayer that through our efforts in the mission field we shall be able to encourage our missionaries along this line of activity, because we know that through their living the Gospel the people of the world have become friendly unto us. 

Very seldom do we hear anything derogatory concerning the Gospel of Jesus Christ as it is preached and lived by the Latter-day Saints. We are always met with a greeting that is fair and congenial, and really and truly tolerant by those with whom we associate. 

I should like to leave with you people one thought in closing. It comes from the great prophet Amos, of Old Testament days, that shepherd prophet who lived at the little town of Tekoa, near the Dead Sea. The prophets were the Lord's great trail builders, as they are today. They had the power and influence among the people to unify them, and set in order the Church of God. Amos was sent to the northern kingdom of Israel, in the days of wickedness, in the days of apostasy, in the days of indifference, in the days of Jeroboam II the king of Israel. 

One of the things he told those people is this: 

Thus he showed me: and, behold, the Lord stood upon a wall made by a plumbline, with a plumbline in his hand. 

And the Lord said unto me, Amos, what seeth thou? And I said, A plumbline. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumbline in the midst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by them any more. 

That plumbline, my brethren and sisters, to me is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is this living Church, which is the embodiment of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I believe that we should remember that the eternal verities, those eternal laws of God must be lived up to if we ever expect to reap the blessing and the benefit that we should derive therefrom as members of the Church. 

May I encourage you to give us your faith and your prayers, and above all other things may we have your good works in living the Gospel here in the stakes and wards of Zion, that the reflection of these good works here at home may be a beacon light to us in the mission field in allaying prejudice, in bringing about a tolerant spirit among those with whom we labor. 

We assure you that with your faith and prayers and with our faith and prayers and efforts, and with the blessings of the Lord we shall succeed, and I may say, too, that, in the words of John Bright, the great English statesman, "If we cannot succeed as fast as we think we should succeed, we know that in the end our enemies cannot succeed at all." 

The Lord bless us, that we may succeed, and that we may succeed admirably, and as the Lord desires we should succeed in promulgating the Gospel to the world, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
