6
Morning
06 04 1939
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
2
27-30

None

None

The Savior said, as recorded in the Gospel of St. Matthew: 

Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. 

Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. 

Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven. (Matt. 5: 14-16). 

PROPER LEADERSHIP NEEDED 

In these troubled times the Latter-day Saints have a great opportunity to bring to mankind a necessary type of leadership. Serious problems confront young and old alike. Many are sorely tried through economic difficulties. Others are being lured away by the wicked who conspire to get gain through merchandising the souls of the people. Yet the majority of the people desire that which is good. Generally they are willing to do right, if they are properly directed. 

In every neighborhood and community there is a demand for leadership and faith to dispel perplexity and implant a firmness of purpose which all men need in these troublesome times. An outstanding figure in every circle has the power to influence his associates, and if that individual has a true conception of leadership, he may become a blessing — not only to his immediate circle, but to his community, his Church, his state and nation. 

THE POWER TO DEVELOP LEADERSHIP 

Frequently we hear men and women lamenting the lack of persons upon whom they may depend to step out and take a directing position in their organizations. We hear this from many of our own people who seem to forget that we have the power within the Church to develop the finest kind of leadership known upon earth; not only individual leadership, but collective leadership, which in turn can make of this people a mighty power for good in the world. It has already done so to the extent that now in many places, the Latter-day Saints are recognized for what they really have accomplished. We can and must carry this progress still further, until we truly become as a city on a hill, a beacon light in the dark of night, setting an example in the art of living which will attract the gaze of thinking people everywhere. 

To do this will require the united effort of the members of the Church and the perpetuation of the high standards and high ideals fostered by the Church. We must provide the leadership in our wards and branches to achieve this purpose. 

FIRST ELEMENT OF TRUE LEADERSHIP 

If we are to do so we must learn that the first element of true leadership is faith in God and obedience to his principles. This truth has been recognized all down the ages. We are all familiar with the example of Saul who lost his position as a leader and king of Israel because of his failure to obey the command of the Lord as given through Samuel the prophet. The essence of the rebuke uttered then is pertinent today. 

Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. (1 Sam. 15 :22). 

We are equally familiar with the blessings and strength of leadership which came to Nephi as a result of his willingness to obey the teachings of his father Lehi. 

If we would succeed in developing true leadership within our own groups, then let us remember that the first essential is to follow willingly the advice and counsel of those who preside over the Church. 

LEADERSHIP THROUGH CHURCH ACTIVITY 

The next step is activity. Experience has shown us that the great developer of leadership among the Latter-day Saints is activity in the Church — participation in the programs of the various quorums and auxiliary organizations. How many times have you seen men or women weak and trembling from inexperience, when placed in positions of responsibility grow into stalwarts in the Church, as they have assumed the mantle of their calling and diligently endeavored to build up the kingdom of God here upon the earth? 

You have also seen young men called on missions who have seemed weak and timid, but when they have returned after two years or more of active service in the mission field, you have seen a transformation you could hardly have believed possible. Why? Because they have developed the qualities of leadership through their persistent activity in the Church. 

There is no better evidence of the fact that activity in the Church develops the quality of leadership in the lives of the Latter-day Saints than in the careers of the men who have presided over the Church. 

The humble beginning of the Prophet Joseph Smith is well known. His education was limited. He was obliged to start work early in his life to contribute to the support of himself and other members of the family. Yet from that humble beginning he became one of the greatest prophets of all time. He not only became the dynamic leader of a fast-growing modern Church, but he set forth principles of government worthy of study by our greatest statesmen and in the latter part of his life became a candidate for president of the United States. 

He was a great colonizer in the central west, and envisioned the eventual movement of the Pioneers to the Rocky Mountains. He became one of the great leaders of all time, and all this through his activity and faith and obedience to God and the Church of Christ. 

Brigham Young likewise had a humble beginning. He was a tradesman in very ordinary circumstances. When he joined the Church and entered heartily into its activities he began the development of traits of leadership which today are being heralded in motion pictures, over radio broadcasts and among men trained to measure greatness in the perspective in the passing of time. He successfully directed the emigration of the Latter-day Saints to Utah and later the colonization of a large section of western America. All of this grew out of his activities in the Church, out of giving his time and talents unselfishly to the development of the Kingdom of God. 

President Taylor, President Woodruff, and President Snow also had humble beginnings. They, too, rose from the ranks and achieved greatness through their untiring service in the Church. 

Many of those within the sound of my voice remember President Joseph F. Smith. Few boys had a more humble beginning than he. Deprived of both of his parents early in life, he was obliged to work hard for a living, but he gave himself freely to the work of the Lord. Through active service in the Church he developed rare qualities of leadership. As he served, he grew in power, until the time came when he stood at the head of the Church, giving it an inspired administration. 

President Grant on various occasions has told us of the humble beginning he had; and of his weakness in going to preside over the Tooele Stake as a young man. But when we regard the President as he is today, we are inspired by the greatness of his leadership, and his faith in the work of the Lord. 

Few men have received the high tributes of love and esteem that have come to him. Yet every tribute has been earned by continuous unselfish service in behalf of his fellowmen. Through his inspired leadership he today directs the religious affairs of nearly a million members of the Church in all parts of the world. 

And how did he achieve this power of leadership? We answer: Through service in the Church of Christ our Lord. 

Every one of us wields some influence among those with whom we associate. No matter in what capacity we may serve, we can develop qualities of leadership through unselfish service in the Church. We then shall grow in power and influence and thus shall we learn the truth of these words: 

Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. (Matt. 20:26,27). 

BETTER QUALIFIED TO PREACH GOSPEL 

If we collectively grow in our obedience to God's commands and increase our activity in his Church, we shall be in better position to teach the Gospel to all the world, and to teach more impressively because of the kind of lives we live. 

The world today is sorely in need of the principles of the Gospel. In America we have an abundance of gold and silver and foodstuffs, and much intellectual power, but we lack the desire to worship God. All must be brought to a knowledge of this condition and learn to repent of their transgressions. 

The Latter-day Saints hold the key to this situation — the inspired words of God that have come to the children of men from the time of the beginning of this Church, inspiring those great leaders even until now, must be taken into consideration by the doubter and by those who do not know. 

We pray for the children of men in all the world, in this city where we live, the country round about us, and in all nations of the earth. We pray God to give us the power to do our part, and we do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
