11
Afternoon
06 04 1939
Elder William W. Seegmiller 
230
46-47

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am happy in having the privilege of representing the Western States Mission. In this mission we have over 8,000 members, and 87 missionaries. Throughout the states where we labor people treat us with respect and consideration everywhere. 

In the membership of the Western States Mission we have those who are as capable, as worthy, and as faithful as there are in any of the wards of the Church where I have lived. 

I am happy today to know that from Denver 25 Singing Mothers are here. I am sure that the inspiration of these Singing Mothers is sufficient compensation to justify the presence of any of us. 

I was happy this morning when I heard the report read by President McKay and noticed that the Kanab Stake led the Church in paying fast offerings. I have spent most of my days in the Kanab Stake, and I feel a humble but justifiable pride in the fact that they demonstrate that they love their neighbor as themselves, for how does it help him who is hungry or cold to recognize his hunger and his need of clothing, without providing for him. So, to the Kanab Stake I want to say I was happy in hearing their record read. 

We have many fine opportunities in the Western States Mission, greater opportunities than were known when I first went to the mission field. We are provided with equipment that we little dreamed of when I was a boy in the mission field, and we are asked to give our program, "The Fulness of Time," everywhere. Radio stations are asking us to bring these records to them. People are asking us throughout the Western States Mission to give them opportunity to hear the history of the Church as recorded in "The Fulness of Time." 

Such a thing as this was not even dreamed of when I was a boy in Germany preaching the Gospel. 

The other day at Scottsbluff, Nebraska, a sectarian minister, in speaking to his congregation, said: "There is no church in this city that offers a program for the social entertainment and education of our youth; and if ever a church does offer such a program, God will bless that church." 

Elder John O. Livesy, of Salt Lake City, wrote me a letter the next morning and said: "I am going to that minister tomorrow and tell him that we have a Mutual Improvement Association organized in this city for the very purpose he mentioned, and that we have eighty regular attendants, only eight of whom belong to our Church. And for this we shall call upon him for his benediction." 

My brethren and sisters, I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and that every man and woman who lives it will be happy. I know, too, that there is happiness in living its principles, that the wages of sin is death, and that all who sin will be miserable and unhappy; so I pray the Lord to give us strength in the Western States Mission to be true to the faith of our fathers, that we may be happy, for that is the purpose of our creation, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
