20
Morning
07 04 1939
Elder Preston Nibley 
234
63-65

None

None

Behold a great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

These words, uttered one hundred and ten years ago by a boy, poor, unlearned, alone, had little significance at the time. Today we may paraphrase these remarks and boldly exclaim: "Behold a great and marvelous work has come forth among the children of men." 

Brethren and sisters, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is very strong in the Northwestern states, where I am laboring as a missionary. There is scarcely a town or a city of over five thousand population, in Oregon or Washington, northern Idaho or western Montana, but that you will find a congregation of Latter-day Saints. I rejoice that our people are there, and in every way they are loyal and true to their Church. We missionaries could not begin to accomplish the work which is being done there without the fine cooperation which is given us by the Latter-day Saints who reside in our mission. 

I am pleased with the fact that many of our people are migrating to the Northwestern states. Our recommends show that about one hundred per month are coming into the Mission, and we would be pleased to have thousands more, if they could find opportunities there, and I am sure that the opportunities are numerous, both in business and in a farming way. 

In our gatherings together we find the loyalty of the Latter-day Saints, and it is not an uncommon occurrence to have people drive one hundred, one hundred fifty, or two hundred miles, to attend a meeting. Our Union meetings, which we hold monthly in our districts, are numerously attended by people who come from fifty to two hundred miles each way to attend their Union meetings. 

I rejoice in the young missionaries with whom I am permitted to labor, and if these young missionaries are an example of the young people in the Church, then I say, brethren and sisters, you need not have any fear for the future. All these young missionaries, when they come to us, soon obtain a testimony of the Gospel and bear it fearlessly, and they are loyal to the very heart to their religion and their Church, and they would die for it. Many examples come to us which are faith-inspiring. 

Not long ago a fine boy from Arizona — and Arizona sends us some splendid missionaries — wrote me to this effect: He said: "Father has gone broke. I am out of money." He didn't ask for money. He said: "What would you think if I got a job for a month or two?" 

I had to answer that letter, but I recalled, in reading Church history, that the Prophet Joseph, in fleeing from Kirtland to Missouri in 1838, had applied for a job cutting cord wood in Indiana. I recalled that the missionaries who went to England in 1839 worked around New York City — Apostle Orson Pratt and George A. Smith and others — to obtain ship money to go to England. I recalled that President Joseph F. Smith, when he went as a boy to Hawaii, worked in the wheat fields around San Francisco to obtain his ship money. 

So I wrote back to this young man, and said: "All right. Get a job for a month, but take your companion with you." He wrote me in a few days that he was happy. He said: "I am milking thirteen cows night and morning, for $45.00 a month and my board. My companion is pitching hay, and he is going to give me his check at the end of the month." 

At the end of the month he had $90.00, and the two started their missionary work again. He bought a new suit of clothes and continued his missionary work to a fine conclusion. 

There is loyalty, integrity and fidelity of the highest type in these young missionaries. 

In closing I want to tell you that we feel the fine support that we have at home. We have absolute and perfect confidence in our President. We have absolute and perfect confidence in his counselors, and what they tell us we carry out to the letter. We have perfect confidence in the brethren who preside over us and who come to visit us. 

Brethren and sisters, I am an optimist. Things look good to me, for this Church in the Northwest. May God bless us, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
