22
Morning
07 04 1939
Elder Richard L. Evans 
247
69-72

None

None

I am very deeply mindful of the responsibility of occupying this position. There are a thousand things I would like to say, but I would like the help of the Lord in enabling me to say one of them well. Approximately ten years of more or less intensive activity in the radio field have taught me that the best way to say a thing in the fewest words and with the least time expended is to use a prepared script, but I have concluded, this morning, to speak without a manuscript before me.  

INFLUENCES SURROUNDING GROWING CHILDREN 

A great many things of consequence to me have happened within the last few years, one of the most important of which is the privilege I have had of becoming the father of two fine boys. One of them, with the liberal help of his parents, celebrated his first birthday anniversary recently, and the other is now just past four. Already, with a family yet so young, we are beginning to worry about those influences which come into their lives, and tend to shape their characters and their moral and spiritual integrity, outside of the family home and circle. 

We realize that in this day particularly, children partially leave the influence of their parents very young. From the time they begin to toddle in the neighborhood they belong partly to some one else, and from the time they begin going to school, at five or six years of age, this is still more the case, and from then on until they go out to make their own way, they move farther and farther out of the realm of home influence. 

COMPARISON BETWEEN PRESENT AND FORMER CONDITIONS 

I find myself at times, because of this condition and because of the realization of it, with a certain envy in my heart for my grandparents — envy because of the moral and spiritual environment in which they were permitted to rear their children. They could go to sleep at night, in this community and in most of those communities from which we have gathered here, in the days of our more or less isolated condition, aware of the fact that the family home and fireside were the principal formative elements in the lives of their children; and if, perchance, their little brood was out at some place of entertainment, they could be assured that these places were being run by men whom they had put in office, or in whom they had confidence, and that they were as the extended influence of the home, and were protected from moral tarnish or physical harm. And if, perchance, there were a wolf at the door, at least it was the wolf of honest hunger, and not a wolf of warped thinking or subtle influence. 

I realize that the catalogue of the material advantages that we enjoy, that our grandparents did not enjoy, would number tens of thousands of items and services, and a listing of them would make a very thick publication, indeed; but I realize, also that we have paid a price for each of them. 

The radio that carries my voice beyond the walls of this auditorium, the automobile that takes us to the world, and brings the world to us; that takes our produce to profitable markets, and that causes us to worry if our children happen to be out until one or two o'clock in the morning; the airplane that brings us in touch with our friends and our business associates, almost hourly — or that drops bombs upon us under less favorable conditions — and ten thousand other items that might be listed, for all of which we have paid a price. 

When I speak of envying my grandparents I realize that I would not go back to their day if I could, and that I could not if I would. They solved the problems of their day, and we must solve the problems of ours. Because it was necessary for us to do so, there was a time when we pulled up the roots that had grown deep into an older civilization, and planted them in a new place, but it is highly improbable that we shall ever again become an isolated people. 

It is possible, perchance, that we, or a part of us, could again find a place of isolation that would sustain and prosper an independent and an industrious people, but by doing so we would not be solving our problems. We would only be postponing them, because the world is very small in this day, and civilization moves in very quickly. 

MOVEMENT AWAY FROM UTAH 

I am aware of the fact, further, that approximately forty-three thousand of our people left Utah during the decade between 1920 and 1930 and that most of them were of such age as to be called youth. I am further aware that this movement is going on all around us, beyond the borders of Utah, and that it continues into the present decade, and shall continue. There are more influences, it seems, to take our children from us — more competition for the influence that we have with them. I think we should not discourage this movement that causes them to leave us. They go out for academic advantages, for better employment, and for various other reasons, and a man, after all, must go where he must go for the best good of all concerned. But those who go from us, and remain one of us and use their influence for good, are among the greatest assets we have, because around them grow up groups of our Church people, even so that it becomes necessary for us to establish our wards and stakes, from the East to the West in America, and beyond. Those who do not remain one of us fall away and become lost, and become something greatly less than an asset. 

HOME INFLUENCE FAR-REACHING 

And so I say I am worried about my young family, even now only one year old and four years old, and I hope that the influence in the home in which they are reared will cleave so closely to the principles of this people that when they go out, their internal strength will be greater than the outward stresses. I hope that we can, in all of our homes, cause this condition to be so, in the coming years, in the coming decades, and in all the oncoming generations, so that no matter where our young people go, or no matter under what influence they may find themselves, they will find that the fortitude within is greater than the temptation without. We cannot go out with them. We cannot keep our arms around them, literally. But we can give them all that a Latter-day Saint home can give them, and we must begin early. 

And so my plea this morning is to parents in general, and to young parents in particular, that our responsibilities may be realized and may begin in infancy, and may not cease until the grave, because our children are never too young to be influenced by our example, and never too old to pass from the realm of our influence. 

PROPHECIES SURE OF FULFILMENT 

I do not know in what condition this people will find itself a year or a decade or a generation hence. I do not know whether we shall be at war or at peace, whether the world will be in greater spiritual darkness, or in a condition of greater spiritual enlightenment. I do not know what new scientific theories will prevail, or what new fads there will be in education, whether the press will praise or revile us, whether men will profess friendship or hate for us, whether we shall be in greater depression or in greater prosperity, whether we shall be materially better off or worse off — I do not know any of these things, but I do know that the words of all the prophets will be fulfilled, and that what the Lord has spoken he has spoken, and that though the heavens and the earth pass away, his words shall not pass away. And I know that my family and I will be better off to be found among the faithful of this people, than in any other condition in which we might find ourselves. I know also that this is true for my friends, and for all men everywhere, no matter under what flag they live, or in what land. 

A TESTIMONY 

I am grateful for the opportunity to serve. I thank the Lord for my knowledge of the divinity of this work, and I know, as well as I know any of the facts of life, that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God, and that the Father and the Son came to the boy Joseph Smith, and restored to earth the Gospel that had been lost. 

I ask the blessings of God on all men and on all of their righteous endeavors everywhere, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
