31
Morning
09 04 1939
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 
37
100-103

None

None

My attention has been called several times during this conference to the prophetic utterance of the Prophet Daniel where he said, speaking of our day: "Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." I never think of the words of Daniel that I do not have a vision of conditions according to the prophecy of Paul: "Ever learning and never able to come to a knowledge of the truth." 

KNOWLEDGE ALONE WILL NOT SAVE 

We have heard much at this conference in relation to our duties in seeking wisdom from the best books, and faith. Much has been said in relation to our modem education, and I wish to say a few words in addition to what has already been said. We have been told repeatedly that the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: "The glory of God is intelligence." And we have also been informed that he said: "A man cannot be saved in ignorance." But the Lord said much more, and I often wonder why, in making these quotations, we do not finish what he said. 

It is true that the glory of God is intelligence, but the Lord also added: "Or in other words, light and truth." Then he added this: "Light and truth forsaketh that evil one." 

There never was a time I suppose in the history of the world when so much knowledge was in the possession of men. Surely knowledge has been increased, but at the same time the doctrine taught in this prophetic saying by Paul is true, men are ever learning but apparently never able to come to a knowledge of the truth. We have been informed that it has been said that our present system of education has taken man apart; it has done more, it has made a brute of him, and given him a brute ancestor, instead of placing him on the platform as a son of God, the offspring of God, where he properly belongs. 

Dr. Frank C. Whitmore, a teacher at the Pennsylvania State College said: "Probably the biggest difficulty with mankind at the present time is that our knowledge has increased so much faster than our wisdom." 

The Prophet did say that a man cannot be saved in ignorance, but in ignorance of what? He said that a man could not be saved in ignorance of the saving principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Not many of the great and the mighty, those who form and control the thoughts of the people of today, are going to find salvation in the kingdom of God. Why? Because they have not found the way; they are not walking in the light of truth. They may have knowledge, but they lack intelligence. Intelligence is the light of truth, and we are informed that he who has intelligence or the light of truth will forsake that evil one. A man who has intelligence will worship God and repent of his sins; he will seek to know the will of God and follow it. 

REVELATION NEEDED 

Now I am going to read to you what the Prophet says in addition to the quotation which we have heard: 

As far as we degenerate from God, we descend to the devil and lose knowledge, and without knowledge we cannot be saved, and while our hearts are filled with evil, and we are studying evil, there is no room in our hearts for good, or studying good. Is not God good? Then you be good; if he is faithful, then you be faithful. Add to your faith virtue, to virtue knowledge, and seek for every good thing. The Church must be cleansed, and I proclaim against all iniquity. A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth. Hence it needs REVELATION to assist us, and give us knowledge OF THE THINGS OF GOD. 

Again: 

If you wish to go where God is you must be like God, or possess the principles which God possesses, for if we are not drawing towards God in principle, we are going from him and drawing towards the devil. 

Add to your faith knowledge. The principle of knowledge is the principle of salvation. This principle can be comprehended by the faithful and diligent, and every one that does not obtain knowledge SUFFICIENT TO BE SAVED will be condemned. The PRINCIPLE OF SALVATION is given us through THE KNOWLEDGE OF JESUS CHRIST. 

Now I understand that knowledge is very important, but there is a great fund of knowledge in the possession of men that will not save them in the kingdom of God. What they have got to learn is the fundamental things of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They have got to learn to have faith in God. They must learn to obey him. They have got to learn his commandments, his ordinances and keep them, and unless they do, all their learning and all their knowledge will be of little benefit to them. 

PURE INTELLIGENCE BRINGS OBEDIENCE 

President Joseph F. Smith has said: 

Christ inherited his intelligence from his Father. There is a difference between knowledge and pure intelligence. Satan possesses knowledge, far more than we have, but he has not intelligence or he would render obedience to the principles of truth and right. I know men who have knowledge, who perhaps understand the principles of the Gospel as well as you do, who are brilliant, but who lack the essential qualification of pure intelligence. They will not accept and render obedience thereto. Pure intelligence comprises not only knowledge, but also the power to properly apply that knowledge. 

EDUCATION REACHES INTO ETERNITY 

On the subject of education President Joseph F. Smith also said: 

The knowledge of truth, combined with proper regard for it and its faithful observance, constitutes true education. The mere stuffing of the mind with knowledge of facts is not education. The mind must not only possess a knowledge of truth, but the soul must revere it, cherish it, love it as a priceless gem; and this human life must be guided and shaped by it in order to fulfil its destiny. The mind should not only be charged with intelligence, but the soul should be filled with admiration and desire for true intelligence which comes from a knowledge of the truth. Educate yourself not only for time but also for eternity. The latter of the two is the most important. 

I quote the following from President Brigham Young: 

Every man and woman that has talent and hides it will be called a slothful servant. Improve every day upon the capital you have. In proportion as we are capacitated to receive, so it is our duty to do. I shall not cease learning while I live, nor when I arrive in the spirit world; but there shall learn with greater facility. And when I again regain my body, I shall learn a thousand times more in a thousand times less time, and then I do not mean to cease learning. 

Now I say it boldly, all the knowledge that a man can gain in this world or beyond this world, independent of the Spirit of God, the inspiration of the Almighty, will not lead him to a fulness, and in defense of that I am going to read to you from section ninety-three of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace. 

And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn; 

And all those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the same, and are the church of the Firstborn. 

Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is Spirit, even the Spirit of truth; 

And truth is knowledge of things as they are, as they were, and as they are to come; 

And whatsoever is more than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning. 

The Spirit of truth is from God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying: He received a fulness of truth, even of all truth; 

And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. 

He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things. 

So with all our boasting, with all our understanding, with all the knowledge that we possess, let me say that this great knowledge that has been poured out upon man, and all that is truth has come from God, but with it all unless we humble ourselves and put ourselves in harmony with his truth and seek for the light which comes through the Spirit of truth, which is Jesus Christ, we will never gain a fulness of knowledge. 

I realize that it must eventually come to pass in the case of those who gain the exaltation and become sons of God, that they must in the eternities reach the time when they will know all things. They must know mathematics; they must know all the principles of science; they must be prepared in all things, by learning, by study, by faith, to comprehend these principles of eternal truth, even as our Father in heaven comprehends them, and unless men will put themselves in harmony with him and his Spirit and seek the light which comes through that Spirit they never will reach the goal of perfection in these things. It is, however, knowledge of the principles of the Gospel that will save men in the Kingdom of God. 

Now I shall read another passage of scripture from the Doctrine and Covenants, in conclusion: 

And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. 

TEACHERS SHOULD SEEK THE SPIRIT OF GOD 

Oh, if we could only remember that — our teachers in our schools, in our Sunday schools, in our priesthood quorums, and everywhere else — if we would understand that all that is taught which does not edify is not of God, and if we would seek to teach by the Spirit of God, how much better off we would be. 

That which is of God is light; he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. 

But if we are going to reach that perfect day then we must continue in God, and we cannot find that perfect day, the perfect light of truth, independent of God. May we seek that light I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
