41
Afternoon
09 04 1939
Elder El Ray L. Christiansen 
242
136-137

None

None

I was called up here, once before, five minutes before it was time to close. I have never had any sickness in my life, never been to the hospital, I have never had a pain, but I do believe I know what it means to suffer. 

Brothers and sisters, I feel honored to have the privilege to represent here today the sixty-two hundred members of the Church in Texas and Louisiana, and the ninety-seven missionaries who are laboring there so valiantly for the work of the Lord. We have a great mission. 

I was going to read some statistics that I thought would interest you, but perhaps I will not have time. I would like to remind some of the brothers and sisters here, who are not aware of it, that our mission is larger than Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, and Nevada put together. We have twenty-three thousand square miles more than the combined area of the following states: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and Ohio. Some of the people have said, "Well, you must have it mighty nice to have a small mission so you can get around." I looked up these figures and Brother Rowan helped me find some of them. 

Texas has fifty-three thousand square miles more territory than France — Texas alone — and eighty-three thousand square miles more than Germany; and has two hundred and fifty-four counties. We are told that Russia is the only European country that has more territory than the State of Texas. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, I believe that these ninety-seven missionaries are helping to fulfill in a splendid way one of the greatest obligations that this Church has to the world. And I believe that one of our great responsibilities is to preach this Gospel to the world. Here we have been rejoicing in each other's presence in hearing the word of the Lord preached and in hearing this beautiful music rendered. I wish to commend those who have done it, and yet upon the hands of this people was given the responsibility of taking this very thing to the world. I know that we are doing a commendable job, but I believe that there are more that could become conscious of this great obligation that we have to the people of the world. 

"This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man." That doesn't mean just us. Everyone is entitled to this grand and glorious privilege of having the Gospel plan taught to him. 

The missionaries are well. I thank you for your sons and your daughters and for your husbands. We have some fine husbands there who are doing marvelous work. They have the true spirit with them, they have the fire of the Priesthood, they are magnifying that power, and the manifestations of healing and of testimony that they exhibit are inspiring indeed to all of us who work with them. They have more than they can attend to. The day before I left we had gained. permission from the superintendent of the Houston City Schools, who is an attorney, to take our lecture on The Book of Mormon before the teachers and before the students of certain classes in those schools. They are friendly to us. We are happy that we are able to meet with them and to teach them the divinity of this great record that we have. " 

These missionaries have taken two hundred and seventy-nine souls into the waters of baptism during the year 1938. Two hundred of them were matured people, and today those two hundred — I have interviewed most of them — are rejoicing in the wonderful principles of the Gospel. I feel so happy. I feel like Alma did as recorded I believe in the 29th Chapter of Alma: 

O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people. 

A missionary says that his two years in the mission field are the happiest two years of his life. I wonder why. I used to think that was just a commonplace statement, but now I know the answer. During that period of service in the Lord's work they are living near unto him. They pray. They realize and recognize the need of prayer and the need of the Lord's help in their work. They are living clean lives. We don't have to admonish them, so far as I know, to live the Word of Wisdom. They do it — and why shouldn't they be happy when they prepare themselves and qualify themselves to have this great blessing that the Lord has promised to those who are faithful. 

I have been thinking, all through this conference, why is it that we Latter-day Saints who know this thing to be genuine, who know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, why is it that we have to be told more than once to obey the principles that are presented to us here in every conference and in every stake conference? Surely we could be valiant; we could be courageous; and rise to the occasion and live these wonderful principles so that we can inherit the blessing that God has given. 

I am taking somebody else's time. 

I ask for the blessings of the Lord upon you people here at home. I wish you knew how much you can help us by living this Gospel and meeting other people, as you should, when they come to visit you. Nearly a half million people visit here in the stakes of Zion each year, and they come back there with fine reports for the most part. But I tell you they come out here to learn about us and to see what they can see; and if you can prove by your good works that Mormonism is what it is supposed to be, that is going to give us one of the greatest lifts that you can give us in the mission field. 

I know that this is the work of the Lord. I know that he will bless us when we qualify for his blessings. God bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
