35
Afternoon
09 04 1939
Elder George Albert Smith 
31
120-125

None

None

This has been a glorious occasion; we have delightful weather, comfort and peace. We rejoice in both the speaking and the music, and I do not know of any people in all the world who has more reason to be grateful to our Heavenly Father than the group that is assembled at this conference. 

EVIDENCES ESTABLISHING THE FACT OF THE RESURRECTION 

Today we are celebrating what the Christian world calls Easter, the anniversary of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, who was the first fruits of the resurrection from the dead. 

We have had some splendid information imparted to us in this conference. Surely if there is anything more pleasing than the knowledge that we are living eternal life, it is that the Lord in his mercy has bestowed upon us the information necessary to enable us to enjoy that eternal life in the highest glory. 

We possess all that the world knows with reference to the resurrection from the dead, and in addition we have other important information concerning it. We accept without reservation the testimony of all of the evangelists contained in the New Testament with reference to the resurrection of the Redeemer of mankind. It is so plain that it seems to me that no thoughtful person can fail to comprehend it. The fact is that after the Savior was crucified and was laid in the tomb he came forth, and for forty days he associated with his disciples, he partook of fish and honeycomb with them, they felt the prints of the nails in his hands and the spear mark in his side. He declared to them while he stood among them, "Behold my hands and my feet that it is I myself: handle me and see for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have." Surely this is incontrovertible evidence and yet there are many of our Father's children who do not understand it. 

We read in Job, "But there is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." Those who have not received that inspiration will not comprehend the meaning of the resurrection from the dead, and without that understanding it seems to me there would be little happiness for those who are living in mature years, waiting for the time when the spirit leaves the body to go they know not where. 

ADDITIONAL TESTIMONY IN THE BOOK OF MORMON 

The Lord has favored us. He not only gives us the evidence contained in the Bible but in addition the testimony that we find recorded in the American scripture, the Book of Mormon, III Nephi, Chapter 2. After the Savior had been crucified and resurrected and ascended into heaven a great multitude of people were assembled around the temple in the land Bountiful on this western hemisphere, marveling at the changes that had been wrought. They heard an unusual voice repeated three times. It was not a loud voice, neither was it a harsh voice, and yet it pierced them to their very centers. Looking toward the sound they saw a man descending out of heaven. He was clothed in a white robe, and he came down and stood in the midst of them and declared to them, "Behold I am Jesus Christ whom the prophets testified should come into the world." 

What more direct evidence of resurrection from the dead could have been had than that he, in his resurrected body, came among them and taught them the same Gospel that he taught in Jerusalem. And he now fulfilled the promise he had made in Jerusalem when he said, "Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold and one shepherd." He came in his resurrected body to bring to them the information he had predicted should be given to those to whom he now ministered. 

It was a wonderful experience for those people. After teaching them all day he told them that he must leave them but would return on the morrow, which he did, to find a much larger group assembled. He healed their sick and blessed their children and continued to instruct them in the beauty of his Gospel. There was no doubt in their minds that he was the Savior of the world. They saw him come from heaven and witnessed his marvelous power. He did not come to them as a little babe, helpless in the hands of his enemies, but he came in glory. Angels came down from heaven as it were in the midst of fire and surrounded the little children so that they were encircled with fire. And the angels did minister unto them. 

Those were not hallucinations, but experiences of such marvelous character as to be remembered forever by those who experienced them. As Latter-day Saints we accept this record as evidence of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S EXPERIENCE 

When Joseph Smith, not yet fifteen years of age, read in James 1:5 "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him," he believed what he read. He was not reared in ignorance as some have supposed. His father was a successful school teacher. The Bible was a sacred volume in their home library. When he read that the Lord would give wisdom to those who asked for it, he went into the woods nearby and he knelt down and prayed. 

In answer to his prayer he beheld the Father and the Son. Not only did he see them, but he heard their voices, first the Father saying: "This is my beloved Son; hear ye him!" And then the Son spoke to him and answered his questions. Joseph wanted to know which Church to join and was informed that he should join none of them, because they were not doing what the Lord desired them to do. He was informed then and later that there was work for him to do. It was a little over a hundred years ago when that occurred, but what Joseph saw and heard had a great influence on the religious world. 

DIRECT REVELATION FROM GOD 

In our day we have the Bible, we have the Book of Mormon which was given to Joseph Smith by our Heavenly Father, and we have the revelations of God in the Doctrine and Covenants. We have the witness of others who have had angels visit them and who testified regarding sacred things. In the Kirtland temple marvelous manifestations were witnessed by faithful men, all contributing to assurance of a literal resurrection. 

The resurrection ought to be an easy thing for us to understand. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received the laying on of hands of those who had been with the Savior as disciples in Judea. They conferred the Priesthood upon them and explained to them the teachings of Jesus Christ as contained in the Holy Bible. 

We ought to be grateful. No other people in the world have been so blessed as we. We should evidence our belief in Jesus Christ by living in such a way that we will be worthy of the inspiration of God's Holy Spirit. We can if we will live in accordance with the things that have been revealed to us. Now, with reference to the resurrection of the Savior, there is no doubt. 

We may turn to section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants and see what the Lord has said about our resurrection, not only the resurrection of the Savior, but he tells us what may happen to us, and I will read so that I shall not misquote: 

Now, verily I say unto you, that through the redemption which is made for you is brought to pass the resurrection from the dead. 

And the spirit and the body are the soul of man. 

And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. 

And the redemption of the soul is through him that quickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the poor and the meek of the earth shall inherit it. 

Therefore, it must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory; 

For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with glory, even with the presence of God the Father; 

That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it forever and ever; for, for this intent was it made and created, and for this intent are they sanctified. 

And they who are not sanctified through the law which I have given unto you, even the law of Christ, must inherit another kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom. 

For he who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. 

And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory. 

And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory. 

And again, verily I say unto you, the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law — 

Wherefore, it shall be sanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it. 

For notwithstanding they die, they also shall rise again, a spiritual body. 

They who are of a celestial spirit shall receive the same body which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your glory shall be that glory by which your bodies are quickened. 

Ye who are quickened by a portion of the celestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness. 

And they who are quickened by a portion of the terrestrial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness. 

And also they who are quickened by a portion of the telestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness. 

And they who remain shall also be quickened; nevertheless, they shall return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are willing to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they might have received. 

For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift. 

We are informed in this section that our bodies are to be raised from the tomb, not some other bodies, and that the spirits that possess these tabernacles now will inhabit the same tabernacles after they have been cleansed and purified and immortalized. 

BLESSINGS BRING RESPONSIBILITY 

I think we would be a very ungrateful people if, with all the information that God has bestowed upon us for our comfort and blessing (and he has told us that we must divide that information with all the world), we did not go a long way and make many sacrifices for our Father's other children who are precious in his sight, that they might know what he has revealed to us. There will be many who will not understand, but the Lord intends that all shall have an opportunity to know, and it will be our duty and responsibility to see that this Gospel is proclaimed in all parts of the world for the blessing of all who will receive it. 

We know all that the world knows with reference to the resurrection. We have all that the world has with reference to other truths. We have the authority of the Holy Priesthood bestowed upon men in this dispensation to prepare the human family for the Celestial kingdom. 

I wonder if we appreciate how blessed we are in having all that our brethren and sisters of the world have and in addition these other opportunities. With these opportunities and responsibility we ought to set our homes in order. We ought to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to our children and to our grandchildren, and to our great grandchildren if we live long enough. There is nothing more precious to us than our children, and our eternal happiness will be largely conditioned by what they attain to. The Lord has given us to understand what it all means. Surely we will not betray his confidence in us by failing to do the thing that we know we should do. 

INSPIRATION GIVES UNDERSTANDING 

Mention has been made during this conference of the failure of many of the Latter-day Saints to obey the commandments of our Heavenly Father with reference to the Word of Wisdom. As simple a thing as refusing or failing to obey the Word of Wisdom may deprive us of the companionship of that Spirit that would enable us to understand other important truths. There is a spirit in man but it requires the inspiration of the Almighty to give it understanding, and if we want that understanding we must live for it. There will be no doubt about it if we observe the commandments of God. We will not need the testimony of others to know that this work is true. When the disciples of the Savior were with him they admired him not knowing how great he really was, but not until the power of the Holy Ghost came upon them, not until they had the baptism of fire were they able to face the problems and endure the persecutions that almost made life unendurable. When the inspiration of the Almighty gave them understanding they knew they were living eternal life, and if they proved faithful they knew that when they laid their bodies down in death they would be raised from the tomb to glory and immortality. 

That was the result of the inspiration of the Spirit of God that came upon them, the inspiration of the Almighty that gave them understanding. If there is any doubt in the mind of any man or woman in this Church who has been baptized and repented of their sins and who has had hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost — if there is any doubt in their minds of the truth and divinity of this work it is because they have failed to measure up, it is because they have transgressed the laws of God, and because they have not kept the light of truth burning in their souls. We need repentance if that occurs to us; otherwise that assurance may depart from us to return again no more.  

JOY IN LABORING IN THE CHURCH 

Standing in your presence as I do today I am grateful for my blessings, I am thankful for your companionship. It is a joy to be associated with men such as lead this Church — these who are upon this stand. I can testify to you as one who knows them from personal contact that they are men of God, but they are men. They may make some mistakes, but they will correct them. They are holy men who are seeking the will of God and for that inspiration that gives them understanding. It is a joy to labor with them and to have contact with them and I thank my Heavenly Father for that privilege I am grateful to be your companion in this great Church, for the opportunity I have of visiting the Stakes of Zion and the missionary field. I am thankful for the privilege that has been mine to associate with good men and women, many of them not members of this Church. But our Heavenly Father desires that they shall have an understanding of the truth, that they may take advantage of their privileges while they are here. It is your duty and mine to let our light so shine that others observing our upright lives will be constrained to glorify the name of him who is the Author of our being. It is our privilege to do that and if we fail it will not be because we have not known better. 

I pray that that Spirit which keeps us in the pathway of truth and righteousness may abide with us, and I pray that that desire that comes from the inspiration of our Heavenly Father may direct us on that pathway of life. Some of us may not be here many years more, and today is the acceptable time of the Lord for every one of us to atone for the mistakes we have made and repent of our sins and come to him with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, with a desire that we may be forgiven of our mistakes and rejoice in the companionship of his Spirit while we remain upon the earth. 

That God may add his blessings and that the joy that comes from him alone may fill your hearts and your homes, that wherever you go you may be leaders of ability and teachers of righteousness among the children of men, and when the time comes for us to go hence that we may receive from our Heavenly Father that glorious welcome, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord," I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
