42
Afternoon
09 04 1939
Elder Philemon M. Kelly 
262
138-139

None

None

My beloved brethren and sisters and friends of the Church, I am very desirous of giving just a brief report of existing conditions in the German-speaking missions. I have presided over all three of these missions, having had the privilege of organizing the West German Mission. 

We have in these missions approximately fifteen thousand souls. I wish to report to you good people that they are among the most devoted members of the Church at the present hour. They are strong in paying their tithes and offerings. They are very devoted unto the authorities of the Church, and they literally worship our President. 

I have also had the privilege, in connection with my good wife, of visiting the Holy Land. Among other things we saw some of the mountains on which the ancient Prophet Elijah stood. You will remember at one time he went to the mountain of Horeb, and as he stood upon the mountain top the voice of the Lord commanded him to stand and observe. "And a great and strong wind came and rent the mountains, and it broke the rocks before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind; and after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake; and after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire a still, small voice. And so it was when Elijah heard it he wrapped his face in his mantle." 

I wish to bear testimony that I, too, have felt the presence of the still, small voice while in the mission field. I am going to take the privilege of just giving one illustration. 

In 1937 President Grant and his party visited us in Germany and Switzerland. In Basel, Switzerland, he honored us by remaining as our guest in the mission home. Early one Sunday morning twenty-six lady members from the Basel branch came to the mission home. They were dressed in white. As President Grant descended the stairs to come into the reception room the girls began singing, "We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet." In President Grant's party there were various mission presidents. There was such a sweet spirit of peace and love and affection for the Prophet of the Lord surrounding us. Only those who were present could understand. We all bowed our heads in worship. Some of the brethren from other missions not only bowed their heads in worship but wept tears of joy and appreciation at having felt the presence of the Lord and knowing that the Prophet of the Lord was in our midst. 

The German and Swiss people honor and love President Grant. There could be no request made by him but what they would, to a hundred percent, follow out that desire. 

I bear testimony unto you that those people themselves do not want war. War is from a different source than from the people. Those people are a devoted people; they love life; they love liberty; they love the pursuit of happiness. They are devoted members of the Church. 

They requested when we left for home: "Just simply tell the truth about us as a people." 

May God make our hearts in attune with those things that are real. May we overcome false propaganda, and may we serve God in truth and keep his commandments, I pray most humbly in Jesus' name, Amen.
