39
Afternoon
09 04 1939
Elder Frank Evans 
229
133

None

None

I realize that one who is called here is greatly favored, and yet that favor is not given to him because of himself, but because of the fact that he is engaged in the humblest of service. 

If I were to ask the members of the Church in the Eastern States Mission as to what would be their choice in a religious, or church, experience, I feel sure that most of them would say: "The privilege of attending a General Conference of the Church." 

It is true they have many privileges there. Within a few weeks many of those within a radius of fifty miles of Harmony will gather on the banks of the Susquehanna to engage in a baptismal service at the point where Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were baptized, and will also celebrate the restoration of the Priesthood. 

A little later in the summer many will visit the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove, and the home of the Prophet. They will go to the little old farm, the cradle of the Church, the place where six young men performed the necessary service of organization — five farmers and one school master, the oldest only thirty, the youngest slightly over nineteen. 

I am glad that all of those places are much as they were a hundred years ago, and I hope they will remain so. There is no encroachment, to speak of, of population. They are still only humble places. I wish they could have seen — all of them — one of the demonstrations here during this conference, and I refer to the Singing Mothers, not as a musical demonstration, particularly, but as something far more than that. 

I think if there had been a student in this audience who was interested in human reactions and human behavior, he would have seen something very, very interesting. Fifteen hundred minds directed to a leader here, fifteen hundred spirits responding to every gesture of the leader in order that they might give forth their message. Was there one amongst them who thought she was surrendering some personal liberty or personal privilege by acting in that way? 

it seems to me that here was an achievement in leadership; but more than that, in the high art of following it was a triumph. I feel it was typical of the leadership in this Church, men who lead by persuasion, by long-suffering, by kindness and meekness, and by love unfeigned. 

I want to be a follower. There never was a great leader unless he had first learned to be a follower. There have been times when parents of young men and young women who were about to leave for the mission field have asked me what their preparation should be, that is, what they should take with them. Now, after nearly two years of work in the mission field I am ready to say that I cannot answer that question in terms of material things alone, but most importantly of all, let them come to us with the Spirit of God in their hearts, with a willingness to believe. "Be ye faithful and believing." 

If they bring with them humility and the willingness to believe then all else will be added unto them. May God bless you. Amen.
