44
Afternoon
09 04 1939
Elder A. Lorenzo Anderson 
253
139-140

None

None

Brethren and sisters, I am sure that President Christiansen is not the only one who has been suffering the last few minutes; I did not know that President Grant ever ran a meeting fifteen minutes overtime. I appreciate the compliment he has paid to us mission presidents, in allowing these few minutes to those of us who have not had the opportunity of reporting to you. 

Running through my mind all during this Conference have been these words of the Savior:

Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 

Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. (Matt. 7:16-20). 

I am sure that anyone who can see the fruits of Mormonism today cannot help but agree with us that the tree is good. I have rejoiced greatly in this conference. 

We are having wonderful success in the Mexican Mission. As I reported to you six months ago, we are limited to one lone stake to furnish the missionaries who may serve in the Mexican Mission. I believe that Mexico is the only nation in all the world which requires of its ministers that they be native-born citizens of the country before they are allowed to preach the Gospel; therefore we are very much alarmed. I said to one of the bishops of the Juarez Stake yesterday: "If you have any more sixty-six year old men who can come into the mission field and do like one of the missionaries of that age who is now working in the Mexican Mission, send them along." 

When this brother arrived in the mission field, Sister Anderson said: "Please do not send him out into the country to work with the rest of the boys, keep him here in the city where I can look after him. He is too old to go out and preach the Gospel." 

He was quite offended when I told him that Sister Anderson wanted to keep him under her wing. He said: "I can take it along with any of the boys." 

I appreciate the leadership we have in the Church today and the excellent spirit that exists, and I do know that we have the authority of God to preach his Gospel here in the world. May he bless us and help us at all times, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
