Morning
04 04 1904

 

ELDER A. O. WOODRUFF. 

The fHith r ul are valiant in the testimony of Jesus — The doubtfui are fearful In times of danger — Power to resist temptation— Tre kingdom of God can be seen on y by the obedient. 

My dear brothers and sisters, I hope that through the blessings of the Lord I may be able to make you hear, and be guided by the Spirit of our Heavenly Father in my utterances. I desire to say only those things that the Lord would have me to say. I feel very thankful to the Lord for a testimony of the divinity of this work, for a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was divinely commissioned of our Heavenly Father to establish this work, which has attracted the attention and the interest, either for or against it, of so many people. If it were not 'that God is at the helm, and directing this work, it had as well been abandoned many years ago; but the great assurance which has possessed this people in every hour of trouble, has been that God would deliver them and lead them out of every difficulty, stronger in faith and in numbers than before. That has been the history of our people. Had it not been for this testimony, that the Lord Himself is the author of this work, the conditions which have arisen in the past would have caused the people's  to sink within them, and the outlook would have been very forbidding. 

From time to time we may expect trouble and difficulty, because the Lord has decreed that He would have a tried people; that he would purify the gold in the fire, but that none of the gold should be lost. The dross would be consumed, and the gold should still remain. Such has been the past experience of this latter-day work, which has grown so marvelously under the persecution and the trouble which has beset it, ever since it was started by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Latter-day Saints, as a rule, are not easily shaken by conditions, however trying they may be. The experience of the past has shown us that the few men who have fallen by the wayside, because they were f?lled with fear when trouble arose, have signally failed in their efforts to lead others from the Church. The majority of the people of God to~day are not easily moved nor frightened; their hearts do not sink within them when clouds appear upon our horizon. I believe it is pleasing in the sight of the Lord when His people have sufficient faith not to be easily moved, so that when any difficulties arise, or whenever they are beset by the enemies of righteousness, thev do not feel that the whole work is going to pieces, and that the Church can no longer make the remarkable progress it has made up to the present time. Our past history should be a strength unto us, and a hope for the future. It should stimulate our faith in God. Indeed, in the minds of those who have a testimony of the truth, there is no doubt whatever in regard to the outcome of this work. They know it will triumph over all its adversaries, no matter how powerful they may be. Whatever agencies are organized to oppose the work, they know  God is all-powerful, and that He rules the destinies of men and nations, and He will bring His work to victory in the end. So the Latter-day Saints who are doing- their duty are not easily moved. On the other hand, whenever anything has arisen in the shape of opposition, and whenever the clouds have been dark and threatening, those who were weaK, because they were not doing their duty and keeping the commandments Of the Lord, have always been the ones who thought the work was going to pieces, and that "the bottom was falling out of Mormonism." Whenever members of the Church have such feelings within them it is an evidence of their own weakness, and of the fact that they are not keeping the commandments of God, because of which they have not the assurance regarding the final victory of this work that a faithful man possesses. We expect there will be opposition, but at the same time we confidently expect that God, in the future as in the past, will deliver us if we will only do our duty. We never intend to so shape our faith and belief that it will please the adversary, or the world. The present chaotic condition of Christendom, with its jarring, differing sects, presents a practical illustration of what the Gospel would be if it were cut and pruned to suit the wishes of the enemy of all righteousness. This Gospel tree which was planted in the meridian of time by Jesus Himself and which was nurtured by Him and His followers, was shorn of many of its limbs and branches to suit the wishes of the ungodly, until its symmetry was lost. The Priesthood was taken to God, while those who were devout in maintaining the pure principles which God had revealed were put to death in various ways, because they would not recant, and deny the testimony which God the Eternal Father had given to them. These faithful souls contended that man must fear God rather than man, that he must meet his obligations to God, and in so doing he could not help but be a good citizen of the state. Those who keep the commandments of God are certain  become a benefit to any community in which they live. Most people shiver at the thought of trouble, especially if it come to them individually. They may feel all right if it comes to some one else, but when it strikes home those who are inclined to be weak and doubtful in regard to this work become very fearful. For their part they do not want any persecution. All they desire is a smooth road, a pathway strewn with roses, where there are no obstacles to meet. But we claim that this work is divine, and if we expect to receive the reward of obedience thereto we may expect to labor hard for it. If we gain the great reward, we shall not be able to shun the fight, but will have to be valiant for the testimony of Jesus, upholding righteousness, doing our duty to God and to our fellow men in every respect. When I see men, as I do sometimes, who are filled with fear every time there is prospect of trouble, I always think of the Apostles in the meridian of time. I think of how they, rather than deny the testimony of Jesus Christ, were willing to submit to the most ignominious death for the testimony which God had given them. 

The pride of the Latter-day Saints in regard to this work is that it is true, revealed from God to man, and that, unlike the various man-made organizations there has been no necessity to call a convention for the revision of its creed, to suit the will and wishe« of -mankind. This fact ha s been one of the main features which has stimulated the Saints through all the troubles and trials which have come to them, and one of the things they have cherished most. As Latter-day Saints we have great reason to rejoice in the goodness of the Lord. He has never forsaken us; and while I do not think that we ought to tempt Providence, or do unwise things that would bring trouble upon us, I have no fear in regard to the outcome of this work, if every man in the Church does his duty to God and to his fellow man. The fear is, if we have any in regard t« our selves individually, can we keep the faith? Can we trust in God in times of trouble and adversity as well as in times of peace? For my part, I rejoice that the Lord is still at the helm. I ofttimes think of the experience of the Savior, after He had fasted forty days and forty nights, and was then tempted of the devil. He was shown the kingdoms of this world, and was promised dominion over all of them if He would but fall down and worship Satan. What was the answer of Jesus? "Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve." Then He was taken upon a pinnacle of the temple and told by Satan to cast himself down; "for it is written, He shall give His angels charge concerning Thee: and in their hands they shall bear Thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone." The Savior answered him, "It is written again, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God." Now, I feel that, as Latter-day Saints, we have no right to, figuratively, cast ourselves from the pinnacle of the temple. God expects us to use the wisdom He has given us and not to tempt Him. Then if trouble comes upon us, according to the will of God, we will be strong to meet it. It is not always those who appear anxious to get into a fight who are the bravest when the battle is on. More frequently those who are the most reluctant to enter the combat are the ones who show the best qualities under fire. As a people we have never had any desire for trouble. We only desire to serve God and keep His commandments, and then to leave the result with Him. By doing this we will be justified in the eyes of God as well as in the eyes of all good men. We never expect the wicked or the ungodly to be pleased with the plan of life and salvation which the Lord has revealed, but we do hope that the honest in heart will be able to see the kingdom of God as it has been established. 

A friend of mine, a few days ago, in speaking of that passage which is so familiar to us all  the conversation of Christ with Nicodemus, brought to my mind a new phase of that part of it where the Savior says, "Except a man be born again he cannot see the kingdom of God." In other words, we cannot expect a man to see the kingdom of God unless he is born again. I had never thought of it particularly in this light before, but there appears to be some force in it. Notwithstanding the kingdom of God was established by the Redeemer Himself, His enemies could not see it because they had not been "born' again." It was right among them, yet they were not able to perceive it. The same may be said in regard to the work which the Lord has established in this day. Notwithstanding the Church and kingdom of God is among the people, they see it not, they comprehend it not, because they have not been "born again." According to the words of the Savior, they cannot see the kingdom of God unless they are born again; consequently they do not recognize the fact that the Church of Christ is upon the earth, and the kingdom of God is here in embryo, because they will not receive the light which has come into the world, for they love the darkness of the world better than the light of the Lord. We believe, however, that every trouble and adversity which the Latter-day Saints are called to pass through will tend to call the attention of the honest in heart to the work of God, and will be the means of bringing salvation to hundreds and thousands. The very agencies which our enemies use to defeat this work will be overruled by God for the benefit of it. It must be very discouraging to the enemies of truth when they take a retrospective view of the history of the Latter-day Saints and see how the Lord in His kindness has turned, for the blessing and increase of the Latter-day Saints and the work of God, all their efforts against it. Everything they have done to defeat it has only tended to strengthen it. This is in accordance with the saying of the Lord, that man could do nothing against His work, but for it. 

I love the work in which we are engaged. I have faith in it and in its final outcome. I believe in God the Eternal Father, and I know that we are able to approach Him. In His loving kindness He is mindful of us. We have access to Him, and He answers our prayers. I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that this is His work, and that it will come out triumphant. I thank God that I have faith in the leaders of this people. I have faith and confidence in Joseph F. Smith, the man who stands at the head of this Church; I know him . to be inspired of God. The Lord is with him, and with the help of God I want to follow his leadership, observe his counsels, and do the will of the Father as it shall be expressed through him. God grant that the spirit ,—of peace which the Gospel brings may pervade the homes of all the Latter-day Saints, that we may not be filled with fear at any time, except in regard to our own condition, and lest we may not be keeping the commandments of God. The only reason that we have for fear is that we are not living near enough to the Lord; but if we are doing His will we need not fear, for though all earth and hell should assail His work, yet will it prosper, because it has the stamp of divinity upon it. It is the work of God, not of man. This is my humble testimony, my brethren and sisters, and I rejoice in bearing it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I desire very much that you will assist me by your faith and prayers, that in what I shall say I may be led and guided by the Spirit of the Lord. When I look upon this congregation of friends and brethren, my heart rejoices, and I am led to a renewal of my faith, and to greater confidence in the principles of the Gospel and the outcome of the work of the Lord. As the days and the years advance, the evidences of faith in the religion of Jesus Christ are manifested by your coming together in these general Conferences. When the first Con of the Church was held in the State of New York on the ninth day of June, 1830, I think there were only twenty-six members in the Church at that time. When the second Conference was held in September of that same year.there were thirty-five or thirty-six. Comparing that Conference with the one we are holding at the present time, there is certainly evidence that the Lord is in this work, not only in the increase of numbers, but in the living faith that is in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints today, prompting them to faithful labor and to united effort in pushing forward the work of the Lord. 

Reference was made yesterday to the life of our Savior, and to the generally accepted idea that yesterday was the anniversary of the day on which He rose from the tomb. However, whether Easter Sunday is the proper day or not, we have no objection to it. The great underlying fact is that He rose from the dead, after having suffered crucifixion for the sins of the world, and that He was the Son of God. After He arose He ministered unto His disciples; but we are told there was one doubting Thomas, who would not believe though his fellow disciples assured him they had seen the risen Redeemer. Afterward, when the Apostles were all together in a room, with the doors shut, Jesus stood in their midst, and said, "Peace be unto you." Turning to Thomas, He said unto him, "Reach hither thy finger and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust into my side: and be not faithless, but believing." 

We know today that in the ministry of our Lord and Savior there were but few who followed Him, as compared with the great mass of the people. His doctrine did not please the multitude. Very few received His word and believed that He was the Savior of the world, the promised Messiah, the expected King of the Jews. We note, too, that the persecution which came upon Him, His scourgings, His buffetings, and His final crucifixion, were not administered by the heathen, nor by those who had no promise in regard to the coming of the Messiah. It was His own race, the house of Judah, from which He sprang, that inflicted upon Him these cruel tortures, and finally put Him to death upon the cross. So it seems to have been all along the line of true Christian endeavor and work. Wherever there has been the Spirit of truth, wherever there has been an effort to lead humanity into a better way, and to mark out a righteous newness of life, there has been intense opposition exhibited against it by the many. The truth has had but few followers, but it has had many opposers. 

When the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired by the Lord Almighty to establish this work in the earth, he gave to it the best efforts of his life. Every thought, every reflection of his soul, and the love of his whole heart, were enlisted in this great work. How great it was he possibly did not realize when the Lord first communicated to him; and even after the Church was organized and began to assume a condition of some importance in the world, even then, no doubt, he was not fully aware of the greatness of the structure he was instrumental in founding; but as revelation was given to him, precept upon precept, and line upon line, he became more and more filled with the Spirit of the Lord, and with enthusiasm in regard to the work; and as his enthusiasm grew, and as he became more and more endowed with power from on high, the efforts of those who opposed him were renewed and redoubled. We find that history repeated itself. The opposition did not come from the heathen, it did not come from nonbelievers in Christ, nor from unbelievers in ancient prophets and apostles. It came from men who said they believed in the mission of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, and in the mission of His apostles, and that they believed He suffered death for the sins of the world, and rose again on the third day, thus becoming the first fruits them that slept, He having the key of the resurrection, with power to  the tomb. So, as I say, we find history repeating itself. Opposition to this work has not come from those who did not believe in Christ, but it has come almost invariably from those who . have professed to be followers of Christ, just as the opposition to the Savior came from those who professed to believe in His Father. Singular as it may appear, it is an everlasting truth that there is always opposition to the principles of life and salvation, and it seems as if the more men profess to be enlightened, and the greater their professions of faith, the greater is their opposition to those who introduce living, saving truths. The fiercest opposition to the Savior came from those who professed to be the most devout in their observance of the law of Moses, and who adhered most strictly to the forms and rituals of the law. And so opposition to the Gospel of Jesus Christ to this day has come from those who appeared the most devout. 

DesDite all this, we are moving along in the even tenor of our way, and making some progress. Testimonies are increasing in the midst of the Saints, and as our young people grow up to manhood and womanhood they are receiving the testimony of the Gospel, and ar-i willing to go forth and devote their lives in proclaiming this Gospel. Our missionaries now have gone forth to the principal nations of Christendom, and are lifting up their voices fearlessly in proclamation of the truth. Yet we are not very popular that I know of in any land. Nevertheless, the Gospel is extending, Zion is growing, the Saints of God are spreading abroad, and todaj' our testimonies are brighter than ever before. We have deep down in our hearts a stronger conviction of the truth. We know that God lives, and that Jesus Christ is our Savior, who died for the sins of the world, that we might live. When Easter Sunday comes, or when any other Sunday comes, it is the Lord's day and we reverence His high and holy name. We come together and worship Him. Thus to us every Sunday, in a sense, is 

ELDER J. G. 

Easter Sunday, for we worship the Lord on that day, and not only on Sunday, but every day in the week. We do not put off the feeling of worship on the Monday, nor on any other day. If we feel as we should, we regard every day as the Lord's day, and we feel that we ought to serve Him and keep His commandments continuously.and not have a Sunday religion like a Sunday coat, to be laid aside as soon as the Sabath day is passed. The religion of the Latterday Saints is practical to a wonderful degree. Hence, we see that during the last four weeks, through the advice and counsel of the leaders of the Church, we have had four new Stakes of Zion organized. Every organization thus perfected will add strength to the work, and will give greater power to the brethern who preside and to the people over whom they preside. Moreover, it will add to the glory of God, because the Saints will live nearer to Him and keep His commandments better; for where the Saints are thoroughly admonished, and are in close touch with their leaders, the spirit of union, and the power to do good and to work righteousness, is greatly increased. So we rejoice whenever a new stake or a new ward is organized. And all this is in keeping with the progress of the work. We realize, my brethern and sisters, that we are not held in very high esteem by our friends of the different Christian faiths of the world; but this does not matter. We have our work to perform, and if we act well our part the Lord will see that His work will spread abroad in the earth, and that all the honest shall have the chance to hear the gospel. I rejoice today that we have leaders in our midst who know and understand the mind and will of the Lord, and who are willing to devote all their energies and their lives for the good of Israel. Under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord they prepare for these great Conferences, and they give us the word of the Lord, that we may be encouraged from time to time by meeting together and hearing their voices in no uncerMcQUARRIE. 39 

tain sound proclaim the mind and will of the Lord. They point the way in which we should walk, and they admonish us to follow them as they follow Christ. We have confidence in our leaders today, and the Lord has given us inspiration to be able to say that we know this is His work, and in this we are determined to devote our lives and the best talent He has given us, That we may be faithful and true in keeping the commandments of the Lord is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER J. G. McQUARRIE, (President of Eastern States Mission.) 

My brothers, sisters and friends, I wish I could express the blissful consciousness I feel thrilling and pulsating through my soul in being surrounded by thousands of my brothers and sisters. One can hardly realize this feeling unless he has been out separated from the love that one feels in Zion— cast upon the ocean, as it were, like a cork amidst the waves, a stranger in the community in which he sojourns, and after a few years to return to be surrounded by thousands of people whose faces are lit up Dy the same spirit, and to clasp the hands and feel the throb of that pulse which beats in harmony with his own. I am grateful unto God for the blessings of the Gospel and for this spirit which makes us kindred with those in heaven, and causes us to feel we are renlly and truly brothers and sisters. 

I preside, act as a kind of bishop, over that portion of territory lying north of Virginia and east of Ohio. It includes about one-third of the population of the United States. There are a great many people there who have not yet learned I am their "bishop," and I expect it will be a long while before they find it out. When I was first asked to preside over that district I felt the responsibility, in that vast throng of God's children, to see that they were warned of the fact that the Gospel has been restored and that it is now being preached to the world as a witness. When I stood upon Brooklyn bridge. one of the great thoroughfares of the city of New York, and watched the throngs of people passing (three hundred thousand every day), and when I realized that this was only one of many thoroughfares in that great city, and that city was only one of many in the district; and when I thought of the thousands of cultured, eloquent ministers in the district, it seemed impossible for a few western boys, many of whom, like myself, come from the sands, rocks, and the cactus fields of th e south, to make ourselves heard, or known in that great mass of humanity. When we first hired halls no one entered them, and when we tried to get into their homes and experienced their exclusiveness, I again thought how impossible the task would be. Had I not known that this work was from above, I would have given up in discouragement. One had to possess a sublime faith in God, knowing that it was His work, and that he could make possible what He had called him to accomplish. With this faith we turned our faces to the task, carrying on the good work that had been started by those who preceded us. I feel today I can say we have at least accomplished one part of our task. I believe that every soul in the district has heard that th e kingdom of God has been established, that God has spoken again from the heavens, that His servants are traveling as they did anciently, and that this Gospel is being preached a s a witness unto the people. God has done His part. Among other things He has used the powerful agency of the press. The press with its ten thousand tongues has sent this Gospel into the homes of the rich and proud as well as the poor and humble. And this, not because of our ability, but as a result of our faithfulness. Scarcely a week passes but there is something in the papers concerning the work in which we are engaged. Portraits of the Elders, views of their homes, the places where w e hold our meetings, and our articles of faith, ar e published so often that we cannot help but acknowledge that God is assisting u s to accomplish His purpose. This strengthens our , even as Nephi's faith was strengthened when he returned after accomplishing his mission, obtaining the plates of brass "that a nation should not dwindle in unbelief." I mention this to strengthen the faith of some who may feel unable to accomplish the task that God has assigned to them. While many things are said in opposition to us it is only bearing out the prophecy that the name of Joseph Smith should be known for good and for evil in all the nations of the earth. If you wanted to make your name known for good and evil in all the nations of the earth, how could you do it? Think of how few men have made their names known in all the earth, either for good or evil. The name of Jesus Christ has been eighteen hundred years reaching the limits, and yet today, nearly every one who has heard the name of Jesus Christ has also heard the name of Joseph Smith; and while they say many things that are evil concerning him there is generally something said that is good. 

During the last year we have had greater success in our district than ever before. We have succeeded in establishing ourselves quite firmly. We hold Sunday schools and regular meetings in good halls and in good districts; and we have congregations in Boston Brooklyn, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Albany, and Alleghany! Reporters come to our meetings and interview the elders, and when they com e in contact with them, and meet a pleasant congregation of representative People, they get a good impression of us, and this preaches the Gospel more effectually than we proclaim it. I remember when the greatest storm of abuse we ever experienced broke over us, when there was a very bitter feeling, reporters came to meet the elders' and they remarked that we looked like college graduates, that we had that clear look in our countenances which indicated virtuous living. We cannot help but show in our faces the Spirit of God if we keep His commandments. When we assume to be representatives  the Church and kingdom of God. when we go out of private life and assume public life, something more is expected of us. When our boys and girls are called from the various avocations of life, and go into public life as missionaries of the gospel, they themselves seem to realize this fact. Tbey know they are expected to represent the character of Latter-day-Saints. They know that their mothers, fathers, and friends are praying for their success. They know they are expected to reflect credit upon the Church. They feel that, in a way, they are representatives of Jesus Christ, and that they should reflect His character in their lives and His principles in their teachings. I believe the Latter-day-Saints can be justly proud of their boys and girls, so far as their conduct in the mission field is concerned. When I hav-.; seen boys come into the mission fiela unsophisticated, perhaps uneducated, some who have never spoken in public places, some who never were called upon to defend their belief, but who possessed that living faith deep down in their hearts which, when the call for duty came, prompted them to respond to it, when I have seen this class of boys become in a very short time able defenders of the faith, and competent to meet any man in the world in support of the principles of the gospel, it has been to me a strong testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have noticed, too, that members of the Church who are indifferent, and who visit us occasionally look with pride upon these Elders. If they should see an Elder with a cigar in his mouth, or entering a saloon, they would be indignant and say he should be recalled, they would assert he was not worthy to represent them, even though they did the same things themselves. Those who are neglectful in keeping the commandments themselves are often most severe in their censure of an Elder who makes a mistake. We have a right, my brethren and sisters, to expect this of our representatives. On the other hand, what has an Elder  right to expect ,from you who live in Zion? We are pointing people to Zion, we are telling them that it is established in the tops of the mountains that God's house and God's people are here, and when those people com e they expect to find Zion. We have a right to ask of every Latter-day Saint that he or she shall reflect the glory of the Gospel light, just as much as you have a right to expect it of your representatives in the world. Christ has a right to expect it from that "peculiar people," that "royal generation," that "holy priesthood," which Peter spoke of. When we name His name we should keep His commandments. When saints gather up to Zion and they see those who, perhaps, were once Elders among them going into saloons, or other men who bear the holy priesthood breaking the commandments of God, what is the effect? You shatter their faith. I know that the blood moves quicker about our hearts when we sing of these snow-capped mountains, these fertile valleys, and of the crystal streams flowing down from the mountains and running off into a shimmering sea. It is a beautiful picture, my brothers and sisters; but snow-capped mountains, beautiful valleys, crystal streams, and shimmering seas, do not make Zion. Zion is where the pure in heart dwell, and if we are going to live worthy of the light we have received we must be pure in heart. If we live up to the light and knowledge we have received and reflect it in our lives in these mountains, I know that the Gospel can and will revolutionize the world. 

We feel encouraged in our missionary work, my brethren and sisters. Tour sons in the mission field are doing a glorious work, and they are meeting successfully all the opposition that is brought to bear against them. They do not flinch from the storms that arise; they do not fear when threats are made. I hope that everyone who is here, w.ill appreciate the power of the priesthood, knowing that this is God's work, and that none will feel to waver or falter. God bless you, my brothers and sisters, and bless Zion, that she may grow and prosper, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Un'ty in prayer — Need of prayer under all c.rcumstanci-s — Th  Lord's willingness to answer it — Operations of good ai d evil. 

Brethren and sisters, I wish that each of you could stand here and look into the sea of faces that are before me, and then you would have something of the feeling which I have in standing before so large a congregation of Latter-day Saints. I esteem it as a very great privilege; at the same time I feel the responsibility of occupying tne position of a teacher in the Church of Christ. I feel the need of your faith and prayers in my behalf, and of the Spirit of the Lord to enlighten my mind and to inspire my remarks, so that I shall be able to say something that will edify the Saints. I have been very much impressed with the spirit of the conference, with the large gatherings in this building yesterday, as well as at the meeting in the Assembly Hall, the meeting at the Bureau of Information, and in addition the large number of people who were walking to and fro on this block. Zion is growing. It is going to be a very difficult matter to accommodate the Latter-day Saints in these conference gatherings. Nevertheless, we shall have to do the best we can. We rejoice in the spirit of the work. 

One thing that has impressed me very much during the conference is the character of our worship before the Lord. In the assemblies of the Latter-day Saints a very important feature is the calling upon the name of the Lord in prayer. The? words that are offered up in the invocation from this pulpit mean a great deal to the people. We must not suppose that when an Elder of Israel is called upon to pray, the words which he utters belong to him, or that the prayer is altogether his prayer. I do not so consider it. The prayer which is offered up ascends to heaven in behalf of the entire congregation. This is indicated by the response which fol the prayer, when the people lift up their voices and say amen. That response makes the prayer general in its character and applicable to the whole Church. It is your prayer; it is the prayer of the Latter-day Saints. And when prayer is offered up in this manner I am simple enough to believe that it penetrates into the very heavens, and is heard by God our Father, and such prayers will surely be answered upon our heads. 

It is astonishing the amount of scripture and revelation that has been given upon the subject of prayer, touching its importance, its far-reaching character, and its necessity to the children of men, especially to the children of God. I am reminded of a passage which occurs in a revelation given to Martin Harris in March, 1830. The Lord said unto him: 

"And again, I command thee that thou shalt pray vocally as well as in thy heart; yea, before the world as well as in secret, in public as well as in private." 

"Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessing; yea, even more than if you should obtain treasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent thereof." 

How impressive are those few simple words in regard to prayer! How farreaching! They enter into a man's life and comprehend his whole existence, at least from the years of his accountability until he passes into the grave. He must pray under all circumstances. Prayer is not reserved for the Sabbath day or for any particular occasion. It is not only to be used at the general conferences of the Church, but the spirit of prayer must be in our hearts unceasingly. We must pray in our families; we must pray in secret; we must pray in our hearts. The spirit, of prayer must be with us when we retire at night and when we arise in the morning. It must be upon us when we leave our homes for our daily employment; in the office; in the shop; in the field; in the mountains or in the valleys, or wherever we are. We are told in the words which I have quoted that if that spirit is upon us the Lord will bless us, and the blessings which will come in answer to prayer will be of more importance to us than treasures of earth. "We know something of the treasures of earth; we realize the value and the desirability of earthly things. We know how they are sought after, and what great sacrifices are made for them. But how much better it is to enjoy the full measure of the Spirit of God which is promised. 

Then we learn in another revelation, that was . given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1832, something concerning the character of our heavenly Father. In that revelation He says to His Church through the Prophet: 

"Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you: seek me diligently and and ye shall find me; ask and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you; 

" Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you; 

"And if ye ask anything that is not expeuient lor you, it shall turn unto your condemnation." 

Mark, brethren and sisters, how clear-cut are these words. There is no doubt, no dubiety. It does not say if and peradventure you call upon the Lord, He may be gone on a long journey and you cannot reach Him; or He is very busy; His attention is now attracted to the nations of the earth; probably He is busily engaged with the great war between Russia and Japan and He cannot give you any attention, therefore you might as well cease praying. No, this revelation does not give forth any such ideas. Our heavenly Father is always near and ready to listen to His children. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you." It is not like we sometimes find it upon the earth with great men. Take the President of the United States, for instance. He is a great man, with very serious and grave responsibilities resting upon him. His whole attention is devoted to the government and welfare of the people. The obligations resting upon him are perhaps almost more than he can carry. Consequently, when people call on him, many times he cannot receive them. He may be very 

 engaged upon his annual message, or upon some other matter, and those who go to see him may have to wait hours before they get access to him, or it is possible that they may have to trust their business to some representative of the President. How different with our Father in heaven, who has the responsibility of the world resting upon Him. His hand is upon the nations. He is directing in all the affairs of this world. He controls in all the kingdoms of the earth. He knows what is going on. He knows the status of this great war, and He knows just how it will all result. In other words, He will have it come out to further his purposes. He knows all about affairs in England, in France, in Germany, and those ten great kingdoms spoken of by Daniel, the Prophet. I have no doubt He knows all that is going on in our own nation, and the great responsibility resting upon the people of the United States, the people of Canada, and the people of all the countries of America. And yet— think of it! He says to you and to me: He says to this poor man and to this poor woman: He says to this rich mar; and t° this rich woman: "Draw near unto Me and I will draw near unto you." Yes that poor widow down there, to whom nobody is paying any attention, and who has very little influence, — to her the Lord says: "Draw near unto Me and I will draw near unto you." "My ear will be open to hear your prayer and to answer it." Did not the Savior notice the widow who cast her mite into the contribution box? She was poor; and all she had she threw into the box, and she , was left penniless, and one might naturally say without a friend in the world. But she did have a friend, and that friend happened to be the Lord, than whom there is none greater. He stood there and said of that poor widow that of her poverty she had cast into the box more than all the others who had given of their wealth. Is not this a comfort and a consolation? And this is what prayer brings — prayer that is offered in the congregations of Israel, In the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and from the heart. Such prayer is effectual, and it reaches into the heavens. It has an influence there. 

To show the importance of prayer I remind you, my brethern and sisters, that in this world there are two great powers, and these two powers are at warfare. There is the power of good and the power of evil. They do not harmonize, they do not mix. Like oil and water, they will not mix. On the one hand, there is the power of good striving with every man and woman; on the other hand, there is the power of evil striving with every man and woman. Their prospects, their record, and all their future will depend upon which of these two greatpowers controls them. You can see this exemplified in what occured with Peter. The Lord said to him: 

"Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat: 

"But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethern." 

What a wonderful saying was this! We would get the impression thai; the Savior had a perfect assurance that His prayer had been heard of the Father. Although Simon Peter was one of the chiefest of th e Apostles; like other men he had his weaknesses and his imperfections, and I suppose the Lord knew wherein he was the weakest. He understood that Satan desired especially to sift Peter as wheat, and to destroy him if possible. Herein comes the power and virtue of prayer. The Lord Himself prayed for him. He did not criticize or scold him, for He saw that he had weaknesses — as we all have, and I doubt not but Satan would like to have all of us that he might sift us; as wheat. I firmly believe that if it were not for the faith and prayers of this people, which are ascending continually to heaven, Satan certainly would have power over us, and perhaps in many instances we would be overcome and destroyed. The Lord prayed for Peter, and His prayer was heard, and so He  Peter that when he was converted he should strengthen the brethren. We must bear in mind this great conflict that is going on between good and evil. ' Everything that is good, every power and principle that leads to good, is from God; and every influence that enticeth man to do evil is from Satan, the father of lies. Thus we may judge between the good and the evil. 

Before I sit down I want to call your attention to the power of prayer as it has been exemplified in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, which is truly one of the most wonderful books ever published. The world might appreciate this book if they were not blinded by the subtle craftiness of man, and by the power of evil which lieth in wait to deceive. This book came forth by the power of God through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I tell you that its coming forth was greatly influenced by prayer. It is so declared in one of the revelations of God given to the Prophet, found in section 10 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. I will read it, because it is so impressive, and shows clearly the efficacy of the prayers' which were offered by th e Nephites in regard to the coming forth of this book: 

"And, behold all the remainder of this work does contain all those parts of my gospel which my holy prophets, yea, and also my disciples, desired in their prayers should come forth unto this people. 

"And I said unto them, that it should be granted unto them according to their faith in their prayers; 

"Yea, and this was their faith that my gospel, which I gave unto them, that they might preach in their days, might come unto their brethren the Lamanites, and also all that had become Lamanites, because of their dissentions. 

"Now, this is not all— their faith in  heir prayers was, that this gospel should be made known also, if it were possible that other nations should possess this land; 

"And thus they did leave a blessing upon this land in their prayers, that whosoever should believe in this gospel in this land, might have eternal life; 

"Yea, that it might be free unto all of whatsoever nation, kindred, tongue, or people they may be." 

From this it will be seen that the 

ELDER WM. 

coming forth of the Book of Mormon was influenced by and in fact was in answer to the prayers of the Nephites, offered up 14.00 years before and recorded in the celestial kingdom. In conclusion, I say to you, my brethren and sisters, that your prayers and my prayers, if they are offered up in faith with singleness to the glory of God, will be recorded in the celestial kingdom, and the precious offerings and supplications that go up from these conferences will be recorded and will be answered upon the heads of this people, as God lives, if we will do our duty. May God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: "Come let us sing unto the Lord." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Collings Hakes. 


