Morning
03 04 1904


PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDEESS. 

Guiding care and mercy of the Almighty — His requiremen s or the Latter-day Saints — Condition of the unbelieving — Nature of the Holy Priesthood — The government of God means freedom — The Saints look forward to and long for its tstablishmeiit. 

Feeling very greatly dependent upon the mercies of the Lord for the guiding influence of His Holy Spirit, I am delighted this morning to welcome this vast congregation of Latter-day Saints to the opening meeting of this seventyfourth annual conference of the Church. 

We begin our conference on this beautiful morning, I firmly believe, under the divine approval, blessing and favor of Almighty God, who has guided the destiny of His people from the organization of the Church until the present, and whose overruling power has preserved us from the hands of our enemies and guided us in our footsteps and in our journeyings into the tops of these mountains. Here, by His blessing, we have had a measure of peace for lo these many years. We have been permitted to grow and increase in numbers, and, as I believe, in faith, intelligence and in a better and broader understanding of the principles of life and salvation which have been restored to the earth in the latter day, through the administration of divine messengers to man and through the divine calling, appointment and inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his co-laborers in this work, whom the Lord prepared in the beginning and fitted, by the power and influence of His Spirit upon them, for the ministry which they were called to fill and perform in /the Church. 

It has not been by the wisdom of man that this people have been directed in their course until the present; it has been by the wisdom of Him who is above man and whose knowledge is greater than that of man, and whose power is above the power of man; for it is unto God, our Father, we are indebted for the mercies we have enjoyed and for the present prosperous condition of the people of God throughout this intermountain region and throughout the world. The hand of the Lord may not be visible to all. There may be many who can not discern the workings of God's will in the progress and development of this great latter-day work, but there are those who see in every hour and in every moment of the existence of the Church, from its beginning until now, the overruling, almighty hand of Him who sent His Only Begotten Son to the world to become a sacrifice for the sin of the world, that as He was lifted up so He, by reason of His righteousness and power and the sacrifice which He has made, might lift up unto God all the children of men who would hearken to His voice, receive His message and obey His law. 

My heart swells with gratitude to God. my Heavenly Father, for His loving kindness and mercy to His people and to the people of our nation and, indeed, to the people of the whole world. I can see the hand-dealing of the Lord not only with us, a little handful of people in the midst of these mountains, but also with the great nation of which we are a part— I was going to say an insignificant part, but I will not qualify this remark in that way. I think also that I can discern the hand of the Lord in His dealings with other nations of the earth, and I fully believe that He, and not the wisdom of men, is shaping the ends or  of the nations of the earth for the accomplishment of His purposes in the latter days. Not only are we the people of God 1 but all the inhabitants of the world are His children, and all men in every land and in every clime who will humble themselves before the Lord and acknowledge Him are entitled to a measure of His blessing, favor, mercy and protection. The Lord will look after them and will overrule circumstances for their good, as He has overruled, in a greater measure, circumstances for the good of His people who have made a covenant with Him by sacrifice, who have obeyed the voice of the Spirit unto them, and have yielded submission to the laws of the Gospel and become members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by faith, repentance of sin, and the ordinances of the Gospel that have been instituted by which mankind may be initiated into the family of God and become His sons and His daughters, heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. 

I desire to express to you, my brethren and sisters who are here today, my firm and fixed conviction that God, the Eternal Father, is constantly mindful of you. He is mindful of His people throughout all this land, and he will reward you according to your faithfulness in observing the laws of righteousness and of truth. No man need fear in his heart when he is conscious of having lived up to the principles of truth and righteousness as God has required it at his hands, according to his best knowledge and understanding. I do not suppose that you think or that anyone will think that we esteem ourselves as perfect, or as different and apart from other people of the world. We are, indeed, I am sorry to say, altogether too much like the rest of the world in many respects. We are people with like passions, like weaknesses, like imperfections — no, doubt, results of human nature — as the rest of mankind. But the difference lies here: We have made a covenant in our hearts with God. the Eternal Father, that we will forsake sin; that we will eschew the  appearance of evil, as far as we possibly can; that we will overcome to the utmost our weakness and proneik-ss to evil and wrong-doing', that we will seek light from all sources of light and intelligence; that we will seek knowledge that comes from above, and hold our ears open to listen to the words of truth, to the voice oi understanding, and to the voice of inspiration that comes from the Lord, or that may come from man, inspiring men to do better, to improve, to advance in the scale of righteousness and of intelligence in the world; and that we will keep ourselves, as far as it is possible for us to do so, clean and pure and unspotted from the sins of the world. That is the difference. We have covenanted with God that we will do this, and we expect that God will require us to keep this covenant that we have made with Him, and that we will strive with all our might to live consistent lives before the Lord and keep His laws. 

It is hard, very hard indeed, to make the blind see or the deaf hear; and it is a truth laid down in the doctrines of the Gospel as taught to the ancient Nephites upon this continent, that there are none so blind as those who will not see, .and there are none so deaf as those who will not hear. There are those who will not see and who will not hear, and it is vain to attempt to open their eyes, for they will to keep them shut. It is vain that we attempt to open their ears to hear, for they have closed their ears against  the everlasting truth and they will not hear it. What are we to do under such circumstances as these? Are we to grieve about it? Shall we slacken our effort in the least because these conditions exist in the world? Shall we turn back from the plow to which we have put our hand because there are those in the world that will not see the truth and will not hear the voice of the Spirit of God calling them to repentance and to obey the commandments of the Lord? Verily no! He would be a weak and vacilating and an unprofitable servant who would turn  from righteousness because there are those who will not repent of their sins and turn unto righteousness. 

Our duty is to keep steadily on— on and upward in the direction that the Lord Almighty has marked out for us to pursue. Keep the faith; honor the name of God in your hearts; revere and love the name of Him whose blood was shed for the remission of sins for the world; honor and hold in the highest esteem him whom God raised up in his childhood to lay the foundations of this great latter-day work; honor that power and that authority which we call the Holy Priesthood, which is after the order of the Son of God, and which has been conferred upon man by God Himself. Honor that Priesthood. What is that Priesthood? It is nothing more and nothing less than divine authority committed unto man from God. That is the principle that we should honor. We hold the keys of that authority and Priesthood ourselves; it has been conferred upon the great masses of the Latter-day Saints. It has, indeed, I may say, been bestowed upon many that were not worthy to receive it and who have not magnified it and who have brought disgrace upon themselves and upon the Priesthood which was conferred upon them. The Priesthood of the Son of God cannot be exercised in any degree of unrighteousness; neither will its power, its virtue and authority abide with him who is corrupt, who is treacherous in his soul toward God and toward his fellowmen. It will not abide in force and power with him who does not honor it in his life by complying with the requirements of heaven. 

Some people think it is a dreadful sin for a people like the Latter-day Saints to claim that they believe with all their souls that the world would be better if only the laws of God could be enforced in the world. Some people think that if God's authority, if God's law, if God's righteousness were to be enforced among the children of men that it would deprive men of their liberties, it would bring them into bondage, and that it would debase and degrade them. We do not look at this in this way. We believe that God's will is to exalt men; that the liberty that comes through obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the greatest measure of liberty that can come to man. There is no liberty that men enjoy or pretend to enjoy in the world that is not founded in the will and in the law of God and that does not have truth for its underlying principle and foundation. It is error that makes bondsmen. It is untruth that degrades mankind. It is error and the lack of knowledge of God's laws and God's will that leaves men in the world on a par with the brute 'creation; for they have no higher instincts, no higher principle, no higher incentive, no higher aspiration than the brute world if they have not some inspiration that comes from a higher source than man himself. 

I believe in God's law. I believe that it is His right to rule in the world. I believe that no man has or should have any valid objection in his mind to the government of God, and the rule of Jesus Christ, in the earth. Let us suppose, for a moment, that Christ were here and that He was bearing rule in the world. Who would come under His condemnation? Who would be subject to His chastening word? Who would be in disharmony or unfellowship with God? Would the righteous man? Would the virtuous man? the pure and virtuous woman? the pure and the honest in heart? the upright? the straightforward? those who do the will of heaven? Would they be in rebellion to Christ's rule if He were to come here to rule? No. They would welcome the rule and reign of Jesus Christ in the earth. They would welcome His law and acknowledge His sovereignty, they would hasten to rally to His standard and to uphold the purpose and the perfection of His laws and of His righteousness. Who would then be recreant to the rule of Christ? The whoremonger, the adulterer, the liar, the sorcerer, he who bears false witness against his neighbor, he who seeks to take advantage of his brother and who would  and destroy him for his own worldly gain or profit: the murderer, the despiser of that which is good, the unbeliever in the eternities that lie before us, the atheist, perhaps, although I think that he would not be so far from Christ as some that profess to be teachers of His doctrines and advocates of His laws. It would be the rebellious, the wicked, those who would oppress their neighbors and enslave them if they could. Such as these would be the people who would not welcome the reign of Jesus Christ. Are there any who profess to be Latterday Saints in this class, and would fear to have Christ reign and rule? 

Now, we do not claim that God rules in the sense that the world charge us with believing. We do not claim nor profess that Jesus reigns in the earth as the world charge us with believing. We say that we would welcome His reign. W e say and we feel in our hearts that we would love to have Him come and reign and rule among men. We say and we believe in our hearts that so far as we overcome our weaknesses, our imperfections and our rebellious nature which is against the will of the Father, so far as we are able to subdue the carnal mind and the wickedness and the weaknesses of human nature with which we are beset, so far as we are able to rise above the groveling condition of fallen man and attain a higher plane, of virtue, honor, purity and righteousness, that so far, and no farther, does Christ, the Son of God, reign in our hearts. And we would to God that we were in such a condition that He would reign supreme over our souls, and over all that we possess. Who shall gainsay this? Who shall say that it is wicked to obey Christ? that it is wrong to follow in His footsteps and obey his laws? We will not say that, and we will not, if we can help it, permit ourselves to be crowded into the corner, by which we will have to confess that we would rather that hell should reign on earth than that heaven should reign. We would rather that God would reign, that heaven would , that righteousness should prevail, that truth should cover the earth as the waters cover the mighty deep. "We would rather that every man and every woman on earth were a child of God and an heir indeed and a joint heir with Jesus Christ. "We prefer that. "We are working for that; we pray for it; we preach the Gospel for this purpose, and we hope, by the blessing of the Almighty upon our efforts and labors in the world, that before this work shall have completed its mission and the object of its existence in the world, every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the honor and glory of God and to the redemption of the world. "We are going to keep right on in that line as long as God will give us our liberty and permit us to live in the flesh; and when we shall have finished our mission here and go behind the veil, with the Priesthood that has been conferred upon us here and its keys, authority and power, we will continue to administer for the redemption of those that have died without a knowledge of the truth, in the world of spirits, until every son and daughter of God that has lived upon the earth shall have had the privilege of hearing the sound of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and of embracing it, that their prison doors may be opened, and that liberty may be proclaimed unto them, the liberty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, wherewith we are made free. 

God bless you. May He pour out His Spirit upon His people and help them to be wise and prudent in their words and in their actions. "We say to you keep the laws of God, and you should honor and keep the constitutional laws of men. That is what we say. 

"We say to you, pay your debts and get out of debt. Pay your obligations and free yourselves from the bondage of obligation, if you can, and as soon as you can. "We say to you, protect your own faith by Godly lives. "We say to you do unto others as you would have them do unto you — in righteousness. "We say to you, keep the faith delivered to the Saints in the latter. "We say to you, honor God in your lives; honor and love Christ, the Son of God, in your hearts; uphold in honor and maintain respect for the name of Joseph Smith the Prophet of God who was instrumental in laying the foundation of this great latter-day work. Do not turn away at every wind of doctrine or be swayed by the cunning and craftiness of men, whereby they lie in wait to deceive. Know the truth for yourselves. Walk in the light as Christ is in the light, and you will have fellowship with Him, and then the blood of Jesus Christ will cleanse you from all sin. God bless you to this end is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir then sang the anthem "The Mountain of the Lord's House." 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Preparation for the advent of Christ- His death and resurrection— Salvation for the dead. 

I greet this congregation in the name of the Lord, and I ask that I may have a share of your faith and prayers while I shall stand before you. I have enjoyed the remarks of our President this morning, and I believe his words have found an echo in every heart. He has portrayed unto us our mission and our duties here upon the earth — that which we are striving for, namely, to serve the Lord, to carry out His purposes, and to be instruments in His hands to bring about the reign of peace, the reign of Christ, here upon the earth. This work in which we are engaged, we have been told, and we have an assurance thereof, is the work which is to prepare men for the second coming of Christ. We believe that the time is near at hand when the prophecies concerning His coming will be fulfilled. "We know that before His coming there must be a people prepared to receive Him. "We have tried to prepare ourselves, and those amongst whom we labor, for this great event, and we cannot do this in any other way than the one which our President has pointed out to usI am reminded that this is Easter. We celebrate today the glorious event, of the resurrection of our Savior. About 1S70 years ago this great event, which confirms our hope of eternal life, took place. Our Redeemer was laid in a nev grave, and remained there until the third day after His crucifixion. He arose and took upon Himself His body — the same body which had suffered upon the cross, and which had been buried; and in that body he was seen again amongst His followers. What a great event is the resurrection of Christ! He conquered death; He demonstrated unto us that death should not 'forever reign; that though He, Himself and all the seed of Adam should be subject to death, yet death should not continue to have power over them. He overcame death. He broke its chains, He took up His body again, and fulfilled the great mission for which He came here upon the earth. What a glorious hope is given unto us through this event! I suppose the date of this anniversary is nearly correct. It was about this time *of the year when the resurrection took place. With Christmas it is different. We have nothing to go by to show us that the birth of Christ took place in December, but we have suggestions made that it was early in the year, and that it must have been at a time when it was warm enough for tha herders to be out in the fields taking care of their flocks. This event, however, which is celebrated today throughout the Christian world we know, according to the gospels, took place at the time of the Jewish passover. In order to have it recur annually on a Sunday, the Christian chronologers have made it fall on the Sunday after the first full moon that comes next after the 21st of (March. It gives us pleasure, therefore, to know that we are near the right time when celebrating this event. 

Many doubt the statements of the evangelists and say that the resurrection <?^uld not take place. Unbelievers? have used aiguments against belief in the resurrection of Christ. With us, however, there is no doubt concerning it. 

We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly, and in that book we find the testimonies of several writers to the fact that Jesus  resurrected, and that He was seen after He had risen, by the Apostles, by acquaintances, and at one time by at* many as five hundred at once. This was the testimony borne by His disciples when they went out into the world after the ascension of Christ, and they were willing to suffer all things for that testimony. They did not bear this testimony with any view of obtaining worldly honors in compensation for their labor; on the contrary, they knewthat the bearing of this testimony concerning Christ would lead to their following Him even unto death; but this did not deter them, they did not hold back or feel afraid of what the world would do, but persisted in bearing testimony that Christ was risen and that they had seen Him. 

Not only did Cbrist rise from tn*. dead at that time, but others were seen who had risen from their gravesrighteous men and women who died be-, fore Christ, and who had the privilege of rising with him. I do not believt* that the resurrection then was a general one; I believe it extended to those only who, while upon earth, had proved themselves willing to do all for the kingdom of God, and to whom neither property, honor, nor life itself had been too dear to keep them from carrying out the purposes of God. 

The Latter-day Saints believe in a literal resurrection. We do not entertain the idea, as many in the world do. that the resurrection will be a spiritual one only. The promise of the Lord is that we shall receive our bodies again. We look upon death merely as a temporary separation of the spirit and the body. The body of Jesus was laid in the grave, and a guard placed before it, but His spirit did not slumber there. It was only the body that was dead. The spirit was still alive, and in the spirit He visited the good and righteous in Paradise, and also visited the prison where the spirits of men had been awaiting His coming for many generations, they having been placed there for rejecting the Gospel when it was preached unto them. We are told in the Scripture that He visited the spirits in prison and preached unto them. No doubt they received with gladness His message, and were liberated from the prison. Thus he fulfilled the prophecies which had declared that His mission was to open prison doors. After this, his spirit returned unto His body. The body was quickened and immortalized. It underwent a process of which we have no conception. But it was the same body. He visited His Apostles after His resurrection. He appeared in their midst without their seeing- how He came. The grosser elements of the body were no doubt eliminated. If there had been anything corruptible in the body that was laid in the tomb, it was not incorporated in the resurrected body. Before His crucifixion His body was subject to death, and He was killed by His enemies; but when He took His body again all that belonged to mortality had been eliminated. His body was an immortal one. Yet when He showed Himself to His disciples He proved unto them that He was the same Jesus; there were the wounds in hands and feet, and even in His side — a convincing proof unto His disciples of His identity, and that His body had been resurrected. 

We look forward to a time when this great blessing shall come to us also. We do not look upon death as the end of our individual existence. On the contrary, knowing Him to be our prototype, we have the assurance that death is only temporary, and that there will come a time after death when we shall again receive these same bodies which we possess here upon the earth, and that the union of spirit and body shall never be dissolved. The bodies we shall receive will be immortal, and the spirit and body reunited will constitute a living soul. 

While upon this subject I will read a few passages from the eighty-eighth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"And there shall be silence in heaven for the space of half an hour, and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded, as a scroll is unfolded after it is rolled up, and the face of the Lord shall be unveiled; 

'And the Saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened, and be caught up to meet him. 

"And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth; for their graves shall be opened, and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven: 

"They are Christ's the first fruits: they who shall descend with Him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet Him: and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God. 

'And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ's at His coming; who have received their part in that prison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the Gospel, and be judged according to men in the flesh. 

"And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then cometh the spirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under condemnation: 

"And these are the rest of the dead, and they live not again until the thousand years are ended, neither again, until the end of the earth. 

"And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, saying, There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who shall remain filthy still." 

Here we have, through a revelation given in 1832, a prophecy concerning the manner of the resurrection. It was given by revelation unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and it gives us a good idea concerning that great event which will take place hereafter. When Christ shall come the Saints that are upon the earth will be quickened, and caught up unto Him. They will not have to be laid in the grave and undergo death in the ordinary way, but all the change pertaining unto death will come unto them, even if it be as the apostle said, "in the twinkling of an eye." The Lord's power will be made manifest — for He holds the keys of the resurrection, He knows all concerning our physical organization, and He is able to accomplish this great wonder of the resurrection. So when the time comes the faithful of the Saints will be quickened and caught up to meet Him and the many thousands that are coming with Him. "They who have slept in their graves shall come forth; for their graves shall be opened, and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven." Now.these are the first fruits of that resurrection, and tbey shall descend with Christ. They also who are on the earth shall be caught up to v meet Him. And all this by the voice of the trump of the angel of God. 

This, brethren and sisters, is something worth working for. We desire to live so that when this event shall come, whether we be on the earth or in the grave, that this sound may be heard by us — that we may come forth and join that happy throng. The revelation goes on to describe those who shall hear the trump, but who are of a different class to that to which I have referred. There will be some that did not hear the gospel upon the earth, but who received their portion in the prison. We have generally thought that the doctrine of salvation for the dead was not taught until 1843, when the Prophet Joseph received revelations concerning work for the dead; but from the very beginning the Lord revealed unto him that there was v a possibility of salvation being obtained by those who had passed away without a knowledge of the Gospel. And so we are told here of the next class that shall be resurrected: 

"And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ's at his coming; who have received their part in that prison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the Gospel, and be judged according to men in the flesh. 

"And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then cometh the spirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under condemnation. 

"And these are the rest of the dead, and they live not again until the thousand years are ended, neither again, until the end of the earth. 

And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, saying, There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who Shall remain filthy still." 

Perhaps the sons of perdition are the last class. All will be resurrected. Jesus died for us all. He became the Redeemer, He bought us for a price, and His death brought the privilege of resurrection unto every soul, whether he be a sinner or not. All will receive a share in the resurrection — not in the first resurrection, but they will be resurrected, and will be brought before the bar of our Heavenly Father. 

Brethren and sisters, let us so live that there will be no danger of our being in the latter classes, but that we may be among the first fruits of Christ. Sunday after Sunday we promise that we will take upon us His name. Let us not only take upon us His name, but show in very deed that we are His. N Let us follow the good counsel given us this morning, live our holy religion, carry out the commandments of God, and not fear what man may say concerning us. We know what we have received; we know that this work is for the salvation and betterment of men, then let us carry out its principles. This is ray advice to you. God bless you all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. Missionary work at home and abrad. 

I have no doubt, my brethren and sisters, but that you, with myself, have greatly rejoiced in what we have heard from Presidents Smith and Lund. With those brethren, I join in extending to you a hearty greeting to this conference. When I think that many of you have traveled hundreds, and some of you thousands, of miles to visit this Conference, I feel in my heart to hope you will be amply repaid for your journey. I trust we will keep in mind the good instructions we have already received, and that we will be more diligent and determined to serve the Lord with all our might, mind and strength. Our motto, as I understand it, is "Peace on Earth, and Good Will to Men." Some of you, my brethren, who are present today, are laboring in the nations of thg earth, endeavoring to enlighten the  of those who are in darkness and bring them to a knowledge of the truth. I have no doubt the feeling in your heart all the time is, "Peace on earth, good will to men." While we claim the right to serve the Lord with full purpose of heart, in our own way. we have no wish to deprive others from doing the same. We hope and expect to always have the privilege of serving the Lord as we feel is best, and while we value this privilege ourselves, we extend the same right to everybody on the face of the earth. I rejoice this, morning, my brethren and sisters, in the progress of the work, and the good reports we receive from the utmost "bounds where our brethren are laboring. There is a gratifying growth and increase everywhere, so far as we can learn. It is remarkable the inquiries that are now being made in relation to the Gospel; and while I rejoice in what the missionaries are doing abroad, " I sometimes think what a difference in experience there is right here on this Temple block. Here we have established a bureau of information, and a number of brethren and sisters are called to act as missionaries on this block. Instead of their having to wander up and down the earth seeking for the privilege to distribute tracts or impart information in relation to the Gospel, hundreds and thousands come to them to obtain information; and tens of thousands of books and pamphlets in relation to the Gospel have been distributed by the brethren and sisters who are laboring here. What a change has come over us! I believe that some of you, while traveling abroad, will find the fruits of the labor on this block. Many visitors, if they do not obey the Gospel as a result of the work of the missionaries here, at least become more friendly to the Latter-day Saints than they were before they visited us. 

It is a glorious work, brethren and sisters, that we are engaged in; may we never tire of it, but always be willing and faithful in the discharge of every duty that is required of us. I feel thankful that the Lord has preserved : my life, and permitted me to meet with  here on the seventy-fourth anniversary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If anybody on earth has cause to be thankful I think I have. The Lords has permitted me to live to see almost my eighty-third year, and I am deeply thankful to Him for His goodness. While life shall last I propose to work more energetically and faithfully than I have done hitherto, if the Lord will help me to do it. God bless you all, my brethren and sisters, is my prayer in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: 

"In Our Redeemer's Name." 

Benediction by Eider Lewis W. Shurtliff. 


