Afternoon
06 04 1904


ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

In standing before you, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon, to bear my testimony to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as it has been revealed in the age of the world in which we are living, I sincerely pray that I may be supported by the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, that the # few words I speak upon this occasion may be words of truth, directed by the Spirit of Truth, for the benefit, advantage, and encouragement of this vast congregation. My heart has been filled with exceeding great joy in listening to the testimonies that have been borne by the various speakers who have addressed the people from day to day in our Conference meetings. My soul has been filled with thankfulness, not only during this Conference, but in traveling from place to place among the people, in attending stake conferences, in meeting with the quorums of Seventy, in observing, as we have no doubt observed in this Conference, that there are many young men occupying responsible positions in the midst of the people of the Lord. I have noted that many of the brethren who have stood here to make reports concerning the stakes of Zion, and to speak about other matters, are the sons of men who have been valiant for the truth in days gone by. In the organization of the new Stakes of Zion, recently effected in this city, many of the brethren who have been called to positions of responsibility in these stakes are the sons of men who in their time have been faithful to the Lord. 

I believe we all find happiness in witnessing conditions of this character, and in having the truth burned into our souls that our Father in heaven is  the children of the pioneers, and of other men and women who received the Gospel a long time ago, and. gathered from the nations of the earth, and that He is establishing them in the faith. I rejoice in the testimonies of the brethren in relation to this matter. Some of the speakers have expressed very great confidence that the youth of the Latter-day Saints would be found in the future true to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to the faith of their fathers, and that they were not, and could not, be- weaned away from the truth. I believe this with all my heart. I believe it is the decree of the Almighty that this condition shall continue to prevail in the midst of His people, and that there will always be found in the Church the seed of the founders, and of others who have been valiant for the testimony of Jesus — children who will properly represent their parents before the people and before the Lord; and that it is not the intention for thi^ work to be taken from them and given to another people. I have felt impressed myself with the promise of God in relation to the continuation of His work with the people who were called in the beginning. In that promise, as it appeals to me, there is an understanding that there would be raised up, from the loins of those to whom the promise was made in the beginning, sons and daughters who would be true and faithful. It is true that power is not given to man to reveal a knowledge of the plan of salvation to his own offspring. The President of the Church, the Apostles, let them be ever so faithful, do not possess the power to reveal unto their children the truth of the everlasting Gospel. I suppose if this power 1 were vested in them there would be danger of the time coming when the children might be recreant to the faith of their fathers. But when the truth of the Gospel is revealed to any soul, it does not come from man, it comes through the operation of the Holy Ghost from our Father in heaven. It comes with almierhty power; it dispels all doubt; it establishes the one who receives the evidence in an understanding of the truth of the things of God. In  way the testimony of the Gospel has come to the Latter-day Saints. In the beginning, when the Prophet Joseph Smith bore the wonderful record that he did to the people concerning the visitation of holy beings, it was by the power of the Holy Ghost and not by the wisdom or logic of the Prophet that the truth of his testimony was impressed upon the minds of the men who accepted it, and who remained true all the days of their lives. "We cannot believe that it was by a mere chance that the Prophet Joseph Smith in the early rise of the Church was brought in contact with such men as Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Heber C. Kimball, Daniel H. Wells, Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, and other great men who were raised up by the power of God to assist in the establishment of His purposes. We believe, as a people, that our Father understands the end from the beginning. "We believe that He is in very deed our Father in heaven; that we existed with Him in a spiritual condition before we were born naturally upon the earth, and that He knew us, and all His other children, before we came to this earth. "We believe He was acquainted with the spirits of the great men who assisted in laying the foundations of His grand latter-day work, and that by His decree and appointment they were born into the world at the time when their services were needed in the establishment of His purposes. They were brought by the same overruling providence into contact with the noble man who had been raised from the ranks of the people to bear divine authority, and to represent the Lord God of heaven in the midst of the nations, and they gladly received the testimony which was delivered to them concerning the faith. "While we believe this of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of his associates, we believe that the same power is in operation today. We believe that the spirits of men are being born into the world by divine appointment, and not by accident. Because of this belief, I feel in my heart that, through the faithfulness of the fathers and mothers in the Church of Jesus 

Christ of Latter-day Saints, there will continue to come to them choice spirits, who will accept the truth with all their hearts, and who will bear the responsibilities of this work in which we are engaged in all time to come. I do not believe that the names of the valiant and faithful men of this Church of either high or low degree are to become extinct from among the people of God. I believe with all my soul that they will be perpetuated forever, just as we see the sons of men whom we have known in past history stand upon this platform, filled with the Spirit of the living God, bearing testimony to the truth of the everlasting Gospel, so in a time to come will their sons and daughters, from generation to generation stand up in the midst of the congregations of Israel and bear record of the truth as it has been revealed. God has not brought us through the trying experiences of the past; He has not tested our fathers and our mothers in the manner in which they have been tested, with a view of rewarding them with offspring that will not be true to Him. There may be wayward boys and girls; there may be some who cannot be controlled; but I believe there will be but few who will be lost. "We discover among the people who have gathered from the nations of the world that there is within them a love for the land that gave them birth. From whatever land they have come, though they have been led to forsake all and gather up to Zion, because of the Gospel, nevertheless there is a love in their hearts for their native country, which does not die out. In like manner I believe, from the experiences that have come to me, that there is a love for Zion and for the things of the kingdom of God planted in the hearts of those who are born in the Church that is very much stronger than this love of country, and that it is almost impossible for men to divest themselves of it. In many places young men and young women are found who have strayed away from the truth to some extent; who have gone from their father's home and from the organized wards of the Church; but wherever they are they have a warm feeling toward the work of God. It is a rare thing to find a young man or a young woman who has been born in the Church so cold in their feelings that they turn entirely away from the people of the Lord. It is a rare thing to find any so hardened that they will not open their doors to receive the representatives of the Lord. Because of this feeling, and because of the valiant young men who are constantly rising up in the midst of Israel, I believe that we will always have representatives of the founders of the Church of Christ to bear the authority of the Holy Priesthood, and to bear it in honor. The glorious example that has been set by good and godly parents is destined to bear good fruit forever. I believe that there is something in being born in Zion. It has been stated by at least one of the prophets that the time was to come when it should be said of individuals born in Zion, that "this man was born in Zion." I think we have occasion as parents to be comforted and encouraged, and that we have reason to have confidence in our children. I believe that, by the blessing of the Lord and our own example and training, our children will be so established in the faith that they will follow in our footsteps just as we are following in the footsteps of our parents. 

Let us take to heart the counsels that have been imparted unto us. Let us set gfoodly examples before our offspring. Let us live the religion we have espoused, and let our light shine among men. Let them see that we feel the responsibility which rests upon ua in the revelation of the Gospel; that we propose, not only to send missionaries abroad to preach the Gospel, but that we propose to live our religion at home just as well as our representatives do abroad; and men and women who come into our borders, as has often been the case already, will be so impressed with our sobriety, our industry, our good example and the godly lives we lead that they will be constrained to bear record that there is a splendid people in the midst  these mountains — a people who fear God and keep His commandments. In a time to come we will be better understood. The clouds that have hung over us, caused by misrepresentation, will be banished away. There is no power that can prevent this; for God Himself has decreed He will lift His people up; that they shall be like unto a. light set upon a hill, which cannot be hid; and we will be known as we are. "When we are known as we are, then the reputation that has gone abroad concerning us through misrepresentation will pass away forever, and we will be recognized as the people of the Lord, as a people who love their fellowmen, and who have had the message of truth committed to them, even the power of the everlasting Gospel which can save to the uttermost all men in every land and clime. 

I bear record to the truth of the Gospel. I bear record to the integrity, the honor, the uprightness and the nobility of the men who preside over us. I bear testimony to the glorious fact that with us there is divine authority. Let the world say what it may, truth is truth, and the truth in relation to this matter is that God has spoken, and has given to man His authority, and in the exercise of that power we will cry, "peace on earth, good will to men," and we will preach the doctrines of the Gospel, administer its holy ordinances to those who believe, and save the children of men in the way appointed of the Father. May God help us to be true and faithful, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ and in the splendid testimonies that have been borne of its divine truth during this conference. I am sure that the Latterday Saints must feel greatly strengthened in their testimonies by naving attended the meetings of this conference, for truly there has been an outpouring of the Spirit of God upon His people. As I look before me upon this vast congregation, gathered here upon this 

Wednesday afternoon, it is almost marvelous to see so many faces, and all intent upon receiving the word of God as it shall be spoken* unto them. I have prayed earnestly in my neart that the people might be fed the bread of life, that their testimonies might be strengthened, and that they might come to an absolute knowledge of the truthfulness of this work in which we are engaged. I do not think it possible for us to pay too much attention to the importance of having an individual testimony of the Gospel. Every Latter-day Saint has the utmost need to know for himself that this is the work of the Lord, and to know that God has spoken again in this day and conferred upon men His divine authority. We read in the scriptures, and have been told from time to time, that the Lord will have a tried people. The only thing that will enable the people to withstand the trials that may come upon them will be the knowledge which they have that this is the work of God. When that knowledge has taken root in their hearts, the storms of adversity and great calamities may come, but they will stand firm and immovable because their, faith will be founded upon the rock of revelation. We have just been told that no father or mother can reveal to their children the truthfulness of the Gospel. That is true; but there is a Father, whom we all adore, that can and will reveal it to us, if we will seek after it and do what is necessary to obtain it. God is .uove. He loves the souls of the children of men, and we are His children and have inherited from Him His divine attributes. There should be born in us a love for our heavenly Father. The great commandment, which includes all others, is this: "Thou shalt love the Lord, thy God, with all thy heart, with all thy might, and with all thy soul." And there is another like unto it: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." If the love of God has taken root in our hearts, and if we are demonstrating in our lives that love, it will bear fruit and will cause us to come to a knowledge of God, whom to  is life eternal. There are many people professing to believe in Christ, the Redeemer of the world, who, nevertheless, do not believe in this vital principle of His Gospel — the principle by which Peter knew that Jesus was the Christ. They have rejected that principle, and have said in their hearts and with their lips that God does not reveal Himself from heaven. They do not believe in the principle of revelation; and yet it is the principle which gives life and force, and without it the Church of Christ cannot exist upon the earth. Not only does this principle pertain to the leaders of the people, but it extends to all the sons and daughters of God who will seek to obtain a knowledge of His divine will. We can all have the right to communication with our Father, and the Scriptures are full of promise! that if we will ask we shall receive, if we will knock the door shall be opened unto us, and if we will seek we shall find. This can only be done through the operation of that vital principle of revelation. "For no man knoweth the things of God, but by the Spirit of God, which is in him;" and the Spirit of God is the spirit of revelation, which issues forth from the presence of the Father and the Son and enters into the being of all those who diligently seek them. If we come to the knowledge of the truth it must be through the principle of revelation. We must know that God will listen to our prayers; and then when we have trials we can approach Him and ask of Him wisdom, with the full assurance that He will not upbraid or censure us, but will hearken to our prayers and answer them upon our heads. I know that this principle is true, and it devolves upon us to gain the favor of God. Men and women in the world are seeking more the favor of their fellow creatures, and if they can obtain that to the extent that they can be exalted in the eyes of the people, that seems to be more their ambition than the gaining of the favor of God. They are more ambitious to be well spoken of by their fellow men than they are to be beloved of God their eternal Father. Hence the importance of learning to keep that great commandment of loving the Lord, with all our hearts. What do we understand by loving the Lord with all our hearts? Is it the function of the heart to love? This may perhaps be only a figure. The heart is an organ of the body, the special office of which is to pump the blood in the body, causing it to circulate and to impart life and vitality to every part thereof. The hands and feet are governed by muscles, and they, with other members of the body, yield implicit obedience to the will of man. We go here and there, from one place to another, at the dictation of the mind, the intelligent part of man, and there is perfect harmony in the operations of the body in obedience to the will of man. But not so with the heart. Although governed by muscles as the hands and feet are, yet it is not subject to the will of man. We labor with our hands, and we may employ the muscles of the body in various activities, and as the night comes on and we lay our bodies down to rest, the muscles relax and the body lies dormant. No so with the heart. It beats on, and on, throughout the night as the day; and when that heart ceases to beat, then life is gone. The mind does not control the heart. It does not say to the heart, 'beat thou on," or 'cease thou now to beat." The heart is governed by a higher intelligence, and when the voice comes from Him, "Cease thou to beat," that son or daughter is called to God. So that when the Lord says, "Son, give me thine heart," He asks for that which belongs to Him; and when He requires us to love Him with all our hearts it means simply this: that we should love Him with all our life. The life-giving power of man should be devoted to the service of God. Whatever may be our occupation, everything must come secondary to our allegiance and devotion to God, who gave us life and being upon earth, and by whom that life is maintained. It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that if we would keep that great commandment and love the Lord with all our hearts, then would our feet be  in the paths of safety and then, let come what may, we are founded upon the rock and we will be able to stand. , 

I have a testimony that this is the work of the Lord that we are engaged in, and that the men who stand at the head, and whom we will have the pleasure and privilege this afternoon of sustaining by the raising of our hands, are men of God, called of Him to lead this people. The prayers of the Latterday Saints should be united in asking our Father in heaven to endow them with the revelations of His will, that they. may receive the mind and will of God concerning His people, and that we may be ready and willing at all times to receive their counsels and to be guided in our lives by the will of the Father. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Lottie Owen, with excellent effect, then sang, "Entreat Me Not to Leave Thee." 

ELDER C. W. PENROSE. 

My brethren and sisters, I esteem it a, privilege and a blessing to have the opportunity of bearing my testimony in association with by brethren who have spoken, for truly I can say I know this is the work of God. I know it in every part of my being. I feel it in my physical nature; I see it in my intellectual nature; I realize it in my spiritual nature; for I have been baptized by the spirit of this work, not only in water, but by the Holy. Ghost and by the fire of the Lord, and God has borne witness to my soul that He is the author of this latter-day work. The sentiment expressed by the song which our sister has just sung for us is the sentiment of my heart. All my interests are identified with the Latter-day Saints. This people shall be my people; their God shall be my God; where they go I want to go, whether it be in this world or the world to come. With these my brethren whom I love, and whose labors I recognize, and whose virtues I venerate. I want to be associated in time and in eternity. My heart has rejoiced with a fulness of joy during this conference. From the  discourse delivered by President Smith, on Sunday morning:, right to the present time, I have felt the presence of the Spirit of the Lord. I know that President Smith's words were inspired by that Spirit, and our brethren who have addressed us have felt its influence, and it has been imparted from them to the congregation. 

I have not words to express the joy and gratitude which spring up in my besom in contemplating the goodness of G-od to me from my boyhood to the present time. When I first embraced the Gospel I received a testimony of its truth. I received it from the Spirit that comes from on high. It entered into my soul, and bore witness to me in every part of my existence that God is the author of this work. As time has rolled on, and I have passed through many different circumstances in many different lands, and I think of how God has preserved me, directed me, and enlightened me, and blessed my testimony to others, I praise Him this afternoon in the midst of the congregation. I feel in my heart, bless and praise the Lord, O my soul! He is my God. I revere and adore Him as my Father and my King, and I want to be obedient to him and to serve Him in all things. 

It does not matter where or how my labors may be directed, I desire them to be in the interest of this great work which our Father has commenced. This work cannot be overcome by the powers of evil, nor by the powers of the world; neither will you or I as individuals be so overcome if we will hearken to the testimonies which have been delivered to us, the instructions which are imparted, and be willing to be guided by that authority which has come down from God out of heaven in the last days for the guidance and salvation of the children of men. No feeling of rebellion should ever rise in our hearts; no word of reproach or improper criticism should escape our lips in regard to those men whom God has called and ordained, and whom we sustain by our uplifted hands when we assemble in conference. It would be a good thing if the thoughts of our  and the words of our mouths were always directed for the interest and the furtherance of this great work that our Father has) begun. We ought not to speak a word anywhere which would militate against it, or against the men whom God has appointed. 

I think sometimes of the words of the Apostle James in regard to the power of the tongue. What good can be accomplished by using the powers of speech in the proper direction! What wrong can be accomplished when these powers are prostituted to speak evil. "Thou shalt not speak evil of the Lord's anointed." I hope you recognize that saying. We are under promise that we will not do it. We should speak that which is good, not that which is evil. And we should hesitate when we find an opportunity, or when some circumstance arises which might induce us to say something that would be improper in regard to our brethren. James says: "The tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity," it "setteth on fire the course of nature; and it is set on fire of hell." We hear a great deal of talk among the Methodists about hell fire. If you want to know what hell fire is, just hear some angry woman when she is rattling that little red rag — the tongue. I mean the man as well; for I do not confine it to the sisters. I believe I have heard worse things from the mouths of men than from the lips of women. I do not confine it to the one sex. Perhaps it is "six of one and half a dozen of the other." 

We should be careful what we say. If we cannot say anything good, let us hold our tongues, and do as the mother sometimes roughly tells the children: "Shut your mouth." It is a good thing to be able to shut your mouth, and to keep it shut, when you ought not to talk; and it's a good thing to be able to ODen your mouth at the proper time ani at the proper season and bring forth words of eternal life for the blessing, enlightenment, comfort, and consolation of the sons of men. When Christ spoke He spoke words of life. "My words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life," He said. And they were. He brought forth words of eternal life for the guidance and blessing of mankind. "When He did rebuke, His words were sharp — sharper than a two-edged sword; but He didn't rebuke unless there was a proper occasion. He had authority and power to use words of rebuke as well as of comfort and of enlightenment. Let us take care that when we speak we speak to good purpose, for light and for truth, and to comfort and bless humanity, not to speak evil of our brethren or of our sisters. This is very common advice, but I fear we "take advice" very often and do not put it to use. 

When I contemplate what God has done in the building up of this latterday work to the present time, I feel full of joy and gladness. And these things are prophetic to me of the future. I know, as I know that I am here, that this work will go forward. It does not matter what men may do or say in regard to us; God is our Father and He is at the head of this work. He revealed it in the beginning. He placed His Son Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, at the head of this work, to conduct it from that time forward; and He has been with it to the present day. He is with our brethren who have been called to stand at the head of affairs. His spirit rests upon them; His light is in their souls, and their words are inspired of Him. And He will continue to be and abide with this work until it is perfected, and He can present it to the Father as an accomplished and perfect work. But there is a great deal to do before that time shall come. This Gospel of the kingdom is to be preached in all the world as a witness to all nations. We should be glad when our sons, our brothers, our fathers, or any of our friends, are called upon to go out into the world and lift up their voice in the proclamation of this last divine message to man. "We should rejoice in their labors, and be willing to make what we call sacrifices for their sake and for the sake of mankind. Every man who holds the Priesthood should be willing and glad to  anywhere in this kingdom for the salvation and redemption of the human family. This Gospel will be preached, no matter what laws may be enacted in the nations that are afar off. No matter what barriers may be raised for the time being, they will all be swept out of the way by the power of God, in His due time; and this Gospel will be preached, Israel will be gathered, temples will be reared and ministrations will go on therein for the benefit of the living and the redemption of the dead.* 

As our brethren finish their earthly work, and their bodies are laid down to rest for a while, to be purged in the tomb, they will go forth in the spirit, as Christ did, and as the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum and the rest of the valiant servants have done, and publish the Gospel to the spirits that are behind the veil. A mighty work is going on there, and as our brethren depart hence and their places are taken up by their posterity, they will carry on this work in the spirit world, where there is a wider sphere for their operations than here in the flesh. And they will find that much of the seed that has been sown in mortality among the nations of the earth, which has not appeared to fructify, or to bring forth fruit (for many people have heard the word and have not obeyed it, but have gone down to the grave in their darkness) will come to life and light and power in the world behind the veil. Thousands upon tiiousands who have heard the Gospel, but have not obeyed it, will be ready to receive it when the servants of God present it to them in the spheres behind the veil. The work of God will be carried on there, and the work of the ordinances will be performed in this sphere, in the temples that are and will be erected. "We have only begun this great work, notwithstanding the many thousands of vicarious ordinances that have been performed. This work will go on. It is a mighty wo k, and you and I can be engaged in It. We should be glad to labor in any capacity and in any place where we can do something toward the building up of 

PRESIDENT JC 

the kingdom of God and the redemption of the human family. This work must go on until all nations and peoples an i tribes and tongues on the earth, behind the veil and wherever the sons and daughters of Adam are, have heard the sound of the Gospel and have had the opportunity of bowing in obedience to it. Until that is done this work cannot be consummated. It will go on, with Christ at the head, until every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Lord, to the glory of God the Father. 

This is a work in which we should rejoice with all our souls, and be willing to labor in it wherever we may be directed by that authority that has come down from God. I rejoice in the work of God with all my heart. I have done so ever since I embraced it. I am willing today, as I have ever been, to go here or there and to labor in any direction. The man who is not willing to labor as a deacon is not fit to be a president. A man who will not work in a humble capacity is not fit to be exalted. The Lord will bless our labors in time and in eternity, and we will see the fruits thereof and rejoice in them in the presence of our Father. I know that the spirit which has been with us in this conference is the light of the Lord. It is the spirit that proceeds from the presence of God to lighten the souls of men. It is the light of Christ, the light and the life of the world, the power of the Lord. It comes from His presence; it fills our souls with joy and peace; it strengthens us to resist the evils of the flesh and to overcome Satan and his works, and it will be and abide with this Church and grow brighter and brighter until the perfect day. 

I feel in my soul to bless and praise the Lord for His goodness to me. I bear testimony that this is His work, and I desire to labor in it in time and in eternity. I invoke upon you, my brethren and sisters, the blessing and peace of Cod. May the kingdom of God .go forth, as it will. Roll on, thou glorious kingdom of the latter-days! Spread wide thy light and thy power, and the kingdoms of this world shall 

1EPH F. SMITH. 73 

bend to it; the powers of darkness shall be rebuked, the clouds shall roll away, and the light and might of God shall increase in the earth until all things are subdued unto Him; and the earth itself shall be redeemed and shine in the glory of God, and Christ shall grace it with His presence and crown it with His glory. May God help us to be faithful and serve Him all our days and finally save us in His kingdom, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

A profitable and enjnyRl le Conferenc — Privileges of the ppot>le — I he Gospel incl'des temp rnl as well as spiritual salvation— Offirial statement sustained. 

I have been delighted throughout with the spirit of our Conference and with the instructions that have been given to us by those who have spoken. The Spirit of the Lord has been manifest through His servants who have addressed this Conference. I feel that we have had a precious time, and that the Lord has blessed us abundantly by the outpouring of His Spirit, by the beautiful weather we have had in the main, and by the glorious opportunity we have enjoyed of mingling together, of meeting many friends, of witnessing, by our presence here, our interest in the work of the Lord, and of taking part in the transaction of such business as may properly come before this Conference. It is well understood that we meet together in general Conference twice a year for the purpose of presenting the names of those who have been chosen as presiding officers in the Church, and it is understood that those who occupy these positions are dependent upon the voice of the people for the continuance of the authority, the rights and privileges they exercise. The female members of this Church have tne same privilege of voting to sustain their presiding officers as the male members of the Church, and the vote of a sister in good standing counts in every way equal with the vote of a brother. The presentation of the Church authorities is part of the duty that remains to be done before this Conference is brought to a close. Other business will also be presented to the Conference, which may be considered by some as of greater importance than the rest. We desire that the Latter-day Saints will exercise the liberty wherewith they have been made free by the Gospel of Jesus Christ; for they are entitled to know the right from the wrong-, to see the truth and draw the line between it and error; and it is their privilege to judge for themselves and to act upon their own free agency with regard to their choice as to sustaining or otherwise those who should exercise the presiding functions among them. We desire the Latter-day Saints at this Conference to exercise their prerogative, which is, to vote as the Spirit of the Lord prompts them on the measures and the men that may be presented unto them. 

It is not my purpose to prolong remarks. We are living in peculiar times. The situation in which we are placed calls for peculiar wisdom and understanding, and for the full exercise of our rights as Latter-day Saints, who should enjoy the spirit or discernment and inspiration that belong to those who are born of the water and the Spirit, and who, because of this birth, are in a position to see the kingdom of heaven. 

At this point President Smith gave out notice of an important meeting of cattle and sheep men to be held in the city, and then spoke as follows: 

We may be pardoned for giving out a notice of this kind upon this occasion, but it will not be amiss for me to say that the Latter-day Saints believe not only in the gospel of spiritual salvation, but also in the gospel of temporal salvation. We have to look after the cattle and the sheep and the horses, the gardens and the farms, the irrigation canals and ditches, and other necessary things for the maintenance of ourselves and our families in the earth. In this respect this Church is different from many other denominations. We do not feel that it is possible for men to be really good and faithful Christian people unless they can also be good, faithful, honest and industrious people. Therefore, we preach the gospel of industry, the gospel of economy, the gos of sobriety. We preach that the idler shall not eat the bread of the laborer, and that the idler is not entitled to an inheritance in Zion. We preach that those who are industrious, those who work, those who through their integrity and industry are good citizens of the kingdom of God, are better citizens of the country in which they live than those who are not so diligent in this regard. 

Let me. say to the brethren and sisters before we part: When you go home do not only be faithful in your prayers, in secret and in public; do not only be faithful as good church-goers; but be faithful to your families, be faithful to your flocks and to your herds, be faithful in the management of your farms, and in the promotion and conduct of every enterprise in which you are engaged. I would to theLord that we had a thousand good engineers, mechanics, surveyors and other skilled workmen among us. We could find employment today for hundreds of our people where honesty and faithful devotion to labor are demanded, if we only had the men who were skilled in the work that is required; but we do not have them. When we are applied to for men as boiler makers, as engineers, as builders, as skilled workmen in other directions, and we send out inquiries for them, we cannot find them. The boys are learning something else instead of the arts of laoor. I have heard it said that science is what we know, and art is what we know how to do. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

President Smith presented the general authorities of the Church to be voted for by the assembly, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency; Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, John 

Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith and George A. Smith. 

John Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First seven presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian and general Church recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Orson F. Whitney, A. Milton Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

As members of the general Church board of education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner and John R. Winder. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the Conference. 

THE TABERNACLE CHOIR. President and director— Evan Ste-< phens. 

First counselor, treasurer and librarian—George C. Smith. 

Second counselor and secretary— Sidney R. Phillips. 

Organist— John J. McClellan, and all the members of the choir. 

The voting was completely in the affirmative. 

PRESIDENT SMITH. 

Brethren and sisters. Of course you cannot help but have noticed that some of our brethren have been absent from us. I regret very much the absence of a number of the Apostles. We are  sorry that circumstances have prevented them from meeting with us. Elder John Henry Smith has been suffering for some time from inflammatory rheumatism and is still confined to his room. Elder George Teasdale received permisison to retire from active duty over two months ago, and when he left us was in feeble health. Elder Marriner W. Merrill has been prostrated for some time in his home at Cache valley. These brethren have our sympathy and our prayers for their recovery. I regret also the absence from this conference of Elders John W. Taylor and Matthias F. Cowley. 

Now I am going to present a matter to you that is unusual and I do it because of a conviction which I feel that it is a proper thing for me to do. I have taken the liberty of having written down what I wish to present, in order that I may say to you the exact words which I would like to have conveyed to your ears, that I may not be misunderstood or misquoted. I present this to the conference for your action: 

OFFICIAL STATEMENT. 

"Inasmuch as there are numerous reports in circulation that plural marriages have been entered into contrary to the official declaration of President Woodruff, of September 26, 1890, commonly called the Manifesto, which was issued by President Woodruff and adopted by the Church at its ganeral conference, October 6, 1890, which forbade any marriages violative of the law of the land; I, Joseph F. Smith, President of the Church of Jesus Christ oi Latter-day Saints, hereby affirm and declare that no such marriages have been solemnized with the sanction, consent or knowledge of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and 

"I hereby announce that all such marriages are prohibited, and if any officer or member of the Church shalV assume to solemnize or enter into any such marriage he will be deem°d in transgression against the Church and will be liable to be dealt with, according to the rules and regulations thereof, and excommunicated therefrom. 

"JOSEPH F. SMITH, "President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

They charge us with being dishonest and untrue to our word. They charge the Church with having violated a "compact," and all this sort of nonsense. I -want to see today whether the Latter-day Saints representing the Church in this solemn assembly will not seal these charges as false by their vote. 

President Francis M. Lyman presented the following resolution and moved its adoption: 

RESOLUTION OF ENDORSEMENT. 

"Resolved that we, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, in General Conference assembled, hereby approve and endorse the statement and declaration of President Joseph F. Smith, just made to this Conference concerning plural marriages, and will support the courts of the Church in the enforcement thereof." 

The resolution was seconded by a number of Presidents of Stakes and prominent Elders. Elder B. H. Roberts, in seconding the resolution, spoke as follows: 

"In seconding the resolution that has just been read — which I most heartily do — I desire to state at least one reason for doing it. As remarked by the president, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been accused of being covenant-breakers with this nation. Of course, there never was, and could not be, any compact between the Church and the general government of the United States. But there could be a compact between the State . of Utah and the United States, and there was such a compact made in the Constitution of our state, by and through the Constitutional Convention. And now I am pleased with the opportunity of the Church saying in its official capacity that the Latter-day Saints not only now are, but have been, true to the compact between the State of Utah and the United States., and that they are true to the Constitution of the state, which, by express provision, for. ever prohibited plural or polygamous marriages, and made that irrevocable, without the consent of the United States. The adoption bv the Church of this resolution should put to silence those who have accused us of being covenant-breakers." 

The resolution was then adopted, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

This statement which has just been read in your hearing was made for the Church. Rumors have been afloat that plural marriages have taken place, and  are said to have commenced to doubt the truth of the declaration made by our President at Washington. Now it has been laid before you, and the Church, by its vote in solemn assembly, has ratified this resolution, and the Saints know just where the Church stands on this question. If any come to you with such rumors, you know that the Church is true to that which it accepted thirteen years and six months ago, and which it has again ratified here in this Conference. It is not a new manifesto. It simply shows where we stand as a Church. The Lord has instituted in this Church the principle of free agency. Everything must be done by common consent, and therefore we lay these things before the conferences, that the people may have an opportunity to vote thereupon. This is an important matter, and should be known by the world that the Latter-day Saints have the right and privilege to vote upon everything that shall be accepted as Church doctrine or in regard to church government. 

I feel pleased with our conference, with the spirit thereof, and with the instructions that have been given. Let us take what we have heard home with us; let us take the spirit of the conference with us, and try to carry out in our daily lives the good counsel which has been given us. May the Lord bless you, brethren and sisters, and bless His Church upon the earth, as well as all good people and all who love the truth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Jo-' ph and H\rum Men Tim 

President Lund has expressed my feelings exactly in regard to this resolution. I am proud to have the opportunity of voting for it. 

There is one more item of business that I want to lay before the Conference, in which I think we are all greatly interested, and I have no doubt you will sustain the proposition when you hear it. It is almost sixty years now since the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and until this day no building or monu has been erected to their memory. This matter has been talked over many times, and several propositions have been made. At one time it was suggested that a building be erected on the old Deseret News corner, which should be called a memorial building. At least one other suggestion has been made, that a monument or a memorial building should be erected on the southeast corner of this block. No definite place, as yet, has been fixed for it. But I have been impressed that the time has come when some steps should be taken with regard to this matter. I would like to see a building, or monuments, or statues, erected in honor of these martyrs that would be something for our children to look at in years to come. Opposite the southeast corner of this block we have erected a monument to President Brigham Young, and I would like to see something erected to these martyrs that would be an object lesson to our children and our children's children throughout all generations, and also to the thousands of people who visit us, that they too may have something of this kind to look at. Therefore, I am strongly in favor of doing something to perpetuate the memory of the Prophet and Patriarch, and with this in view I have prepared a resolution, which I will read to you: 

"Whereas nearly sixty years have passed since the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and no public building or monu has been erected to their memory; 

"Therefore, Be it Resolved by this General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, That a suitable building or monument be erected to their memory; that the Trustee-in-Trust appoint a committee to prepare plans for the same, which shall be submitted to him, and when approved he will authorize the committee to proceed with the work and will furnish the necessary means from such funds as may be available for that purpose, and that a book be opened at the Presiding Bishop's Office to receive voluntary subscriptions from any who wish to donate." 

After reading the resolution, President Winder moved its adoption. 

It was seconded by President Francis M. Lyman and a number of others, and was adopted by the conference without a dissenting vote. 

President Smith named as the committee President John R. Winder, chairman; President Francis M. Lyman, Bishop Wm. B. Preston and Bishop George Romney, and they were unanimously sustained by the conference. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

Benediction by Elder John Nicholson. The conference then adjourned for six months. 

The stenographic work in taking an account of the proceedings was done by Arthur Winter. 

JOHN NICHOLSON, Clerk of Conference. Its Semi-Annual Conference, Held in the Tabernacle, Sunday Evening. October 3. 1904. 

The general semi-annual conference of the Sunday Schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Sunday, April 3, 1904, at 7 o'clock p. 

General Superintendent Joseph F. Smith presided. 

There were present of the general authorities: Presidents Joseph F. Smith and Anthon H. Lund; Elders Francis M. Lyman, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Clawson, Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith of the Quorum of the Apostles; Patriarch John Smith; a majority of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board. The Tabernacle was crowded with an enthusiastic audience of Sunday School workers and Saints. 

The congregation, under the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens, sang "If There's Sunshine in your Heart." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Abraham O. Woodruff. 

The song, "Peace, be Still" was then sung by the Granite Stake adult class, under the direction of Prof. Evan Stephens. 

Secretary Geo. D. Pyper called the roll of stakes which showed a representation from every stake of Zion and three missions. 

The secretary presented the officers of the Deseret Sunday School Union, who were sustained as follows: General superintendent, Joseph F. Smith; first assistant general superintendent, George Reynolds; second assistant general superintendent, Joseph M. Tanner. Members of the board: Elders Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. 

Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, Jas. E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace Cummings, Abraham O. Woodruff. General secretary, George D. Pyper; treasurer, George Reynolds; business manager and assistant general secretary, William A. Morton; editor Juvenile Instructor, Joseph F. Smith; assistant editors, George Reynolds and Joseph M. Tanner; business manager, George D. Pyper. 

Miss Margaret Summerhays, Noel Pratt and Wood Pratt of Granite Stake then sang the trio, "O Restless Sea." 

Elder William D. Owen of the Deseret Sunday School Union board then read an editorial from the Juvenile Instructor of Jan. 1, 1904, on the subject of ''Harmony between presiding authorities in the Priesthood and in anxiliary organizations." 

The choir sang, "Rouse, O ye Mortals." 

JOSEPH W. SUMMERHAYS. I am requested to make a few remarks and a short report on the features of our Sunday School work for 1904, viz., district Sunday School conventions. 

We have already held three of these district conventions, one in Salt Lake City, comprising Tooele, Salt Lake, Davis, Granite and Jordan stakes; one in Weber, comprising Weber, Summit, Morgan and Box Elder stakes; and another in Provo, taking in the Utah, Alpine, Nebo, Wasatch and Juab stakes. And in all of these conventions we have had a most glorious time. 

In behalf of the Sunday School Board, we can say that every one of them was a grand success. 

The work in these conventions is altogether different to what is done in our Stake conferences. In the conventions, after the general opening exercises, we take up department work, dividing the convention into some eight departments. We will take, for instance, the theological department. We get the department workers and teachers and all interested in the theological departments of the various schools, together; and there we read and discuss papers on different topics. And we have found that great good has resulted from these conventions, one of the greatest advantages being that every one attending has gone away from them to their respective homes with a greater determination to do their duty as Sunday School people. 

Now it is proposed that we hold like conventions throughout all the Stakes. We intend to district the Stakes into suitable convention districts, and during this summer, and perhaps early fall, we will visit each one of the districts and hold a convention. When I say "we," I mean the general board of the Sunday School Union. 

That we may be better able to district the various stakes, we will hold a meeting in the Barratt hall .next Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 o'clock, where we hope to meet with the superintendents of each stake, together with their assistants; and if the stake superintendents and their assistants are not present at this conference, from any of the stakes, we would like some representative. We understand that some of the stakes of Zion are represented here tonight by their secretaries and other persons, and we would like the meeting next Tuesday afternoon to have a representation from each stake, so that we can make the districting as complete as possible. We are sure, my brethren, that much good will result if you will attend and help us. 

I think this fairly represents the situation, and it is not necessary to en upon it. May God bless us and help us to do His will, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder George Hamlin then recited, "New Century Sonnets." 

The Juvenile choir of the Granite Stake sang, 

"Let us all press on in the work of the Lord." 

Prof. Evan Stephens, in explaining methods in teaching the little ones, comprising this choir, and also the youths that constituted the choir that rendered the previous exercises of the evening, stated that those present constituted but about one-half of the full classes from which they were taken. They had received lessons only since about the first of the year, one lesson per week, to which they had come through mud and slush, in various kinds of weather. He thought they were a fair representation of the classes, and showed what might readily be done in other rural stakes of Zion, outside of the cities, by those who were willing and able to work in this direction. He stated that about one dozen earnest active workers, who had taken an excellent course in the Chorister's class in the Latter-day Saints' University, were about to return to their various homes in the several stakes, and these should be given work in this line of most profitable service to our young people. He said, further: 

"We are aiming, with the smaller people, to teach them songs that will appeal strongly to them from the standpoint of sentiment. The "Cause of Truth" is not taken hit or miss, but with an aim. Another song we sing is "Have Courage, My Boy, to say No." That also tells its own story. The other one, to be given this evening, is "Whispering Hope." Outside of the sentiment, we try to teach them to sing parts, that is, to learn to harmonize at once in part singing, and in this all the class is taught to sing alto, and all the class is taught to sing treble. I want to say this, that children should not be kept singing one part alone. In order to develop our little ones as they ought to be developed, they should sing alto and treble alternately, so that the voice will have proper practice through the whole range from the top to the bottom, and for this reason we do not select certain ones for altos, for they are all altos and all trebles; and we hope that as soon as they have grown up, there will be no need of training them into the singing of parts for they have grown up to it. Some have complained about the little boys being allowed to sing too high. We have some here singing up to what we call high G. I claim there is no danger in having them sing high, provided they are taught to sing softly. 

For the purpose of exhibiting his method, Prof. Stephens had all the choir sing alto the first verse, the second verse all sang treble, and the third verse, the north half sang treble and the south half all sang alto. In the piece, rendered later in the exercises, he had the reverse sides sing alto and treble. 

PRESIDENT F. M. LYMAN. 

The exercises of the children from Granite stake, in their singing, is quite a surprise to me, and a delight. I have no doubt the musical people connected with the Sunday Schools throughout Zion will profit by the example set us tonight, so that the talents of the young people may be utilized to the very best advantage. We are wonderfully blessed with talent in this line throughout the Church, and we have not only the talent, but we have the love and appreciation also of the labors of such men as Professor Stephens, and we are very anxious — I am sure the General Board is very anxious — that all may be made that can be made of the musical talent with which the Lord has blessed His people; for singing, and good singing particularly, is heavenly. 

There is hardly any soul so dull or indifferent as to not appreciate choice singing. The world delights in it, as well as the Saints. It is an accomplishment that will adorn the Latterday Saints throughout the world, and I have no doubt but that we shall excel  it as one of the important features of the Sunday School cause. I have felt that our Sunday School work is superior, possibly, to that accomplished by any other people. We are not a very numerous people, but the Sunday School work that has been organized and developed within the last 40 years produces what we see here tonight. Nothing like this is to be seen in the world so far as I know; such a body, of possibly eight to nine thousand people, gathered together here, interested in the Sunday School cause, workers and pupils, a whole commuunity, their hearts beating warmly towards this cause. In it, by these associations and organizations, the spirit of the Gospel is cultivated. Music is refining; and it is introduced into the homes, until we find that in every home in Zion, whether there be musical instruments or not, but the voices will be trained, and our children will be singers, the musical talent will be developed delightfully; and what is more pleasant than to hear children sing, singly and also collectively? What is there more cheerful in a home and in our social gatherings? I know of nothing that cheers the heart and elevates the sentiment of the soul of men or women equal to the musical sentiment and talent, if it is cultivated. How pleasant it is, where we have a mother who can sing, a father who can sing, brothers that can sing, sisters that can sing! I think we cannot devote too much attention and time to the cultivation of the musical talent with which the Lord has endowed us. I appreciate that the Sunday School is developing this art more extensively and generally throughout our communities, until the Latter-day Saints will be recognized as the musical people of the world, the most 'remarkable community for musical talent; and the world will be delighted, as they are now. They come to us, and we go to them with our music. The Tabernacle choir, under the direction of Prof. Stephens, has made a sensation throughout the United States, and it is anticipated that they will do so beyond the bounds of the United States. I hope they will. And I hope that the Lord will bless Prof. Stephens, and bless those who follow in his footsteps, and take up the labor that he has suggested now, and that has been taken up, for there are many among us, many others. Prof. Stephens is not the only one. He has possibly been the leading feature or factor in this line, but there are others whose hearts and souls arc just as musical as is Brother Stephens' heart and soul, and we want to avail ourselves of the talent that we have and accomplish everything that can bo done to produce joy in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. 

The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters. I do not feel that I ought to occupy your time. But may the Lord bless you and may we sustain and encourage our young children and those who have musical talents to develop those talents until we shall rejoice exceedingly in it before the Lord. I am sure that the Lord is pleased with this effort and labor; I am sure that the Lord is pleased with the General Sunday School board and with the labors of the people, I am sure that He rejoices therein, and the angels will be delighted with the music that will be made by the children of the Latter-day Saints. 

May that spirit and inclination increase in our hearts, now and forever. I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Juvenile choir of the Granite Stake then sang, 

"Have Courage, my boy, to say No." 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Observing this choir of children, it would not appear that Zion is growing less, and it would seem to me, too, that so long as we can preserve with us Brother Stephens and a few others of his associates who are engaged in this glorious work of teaching music, both to the adults and to the children, a desire and love for the musical will also increase in the midst of our people. I feel that the parents of these little children owe much to the effort of Brother Stephens in his labor of love, in teaching them how to sing and developing 

 talent for music which lies dormant within them and needs but the instruction, the teaching.the guiding hand and voice of Brother Stepnens to develop the talent that they have. 

It delights my heart to see our little children learning to sing, and to see thf. people, our neoole everywhere, improving their talenis as gcod singers. Everywhere we go among our people, we find sweet voices and talent for music. I believe that this is a manifestation to us of the purpose of the Lord in this direction toward our people, that they will excel in these things, as they should excel in every other good thing. 

I do not arise to make any special remarks. I feel gratified at seeing this vast concourse of people here this evening, interested in this Sunday School work, and I hope, my brethren and sisters, that you and all of us may continue to keep awake our interest in the Sunday School cause. It is a very important branch of our spiritual work, the training of our little ones, the training of our Sunday School children and all parents should take a deep interest in this work, and should not spare any pains in making ready and in giving encouragement to their children to attend the Sunday schools. 

God bless you as teachers and as Latter-day Saints, as fathers and as mothers of these precious little children who have been given to us to succeed us, eventually, in the great labor of building up Zion in the latter-day. Bring them up in the way that they should go that they will not depart from that way when th?y g ow old; and if you will only see to it carefully that your children are ta' ght in the ways of righteousness, that they are brought up in the paths of virtue and peace and honor, God will magnify you before the nations of the world, and His work will be hastened in its time. 

God bless you and all who are associated in the work of the Sabbath schools, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. I am pleased to see this large congregation, all interested in the good work of the Sunday school. 

I believe that all have been pleased who have been here this evening to witness what we have seen Brother Stephens do with his choir. We sang, "If there's sunshine in the heart." "We want to put sunshine into the hearts of our children. Our Sunday School is a splendid place for this, and by teaching our children singing we will do one part toward it, but especially by the good teaching that is given. In the Sunday School we lay the foundation for our children to always be in a condition that they may have sunshine in their hearts. We want to instil in their hearts and lives a love for  beautiful, a love for music and everything that tends to elevate. This is the good work in which you, brethren and sisters, are engaged. 

May the Lord prosper you in your work, give you much joy therein, and may you see the children of Zion grow up strong in faith and in the love of God, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The children's choir of the Granite stake then sang, "Whispering Hope." Benediction by Elder John B. Maiben. 
