Overflow
03 04 1904



ELDER NEPHI L. PRATT. 

(President of Northwestern States Mision.) 

I arise to speak to this congregation in fear and trembling. I hope, while we are together this afternoon, that we will be blessed with the Holy Spirit in great abundance, that we may be comforted, and have our faith strengthened, and be instructed as the Lord would  us, that when we leave this meeting, at its conclusion, we may feel we have been fed with the bread of life. 

I do not know of a time when, in the beginning of a conference, I have felt happier or more satisfied in my soul than this morning, in listening to the inspired discourses of the brethren. My heart was made to rejoice exceedingly. I felt that to be with the Lord, to feel His power resting upon us, even for one or two hours, as it did in the meeting in the tabernacle this morning, was better than a life-time spent in gratifying ambition, or having the pleasures that the world can give. 

I could not help thinking of the situation of the wicked, those in the world who are without the light and knowledge of the truth. I thought also of the authority and power that rests upon the servants of God, by which this people are led and instructed from time to time. My heart glorifies God that we are so blessed, in the midst of a world of people filled with unbelief, and I wondered why we have been selected out of all the world, and that there are so few of us, fortunate ones chosen to perform the particular work of the Lord in the earth. When President Lund was speaking this morning, he directed our minds to tne glorious future in which we hope to obtain life everlasting. I thought, as I looked over the congregation and saw the white-headed men that are among us, how youth is slipping away from me, and from thousands who, a few yeas ago, had brown or black hair, bright eyes and straight bodies. I looked upon these people today and thought of how mankind, in our present state, in a world of sorrow, sin and death, is subjected to the ordeal of gradually losing brightness of eye, straightness of form, elasticity of step, the dignified carriage of youth or middle age, and becomes old and decrepit; and I thought, where is there an individual among men, in any nation or country, who would not give the crown of a king, if it were his to give, to possess the eternal life and power that was described in this morning's discourse, by our brother who spoke up the resurrection of the dead, to have the vigor and power to eternally live and be all that a man is in this world when he is at his best. That would surely be a boon to be sougrit for. If there were a fountain anywhere in this world from which men could drink and have restored to them the faculties of youth, or of middle age, and nave eternal life, kings would give up their thrones for such a boon; the rich would cast their riches down as nothing, and give all in exchange for life everlasting, even on a world like this. Millions of people would drag themselves across a continent, on their hands and knees, to drink at such a fountain. All mankind would seek it with diligence; it would be the one aim of their lives, as they increased in years, to get to where they might drink at the fountain of eternal life. "Mormonism" tells us about the fountain of eternal life. "Mormonism," if lived here, will improve the powers we have on this earth, and will give us a life that is many fold better, a life of eternal companionship with those with whom we have joyfully associated in this world. Think of Joseph Smith the Prophet being resurrected from the grave, and President Young, and Heber C. Kimball, and other mighty men we have become acquainted with. "Where could we find greater or better associations than with these Saints? Where could we obtain better companionship in this life than that which God has given us in our association with the Saints? God has given to us vitality and power in our organized capacity, that is the wonder and admiration of the world; our destiny will be envied by intelligent people. 

In the Northwestern States mission, our meetinghouses are being filled, where, a short time ago, all the advertising we could do would not bring together "a baker's dozen." In o lr street meetings we almost block up the traffic sometimes in some of the larger cities. The work of God is growing, out there where we are. Thousands of people hear the Gospel now who pre did not pay any attention to it. There seems to be a spirit resting upon the people that causes anxiety in some, and in others curiosity, to hear us. They hear the Gospel preached and feel the spirit of inspiration, and many, like sheep when they lick salt, want to come again, and the work is growing. The newspaper men, formerly, would not print or publish anything about us that we furnished them, but would go to our enemies, like those who went to the enemies of Jesus Christ in ancient times, and obtain garbled stories about us; now they come to us for information. They seem now to prefer to get information direct from us about "Mormonism" and the Gospel; and, strange as it may appear, they publish the truth about us, and publish interviews as they are given, not distorting and changing the facts as they used to do. It is no sign we are apostatizing, because they speak well of us; we know we are not because we enjoy the Spirit, and aie being fought hard by the ministers. Whenever we have a good degree of success we always have a river of slander coming, like a stream of filth, from the mouths of sectarian ministers and preachers. Well, we don't care; it does not hurt us. 

Brethren and sisters, we feel like going on in the work of God; my whole heart is in it. If we left it where co i Id we go? We will stay with it, God being our helper, and be faithful to it, and do good to our fellow-men, no matter what they do to us. We will carry the Gospel to the various nations of the earth, and build up Zion at home. If we do this, and live righteous lives, the Lord will never forsake us. The day will come when the angel of God will sound his trump, when our bodies will be released from decrepitude, when old age will be thrown aside like a garment, and eternal life, eternal felicity, and eternal association with the Lord and with our loved ones will be o irs. That we mav have the blessings of God to be and abide with us forever is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER ASAHEL H. WOODRUFF, (President of Northern States mission.) 

My brethren and sisters^ I sincerely trust that I may enjoy your prayers of faith to assist me during the few moments that I shall address you upon this occasion. 

I appreciate, to the fullest extent, this privilege accorded us of coming up to Zion occasionally, and looking into the faces of the servants of God and listening to their voices, because they speak unto us the words of eternal life. 

Like the brother who preceded me, my soul was made to rejoice in listening to the words uttered by the inspired servants of God in our meeting this morning, in the Tabernacle. I felt to saj- in my heart, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, to guide us in these latter days," to point out that road which will lead us to the perfection that our Father in heaven has admonished us, through His Son, to strive for. I realize, and have a testimony to bear, that by following the teachings given to us, by the mouthpiece of God on the earth, we will be able to reach that condition. It is not possible for us, by following man's wisdom, to attain that condition. Man does not know the perfection of God; all the things necessary for us to do to reach that condition have not yet been revealed to us. Jesus Christ so informed His Disciples, when He labored among them. The people of the world have made a mistake in supposing that all God ever intends to do or say, for the advancement and welfare of His children, has been said and is recorded in the Bible. But Jesus did not leave this impression, as we will find by studying the Gospel and the sayings of the Savior. It was not possible for His disciples to absorb and comprehend all things He desired to teach them, and so he said to them upon one occasion: "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth; for he shall not speak of him; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come." 

We are a blessed people in that we have realized the promise made to the children of men, that those who do the will of the Father shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which is a guide to our feet and a light to our path. We are a blesed people in that we have at our head today those who are clothed upon with the Spirit of the Lord, and who speak not as the scribes but as those having authority. I thank God, my brethren and sisters, that I live in a day and time when we have a prophet to guide us. 

Unfortunately, the people of the world persist in misunderstanding the Latter-day Saints; they persist in misunderstanding "Mormonism" and what it intends to do for the world of mankind. In their blindness, they have attempted in times past, and are attempting at the present time, to bring all the powers of the adversary to overthrow and frustrate the work of God, which He has established upon the earth in these the last days. I presume that, among the enemies of this work, there are those who fancy there is trembling of knees and failing of spirit on the part of those who have espoused this cause. They vainly imagine that the experiences we have been passing through, and the persecution which has and is still being hurled against us, will result in the overthrow of this work. If we were not assured in our hearts that we are engaged in the work of God, a work which has as its object the blessing of mankind, not an individual work; that we are not pursuing our own selfish desires, that our position in the world is not our own choosing, independent of a higher power — if we did not know for a surety that we are a people chosen from the world for a special purpose, that God has chosen us, as He did people in days that are past, to be special instruments in carrying out His purposes upon earth, there might be some reason for the feeling to which I referred. There is no doubt in the minds of the Latter-day Saints 

ELDER ASAHEL 

as to the final outcome of this work. They have received testimony upon testimony to the effect that God is at the helm; they know that the efforts of those who understand us not will be in vain, as in times past. It is the consciousness of the rectitude of our intentions that buoys us up under all these things, and in the face of all the trials and persecutions that, as a people, we are now and have been in times gone by called upon to pass through. 

As Latter-day Saints, we take a peculiar view of life. We look upon our present existence as a season of trial, a probation, in which we are gaining experience', and learning those lessons that will enable us to advance and increase in knowledge and power in th<: presence of God, and that will entitle us to be numbered among His jewels, when He shall come to gather them unto Himself. "We 'regard our condition here as similar to being away from home. We have left our Father and Mother in heaven, become self-exiled from the associations of our primeval existence, and have come down here on earth in obedience to the will of God, for a wise purpose He has in view. We do not look upon life as a pleasure ground, as a holiday, we look upon it as a school, in which we are engaged learning lessons that will fit and quailfy us for the presence of our Father in heaven, when we go hence. We do not believe we have any time to fritter away and waste, or to spend in the pursuit of pleasure, or following delusive fantasms and things that lead from the grand purpose of existence on the earth; we believe that our time and talents and all that we have and are, ought to be dedicated to the service of the Lord, and that we should try, to the best of our ability, to carry out His purposes concerning us, here on earth. It matters not what people say of us, if we have a conscience void of offense towards God and man. If we know we are persecuted for righteousness sake, it matters not, we can rejoice that we are thus privileged. I do not believe it proves 

H. WOODRUFF. 23 

that a people are wicked or corrupt because they are made to suffer. I believe the people of the world will yet find out there is such a thing as suffering for righteousness sake. I believe the Savior spoke the truth when He said: "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad; for great is your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." It matters not that our accusers, those who find fault with our religious belief and principles, are the fashionable, the educated and cultured of the world; Jesus Christ was accused by such. He was brought to judgment by law, and His accusers were the high and grand among men, Scribes and Pharisees, who offered long prayers in public places, to be heard of men, who were careful in the observance of outward forms and ceremonies, "righteous" men! men who were in such condition that they could not cast the first stone at the woman taken in adultery.but who were grieved in spirit because Jesus went about "uttering blasphemy" by saying he was the Son of God. Those were the influences, the kind of witnesses, and testimony that were brought to' bear against Jesus of Nazareth, which brought about His conviction, and death of ignominy upon the cross. The lawyers of today tell us that His death was a judicial murder; so we see, my brethren and sisters, it is possible for the law to be wrong. It is sometimes possible for a few people to be in the right and the rest of mankind in the wrong. It is possible for people to have to submit to an erroneous human law. 

The Saints of God are required to prove themselves, by retaining the testimony of Jesus Christ in the face of persecutions and affliction. We have been charged with being an immoral people. We frequently meet this in our labors in the missionary field; but if intelligent individuals will consider the history of this people they will And a refutation of the charge in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. Surely those were not immoral people who put their wives and children into covered wagons crossed fifteen hundred miles of unexplored country, exposed to dangers and hardships incident to the settling of a new and wild country, and to savage beasts and savage human beings! It is not the practice of immoral people to pursue the arduous avocations and exhibit the self-sacrificing characteristics orur people have. We know it is not the sin and wickedness of the world that our maligners are fighting. It is the Church and kingdom of God that is being assailed, and that, too, in a land of liberty, in the land of Washington, the land of Jefferson, the land of patriots, who fought, bled and died that they might hand down to us, their descendants in many instances, the priceless boon of religious liberty. We resent in our feelings this condition; the inconsistency of the position of many people of the world. We claim the right to enjoy religious liberty, and adhere to the declaration of the patriots that this land should, as intended, be a land where all might worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, as long as they do not infringe upon the rights or liberties of their fellowmen. I am at the defiance of the world to prove that the Latter-day Saints have ever infringed upon the rights of others. They have been persecuted and trodden upon for their religion's sake, but they are willing that other people shall enjoy their convictions in this regard. We will try to treat all mankind as brothers and sisters. We will treat them as fellow-citizens until they prove themselves unworthy. But we do not propose to shake hands with the devil, so to speak, to show how liberal and generous we are. We have nothing to do with him nor his ways, for he fell and was cast out, with other rebellious spirits, and he became the devil. He and his host of unembodied spirits, if they could have had their way, would have compelled men to follow their course, and do as they directed, but that was not according to the plan of our Father in heaven. He designed that we should all enjoy religious lib, and be free moral agents unto ourselves; and it is because we insist upon this principle, and this rule, that we have, in a measure, become obnoxious in the jsight of our fellow-men. The devil is not dead, by any means, nor his hosts, but he is "continually going up and down in the earth seeking whom he may devour," as the Scriptures say, putting it into the hearts of one class to persecute another class of people, and trying to draw men from virtue to vice and to bring them down to death. It is necessary for us to be true to our covenants, and to teach the world what "Mormonism" really is, that it is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored to the earth in the day and time in which we live. 

We have every reason, my brethren and sisters, to feel encouraged in the work in which we are engaged. The word of our Father in heaven has been declared that this Church, which is the embryo of the kingdom that* will come and govern during the millennium, shall not be overthrown or given to another people. We do not need to look forward with such uncertainty as the early Saints, who were taught by the Apostles that an apostasy would take place. It is different in our time, for we have the assurance, through the prophets of God, that this work shall not be overthrown, whether we, as individuals, fall or not, the work of God will continue. Now, I pray that the blessings of the Lord will continue with us during the meetings of our conference and that we may go away much refreshed and strengthened. May God add His blessing; I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON, 

(President of California mission.) For the few moments I shall stand before you, my brethren and sisters, I sincerely desire your prayers of faith, for one of the hardest things in my experience has been to speak to the Saints of God. I am not afraid of the people of the world, because we have a message to bear to them. We can tell them of the revealed Gospel, that God has set 

His hand to reclaim His chosen people from the four corners of the earth, that His kingdom has been set up in these the last days, never more to be thrown down or given to another people. We can tell them of the gifts, of the officers and of the ordinances of the Church. We can tell them that God has again revealed Himself to men in the flesh, and that He has sent His angels with messages of great joy for the salvation of the souls of men. This is new and strange to them, but to the Saints of God, who have grown familiar with these teachings, it seems that it is like "carrying coal to Newcastle" for me to speak to you upon these things. I know that the Gospel is true. I feel in every fibre of my being that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was His prophet, and was the agent in the hands of God in establishing His work in the last days, never more to be thrown down or given to another people, although we may fall individually, as my brother has said. 

I rejoice in mingling with my brothers and sisters. There is nothing dearer to the heart of the missionary, it seems to me, than to come to Zion and commune with the Saints, and hear the testimonies and receive the instructions of those who are called to preside, those men who are the living oracles of God upon the earth. My heart was lifted up in praise, and my courage was strengthened in the testimonies borne this morning by the First Presidency of this Church, in the message of peace and good will unto all men, which should characterize the efforts of every Latter-day Saint, and particularly the missionary. Like Isaiah of old I felt to say: 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! 

"Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice- with the voice together shall thev sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion. 

We live in that day and age, my brothers and sisters. The Lord has  His children from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south, even every one that is called by His name, and has brought them and established them, as foreseen of old, in the tops of the mountains, where the house of God has been erected, that the fulfillment of the promise made of old, that the hearts of the children should be turned to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children, might be realized; that this Gospel should come in its fulness, and that a full fruition of all the promises of the ancient prophets might be realized in this generation and link the dead past with the present, reach out into the future and make the children of God one in the knowledge of the Gcspel, enjoying its fruits and realizing its promises. 

These men who have been called to preside are the oracles that keep us in the straight and narrow way. If it were not for them it wo dd not be long before we would be in the same condition as the people of the world: we would forget the plan of salvation; we wo'dd change the ordinances and transgress the law; we would be left in darkness; we would be leaders of the blind. When men tell us that the Scriptures are complete and contain all that is necessary for salvation, I would ask: Why, then, do men in this d;iy — men who profess to be scribes and scholars, who have been tutored in the seminaries of the land to be teachers of the word of God to the people— why do they differ as to the rendit'on of those Scriptures? Why will some tell us that belief alone in the Lord Jesus Christ is su;ticient to save us, and others just as well educated, just as well housed as to their places of worship, just as pop ilar among the people and with a following iMst as large, wiK say it is necessary that men should be baptized? Then, again those who agree upon the necessity of baptism differ as to how it should be performed, whether it should be by sprinkling, by pouring or by immersion, and others will say: We we'come you into our faith and will administer this ordinance in any form you desire it. If the canon of Scriptures is full, and it is not necessary to have other teachings along this line, to make things plain nor to have living oracles, why this disparity in the teachings of the scribes and scholars, and those who, like the Jewish scholars of old, have been instructed in colleges of learning, and yet differ as to these things? Who will tell us definitely from the Scrip tures, and settle the controversy, as to who can perform marriages and how i! should be done? For whatever the Lord God doeth, we are told, is forever. Who among the Christian ministers will dare to perform a marriage for time and all eternity? and yet God gave, by the hands of His prophets, wives unto His servants, and it was forever. Tell us who should partake of the sacrament, whether it should be the Priest alone, the close communicant, or all the people. Tell us upon what day we should worship; should it be upon the Sabbath of the Jew (Saturday), or Sunday, the day of the Lord, as observed by the Christian churches? Tell us, if the canon of scripture is full, who has the authority to minister in the rites of baptism, of which we have been speaking, whether it should be the Deacon, or the Priest, or the Elder. It is not necessary, regarding these ordinances and rituals of the Gospel, that God should reveal the way, and make it clear to His people how these things should be done? These men in the world, who would teach us, have the Bible, and many of them have studied it closely, and are converted largely to its teachings, and yet there is all this diversity of opinion regarding these things. 

Recently I was at the Stanford University, and upon the bulletin board there I read a proposition like this, which was to be debated upon: "Resolved that a new religion, for all men and for all time, should be established for the human race." Down in the city of Los Angeles I observed a new structure going up, bearing the name of "The Church of the New Christian Re." I thought to myself that the people of the earth, those outside of our own Church, feel the necessity of living oracles, else why debate this question? else why establish a church called the new Christian religion? If the principles that were set forth by Christ and His Apostles were maintained in their purity, and completeness, there would be no need to establish such a church, nor to debate such a question; for the . Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. It does not deal with the past alone, nor with the uncertain future, but with the living issues of today. Within it is that agency that will uplift and save humanity in every land and clime, if they will but heed its teachings. There is nothing that the heart of man can conceive of, that is desirable and good, that is not included in the Gospel. There has been no system of ethics evolved that parallels the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, as contained in the fulness of the Gospel. Despite the scattered truths that were revealed by Christ, and the great men of the earth since His days, those who have spent years in writing ethical truths have never been able to eclipse the old pagan fathers of Greece, who knew not the Lord Jesus Christ, nor His teachings, and they have never evolved a better scheme for the evolution of mankind, to bring them to a plane of perfection. It takes the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to do this thing; but the people of God are in the minority, as they have ever been since the earth was organized, apparently, for no sooner did Adam and Eve commence to beget sons and daughters than there were those who strove against the righteous and the righteousness of the law. Although Goa had instructed Adam not only in His word and in the plan of life and salvation, as we can see from the scriptures, but also in the art of agriculture, how to prune and dress the vine, how to clothe their own bodies, and how to live, yet, notwithstanding this, Adam's sons re against the truth, and one of them put to death righteous Abel. Even in the time of Noah, despite the fact that there were many great men, such as Jared, Laraech, Cainan, Methuselah and Enoch, who heard the testimony of father Adam— and one of them, Enoch, had walked with God for 320 yearsyet the majority of the people in that day turned a deaf ear to the word of God. Noah labored with them upwards of 120 years to convert them to the testimony of their fathers. Many of them, doubtless, had a knowledge of the Lord, and knew that He had appeared and talked with men, and yet how few received his testimony. Well, after this time, we find that even Abraham had to flee from his father's household, and from the idols his father worshiped, and go into a strangs land and among a strange people to receive the Priesthood of the fathers— which, by right, belonged to him— that he, too, might worship the Lord God, according to the dictates of his conscience, free and untrammeled from the superstitions and unjust laws of his father's household. It was not the majority even, that believed after the miraculous manifestations of the Lord in Egypt. Although He brought His people from that land and overturned, one by one, the gods of the Egyptians, what a short time it was after Moses was removed from them that they forgot God, and returned to the worship of the Egyptian god, Ammon, symbolized by the calf made by Aaron and his brother, and, as a result, the wrath of God prevented all, save two, from going in to the promised land. Take the history of the prophets later: They were subjected to insults and injuries, and many of them were put to death by the people who said we have no need of prophets, we have Moses for our prophet and have no need of thee. This history was repeated in the days of the Savior who called the people to account because they embellished the sepulchers of the prophets, but stoned to death the living prophets. It was the Savior who said to the people of His own country who were offended at him: "A prophet  not without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house." He was put to death, and His Apostles, save one, were all put to death because of the testimony they bore,, and that, too, largely by those who were looked upon as the wise of the earth, students and scholars of the law. In this day and generation, while history has repeated itself, by us being in the minority and our prophet and his brother and many of the Saints being put to death for the testimony of Jesus, the promise is made unto us that in this day the Gospel will continue, as you heard by the mouth of the Prophet of God this morning, until every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, when there shall be none to hurt or make afraid in all God's holy mountain. I say, may God hasten the day, and may He help us so to live, my brethren and sisters, that people abroad may sense the fact that our desires are to uplift humanity, that "Mormonism" has revealed unto us that plan, that system, that scheme that will save mankind, being the truth which makes men free. 

I remember one of my experiences upon a railroad train, in speaking to a well traveled lady, a scholar, too, upon some of the ethics of the day. She had been reading from Browning's "Rabbi Ben Ezra," or "The Story of Life," on the opportunities of men. She dwelt largely upon its beauties and the possibilities which it held out to men to become Godlike. Without telling her who I was, I elaborated upon and explained to her the belief of the Latterday Saints regarding the opportunities and talents that God has endowed us with, telling her that inherent within us are the attributes of Deity, and that we only lack the time and opportunity to develop these things to become like the Father. As I dwelt upon this subject at some length, she became greatly enthused, and, having learned my name, she said: "O, Mr. Robinson, I think a man who entertains such philosophy as you do must be able to reach out into the infinite, and clasp hands with the Creator, and be lifted away from the things of this mundane sphere; that there is nothing mean or low that a man who has such grand ideals could stoop to do." She talked in this way and looked at me rather curiously, and at last I asked her if she would not like to know what school of philosophy I belonged to. She said she would, and I told her that I was an Elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly called "Mormons." She exclaimed, "O, horror! horror! I would not have sat there if I had known that." After a while, when she had to get off the train, having considerable baggage, I proffered my assistance, and she accepted it, but I told her that before I would help her off I would like to ask her a question or two. "Why is it that when I told you of the philosophy of the evolution of man along the lines of right, and all that is good and legitimate, that you praised it as the grandest philosophy you ever heard of, and said it was soul-satisfying and elevating, and that it lifted men above the mundane things of this sphere, and then when I told you that this was the philosophy of the 'Mormon' people you turned away from me in disgust and derision." "Well," she said, "Mr. Robinson, it is such a horrid name; why can't you call yourselves something else?" I rejoice in the name we bear, my brethren and sisters, that of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Have you ever thought of the fact that, out of the hundreds of churches and isms in the world, ours is the only one that bears the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that even nineteen hundred years after the Savior's time upon the earth? Of all the churches I have heard of, and we have a great many in California, the one that came the nearest to that name was an independent church on Broadway, in Los Angeles, called "the independent Church of Christ" — not the Church of Jesus Christ. 

I rejoice in the Gospel and in the opportunities that it holds out to us, and in the assurance it gives me that we shall live, as spoken of by Brother 

Pratt this afternoon, and be clothed upon with eternal youth and everlasting life, associate with our loved ones, and answer the full end of our creation; that all of the grand ideals, all of the hopes and ambitions that are God-like in this life shall be met with a full complement, and be realized to the fullest extent in the life to come, and we shall rule and reign forever with Jesus Christ, our Lord. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and help us to realize these things, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir then sang, "Count Tour Many* Blessings." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

I am ready to confess that I am keyed up to a pretty high tension, and the only thing I am afraid of is that I will say just what I think, which would be unwise, no doubt. 

I feel a good deal, or at least I imagine I do, like a man does when held up by a burglar and he is looking into the muzzle of a six-shooter. I would quietly and willingly hold my hands up, but during the time would think very profoundly of what I would do if given my liberty. We are in a similar position today, but all the men in the United States cannot prevent a man from thinking. There are not Apostles enough in the Church to prevent us from thinking, and they are not disposed to do so; but some people fancy because we have the Presidency and Apostles of the Church they will do the thinking for us. There are men and women so mentahy lazy that they hardly think for themselves. To think calls for effort, which makes some men tired and wearies their souls. Now, brethren and sisters, we are surrounded with, such conditions that it requires not only thought, but the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Latter-day Saints, you must think for vourselves. No man or woman can remain in this Church on borrowed light. I am a strong believer in the following statement made by my father in the House of the Lord in 1856 

"We think we are secure in the chambers of the everlasting hills, but the time will come when we will be so mixed up that it will be difficult to tell the face of a Saint from the face of an enemy to the people of God. Then, brethren, look out for the great sieve, for there will be a great sifting time, and many will fall; for I say unto you there is a test, a test, a TEST coming, and who will be able to stand?" 

I think we are able to decide thpse matters for ourselves, through the grace and favor of the Lord. We ought to know where we stand. There are a multitude of thoughts springing up into the minds of the people regarding our present condition, and as for myself, I believe if we, as Latter-day Saints, those of us who have a testimony, will testify that Jesus is the Christ and Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, it will bring us all the trouble we can stand. At least, that has been my experience. Our special mission and calling is to see to it that all peoples and nations hear the glad tidings of great joy. Personally, I have no feelings against the Gentiles and those who are not of our faith, and I can say it honestly, thanking the Lord that T am broad minded enough to carry the olive branch in my hand and preach the Gospel of peace to the nations of the earth; but when it comes to apostates and our own people lifting up their voices against us, I tell you there is not influence enough to restrain me from rebuking them. I am not willing to fold my hands and stand silently by and hear apostates abuse our leaders and people. Why? Because they know better. They have been taught, nurtured and warmed at our hearths, and they know they falsify the truth. I will say to the Latter-day Saints, I have no use for a traitor, unless he will speedily repent of that great sin. I do not believe the Lord will give to a traitor salvation, unless he repents. The people of these United States have no use for a traitor. The Masons have no earthly use for them, neither have the Methodists, Baptists, or any other Christian people, and I join them in the cry against traitors and those that love and make lies. 

I will now read to you a few words from the sayings of the Prophet of the Lord, at a meeting held in Nauvoo, Illinois, July 2nd, 1839, with the Twelve Apostles and some of the Seventies who were about to go on their missions to EuroDe. 

"O ye Twelve!" said Joseph, "and all Saints! Profit by this important key— that in all your trials, troubles, temptations, afflictions, bonds, imprisonments, and death, see to it, that you do not betray heaven; that you do not betray Jesus Christ; that you do not betray the brethren; that you do not betray the revelations of God, whether in the Bible, Book of Mormon, or Doctrine & Covenants, or any other that ever was or ever will be given and revealed unto man in this world, or that which is to come. Yea, in all your kicking and floundering, see to it that ye do not this thing, lest innocent blood be found on your skirts, and you go down to hell. All other sins are not to be compared to sinning against the Holy Ghost, and proving a traitor to thy brethren." 

I pray God to bless you, my brothers and sisters. I wish there was more time for us to speak to the people. I say to you, as a servant of the Lord and as a watchman upon the towers, it is high time that we were looking up. I tell you, if there is anything on earth that we need in the Church, in this day in which we live, it is not money or temporal power, it is a spiritual uplifting, and it must take place in Zion, or else there will be a falling away. 

Now, brothers and sisters, in your comments and conversations and in expressing your views, see to it that you do not express yourselves thoughtlessly before the rising generation; don't pass your opinion too quickly.and by doing so cause the young people to fall away from the Church, for they have not received the testimonies that you have. You have a great mission to perform at home. See to it that you do not "lift up the heel against the Lord's annointed," crying out that they have transgressed, for the Lord says, "those who cry transgression, do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves." 

May the Lord bless, direct and pros per this people, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID H. CANNON, (President of St. George Temple). 

I have rejoiced in listening to the testimonies of the brethren who have preceded me this afternoon, and in the words of counsel and admonition we rereceived from the Prophet of the Lord and His counselors, in the meeting of the conference held this morning. I desire that, during the few moments I shall occupy, my utterances may be under the guidance of the Spirit of God, because this is His work with which wa have become identified. 

I was very pleased with the remarks of President Kimball, in regard to being true to the Gospel, and to the obligations we have assumed in connection with this great latter-day work. I remember meeting a man wno had been diligent during his early experience in the Church, who had been valiant in testimony regarding the principles of the Gospel that God had revealed for the redemption of His people. This man left the Church, after having been faithful to the Gospel for many years. I asked him how it was that he had lost the testimony. He said he could not say, that he was just as sincere after he denied the faith as he was at the time he was preaching the Gospel. I met him again, a few years afterwards, when he was reunited with the Curch, and I asked him how he accounted for these changes. He told me that the cause of his apostasy was made known by the revelations of the Lord to him, and that it was because he had grieved the Spirit of tne Lord by talking against his brethren, men who were appointed to preside over him. He told me that President Young had inaugurated cooperation in temporal affairs, and that! it came in contact with his own preconceived ideas; that he murmured against President Young, and also against others of the servants of God,  the Spirit of God became grieved and by degrees withdrew from him, and he was left to himself. As he fell into darkness he neglected his duties, neglected to say his prayers and to live according to the requirements of the Gospel, until his mind became blank, the light that had shone within him before ceased, and he was an apostate. Subsequently the Lord touched his understanding, and caused him to realize his position; he then began to see if ha could not regain the light by humbling himself before the Lord and manifesting exceeding humility. By degrees, the Spirit returned to him, and the light in its glory, and the beauties of the Gospel, dawned upon his mind, and he again became faithful and diligent, and continued so until the time of hi9 death. Now, the light of the sun, when it illuminates the world, does not come suddenly, for we, with our natural eyes, would not be able to endure it. If you will arise early in the morning you will, probably, see the morning star preceding the daylight, then a glimmer of sunrise in the east, and, as time advances, the earth becomes bathed in an effulgence of light, and, by its coraJ ing gradually, we are able to endure it> Just so with the Gospel. The princi-' pies God has revealed for the redemption of His people do not manifest themselves to the people suddenly, but the man who conforms to the first principles, having faith in the Lord Jesus, repenting of his sins, going down into the water and being baptized for the remission of his sins, receives the Holy Ghost, which will lead him into al> truth. As he obeys the laws of the Gospel, and conforms to its sacred re-* quirements, his understanding of the Gospel broadens; but when he ceases to do right the light of truth begins to wane within him. As long as he proves faithful and diligent in the observance of the laws of God has revealed, that light continues to grow within him, and the Gospel satisfies his heart's desir* in the shape of religion; but when he becomes derelict in his duties, and begins to neglect his prayers, and speak evil of the  of God, criticising those who bear the Holy Priesthood who preside over him, then the light begins to wane again, and the Spirit of God withdraws until he is left entirely to himself. 

This work, my brethren and sisters, is the work of God. He has revealed it to bring mankind back into His pres-> ence. By strict obedience to its requirements we will have joy in our life and labors; when we neglect to conform t* its teachings, the reverse will be the result. Mav God enable us to comprehend properly the principles He has revealed, and to live by every word that proceedeth from His mouth, is my desire, through Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

I have very greatly rejoiced my brethern and sisters, in listening to the good words that have been spoken to us by our brethern this afternoon; I also rejoiced in listening to the testimonies and counsel that were imparted to us by the Presidency of the Church in the opening session of our conference. I have no doubt but what there was a feeling of joy and satisfaction in the hearts of all the Saints who were assembled together, in listening to the words that were spoken by President Smith and by his associates in the Presidency. We ought to be able, through the training we have received in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, to know the voice of the good shepherd and to follow him, and not be carried away by strange voices or by strange doctrines, by the ideas that are presented to us, from time to time, by those who are not of us. I think we must all have felt that we were listening to the voice of the good shepherd, that the inspiration of the Almighty actuated the brethren who stand at the head of the Church in the counsels that they imparted to us in our morning's session of the conference. We have within our own souls the understanding and knowledge that we are engaged in the work of our Father, a work that has been revealed from the heavens for the salvation of the human race, a work that has been spoken of by the mouths of all the holy prophets since  beginning of time, a work that was engaged in by the Redeemer of men when He dwelt for a little season in the flesh. 

Every man who bears a testimony, understandingly and truthfully, of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, knows that the knowledge he is in possession of has come to him by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, that it has been given by the revelations of the Father, and that he is not dependent upon man for a continuation of that knowledge. We depend, my brethren and sisters, upon the continuation of a knowledge of the Gospel, that we are in possession of, through keeping the commandments of God. Through keeping these commandments we can also depend upon the fulfilment of the promises made pertaining to the future. If we are to have a realization of the glorious things spoken of today it will be through attending to the duties and responsibilities that rest upon us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. We must live in the present and attend to our duties as they are made known to us, if we are to have the approval of our Father in Heaven, and if we desire to make our calling and election sure. God has pointed out the way whereby we can make our calling and election sure. 

Those who are not of us seem to think, sometimes, that it is a dreadful doctrine to teach that we should honor the Priesthood, as spoken of by some of the brethren today, that we should be careful not to lift up our voices in criticism of the authority of God, and that there is danger in pursuing a course of this character. It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that we ought easily to understand that, if God Almighty has spoken from the heavens, and has clothed men with His authority, and commanded them to magnify that authority in the midst of the peoples of the earth, He will expect the peoples of the earth to recognize and honor that authority, and especially require this of His Saints, who have a knowledge of the truth. That is a part of the responsibility that has come to us through the Gospel. While we do not believe we should worship men, or that there is anything in the Gospel that requires any man or woman to give undue or improper reverence 1 to any man, we do believe the Gospel requires that every soul shall recognize the authority God has established, and that they shall follow that authority. That has always been the case in every age of the world. Whenever God has had His authority upon the earth he has demanded this of the people; and He has abundantly blessed those who have hearkened to His counsel, and who have been true to His representatives. 

My brethren and sisters, let us take warning from the words that have been spoken. We should remember that the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is and always has been. "Peace on earth and good will to man," as stated by one of the First Presidency this morning. It is the mission of this great peoplenot the few men who are abroad in the world preaching the Gospel, nor just the few men who compose the Council of the Twelve, nor any other organization of the Priesthood alone — it is the mission of the entire people that their lives, their conversations and example shall declare to all the world we love peace. We have received the message of truth, and it is our mission to bear record to the divine will of our Father in heaven and preach the Gospel, that men may be saved. Our Father revealed in the very beginning of this work, as men became anxious to know the will of God concerning themselves, that the most important thing men could do was to cry repentance to the people, to teach the doctrines of the Gospel, and that if they labored through their entire lives and saved but one soul, great should be their reward and their joy in the kingdom of our Father. We need to save souls at home; we need to be doing things, to be laboring diligently, that our skirts may be clear, and that we may be justified. It is written in the revelations that we are not to wait to be commanded in all things. Sometimes we appear to think that the Bishop, or some other authority, should  labor for us, and that we are not to do anything unless we are instructed or appointed to do it. God has said: It is given to man, by his own agency, to seek to bring to pass much righeousness, of his own volition and of his own will, without commandment from any source; and he that waiteth to be commanded in all things is a slothful and an unwise steward. 

Now, we need to be doing the things that have been suggested to us today, and the things that will be suggested in the counsels that may be imparted to us in other meetings. By doing so we shall be firmly established in the everlasting Gospel, and no experiences can ever come to us then that will wrest us from the foundation upon which we stand, if we stand upon the foundation of obedience to the things of God we will always see the light and rejoice therein. There will be no fear in our hearts; for the Spirit of the Lord will be with us, and the Spirit of the Lord casteth out all fear. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may power be given unto us to be true and faithful to our covenants, and to each other, and to our Father in heaven, is my prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Love Everlasting," after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder Angus M. Cannon. 


