Afternoon
04 04 1904




ELDER WILLIAM McLACHLAN, (President of Pioneer Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters: In standing before you this afternoon I desire, above all other blessings, that the Spirit of the Lord may direct the words I shall utter. Forty-one years ago I became identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A few weeks later I received a testimony of the truth of this work. In tn e year 1862, in answer to prayer, with a very earnest desire to gather to this land, the Lord spoke to me by the power of His Spirit, and gave unto me a promise that I should have the privilege of gathering according to my desire the 

McLACHLAN. 45 

following year. With that word came the most positive and definite assurance that was ever given to man. I could not doubt the word that the Lord gave to me on that occasion, and it was fulfilled to the very letter, although I had much trouble and difficulty in accomplishing my wish. From that time to the present I have been a resident of Salt Lake City— that is, from October, 1863. I feel it is a great honor to be called to labor in any capacity in the work of the Lord. I realize very much my weakness and my inability to fill the call that has been made upon me, and the honor that has been bestowed upon me by the Priesthood of the Son of God. But I have been a worker, more or less, all my life, and my desire is to serve the Lord first, and then, if I am able, to serve the people with all the strength that God shall give me. I wish to devote my time, and the ability that God shall give me, under the inspiration of His Spirit, in laboring for the building up of this work and the spread of righteousness and truth in the earth." The pugilists of the present day talk about heavy, light and feather-weights; I feel that I am a feather-weight. But the Lord is just as willing to hear and answer the petitions of the humble and incapable as those who are competent, and blessed with great talents and ability. I feel it is the privilage of every man and woman who has entered into covenant with God to be just as good as the best. There is nothing to prevent all from being good. The man who has the greatest ability is not always the best man; but the man who is humble, who is willing to acknowledge the hand of God, and who will seek His aid in accomplishing the work that has been assigned him, will be blessed and prospered in that labor. It is with this confidence in God my eternal Father that I have accepted this honor that has been conferred upon me, and by and through His help I shall try and do my duty. 

May the blessing and peace of Heaven be upon the people of God. May the blessing of the Lord be upon their lands, upon their houses, and upon everything that pertains unto them, that we may become a united and a free people — free from sin and from stain of every kind, and live in harmony and peace tog-ether before God. This is my prayer and desire in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER NEtPHI L. MORRIS. (President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

T most sincerely desire I may be g-uided and influenced by the Holy Spirit in the few remarks I shall make to you upon this occasion. Like President McLaughlin, I feel very weak in this position to which I have just been called. I have endeavored during my life to discharge the duties which ware imposed upon me as a member of the Church of Christ, and I have learned that by humility and devotion to duty one may achieve somewhat of success. Without these qualities there is little hope of success. If my remarks are to be measured by my experience as a President of a Stake, they will be certainly very brief, for I was only set apart to this new appointment a little over a week ago. My duties thus far have consisted in signing a half dozen recommends or so, and the attending of banquets, so that my experience 5 s very limited. I feel, however, to accept, with meekness and with gratitude to God, the appointment which has been given me, and rely upon Him in the discharge of the duties pertaining to that calling. I am proud to be associated with the Church of Christ, and to have the fellowship of such men as surround me upon this occasion. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ; I am not ashamed of the members of the Church of Christ, and can look the world in the face and bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the work in which we are engaged. I know that we are a people called of God for a chosen purpose, to help uplift and save mankind. I know the world misunderstands us, and it is for our heavenly Father and ourselves to make our mission clear to the world. I know that we are maligned and misrepresented; but I have no fear of the lies  the world. They cannot hurt us. We are looked upon as being a fanatical lot of people — a people who have no high estimation of virtue, of honor, and of those qualities which go to make truly great disciples. But this is because the world do not understand the Latter-day Saints. It is lor us then, to make them understand us; and if they will but look upon us without prejudice they could not fail to appreciate the principles which animate our lives — the love of virtue and honor, and devotion to God. 

My most earnest prayer is that the Spirit of God may continue with His people, and that their lives may be characterized by unity, by devotion and sacrifice to him, and that he may qualify us by His Holy Spirit in the performance of all our duties, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD W. YOUNG. (President of Ensign Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters and friends: Of the fifty-odd Presidents of Stakes in this Church I am the very latest in point of ordination. I feel that I have not yet cut my teeth, and that I have not even learned how to talk. I have, however, in my mind some things which I think it would be fitting to mention, if the Spirit shall prompt me, and I pray that I may have it during the few minutes that I shall occupy your time. Like Brother Morris, and like practically all under the sound of my voice, I am proud to be numbered among the Latter-day Saints. I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, and the man does not live who is able to say that on any occasion whatever I have not been willing and, if the occasion were proper, anxious to declare my belief in the principles of what is called "Mormonism." I esteem it an honor to be associated with this people, despised and misunderstood though they are. I know their work, their faith, the sacrifices they have made, their honesty, their virtue, their aspirations and their hopes, and, as I say, I feel it an honor to have a standing in this Church and to be associated with this people. It is no new thing for the people of God to 

ELDER ELIAS 

be despised, to be despitefully used, and to be evilly and falsely spoken of. That has been the common lot of the people of God in all ages. If we are thought to be unpatriotic, we have but to turn back to the first few centuries after the time of Christ to behold a people who were persecuted by reason of their alleged lack of patriotism, and by reason of the accusation that they indulged in treasonable practices. It is reasonable I take it, that the churches of the world should have little sympathy with this church. We have come forward with a message that this is the Church of God, and that by other professing Christian churches the ordinances have been broken, and they have strayed from the true path. Naturally this arouses within them a feeling of indignation, and for my part I have something of sympathy for tnose not of our faith in their opposition to this Church, but nothing of sympathy with their desires to trample upon right and justice and constitutional principles in their treatment of us. I believe with all my heart that this is the Church of God. I desire to be a humble and obedient member of that Church. I desire to fill the position to which I have been appointed — unworthily I believe — under the influence and power of the Spirit of God. It is my desire to be useful among this people, according to the capacity which the Almighty has given me, and to that end I pray for the faith of the Latter-day Saints, particularly within my own Stake. I pray God that He may bless this people, that they may appreciate their responsibilities and their duties. Our professions are high, and our conduct should be equally high. It is not sufficient that we should be contented with knowing that we have the truth; we should not stop short of living according to the principles of truth that we have received. We may look among the Christian churches of today and we will find many noble examples of Christian fortitude and sacrifice, which we might very well emulate as Latter-day Saints. Again I pray that God will bless this people, that they may arise to the fulness of their 

S. KIMBALL. 47 

privileges and their duties, and I pray this in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. KIMBALL. (President of Blackfoot Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters: I am pleased with the opportunity of reporting the Blackfoot Stake of Zion. I desire to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord in the few remarks I shall offer. I am interested in the work to which I have been called. I look forth with hope and aspiration to be able, as a servant of God, to do something, to make a good account of my stewardship, and not to be a disappointment to God and to His servants whom He has placed at the head of this Church. I will take advantage of this opportunity to bear testimony concerning the brethren who stand at the head of this Church. I have perfect confidence in the integrity and honor ' of the leaders of our Church. I lift up my voice in protest against every declaration of disrespect concerning them, and, so far as my influence and power goes, to stay such declarations. 1 protest against them. I have been brought in contact with President Jcseph F. Smith and his counselors, and a number of the Twelve Apostles, and I am proud of the honor of their acquaintance, and can testify to their virtues and integrity. I tell you, regardless of statements which are made inside and outside of the Church, those men are interested in the welfare of all people, and are laboring incessantly for their welfare and upbuilding. This is my humble testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, and that is the reason I have for saying at this time I believe in them, and extend to them my faith and prayers, and I will give them my support with the help of God. I believe in this Church also. I know it is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I am willing to make any reasonable sacrifice, and I pray that I may be willling to make the sacrifice of my life, if called upon, for the building up> of the Church and kingdom of God in these latter days. If I understand the position correctly, this is a covenant that every man and woman in the Church has entered into. Therefore it behooves us to be upon our guard and cease evil speaking. I believe the people of Blackfoot Stake will compare favorably with the Saints in any other part of G-od's vineyard, but I hav3 heard some things that have not been pleasing to me respecting the subject I have just mentioned. It is a principle that has been known by our people ever since the organization of this) Church, that those who lift up their voices against the Lord's anointed will not be blessed. It is something that our people should become better acquainted with. In reading the other day about the Japanese, I learned that they are recognized asi the most loyal people of any nation. They love their Emperor, they love their country, and that is their religion. I do not think the Japanese should be one whit ahead of the Latter-day Saints in loyalty. We should reverei and honor those whom God has placed at our head. We should give them our faith and prayers. We should not only love them, but we should love our God, our Church and our country. That is my religion, and I pray that I may have it burned into my heart and brain so that I may never forget it as long as I live. 

I feel well in the gospel. I know that it has made me what I am, if I am anything. I know it will make me what I hope to become, through a faithful, honest, virtuous life. It is worth to me more than all the riches of the world, and with the Lord's help I hope to be willing to sacrifice all for it. 

It is about two months since I was called to preside over the Blackf^t Stake of Zion. It came hard upon me because I was required to break up my home and go to a new country. You who have not passed through that experience will hardly understand my feelings, but you who have been called to fill missions to the nations of the earth, and to make sacrifices in that line, will appreciate some of my feel. I went into that country and looked over the situation, and, to t^ll the truth, I was a sick man for about ten days and until after I met with the people. Subsequently I felt to glorify God that I had been called from where I lived to a new country, where I might grow up with the people, and help them to develop one of the best, sections in God's vineyard. 

Now I will tell you a little about the country. I invite all our brethern and sisters who are without homes, and who expect in the future to seek homes in a new country, to come to the Blackfoot Stake. On the west side of the river from Blackfoot, there are over one hundred thousand acres of as good land as lies out of doors. From Basalt, on the north, down tne river to Thomas, in the southwest part of thestake is a distance of twenty-five miles. It has an average width of from six to seven miles, and every foot of that land is arable and can be covered with water. Running through this section of the country are eight canals, which, when completed will hold a hundred and forty-two inches of water — more water than you have in Salt Lake valley. On the east side of the river there is a great extent of territory, which is covered with large canals taken from the Snake river. The country is only partly inhabited. There are many men in that section owning from six huadred and forty to three thousand acres each. They all love the almighty dollar enough to be willing to sell some of their lands. I regret to state, however, there is an excitement at the present time in our community. Eastern capitalists have thought it advisable and profitable to build a sugar factory near Blackfoot City, and the people have been thrown into an excitement on this account, as they were in Salt Lake City when the "boom" was on, and they are asking two or three times the price for their land that they were willing to take a month ago. I hope and anticipate that this spirit will disappear, and that the people will become more reasonable in their prices. In looking  that country I estimate it is capable of sustaining from forty to fifty thousand people, if it be cut up into smaller farms. I have never seen better soil; it is as good as you will find in any part of the Snake River valley, and in my opinion that is the greatest valley in the Rocky mountains. You who are unacquainted with the size of Snake river, and the Snake River valley, have a very slight conception of what there is to the north of you. I believe that every one claiming the name of Later-day Saint could go into the Snake River valley and become comfortably situated upon farms, it is so large. The Blackfoot district is an excellent farming and fruit district. While I do not wish to discourage our brethren who live up the valley (for they are living in one of God's finest countries), I believe I have many reasons to offer why the Blackfoot section of the Snake River valley is better to live in than it is farther up. It is claimed by the citizens who have lived in that section of the country for a long time that the open seasons there ar e between two and four weeks longer than they are further up the valley. The altitude of Blackfoot is about the same as Salt Lake City— four thousand five hundred feet— but it is considerably colder than Salt Lake City on account of the winds which prevail there. I have faith, however, in God's willingness and power to help His people if they will keep His commandments, and though these cold winds are disagreeable I think He will do as much for the people of Snake River valley in causing the winds to abate, and the climate to become more pleasant, as He did for the people of Bear Lake valley. My brother Golden and I used to live in Bear Lake valley; we ranched there for fourteen years, and we became inured to the windstorms which occurred continuously through the winter in that country. President Budge, of the Bear Lake stake, informs me that now it is a rare thing to have a severe wind storm, and the climate has become moderated and more desirable for the . I have faith that this will occur in the Snake River country. People who live here have been educated to believe it is an undesirable country, with a cold, rigorous climate; I hope the time will come when you will get a correct idea regarding that section, and that some of you will come there and settle. There are thousands of young people in these older settled communities who would be greatly blessed if they would pick up their knapsacks and come out into the Snake River valley. I realize it is not the desire of our brethern that these older settlements shall become depopulated; but there are hundreds of young men who, if they stay in these older communities, will have small opportunity of ever becoming anything particular or gathering around them this world's goods. They have natural ability and intelligence, and they should go into a new country, grow up with it, and become prominent in the community. 

I pray the Eternal Father that He will bless the Saints of God, and inspire us all to be faithful, true to our covenants, pure, and to abstain from everything that is reckless or unwise. I pray that we may become more loyal to God and to His servants. I feel highly honored, my brethren and sisters, in being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in associating with you as such. I feel highly honored in being called to preside over the Blackfoot Stake of Zion, and with the Lord's help, and the help of my brethren and sisters who live there, we will accomplish something in the development of that country. I have two counselors who are strenuous young men, who have faith in the future, who believe in God, and who have love and confidence in His servants; and we are united. We have a desire to build up that country, that our people will have something to be proud of. May God bless us to this end, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Olea Shipp and Leo Foster sang a duet, 'As Pants the Hart." ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Encouraging reference to rhe young people— Testimony of the Go-p-l-The believer and obedient will be saved— The wick d cinnot place the cause of their sins upon others 

Relying upon the Spirit of the Lord, and also depending upon your assistance, I trust that whatsoever may be said by me this afternoon will be in harmony with the truth, as the truth has been spoken at each session of this Conference. I rejoice in the words that have been uttered, and in the testimonies that have been borne, by the servants of the Lord. These testimonies do much toward bringing joy to my soul; for, like the brethren who have spoken, I, too, have a testimony of the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and, like Brothers Morris and Young, I can say that I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth. These brethren are young men; I also am a young man, and in repeating that declaration, made by the Apostle Paul in an epistle to the Roman Saints, I but echo the sentiments of tens of thousands of young men who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am proud to feel that I am a representative young man among the Latter-day Saints. If there is the slightest Idea in the minds of any of the Latterday Saints that the young men are not following in the footsteps of their parents, and are not gaining a testimony for themselves, those who entertain such an idea are not acquainted very extensively with the young men of Zion. Because one young man is wild, and perhaps sinful and rebellious, or because two or three may be in this condition, is no valid reason why any Latter-day Saint should imagine that all of the young men of the Church are rebellious and sinful. A young man may have a s great a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as may an old man. In evidence of this we need but point to the thousands of young men and women f the Church who bear testimony that they know the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and that it is  power of God unto salvation. The Lord Jesus knew this when He was 'twelve years of age. He knew that His mission was to do that which His Father had sent Him into the world to fulfill. Long before that, Samuel, another child, knew it. Long after, Joseph Smith, another child knew it. And in the intermediate stages of these times there have been thousands of young men who knew that God lived, and that Jesus is the Christ. We, as young people, are entitled to this knowledge, for the Lord will not withhold any blessing, any knowledge, any intelligence from a man simply because he is young. Ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? I have wondered why Paul ever made such a remark. He was a man who had been converted by a miraculous light from heaven, and the voice of Christ speaking to him demanding why he persecuted the Lord, and from that time on he was a preacher of righteousness, a minister of the Gospel, a missionary to the rsations of the earth, declaring Christ and Him crucified. Why, then, should Paul say, "For I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ?" I suppose it was because the members of the Church of Christ in those days were despised, hated, persecuted, and put to death for. the bearing of such a testimony; and no doubt there were those who were weak in the faith, and who had no relish for persecution or for death. These Saints to whom Paul wrote, living as they did at Rome, among the Romans, were subject to all these afflictions, and in order to encourage them, and to point out that the Gospel was above all, and was better than life itself— in fact, that the Gospel was life itself, and that therefore they need not fear nor be ashamed of it— he, their shepherd, their missionary, he who had done much .to convert them, desired them to know that he was not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, because he knew that it was the power of God unto salvation to every one that believed it; "to the Jew first, and also to the Greek." In our day there are many men — more than 

ELDER HYR 

there were in that day — who have this same testimony, and the same undaunted courage to say to the Saints that they are not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ. Furthermore, they have the courage to stand among the nations and declare the same truth to them. 

Why should we be ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Are we ashamed of the Redeemer of the world, who suffered as we will never be able or expected to suffer, for the truth? Ashamed of the truth? ashamed of uprightness? ashamed of honesty? of integrity? of obedience to God and to righteous laws? ashamed of all that is good and true? Why indeed should a man be ashamed of these things? And no man with the courage of his convictions and with this knowledge in his heart will ever deny this truth to escape the persecution, the hatred, the contempt, and the revilings of the world. No; we follow our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, the great Shepherd, who has declared, "For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy angels." He has said further, "Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father, which is in heaven." Who among the Latter-day Saints, entitled to all privileges of the knowledge of the Gospel of Christ for himself, will deny Jesus Christ, and by so doing place himself in a position to be denied of the Savior before God the eternal Father? Not the young men of the Latter-day Saints, let me assure you; and let me assure the world, too, that it will not be the young men of this Church who will deny Jesus Christ, and with even greater assurance can I say that it will not be the old men. It will not be any Latter-day Saint who has the knowledge of the truth and in whose bosom burns the testimony thereof revealed from Almighty God, in spite of every effort put forth by the 

M M. SMITH. 51 

adversary and his emissaries to persuade or to enforce us to do so. I am proud myself to feel that I have been permitted to be born in the light of truth, and to walk in the path marked out by Christ and well followed by the servants of God. As my brethren have said, I am only too proud to be permitted to be numbered with the Latterday Saints. 

The Gospel of Christ is the power of God unto salvation unto all those who believe it; but it is not the power of salvation to any man who does not believe it. Notwithstanding Jesus Christ is the Son of God; notwithstanding he was appointed and ordained before the foundations of the world were laid to perform the work which He accomplished; notwithstanding He came in the meridian of time by the appointment of the Father; notwithstanding He preached the Gospel, the plan of life and salvation, by which all men may be saved; notwithstanding the miracles He performed; notwithstanding that ultimately His kingdom will triumph, and all enemies be put under His feet, and He will reign as Lord of lords and King of kings; notwithstanding He was crucified for the sins of the world and His blood was shed for the redemption of mankind; notwithstanding all this, no man on the earth will ever be saved by the Gospel unless he believes it. A man will never be saved in unbelief. The Gospel is not the power of God unto salvation to the unbeliever, but it is destined to save all who believe and obey it. You Latter-day Saints who believe, if you continue in the way of righteousness, shall be redeemed by the blood of Christ and saved and exalted with Him on the right hand of the Father, just as sure as He lives. The purpose of the Gospel is to save us from our sins and our weaknesses, through repentance. How often do the Saints pray, "O Father, forgive our sins; overlook our weaknesses, our shortcomings, and our imperfections. " The Lord has given the Gospel for that very purpose. It is the mission of the Gospel to save us from these sins. 

In the time of Moses the Lord gave commandments to Israel, in which He told them they were to worship the Lord God, and none else. They were not to make unto themselves any other gods, nor bow down to the likenesses of anything- in the heavens or in the earth; hut Him only were they to worship; for, said He, "I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments." The Jews believed in the law of heredity to a great extent, probably to a greater extent than they were justified; and by and by they took this commandment and crystalized it into a proverb which declared, "The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge." Then when rebuked for their sins and their abominations, they would turn and say, in effect, "Well, we are not to blame. It's not our fault. It is the sins of the fathers being visited upon the heads of the children, and surely God will not condemn us for the sins which we have inherited from our fathers, for our teeth have been set on edge by our fathers eating sour grapes." The Lord was very much displeased with this excuse of theirs, and He declared to Ezekiel, the prophet, "As I live, saith the Lord God, ye shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel." He then went on to tell the people through the prophet that He would require of every man and every woman in Israel an accounting for his or her own conduct and course in life, and every one should be judged according to the deeds done in the body. These Israelites seemed to forget that part of the commandment which said, that He would show mercy unto thousands of them that loved Him and kept His commandments. 

Even in our day there is a disposition on the part of some to say, "Well, my father was addicted to strong drink;" "my father was given to profanity;" "in my father's family was found consumption, epilepsy, and other terrible  which are handed down from father to son," and offer that as an excuse for their own bad habits. We also hear it said frequently concerning the son of a man, 'Well, you can't expect anything else; look at his father." Or, speaking of a daughter, "what can you expect from her when you know her mother?" And so it goes; we condone some of the sins and the weaknesses of the flesh on the ground that they are inherited. He who feels that his parents are responsible for his inherent weaknesses and evil propensities, and thereby justifies himself, accuses his father of iniquity, and classes himself among the generations of those who hate the Lord. I should not like to be in this condition. Such a one ought to believe in and apply the saving principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which will save him from his sins and redeem him from error, and by means of this Gospel raise himself above all the sins and evil practices of his progenitors. This is what the Gospel will do. There is no law of heredity that is greater than the redeeming power and regenerating influences of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. And it is intended to save the body as well as the spirit. If properly lived, there is no sin, no inherited evil — I care not what it is — that the power of God cannot relieve and eliminate from the soul of man. It can redeem us from the errors and evils of mortality, and raise us without sin unto salvation into the presence of Almighty God. Therefore, no Latter-day Saint is justified in continuing in weaknesses and in imperfections. All of us have them, nevertheless. The Lord knew that when He gave the Gospel. The Gospel was given for the purpose of relieving us of them. Sin came into the world through the fall of man, and sin shall be banished from the world by the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If we would be raised up and redeemed from the fall, let us apply the redeeming and saving principles of the Gospel to our own lives, for so long as we continue in sin and are plagued with the weaknesses and evils of the flesh, just so far are we from that stage where 

ELDER A. 

we can properly apply the Gospel or that part of it which will particularly fit our condition and save us from our evil tendencies. 

Ashamed of such a power and such a plan? Ashamed of those who preach it? Ashamed of those who practice these principles, and who thereby have risen to a stage beyond and above their fellowmen who, perhaps, may regard them with contempt? I say the Latter-day Saints are not the people who will be ashamed of this power of God unto salvation. We will continue to believe and to practice the Gospel; we will continue to be obedient and to serve God; we will continue to love our neighbor as ourselves, to return good for evil; to give a blessing for a cursing; we will continue in the straight and narrow path which leadeth unto eternal life, in spite of all that the adversary of the souls of men can do. Brothers and sisters, your sons and your daughters will do this. As young people we rejoice that it is our privilege to follow those who are older, who are wiser and more intelligent, and who can set a good example. Thank God that we have such men to follow. I ask you young men and you young women of the Church, where in all the world among the leaders of men, in the state or in the Church, can you find more noble examples of righteous, just, Godfearing, self-sacrificing lives, than you find in the lives of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors? Every young man ought to be proud and thankful to Almighty God that he is permitted to follow such men. That is my feeling, brethren and sisters, at the present time, and I pray that it will be forever. I know it will be so with the Latter-day Saints forever if they continue in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation unto all who believe. God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER A. W. IVINS. (President of Juarez Stake.) 

I esteem it a great privilege and . blessing, my brethren and sisters, to have the opportunity of meeting with 

W. IVINS. 53 

you in Conference upon this seventyfourth anniversary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Looking backward, and contemplating the history of the Latter-day Saints from the organization of the Church until today, I rejoice with you that the "marvelous work and wonder," which was inaugurated with the restoration of the Gospel in tne dispensation in which we live, has been so remarkably developed, under God's providence and blessing. The fact of our being here, the great extension of this work, the representatives who are here from more that fifty organized stakes of Zion, are all witnesses to us that the Lord has fulfilled thus far every promise made to His people. Contemplating these things, I know of no example where the blessings of God to His people, His provident hand, His mercy and kindness, have been more directly manifest than in His hand-dealings with your brethren and sisters who are established in the Republic of Mexico. We are not in a desirable country, as men understand country to be desirable. Mexico is a land of barren, treeless wastes, a land of dry rivers, of rugged, impenetrable mountains — a desert land, if there is one occupied by the Saints upon this continent. Notwithstanding that, the few Latter-day Saints who are there (they now number thirty-seven hundred souls) have accomplished a most remarkable work. We have had no pecuniary assistance at all from th e government in which we live. They have never constructed a rod of road or built a bridge. Notwithstanding this fact, however, hundreds of miles of wagon road have been constructed and many bridges have been built; eight prosperous colonies have been established, orchards are loaded with fruit; gardens are filled with flowers; comfortable and in many instances, almost luxurious homes have been built — and all this done by a people in their poverty, who went there without resources, depending solely upon the assitance of God and their own efforts. And they hardly knew why they went there. They knew they were going into the land of the Lamanites; they knew they were going- to a government whose president, whose ministry, whose army, and whose navy (so far as they have one) were made up of people who were direct descendants of Father Lehi; and they believed that in the providence of God He had a mission for them to perform there. Time has passed, conditions have developed, and today we see the wisdom of the Almighty in placing a few of His people away off in that southern country, where the Gospel can be introduced to this remnant of the house of Israel. The people have established as good a school system as exists in the Church. Free schools are maintained in every one of the colonies, and we have never received a dollar of help from the government. It has all been done by the free-will offerings of the Latter-day Saints. We have as good a stake academy, so far as our courses extend, as any in the Church, which is maintained largely by the voluntary contributions of the people. Since I was installed by President Lyman as President of the Juarez Stake of Zion, eight years ago, the population of the Stake has increased seventy-five per cent. During the same period the tithes of the people have increased three hundred and twenty-five per cent. Our relations with the Mexican government are exceedingly satisfactory. We keep entirely out of politics; we mind our own business, and are left in peace— thank heaven for that! We cannot offer homes to our brethren and sisters, notwithstanding the fact that we would be very much pleased indeed to have additions to the colonies, because of the very limited resources we have. That is to say, we cannot offer inducements of a financial character; but I do believe that the moral atmosphere of our colonies compensates us to a very great degree for the lack of this world's goods which we so much feel. During the eight years I have been in Mexico I have never heard the name of Deity profaned by a Latter-day Saint, I have never seen a member of the Church with a cigarette in his mouth, and I have never seen a  of the Church under the influence of liquor. There may have been isolated cases, but they have never come under my observation. I do not say this boastingly, for there are many reforms that we can yet make to advantage, and whatever we have been able to accomplish, God alone has the credit for it, since we have depended entirely upon Him. 

As I came to Conference this morning two men sat on the seat immediately behind me in the street car. One of them was an old man and a member of the Church of Christ. The other was was a younger man, whose accent clearly indicated his foreign birth, and whose features showed him to be a native of northern Europe. He was a man, I detected in a moment, of more than ordinary intelligence. Speaking to the old gentleman, he said: 'What do you people come up here to Conference for twice a year?" The reply was: "We come up to be taught the word of the Lord." "The word of the Lord! You profess to be the Church of Christ; do you make any converts around here?" "Well, I don't know that we do." "Of course you don't, because your doctrine is a delusion. You profess to be the Church of Christ, when in reality this is a man-made Church of yours, and Christ has nothing to do with it. Thank God I found this difference." "Why! you cannot be very well acquainted with the history and doctrines of our Church." "Oh yes, I am, I know all about it; I have been here for twelve years." I thought to myself, if this is man-made religion which we teach, where under heaven would you find a religion from God, our eternal Father? And my mind reverted back to prominent incidents associated with the establishment of this work. At that time how little the world knew of God; how little they knew the manner in which religion, or anything else in fact, might come from Him! How vague was the conception of the Prophet Joseph himself concerning the great plan of redemption when he prayed to God the eternal Father to give him light, and then came that remarkable vision. God Himself revealed His own personality and the personality of His Son, the Reedeemer of the world! And with the closing of that vision there stood upon the earth another witness for God competent to declare that He was in the form of man. What a revelation to those people who had been worshiping they knew not what and calling- it God! True, Joseph Smith stood alone in this testimony; but that testimony, corroborated by the written word of God in the Bible, still stands unimpeached before the world, and it is stronger, better evidence of the personality of our Father in heaven, and that Christ, His Son, lives and speaks to the inhabitants of the earth, than a negative assertion by all the world who simply doubt because they have not seen. Then came Moroni with the record contained in the Book of Mormon, lifting the veil from off this great continent of ours, and giving to us the key by which the mysteries of these great ruins in Mexico, Central America and Northern South America (many of which I have seen myself) may be unlocked, and by which the hand-dealings of God with the mighty peoples who have occupied the American continent are known. And more than that, it gave us the Gospel of Christ in its simplicity and purity, as He Himself taught it to the Nephite nation. Then came John the Baptist restoring the Aaronic Priesthood; then Peter, James and John, restoring the Melchisedek Priesthood. How consistent, how orderly it all is — the time, the place, the messengers, the message! Do you believe for a moment that Joseph Smith had wisdom to devise such a plan and introduce it under such circumstances? This man in the street car said that Joseph Smith and Brigham Young have a terrible debt to pay for leading these thousands of people into delusion and entangling them in the meshes of this net they have thrown around them. Through the restoration of the Melchisedek Priesthood by the Apostles, the Holy Ghost came to the world, which testifies to you and to me that the record which Joseph 

 Prophet bore concerning the appearance of God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, is true. The conferring of the Aaronic Priesthood by John the Baptist restored the Gospel of repentance; and, thank heaven, he told us that Priesthood should never be taken from the earth again — an assurance that has not been given to any other people that have ever lived. Have not we seen that promise vindicated up to the present time? The Church is fifty thousand times stronger than it was seventy-four years ago, as to membership. Is it fifty thousand times stronger m faith? Yes, I say it is; for we understand the gospel better. By application we have learned it better. Excommunications from the Church are far less in proportion to numbers. There are not so many falling away. Consequently, I say the faith of the people has increased proportionately with, membership. And this work will continue to grow stronger and stronger and greater and greater until it does what God has said it would do — regenerates this earth; teaches men a better life; makes them more moral, more honest, more virtuous, more God-fearing, more patriotic, and more capable of administering government, whether it be civil or ecclesiastical, in justice among men and in righteousness before God. That is what the gospel is going to do. 

Why is the world. afraid of it? What is there in it to fear? Is it treason to say that we believe in God? That we believe this nation of ours (for which we thank Him!) exists under His divine protection and care, and that He has established it and maintained it? God inspired Washington and the patriot fathers of this country and helped them fight their battles in the revolution. He sent Lafayette, Rochambeau and De Kalb to assist them. He strengthened the hands of the Federal army in the war of the rebellion, because the integrity of the union was to be maintained. He has preserved and lifted the people of this land above all nations, that they may be a light unto the world, an arbiter of nations, and an example of justice and righteousness to all. And He will maintain them in that just as long- as they fear and believe in Him. Is it treason to say that men owe allegiance to God, and that governments owe allegiance to God? Does it show lack of patriotism to say to this great nation of ours, that this is a land choice above all other lands, and that the inevitable decree has gone forth from God, and it hangs over this nation today just as it has over every nation that ever occupied the American continent, that the people, or nation, which occupy this land, must serve God and acknowledge Him? "We say that, and we want the world to understand it,  we do every doctrine of this gospel. There is nothing covered about it. We welcome investigation. Every principle, every doctrine, the organization of the Church, the union of the people, God help us to keep them all intact. I testify to' you that this is the work of God; that it is inspired of God today through its leaders as much as it ever was. God help us to keep our covenants with Him, and to wait patiently and see His salvation. I ask it through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: "Glorious is Thy Name, O Lord," and after benediction by Patriarch John Smith, the conference adjourned until Wednesday, April 6, at 10 o'clock.