Afternoon
05 10 1906



PRESIDENT FKANCIS M. LYMAN. 

The Lord will take care of His Church and people. — The Gospel to be heard by all the world. — Its power to correct evil and improve its devotees. — : Joy attained only by doing good. — All nations represented in the United States. — Confide in the Lord for guidance in all things. — The Lord pleased with all His priesthood and people who do their duty. — Perpetuitv of the Church. 

I shall be very pleased if I can: make you hear. This congregation is much larger than we are used to' speaking to, and this house is so much larger than our meetingplaces generally that it is with difficulty some of the brethren make themselves heard, while others seem to have voices that are penetrating and clear, and are easily heard from the start. 

I rejoiced exceedingly this morning to see so generous an attendance upon the first meeting of the conference, and in being favored with a report from our President concerning his two months' absence from home, from which we can realize the extent of travel and amount of labor he performed in that length of time. I wonder if any brother beside him has gone abroad to recuperate and rest and has met so many of the Saints and Elders, preached so many discourses and comforted the hearts of so many people in two months' time as he has. While he was gone we were laboring at home in the ministry; but he traveled and labored more than any of us who stayed at home, and yet he has come home rested, refreshed, invigorated, and almost new physically, for which we thank the Lord. 

The work that we are engaged in, my brethren and sisters, is the work of the Lord, as we heard this morn ing; and it will be the Lord's business, as it always has been, to take care of His Church and people, whom He has brought together, converted, and convinced of the truth. He has established in our hearts that spirit which makes us one, and which makes us a little different from any other people in the world; for the Spirit of the Lord which we enjov differs in degree from that possessed by other people. The Gospel that we have received, the doctrines and principles that have been revealed from the Lord are a little different from those entertained and embraced by other people. The Lord has revealed the true plan of life and salvation in these days, in addition to what we find in the ancient scriptures; that is, He has made plain to -us by modern revelation, and in the Nephite scriptures, doctrines that are not easily picked out by men from the Jewish scriptures. The -ordinances of the Gospel,the way of life and salvation, have been point out to us in our own day, directly from the Lord through His Prophet, Joseph Smith, and through the living oracles who have succeeded that Prophet. So that today there is quite a handful of people, approaching half a million possibly in all the world, who believe in the Gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph. It has been revealed, it has been published abroad, it has been preached, it has been received and comprehended by this little handful of people. And we are increasing in numbers, spreading abroad as well as being gathered from the world. It is designed by the Lord that the leaven shall leaven the whole lump; thatall the world shall have the privilege of hearing this Gospel, and shall be brought within reach of its spirit and ordinances, so that all the children of men, as well as the few who are Latter-day Saints, may have the privilege of hearing the Gospel and judging for themselves. 

I love the Gospel because it is the truth; because it corrects our errors and reproves us for our sins. The spirit of this work always condemns our transgressions. We are so trained and schooled under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord that we cannot do wrong with impunity. We cannot steal, nor lie, nor be immoral, impure or intemperate, nor in any manner trespass upon the rights of men or women, without feeling the condemnation which comes to our souls at the offense, and the departure of the Spirit of the Lord from us. We realize this individually; every person knows it. It is not necessary for us to be told by our Bishop, or President, or anyone else; we know ourselves, for we have entered into a personal agreement and compact with our Father in heaven to serve 

Him and keep His commandments, and He has consented to forgive our sins, to cleanse us, and to free us from the load of wickedness. Through our faith, obedience, repentance and works of righteousness we have entered into a covenant with Him to serve Him, and to obtain forgiveness of sins by our devotion and service to Him, not for a few years, not for a certain term, but for our natural lives and throughout eternity; for what the Lord does is with reference to eternity. So that, when we enter into covenant with Him, it is not only for our natural lives, but it is for eternity. We undertake to serve Him, to honor Him, to keep His commandments, and to walk uprightly before Him. Then, by faithful service in this life, we are assured that the power of Satan with which we are assailed in this world shall cease in the world to come. It is not alone that we may conquer and have advantages while we live this short time in the world, but that hereafter we shall be set free, have absolute liberty, unlimited freedom, and that Satan cannot interfere with us. Now, what a splendid thing it is for us to have the guarantee of the Lord that if we will serve Him while we live in the flesh we shall thus baffle Satan, and he will not have power to "tempt us hereafter. We shall be free from him, and his right over -us will not pursue us in the world to come. Bad enough to be tormented here; but if we will resist Satan and serve God He will give us freedom hereafter, and will redeem us from our sins and transgressions, from the effects of the fall, and exalt us in His presence, free from the power of Satan who reigns so generally in this fallen world. That is one of the great  we are to receive from the Lord. 

These are important things that the Lord guarantees to us through our faithfulness; but we are expected to devote our lives to His service and to works of righteousness, in which there is joy, happiness and safety, physically, morally and spiritually. By doing right we are absolutely safe, free and fearless. We do not fear when we do right, we are afraid only when we transgress the law, when we break the ordinances, and when we disobey what is required of us; for sin makes cowards of us all. As long as we work righteousness and serve the Lord we have no fear of any power in the earth. We may meet with hardships and trials in this life, which we are very likely to do, for it seems to be the lot of fallen man to have trials and difficulties, but if faithful there is redemption and salvation for us. Every man that works righteousness today is favored and blessed of the Lord. And that should be the effort of all Latter-day Saints; for there is no profit in doing wrong. There is no reason why we should do wrong. There is no reason why we should be dishonest, immoral, intemperate, or corrupt in any degree; there is no profit in it. I wonder at myself and my brethren sometimes, when I discover our weaknesses, why it is that we should do wrong. Why should I wrong my brother? I never did wrong a brother in my life but I was ashamed of it and sorry for it. I have never done a wrong that I pride myself of. I have never gloried in wrongdoing; but I have taken joy and felt happy in doing good, and in dealing by others as I would like them to deal by me, not only towards the household of faith, but everybody else. 

We are all the children of God; all men are 1 1 is descendants. Some are Latter-day Saints, and some are not; some believe in Deity, and some do not; there are infidels, and there are heathen; there are Christians who believe in the Lord Jesus, and there are others who do not believe in Him; nevertheless, we are all the children of the Lord. We are one great family, having one common parent, who is our Father and the Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is also our Redeemer and Savior. He shed His blood for us; made that supreme offering, which has never been made by anyone else. He trod the winepress alone. He shed His blood that you and I might be redeemed, that our sins should be blotted out, and that we should be washed clean, pure and free from every stain that is upon us. We can very profitably serve the Lord and keep His commandments, for we know that this is the work of the Lord, that this is His Church and people, that this land has been kept for the gathering of His people, for their home, and to remain so, where they shall be trained and taught in the ways of the Lord and walk in His paths. We realize that this mountain country has been preserved and opened up at just the right time by the Lord for the gathering of His people from all the world. We can realize that we are just where the Lord wants us to be, and where He wants us to stay; where He wants us to build up His kingdom; where we have built temples; and from whence we have sent the Gospel to the world, and will continue to do so, for that is our ministry and mission. There shall not be a nation  a section that shall not hear the Gospel. The way will be prepared among all the nations of the earth;, religious liberty will be established. This great nation of the United States is made up of pieces of other nations. We have invited everybody to come, and they have come. I suppose there is not a nation in the world that is not representedamong the people of this republic. All the blood that flows in human veins upon this earth is represented among the people of the United States. And the Lord has done this; He has brought these people together; He has prepared the way. He allowed this side of the world to be hidden for many centuries. It was lost to the knowledge of man; but finally it was discovered. It has always been here since it was organized and created — and that is a long time ago, but it was lost sight of. At the right time, however, the Lord led men to discover this country. He led people to come and settle it, and He has controlled their settlements and the organization of the government, and has arranged that there should be liberty upon this side of the world. He has laid the foundations of a very great nation, a nation of great power, strength, wealth and wisdom. In this nation the Lord arranged to lay the foundations of His Church, and it is growing. It grows just as fast as all the membership do their duty faithfully and well. 

The Lord will take care of and preserve us if we will do right. It is the right of every Latter-day Saint to know the truth, and toknow what is required of him or her, in business, in literature, in art,, in science, in music, in politics, and in everything else. Let the Spirit of the Lord manifest to us in these . Let us be in such communication with the Lord that we may know just exactly what to do. Tell the Lord about our temporalities, what we desire to accomplish, and obtain the inspiration of the Lord. The Lord knows everyone of us; He knows our feelings and our weaknesses. He comprehends us; knows our necessities, our integrity, our faith. If not a hair of our heads can fall to the ground without His notice, how easy it is for Him to know our nature, our condition, our weaknesses, and oar strong points. If we have intelligence, skill, wisdom. He discovers it. He knows our status exactly , therefore, let us be free with the Lord. Let us be familiar with Him in conversation and in conduct, and deport ourselves as in His presence; for we are there. My brethren and my sisters, you never speak, you never think, you are never inspired, there is not an ambition in your heart, not a thought, either of virtue or of wickedness, that is not open before the Lord; Lie comprehends these things. It is our duty therefore to so train ourselves day by day that it will be an easy matter for us to do right in the morning, at noon, and all through the day, so that when we retire at night we may be able to represent ourselves to our Father as having walked uprightly before Him all the day; that we have not done wrong, but have been sober, temperate, conscientious and upright. "Father, I have kept the commandments of the Lord this day, be pleased to hear me. I have sickness in my family, I have weaknesses, I need assistance financially, I am in trouble, my heart is afflicted and tender, give me comfort, give me joy and consolation. In these hours of trial, when difficulty and  rise before us, when the clouds threaten us, Father, give us to know that we are in the line of our duty, that we have served Thee and are worthy of Thy favor and blessing, and that Thou wilt take care of us." 

That is the condition we should be in, my brethren and sisters, as the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Having entered into covenant with the Lord, having received His favor and His anointing, the unction of His Spirit, we should cultivate that Spirit until we can dwell in its light and inspiration all the day long and be guided by it in the performance of our duties, in the care of our families, in business and in everything else that legitimately occupies any share of our attention. The Lord will lead His people as a whole : He will lead President Joseph F. Smith : He will not let him go astray. I am under no obligation to take care of President Smith, or to correct him for fear he will go astray; that is the business of the Lord, He has that work in hand. He has His servant in training, and He directs and counsels him. He leads him by His Spirit, and will always do so. You cannot do better than to sustain those whom the Lord sustains and has appointed. He has led us, He has called us forth, Lie has ordained and inspired us, and He has not inspired us any more than He has inspired you. Every member of this Church is entitled to the inspiration of the Lord. When a soul is brought unto a knowledge of the truth and baptized into the fold, that soul is just as precious in the sight of the Lord as is a Prophet, an Apostle, a President, or anv other man, for he is a son of Cod. How we love our little children! You tender-hearted mothers, you fathers that are tender-hearted — I learn that fathers are tender-hearted. Down at Provo a couple of weeks ago I discovered that tenderheartedness is not alone with the mothers. There is a tender-hearted father also in Salt Lake City, and he is not alone, not an exception to the rule. I believe that fathers generally are tender-hearted as well as mothers. Now, do we love our children? Don't we feel a pride in the development and growth of our sons and daughters? Don't we rejoice exceedingly when they do right? Are we not grieved when they do wrong, when they are neglectful and careless, and when they are indifferent to God? Oh, how sorrowful and terrible it is when the fear of God is not before their eyes! For we learn that the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. If a man fears to offend his Maker, if he loves the Lord, he will undertake to do just exactly what the Lord wants him to do. He will seek after the Lord; and every man who seeks after the Lord, with a pure heart and a repentant spirit, will find Him. The Lord will come to him, He will listen to him, will direct him, and open the way for him to find the truth and the way of escape from the troubles of this world. 

The Lord has this people in His care. He is looking after them, is pushing them together, and is multiplying them on every hand. They have their trials, hardships and difficulties; but the Lord will always be present to take care of them, for He loves them. This work must be built up, and the Lord  will build it up with His people — our parents, our brothers and sisters, our descendants. He will continue to gather people from all the world, and the work will increase  spread abroad until it shall cover the earth. The Lord has set His hand the last time; He will finish His work in due time, and He will do it in a rational manner. Its growth and development will be legitimate, and we will comprehend it as it develops. We know the work, and also the people, because we have been associated with them almost from the beginning. The Lord's hand is over His people in all that is righteous; not to save us in our sins, not to encourage or tolerate us in sin, but to bring us to repentance and reformation. That is the work the Lord is doing with His people today. He is pleased with His servant, President T oseph F. Smith, and with his counselors. He is pleased with the Twelve Apostles, the Seven Presidents of Seventies, and with the Presiding Patriarch. He is pleased with the Hio-h Priests, the Seventies, the Patriarchs, and with all the Priesthood who are laboring faithfully in the world doing their duty. 

As we heard from President Smith this morning, it is delightful to know that our boys go out into the world and preach the Gospel as they are doing. The Lord magnifies them and fills them with His Spirit, and it is marvelous what they are accomplishing. I appeal to this congregation today in behalf of our Elders in the field. I was with them a few years ago. I have spent a number of years in the field abroad as well as at home, and have labored with the Elders to some extent. I do not know that I did my full duty, but I endeavored to train your boys who were with rne by thousands in the European Mission. I labored with every one of them, and entered into a compact with those young men that when we returned home we would serve the 

Lord and keep His commandments, Ave would sustain the authorities of the Church, and be true and faithful. We hear now that there are some brethren who, when they return home, forget what mannei of men they have been. They forget what ministers and representatives of the Lord they have been in the earth, and return sometimes to their foolishness, and are not as de voted and faithful as they ought to be. Sometimes they may be neglected, and occasionally I wonder if they are properly taught in the missionary field. I hope they are. They should be thoroughly trained there; in fact, they should be trained before they go, like the education of a child should begin before it is born. They ought to be taught at home, by fathers, by Bishops, by High Priests and Seventies; not a boy should escape our attention. He should receive consideration at our hands, be encouraged, strengthened, stimulated, restrained if necessaray, and warned of his waywardness, and be made a gentleman, a manly man, prepared to go out into the world with strength of character and the determination to do what is right, to represent the people of God, and to represent the Savior. We represent the Savior in that we go out clothed with His authority and with power to minister and officiate in His name, to preach the Gospel to the world, to call men to repentance and reformation, and to teach them the way of life and salvation, that the Spirit of the Lord may dwell in them, that they may be gathered and assist in the establishment of Zion and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Lord on this side of the world. 

The place of gathering for the present seems to be here; but the 

Lord's work will no doubt spread until finally it covers the earth as the waters cover the great deep. The design of the Lord is that His children shall be saved, and for that we labor. Our labors should not only be for the salvation of our boys when they return home, but also for the salvation of the people who gather. Our examples before them should be good. When they come from the various parts of the earth they should find Zion; they expect to find Zion. They do not expect to find us following after the fashions and ways of the world. They understand that we have gathered out from the world, and are separated from the world, as we ought to be. We should be a peculiar people right here in Salt Lake City, and in all other cities, in every part of our state, and the other States where our people are found. We ought not to indulge in the things which are forbidden by the Lord. We should not be intemperate, profane. Not a Sabbath-breaker should be among the Latter-day Saints, nor a gambler. It is not necessary for us to be gamblers; it is not profitable; it is not a good business; it is immoral, degrading and humiliating. The use of liquor, of tea, coffee and tobacco, is forbidden of the Lord; He says they are not good for the people; they defile and poison the system. Not a liar should be among the Latterday Saints; every man should speak the truth. Every man should do right by his neighbor; never wrong him, whether he is a Latter-day Saint or otherwise. Men may wrong us sometimes, but we should not retaliate; we should do good for evil. 

These are some sentiments entertained by the Latter-day Saints. Without multiplying words and taking more of your time, I desire to let you know that I realize that this Gospel of the Kingdom is here among the children of men for the last time, and that it is never to depart. The people will always have inspired men among them; there will be Prophets and Apostles; there will be men holding the Holy Priesthood, with authority to minister in the name of the Lord, now and forever upon this earth. This work will spread abroad and become more important in the world than it is today. It ma}' meet with reverses, and evil influences and powers may be pitted against it, as in the past, but the triumph of the work is as certain as that we stand on this earth today. It cannot be otherwise for it is the Lord's work, not the work of Joseph Smith, nor of any man. He has set His hand to accomplish it, and He has made no mistake. lie knows the people of the world, He knows the precious souls there are on the earth today, and He knows the precious souls that are coming right along to our communities. He knows exactly the nature of those who will be born among our neighbors, and He is prepared to take care of those that come into the world. The Gospel will be preached, religious liberty established, and everything prepared for the advancement of the Church of Christ. We need not be disturbed or distressed about the Church; we need not fear the clouds that gather, for they have always gathered and always will gather, from time to time, until the work is accomplished. The Lord will redeem His people and raise up friends unto them in all nations. He will control the hearts of the children of men, as He will control us for our salvation, if we  listen to Him and let Him help us. If not, we will go to destruction, just like anybody else that is wicked; and when we leave this world and go to the next we will be under the power of Satan still, unless we serve God with full purpose of heart while we are here. If we will do that, our salvation and eternal liberty is secure. That is a consolation to me, it should be to all Latter-day Saints. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters, and that His Spirit may attend upon us most generously during the remainder of this conference, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang an Anthem. "Come, let us go to the Mountain of the Lord." 

ELDEK JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

An inspirational hymn — Necessit" for inculcating faith and love of the Gospel in the children. — Blessings inyoked upon the good and oppressed of all creeds and lands. — Admonitions to the young. — Gratitude for th; freedom guaranteed by American institutions. 

I picked up the hymn book and opened to a hymn that has strongly impressed my mind, and although I am not a very good reader, I believe I will endeavor to read it. It is found on page 127: 

Up! arouse thee, O beautiful Zion, Wake, awake, hear the warder's deep cry, 

For the season of slumber hath ended. 

And the spoiler is watchful and nigh.. With courage elate, and heart to be great. 

All deadly incumbrance cast down. Gird on for the fight, your armor so bright, 

For the prize Is a glorious crown. 

Up! arouse thee, O beautiful Zion, Give the mammon care-clouds to the wind, 

When the bugle's shrill summons is — Rally! 

They are cowards that linger behind. You've foes to o'ercome in each heart 

and home, Then fixed be your purpose, and 

high, 

With God at vour head, O feel not dismayed, 

But go forward to conquer, or die. 

Who would shrink from the glorious battle. 

With so dazzling a guerdon in view? If so base as to herd with the traitor, It is, dastard! not sparkling for you. With nerve strong as steel, and soul that can feel, Stand firm for the pure and the brave; 

Be foremost in right, and trust in God's might — 'Tis such heroes that heaven will save. 

Lo! destruction hangs over the nations, 

Though not seen by the unholy throng; 

And death will be heard in the echoes 

Of the gathering, ominous storm! Then arouse thee, O beautiful Zion, Wake, awake, 'tis the warder's deep cry, 

For the season of slumber hath ended, And the spoiler is watchful and nigh. 

My brothers and sisters, it is a joy indeed for me to be with you in this conference today, and to have listened to the good words that have fallen from the lips of our brethren who have spoken unto us. We live in the day and time when the word of the Lord is to be carried to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, before the coming of that great and dreadful day when the judgments of our God arc to be poured out upon the nations of the earth. What a sacred mission is ours in fulfillment of the obligation that he who has been warned is to warn his neighbor; that upon his shoulders rests in great degree the salvation of his , at least to the extent of his ability to herald the Gospel among the children of men and declare its restoration. Not one of us, to whom the glad message of eternal truth has come, should fail to remember that upon us rests the responsibility of calling to repentance the children of our Father, our brothers and sisters in every land and clime. We cannot escape the effects of this requirement, only by discharging it to the best of outability; not alone in carrying the glad tidings of great joy to the world, or in entering the sacred temples of God and opening the doorway of salvation to the human race who have gone behind the veil, through the administration of the ordinances of the Lord's house, but also in the character of that sacred guardianship that we should throw around our sons and daughters. How shall we feel, as we stand in the presence of the Great Judge of the quick and the dead, when our ministry in life is done, if any of our children shall say to the Father, "In our household the moral obligations of the Gospel of Jesus Christ were unknown and untaught; the principles and doctrines essential for salvation, and seeking the impress of the Spirit from on high, were unthought of and untaught in the household where it was my privilege to be reared." 

1 trust that the words of the hymn I have read in your hearing will arouse you with gladness and joy, and will awaken in your souls the thought that the battle is on, that the banner of our Christ has been thrown to the breeze; that it is our mission and ministry to preach repentance in our own homes, in our own neighborhoods, among the men and women with whom we mingle, as well as carrying the seeds of the Gospel to the children of the world, and pleading with them to turn from the evils that stalk abroad, and learn the way of life and salvation. My brothers and sisters, I ask you to remember these words : 

Wake, awake, 'tis the warder's deep cry, 

For the season of slumber hath ended, And the spoiler is watchful and nigh. 

I have nothing in the world but blessings for every one of you who honor God and the truth. I have nought but blessing for every Christian man and woman who is discharging the duties and obligations of a Christian according to the best light and knowledge he or she may possess. I have nothing but sympathy for the thoughtless, the wayward and the reckless. I love all the children of my heavenly Father. I feel that there is on our part a necessity for an awakening such as we have possibly never known before, in seeking to implant in the hearts of those whom God has entrusted to us an understanding of His great work, and such faith as was exhibited by the men and women who crossed the plains with hand-carts in 1856, amid the deep and falling snows, and who buried their loved ones in the drifts, determined upon doing the bidding of the Master. Is that spirit of heroism, of the love of right, and that determination to follow the commandments of God, being engendered in the souls of these sons and daughters that our Father has entrusted to us ? Are they ready to rise up and say, I glorify God for the mother that bore me, and the faith she displayed in leaving her fatherland to have part in the establishment of God's work? Are they in the spirit to say, I will stand by  father that begot me, who ministered and labored midst tribulation and trial to provide the blessings and comforts of life, and I wilt see that his last days shall be honored in an upright son, in a consistent, virtuous and true daughter, and in the fulfillment of my mission for" the betterment and blessing of the people with whom I mingle? Or shall we forget ourselves to the extent that the drunkard, the whoremaster, the villain that plots and schemes the destruction and overthrow of honest men, shall be the companions of our children and seek to lead them to destruction?" Shall not our voices be heard declaring God's word, proclaiming His truth, pointing the way of life, seeking to establish in men that fortitude that shall enable them toresist the evils that are leading to destruction so many of our fellowsin various parts of the world? 

May heaven's peace attend every good man and woman in every land who are following the propositionsinvolved in the religious faith they have espoused, and are seeking tobetter themselves and their fellowcreatures. May heaven's blessing be upon those who are oppressed in all lands, that the opportunity may come to them to find a home under the starry flag we love. May the principles involved in that government under which most of us, possibly, have been born and reared be established and written in our souls, — the love of God, of country, of liberty, of justice and mercy, of purity and truth, and a detestation and hatred of the immorality, crime and wickedness that stalk abroad. May the God of heavenwrite it in your souls, you "Mormon" boys and girls, that He has called you to repentance, has pointed to you the way of life, has given you fathers and mothers whose hearts have been in His keeping. I trust that, though storms shall beat and tempests come, you will honor the father and mother that survived the dreadful experiences on the plains in 1856, or the fathers and mothers of other years who left fatherland, or those upon our own land whose feet were blistered and frozen as they fled from the schemes and machinations of foul and cowardly wretches who sought to destroy their liberties. 

My friends, I have this feeling in my soul today, and if I could write it in the minds of the "Mormon" boys and girls, I would write this motto there : "The flag that the Divine One permitted to be thrown to the breeze, as the stars and stripes, should never be lowered by human hand." The principles of liberty involved in the constitution of this country of ours should never be trampled beneath the feet of any man; but every principle of honor, of justice, of purity, mercy and right, should be guarded by the men and women reared in some understanding of the principles of that faith which we ourselves have become acquainted with. 

A few years ago the President of the United States made an appeal to the descendants of that old Norse stock found in the Northwest. He said: "Your fathers and mothers located on these little farms; they built their cabins, they opened up and made prosperous the land they had adopted as their home. What are you, their descendants, doing in connection with this matter? Are you better citizens, more sturdy and true than your fathers and mothers were? Have you fulfilled and are you fulfilling your part in the citizenship of this land with the same industry, the same persever and the same determination that characterized them?" This was the question put by the Chief Executive of our nation to the descendants of those people who had come from another land. It is a question that well might be asked! of the descendants of the French Huguenots, and the descendants of those who fled from the oppressions and tribulations of England, or other parts of the earth, and found a home under this flag we love. It is a question that I might ask the boys and girls of the Latter-day Saints today. For, while the Norsemen in coming from the old world to establish homes in the Northwest were led under the inspiration of a spirit and desire for greater liberty, and for better opportunities than could possibly be found in fatherland, such was not altogether the inspiration that led your parents to adopt this flag of ours and decide to live beneath its folds. To them this was God's own land — the land of Zion. It was their hope and ambition that upon this soil no tongue would wag to their hurt; that they would be secure here in every human right, so long as they interfered not with the rights and liberties of others. They loved it as a land of liberty, and desired its citizenship. They loved the prospects of the latter-day Zion, and looked to it as the only place where the great work they had become associated with, looking to the blessing of our heavenly Father's children, could be fully accomplished. Their ideals were ideals of honor; their course of conduct in keeping with the highest moral principles. No matter what the world may say or think, your father and mine, when they planted their feet upon the soil of the United States, adopted this nation as their own, and the land as the Zion of God, where the liberties of the human race were assured, where men could bow in reverence and respect to the Supreme Being, and where no man need ask whether they prayed to liuddha, or to Christ Jesus, or to the Unknown God, or to a stick or stone. Here under the flag of this country the great God of heaven had guaranteed, in the blood of the sons of the soil, the rights of liberty and conscience, and the privilge to perform their duties and discharge their obligations unto Him. 

Young men and maidens, it is the joy of my heart that I can look back over the past and note from the record that my first ancestor upon the soil of the United States loved this country and loved liberty. It is the pride of my heart chat his descendants, as they have come down the line of citizenship, have stood upon that fair ground of liberty; and one by one, as the conditions have arisen and the opportunities have been theirs, they have maintained and stood by the propositions involving human rights, showing that they would worship ( lod and obey His commandments as they pleased, and not bow and cringe, or ask their fellows what they should believe. 

I believe in God the Eternal Father. 1 believe in His Son Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world. I believe in the doctrine of burial in the water as typical of the grave, and the coming forth to a newness of life. I believe in the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost. I believe in the moral doctrines as presented by the Redeemer of the world. I believe in the keys and rights essential to the establishment, beyond the peradventure of a doubt, of the Father's children in 

His grace, and in the enjoyment of His gifts. I believe in the heavenly covenant, in the turning of the key of knowledge, in the announcement of the Patriarch of the past that he would turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the earth might not be smitten with a curse. I believe in the fulfillment of the prophecies. I believe in the instance recently recorded in the experience of this nation, when our sister city to the west of us was destroyed by earthquake and flame, that it was a warning to the children of men. [ believe that when Valparaiso was shaken and many people lost their lives, it was the fulfillment of the Master's announcement to this people that, after their warning went forth to the world and the way of life was pointed out, if they rejected the message, then He would teach the world lessons that they would remember. I trust that an awakening may come among our fellowmen everywhere, that they may love righteousness more than unrighteousness, justice more than injustice, morality more than- immorality, charity and forbearance more than harshness and intolerance; that they may seek to implant within themselves that which makes the noblest manhood and the purest womanhood to be found in all the world. T say to this body of people, without fear of successful contradiction, that the man who will obey God's law as revealed in this dispensation will stand before his Maker accepted; while the men who become its arch-enemies and whose lives are devoted to its hurt will be condemned. Look into their inner lives and you will find written in their souls the blackness of , the evidence of immorality, a rejoicing in the overthrow and destruction of pure womanhood, while vaunting their love for the gentler sex. Oh! I wish that every man in the world could say what I heard a Lutheran gentleman once say to me in conversation with him. As he stood by his mother's side, impressed with the nature of true womanhood and the principles of faith, she extorted from him the pledge that under no circumstances would he dishonor one of her sex. O my Father, let it be written in the hearts of these mothers of ours that, as their sons shall go into the world to preach Christ and Him crucified, they shall go with the same admonition and prayer. No son of a Latter-day Saint should fail to have impressed upon his soul the feeling that women should be sacred to him. They are in the likeness of their mothers, and motherhood should be esteemed and honored by every man. No girl is likely to be cast down in sin and crime, and have wrong written upon her brow, by a man whose mother had fully done her duty. 

Now, my brothers and my sisters, I am happy to be with you. Thank God for "Mormonism," as the world calls it. Thank the Lord for a father and a mother who believed in the Redeemer of the world, and in the moral rules that purpose the best development of mankind. Thank Heaven for the faith that points out the possibilities of men and women standing in the presence of the Divine One, if they will be true to themselves and the laws Pie has revealed. Thank Heaven for a land where liberty exists, where the rights of men can be guarded. May we be preserved from the attacks of the  and the impure. May just and honorable men, of all creeds and classes, be chosen as the governing powers in the world, and be honored and esteemed in the discharge of the civic duties of life, that this land may be glorious in its development and growth; and that the people of all lands who find a home here shall bow in respect and reverence, and regard with honor and esteem, the propositions involved in the Constitution which gives to them the right of conscience. 

May heaven's blessing attend you. The faith that has been delivered to you has come from the Lord Himself. It was the Father and the Son that ushered in this dispensation of the fulness of times. It was the Father and the Son that turned the key of knowledge, the light of heaven let in on the human race. And the charge laid upon you was to see to it that in your homes this faith was taught, that at your own firesides the principles of morality should be fully established, that from those homes the sons and daughters who went forth should go as soldiers of the cross, without fear of the frowns or the favors of mankind, declaring the truth, pointing out the possibilities within the reach of every repentant sinner — that his sins mights be forgiven, and that he should thereby be led to walk in the way that would bring him back into the presence of his Maker. The Gospel, my brothers and sisters, is true in its entirety. May heaven bless you. May the spirit of cowardice, fear and trembling never come to you. May you stand up in the majesty of the cleanest, sweetest manhood, not blushing in the presence of youi mothers, sisters or wives, nor even in the presence of the Lord, but be confident of His mercy. 

Again I say to you young men, be not afraid of the enemies of Zion, bow not in fear and trembling before any hand that may be raised. Accept the responsibilities that may be imposed upon you by the Divine Master, and preach His Gospel in the world. Stand for right, not only for your own house hold and those of your own faith, but see to it that the Catholic, the Jew, the Methodist, the Presbyterian, the atheist and the pagan shall enjoy that right of conscience which you yourself wish to enjoy, and that you with them shall stand up and maintain it with your lives, if necessary. May the spirit of heroism, faith, love, charity, forbearance, kindness and consideration, without fear or trembling, characterize the lives of all of you, that wherever you go you may mingle among men as honorable men or women, understanding yourselves, resolved upon the maintenance of purity of life, that the finger of God, if it should touch you, would not cause you to shrink with fear because of wrongdoing. May the Divine One bless our President with the health and strength necessary to the discharge of the arduous duties resting upon him, and his asociates also that their hearts may be united and that they may continue to hold the keys of the eternal Priesthood which the Lord himself has given them; and that the same noble manhood which characterized the men of the past may be theirs even to death itself, that the love of right may abide in them, that all needful blessings may come to them, as well as to you and to every right-thinking man and  within the confines of thij. great Republic, and throughout the world. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

The reading of the hymn by Brother John Henry Smith brought to my mind another hymn, which issomething of a sermon in itself; and although I fear I am not as good a reader of hymns as he is, 1 thought I would take the liberty of reading this one and commending it to the Latter-day Saints, that when they return home, if they are not familiar with it, they may turn totheir hymn books and read it welL You will find it in the Latter-day Saints hymn book, on page 434. 

Uphold the right, tho' fierce the fight, 

And pow'rful is the foe; As freedom's friend, her cause defend,. 

Nor fear nor favor show. No coward can be called a man —  

No friend will friends betray; ''Who would be free" alert must be; 

Indifference will not pay. 

Note how they toil whose aim is spoil,. 

Who plundering plots devise; Yet time will teach, that fools o'erreach 

The mark and lose the prize. Can justice deign to wrong maintain, 

Whoever wills it so? Can honor mate with treach'rous hate? 

Can figs on thistles grow? 

Dare to be true, and hopeful, too; Be watchful, brave and shrewd; 

Weigh every act; be wise, in fact, To serve the general good. 

Nor basely yield, nor quit a fieldImportant is the fray; 

Scorn to recede, there is no need To give our rights away. 

Left-handed fraud let those applaud 

Who would by fraud prevail; In freedom's name, contest their claim, 

Use no such word as fail; Honor we must each sacred trust, 

And rightful zeal display; Our part fulfil, then, come what will, 

High heaven will clear the way. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn beginning: 

Our God, we raise to Thee, Thanks for Thy blessings free, 

We here enjoy; In this far western land, A true and chosen band, Led hither by Thy hand, 

We sing for joy. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles F. Middleton. 

Conference adjourned till Saturday morning. Saturday, October 6, 10 a. m. 


