Morning
06 10 1906



ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

"A marvelous work and a wonder." — Integrity and heroism of the 19th century martyrs. — Possibility of communion with Heaven. — Rewards for faithfulness. — "Who's on the Lord's side ?" 

In looking upon this vast congregation, my soul is filled with thanksgiving and praise to Almighty God that I have the privilege of being numbered among you, my beloved brethren and sisters, — members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which He, in His wonderful providence, has established upon the earth in these last days. 

I do not know that I can express the feelings of joy that are in my bosom occasioned by having this privilege of gazing upon the features of my beloved fellow laborers. I realize the truth of the saying- of the Apostle : "We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren." J have an inexpressible affection for you, my brethren and sisters, especially those who have been through the tribulations and difficulties that have been endured by so many of this people. After ovei fifty-three years experience in tins Church, J can solemnly bear my testimony that this work in which we are engaged is indeed the "marvelous  work and a wonder" that was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah in these words: "Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men; therefore, behold I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." I bear my testimony that we are engaged in that wonderful work, that marvelous work. It has come to us in our individual lives and history. Tt commenced with the Prophet Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, the two first Apostles of this last dispensation. And now to see this vast congregation and to think of the numbers that are in the  who have been brought into covenant with God, through the waters of baptism, to serve Him and keep His commandments, we realize what a glorious blessing this everlasting Gospel is to us individually. The Lord has gathered us from the various nations where we were born; He sent the Gospel to us, and by His power we were converted. He brought us into His Church; He opened up the way for our gathering to Zion; and He has taught us the principles of everlasting life. He gave us a living testimony; and has sustained us by His matchless love. Individually we can say this, and praise the Lou! for His goodness unto the children of men. I thank God for the Prophet Joseph, and for the Patriarch Hyrum. When I think of their integrity, their nobility of character, how true and faithful they were to the principles of eternal life, and how true to each other, I say in my heart : thank God for such men. In my mind's eye I cai: see the glorious benefits that have been brought to pass through these servants of God. They were filica with integrity, and although they preached an unpopular doctrine, were persecuted on every hand, were found fault with, ridiculed and derided, and were looked upon as deceivers of the people, yet the truth really is that God raised them up to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I think of the time when they were cruelly martyred because of their love for God and the principles of eternal life. I think of them as their spirits left their bodies, clasped in each other's arms in the holy and pure affection of everlasting brotherhood. They attained the highest honor which man can secure in this life, for they had been true and  to God, and finally laici down their lives for their testimony, and hence was insured to them eternal life and happiness, even the highest degree of glory possible for' man to attain. They stood by every principle that the Lord had revealed from the Heavens, and were true and faithful at all times. But their murderers, what of them ? While they had exalted the martyrs to an endless crown, they had consigned themselves to an everlasting hell, for they had shed the blood of innocence, for which there is no forgiveness. 

I am thankful that I have had the privilege of being acquainted with some of the prophets. I have enjoyed the acquaintance of Brigham Young. John Taylor, Wilfora Woodruff. Lorenzo Snow, and our present beloved President, Joseph F. Smith. 1 have had the privilege of being associated with these men, and I know most assuredly that they were and are men of God; that they were chosen by the Lord before the foundation of the earth for the fulfilment of His purposes; for known unto God arc all things from the beginning. He is doing His own work and accomplishing His own purposes in our redemption. He has given us the privilege of worshiping Him according tothe. dictates of our conscience. Under the government established through the most glorious constitution that was ever given to mortal man, we have the privilege and right to worship God according tothe dictates of our own conscience, allowing everyone else to do the same. 

I often think how highly I am favored as an individual in being a member of the Church of Christ : that I am called by His name, and" that I have taken up my cross toGENERAL CONFERENCE.  out my salvation, in connection with those who are gathered together at this conference and throughout the world. I wish I 'could express my feelings fully this morning, but it has not been given unto me to have power to express my gratitude to God for the schooling and experience He has giver me since I was born in the flesh. I am deeply grateful for that schooling and experience, for it has delivered me from the enemy, it has given me eyes to see and ears to hear, and an understanding heart. I do know most assuredly that the promise of the Son of God is true, wherein He says : "He who will do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine." I know of the doctrine, for the Lord has revealed it unto me, and I also know that when he said: "Ask and you shall receive, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you" He declared true and correct principles. 

It is possible for us to commune with the Heavens. You who are faithful know that God lives, because you have cbmmuned with Him; you know that He hears your prayers and petitions; you know that He sustains you and that He overrules things for your benefit. I prize this testimony because it has delivered me from the darkness that covers the earth, and the gross darkless that characterizes the minds of the people generally. Mv eyes have been opened to see the glory of the principles of eternal life, and likewise to see the falsehood, the superstition and vain traditions of man-made systems. Why I should have been chosen out of my father's house, and been permitted to enjoy the experiences and "blessings that have come to me, I can hardly understand. I believe, , that I am one of the descendants of the patriarchs of the house of Israel, unto whom promises were made. A promise was given unto the ancient servants of God that the word of the Lord shall ever be given unto them and to their seed and their seed's seed. This promise is given unto all who are faithful in magnifying the Melchisedek and Aaronic Priesthoods. In the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood we have the opportunity of magnifying our callings as Deacons, Teachers, Priests, Bishops, or Bishops' Counselors. In the restoration of the higher Priesthood, we have the privilege of magnifying the Melchisedek Priesthood, as Elders. Seventies, High Priests, Patriarchs, or Apostles, as the case may be. This is what the Lord has done for us, and for all the world if they will accept of His doctrine as we have done. We have come out of the world, however, and accepted the doctrine of the Father, and the efficacy of the precious blood of Christ; we believe that the observance of these principles of the everlasting Gospel will sanetifv us and give us fellowship with God. 

I am thankful that I have the privilege of being a member of the church of Christ. I live in a certain ward and I am subject to my Bishop, like all other members of the ward; and I trust that I am in good standing, in full fellowship. I realize that if I am in good standing and full fellowship in the Church of Christ, T am entitled to certain privileges that those who are not in good standing do not have. If we are not,_then it is time that we repent and turn unto the Lord with full purpose of heart, and love Him, our Creator, with all our might, mind and strength. I 

^understand there are two vital principles in the everlasting Gospel, one is faith and the other is love. I believe that if we will live up to the principles of the Gospel : i will increase and develop our affection, and that we will grow in grace, in "faith, and in the knowledge of God, whom to know is eternal life. Now all may attain to this. As a member of the Church I have this privilege, and if I accept of His doctrine I belong to Him, and I will be one of the Lord's own because I have accepted His message. What is His message? His message to all the world is to worship the living and true God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent. We should repent and turn from the error of our ways, overcome our weaknesses, cease to do evil and learn to do well. Then we have the privilege of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, for the fulfilment of all righteousness, that we may "be born of the water; and having submitted to this principle we are sanctified through the precious "blood of Christ; and having become thus sanctified our bodies are temples for the Holy Ghost. It is a curious thing to me that the inhabitants of the world reject these principles. Is there anything better under the Heavens? These principles, however, should be manifest in our faithfulness in performing every duty devolving upon us. We should always attend our sacrament meetings, our quorum meetings, etc. We should strive to work out our own salvation and, make our calling and election sure. That is how I understand it, and it seems to me that it is very simple. It is a straight and narrow path that leads to eternal life, and it is made plain to the comprehension  every son and daughter of God who desires to walk therein. The question is : Do we want these principles? Do we want the establishment of righteousness on the earth? Do we want to be filled with the love of God ? Do we want to make a record that shall give us satisfaction when we have passed through this probationary stage? 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice in these principles because I know they are true; they are simple and easy to be understood. The Lord has given us understanding, and we hear from this pulpit the reason why we should love God and keep His commandments is that we may attain to a glorious resurrection and eternal life; that when the Lord Jesus Christ shall appear we shall be prepared to meet Him, and associate with Him. I would say to my beloved brethren and sisters, let us repent of all our evil doing, and fault finding; let us mind our own business; let us seek to work out our own salvation; let us be very careful of this precious soul that God is striving to redeem. He has given us our agency, and we can accept just what we please; if we choose to accept righteousness it is open for us; if we choose to accept unrighteousness, we can do so. Now, my brethren and sisters, whose side are we on? You know we sing sometimes : "Who's on the Lord's side?" As a member of this Church I hope I am, and I hope I have sense enough to perform my duty.  I hope to have the fellowship of the Spirit to instruct me, to show me what is necessary for me to do and accomplish in all the affairs of life, whether spiritual or temporal. 

There is to be a certain routine in which the Kingdom will be established. We are preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom, and preparing the people for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, our glorious King in Zion. I hope that, during the few remaining years I have to live to fill up the daws of my probation, that I may possess the same Spirit and blessings 1 have enjoyed ever since I embraced this Gospel. The Lord has blessed me, and filled my soul with unspeakable joy. He has blessed me in the opportunities that I have of being associated with the highest order of intelligences that dwell upon His footstool, men who are devoted to the establishment of His Kingdom on the earth. The Lord knows their hearts, and He will bless and protect them. He has set His hand to establish His Church and Kingdom upon the earth, and He is going to do it. His work is rolling on in its majesty, accomplishing the purposes for which it was instituted, and it will continue to do so until the wicked are overthrown, and the righteous shall dwell upon the earth in that glorious Millennium of a thousand years. Amen. 

ELDER RTIDGER CLAWSON. 

Utah fulfills the prophecy of Isaiah. — A striking example of transformation. — Zion will continue to flourish. — The Lord's favored people should lie faithful. 

Brethren and Sisters : T desire to make myself heard by this large congregation and to increase the volume of my voice, possibly, as I progress in my remarks. 

Are we not a blessed people, and is there any member of the Church that is so blind as not to be able to recognize the providences of the Lord in His hand-dealing with this  ? What do we witness this morning? Why, the hosts of Israel have come up to worship the Lord. For this purpose they have come from the most distant corners and recesses of Zion, — that beautiful Zion of which we have heard during this conference, and of which we hear at all our conferences. You will remember, brethren and sisters, that Isaiah, that mighty prophet of Israel, looking down through the centuries twenty-six hundred years, makes use of language something like this: (speaking of Zion) "And the wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing. . . for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert; and the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water." Speaking of the same thing in a little different language, he says: "For the Lord shall comfort Zion; He will comfort her waste places; and he will make her vvilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody." Now, I submit that anybody who is looking for Zion must expect to find at least two very essential features : first, he must look for a wilderness and a solitary place, which shall afterwards become like the garden of Eden, and shall blossom as the rose. Tn the year 1847, a small band of pilgrims, headed by Brigham Young and consisting of 143. men, three women, and two children, entered the Salt Lake valley. They stood at that time upon the soil of Mexico, but they took possession of the country for and ill  name of the United States; and later the "Stars and Stripes" were unfurled upon Ensign Peak, as an expression of their loyalty to the government, notwithstanding the fact that they had recently been driven out of three states of the republic, by mobs inspired by the spirit of persecution. This land was designated as the land of Zion, and as they increased in numbers and spread out over the lana, it was divided into ecclesiastical districts, which were called '"Stakes of Zion," but the great central stake of Zion was located in the Salt Lake Valley, including Salt Lake City, and was known as Salt Lake Stake for many years, but afterwards it was divided into other stakes — into four great central stakes of Zion: the Salt Lake, Ensign, Liberty, and Pioneer stakes, — all very suggestive names. As the people grew stronger in population and branched out, the number of stakes increased until at present there are fifty-five stakes of Zion. One member of that little band of pioneers wrote his impressions of the surrounding country at thai time, and he used language something like this: "The first impressions of the Salt Lake valley were very disheartening, and but foi two or three cotton-wood trees, not a green thing was in sight, and there was nothing to vary the s'-cnery except rugged mountains, the sage brush and the sunflower." Me further states that the whole country was covered with millions of black crickets which the Indians were gathering and harvesting for their winter food. Here was a fea^t of fat things, but it was a feast of crickets for the Indians, nothing whatever for the Pioneers. And as it was in the Salt Lake valley so it was in all this mountain country. 

Perhaps I can give you an example : Away back in the year 185 1, a few people settled on Box Kider creek, a little stream of water that came out of the mountains and threaded its way through the canyon down into the valleys. The soil, it was said, was of the poorest quality. 

There were two or three spots of meadow and farming land which by irrigation could be made to yield a fair crop but otherwise it was a desert place. Two years later another site was laid out at Box Elder, under the direction of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, who went there with about fifty families, and the new town as laid out was afterwards known as Brigham City, named after the great Prophet and pioneer of this people. Now, when the new colony came in, the older colonists were very much disturbed in their feelings, claiming that there was not sufficient water there to furnish the new-comers, and that they would go short; and so there was some dissatisfaction and some discontent and complaint upon this score. That was about fifty-five vears ag;o. An effort was made at once to establish orchards at Brigham City, but it was a failure. They planted the peach tree, but it would not grow; the early and late frosts came and cut it down, their fruit trees were destroyed. But how changed is the scene after fifty-five years. Today that city and the surrounding country is covered with orchards and beautiful farms, sustaining in the city a population of about seven hundred families or 3,500 souls. 

Let me give you an idea, my brethren and sisters, of what was accomplished during the past season in Brigham City; and when I speak of Brigham City I speak of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  places — other cities and settlements of the Saints in the mountains, this is only a sample you might say. There was shipped out of Brigham City, during the past summer, small fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, dewberries, etc., amounting to about $50,000. There were shipped 95 full carloads of peaches; and then there were sold, in small orders, at least ten carloads of peaches, making 105 carloads, representing 140 thousand cases of peaches shipped from that little town to large cities of the East, to Minneapolis, Chicago, New York, and Boston; to Winnipeg, Canada, on the North, and to many cities in the South. As many as fifteen carloads of peaches were shipped out in one clay. This you can readily see would furnish work as well as revenue for the people of the city. They realized about $50,000 for their peaches, making $100,000 for their crops of fruit. There were about one hundred children, between the ages of fouiteen and sixteen, employed to wiap the peaches for shipment. The peaches were put up sixty in a box, and they were paid one cent a box ioi wrapping. These children earned on an average $1 a day. One little fellow, fourteen years of age, wrapped 240 boxes in a single day, earning $2.40, and wrapping something like 14,400 peaches. Thus employment was furnished not only to the growers and shippers, but also to the little children of the people who' were employed and their time was well paid for. Altogether, the children of Brigham City earned, during the short season of gathering and shipping fruit, something like $1,200.00, which of course is a very creditable showing. 

And all this, brethren and sis, in fulfilment of prophecy. Are not the words of Isaiah fulfilled literally? Did not that baud of pioneers find a "wilderness" and a "solitary place?" and later on, as the years rolled by, did not ti.is wilderness blossom as the rose? Take Salt Lake City and the Salt Lake valley, Provo and the Utah valley, Ogden and the Weber valley, Logan and the Cache valley, and Brigham City and the Bear River valley. Are not these places like Eden ? Are they not fruitful as the garden of the Lord? Again, think of Davis County. Is it not the very garden spot of the world? Is there any soil anywhere that produces more abundantly and richly than the soil of our neighboring county? And never upon Mother Earth has there been raised and matured such beautiful, such luscious fruit as will be found oti ex hibition today at the Davis County Eair, — this verv day! At the litigation Congress which was held at Boise, when the fruits of Utah, Idaho, Washington, and oilier western states, were brought into competition, the fruits from Utah, the fruits of Zion, took the first prize and justly so. 

Brethren and sisters, Zion is here and Zion will continue to stand. No power under Heaven will overthrow this mighty work; it may not be, it cannot be. Think of the wonderful progress of this work; Joseph Smith, the piophet, who organized the church, presided over a few thousand souls. Think of it. In his lifetime he presided over a few thousand while today our present leader, President Joseph F. Smith, presides over about 400,000, who are scattered over the waste places of Zion, which waste places have become a fruitful garden, and are blossom as the rose. My brethren and sisters, since the Lord has so greatly and abundantly blessed us, and since we can recognize the fulfil ment of prophecies to the very letter, concerning this latter-day work, shall we not be faithful ? Shall we not honor the Lord, and remember our covenants that we have made with Him ? Shall we not pay our tithes and offerings, and remember our prayers ? Shall we not remember the Word of Wisdom which has been given for our deliverance and for our escape from many evils? Shall we not stand together as one united band, honoring the Lord and keeping His commandments? Shall we not be true to Him and true to every righteous cause upon the earth? And, in the words of Isaiah, shall we not "cease to do evil; learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow ?" Shall we not seek to establish justice in the earth, and be charitable to the widows and fatherless? Shall we not maintain just and righteous laws, and uphold and support and sustain righteous and good men in our midst ? 

We stand for Zion; we stand for the cause of righteousness. May the Lord bless us and guide us , may His spirit abound in outhearts, and may it be poured out abundantly upon the congregations of Israel, is my prayer in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Allegiance to God, to country, and to the state. — Importance of instruction and proper example at home. — Folly and sin of indulgence in smoking and drinking. — Prosperity and abundant employment. — Possess liomes and become landowners. — Dry farming advocated. — Practise econ in prosperous times. — Bad men greatest enemies of the Church. 

My dear brethren and sisters : The feeling that is in my heart at the present time I fear I cannot express to you just as I would like to do. I have partaken of the spirit of this conference; I have enjoyed every word that has been uttered; I endorse the testimonies of the faithful brothers who have spoken; and I hope and trust that the same spirit may guide my remarks that attended them. 

"I am not ashamed of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." I am not ashamed of my brethren and sisters, and I am proud of the achievements of this people in the past, in establishing themselves here and building up this commonwealth. I am not ashamed of my country, nor her institutions, and I love the Stars and Stripes. I am not ashamed of dear Utah, nor of Salt Lake City. I am not ashamed, of the principles that have been revealed by God to His people in this dispensation. I hope and trust that so long as I have breath I never shall do aught to bring reproach either upon the people of God or the state in which I was born. While I acknowledge that my first duty is to God, I also acknowledge that my allegiance and duty to my country and to my State is paramount over all earthly affairs. I wish to say that my duty to God, my love for Him, does not conflict with my love for and duty to my country. It does not conflict with the love I have for the brethren here; nor with the love that is in my heart for the people of God. It only gives me greater power, strength, and a desire to love all mankind. I have no desire in my heart other than to do the will of God, keep His commandments, uphold, and sustain my country and her institutions. 

My brethren and sisters, it seems to me that this is a time when we should place our homes in order. We cannot, by public speaking, always reach the boys and girls. Those who preach and teach in the Sunday School, in the wards and stakes, or even at the general conferences, reach but a limited number of them; and I plead with you, you fathers and mothers who are here, to watch closely the children God has given you. Commence at home and be yourselves their instructors. You have a power over your children for good, I hope. I assure you that if you do not teach your children properly yourselves, others will teach them, and more than likely it will be by an influence that will bring sorrow to them and disgrace to you. 

In the early history o"f the Church, when it had been organized scarcely two years, God gave a revelation to His prophet Joseph Smith, to which I desire to call special attention. It was given to the Latter-day Saints, and is commonly known as the Word of Wisdom. It has been referred to here by Brothers Lyman and Clawson, and I wish to add some comments on the same subject. It is a simple law, revealed for the temporal welfare of the people, given for the weakest as well as the strongest of God's children. I want to read it to the people here today, and then perhaps submit some remarks. It is found in Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"A Word of Wisdom for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and Church; and also the saints in Zion. To be sent greeting 

— not by commandment or constraintbut by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order ancE will of God in the temporal salvation; of all saints in the last days. 

"Given for a principle with promise,, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints. 

"Behold verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in thehearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this \vord of wisdom by revelation. 

"That inasmuch as any man drinketli wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before Him. 

"And behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of thevine, of your own make. 

"And again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. 

"And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

"And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

"And again, verily I say unto you, alt' wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man. 

"Every herb in the season thereof , and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

"Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used' sparingly. 

"And it is pleasing unto me that thcy~ should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. 

"All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man, but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and for wild animals that run or creep on the earth. 

"And these hath God made for theuse of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger. 

"All grain is good for the food of man, as also the fruit of the vine, that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground. 

"Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, .and rye for the fowls and for swine, .and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain. 

"And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow in their bones. 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; 

"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall nass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen." 

My brethren and sisters, I have been traveling in many parts of our state during- the last few months, and I have listened to reports made at our quarterly conferences that indicate to me that this simple law, which was given as a means of temporal salvation to the people — for the very weakest of the saints — is certainly not being obeyed as fully as it should be. It is reported that some of the men in our communities indulge in smoking and drinking. If a man visits saloons, how can he expect to exert an influence that will keep boys, who may be a little wayward perhaps, from such places. I think it is very foolish indeed, and shows great weakness of character, for men to say that they are induced to go to those degrading places; men generally go where thev want to, and where they feel at home. If a man wants to attend conference and has a desire in his heart to do so, he generally finds some way to accomplish it, and attends because he feels that it is the propter place; the instructions and influences are what he enjoys. On the other hand, a man who goes to a saloon and spends any of the  God has provided him with for the support of his wife and children, wrongs himself and them. The man who follows such a course cannot retain the confidence and respect of the people. 

My brethren and sisters, I hope and trust that every one of you will watch over the children that God has given you, teach them to love their home. Make it truly a home and not simply a stopping place, and see that the influence therein is such that your children would rather spend their leisure time at home than anywhere else on earth. Make it so pleasant that their companions are anxious to come there, because when they do come they feel an influence of love and peace, and consequently have a desire to return and associate with the children who live in such agreeable surroundings. 

Teach your children how to pray, and urge them to never neglect their prayers. Teach them to be kind and considerate. Find out whether or not they are truthful, and if they are trying to live according to the laws of God. It is difficult for the mother or father to do these things unless they themselves are living up to the principles they advocate. Therefore, my brethren and sisters, I pray you that you will begin immediately — if have not done so in the past — to exert such an influence over your children, and all the youth of Zion, that they will become honorable, truthful and God-fearing men and women. 

While attending a conference in Box Elder County.the other day, I heard a report from one of the bishops that gave me a great deal of joy, and I heard a similar report in one of our southern counties. It was this : that not a boy between the ages of twelve and twenty-one used tobacco or liquor in any form. I would to God that such a report could be made concerning every boy and man in every ward in all the Church! 

I had a man come to me, the other day, and complain of how hard it was for him to maintain his family. When Brother Clawson was speaking of the bounteous harvest in Box Elder County, I did not know but we would all feel like moving to Brigham City, to share in the wonderful prosperity attendr ing the people there. Brigham City is only one of the many prosperous communities in the State. The other night, going home on the train, I met the man who supplies boxes for the packing of fruit, and I did not realize, until then, that Provo was shipping more fruit than Brigham City. He told me he had just sold four car-loads of boxes, making a total of twenty-five car-loads for Provo alone. I asked him how many car-loads of fruit is represented by a car-load of boxes, and he said ten, which would make 250 car-loads of fruit shipped from that point alone. Again, in the same County, nearly one hundred thousand tons of beets are ready to be harvested and shipped to the sugar factory. Most of these great productions of orchard and farm are raised by the people and the children of the Latter-day Saints. As I thought of these conditions, I could not understand how it was that this man, whom I mentioned first, could complain that it was hard for him to get along. Why, there is work on all sides. But, I soon learned the reason of his difficultv in supporting his family; and I said to him : "John, you will never get along while you spend the time and  that you do in sucking cigarettes," for this was his pastime, from morning until night. I asked him how much he smoked each day. He said he smoked a number of cigarettes, not mentioning the number, and a few cigars, and told me it cost him twenty-five cents each day. Here was a poor man smoking, and wasting the money that should go to provide for his family; aye, worse, he was also wasting and weakening his Dhvsical strength. f advised him to stop smoking, and take that 25 cents daily and use it for the benefit of his wife and children. Twenty-five cents a day means $1.75 a week, enough to buy a pair of * shoes for a child each week in the year. I went on and figured with him what it would amount to each year if he would save it, and what the interest would be, and how easy it would be for him, or anyone else, while the prosperous times are on, to put a little monev away for a rainy day. 

T want every Latter-day Saint to own and keep his home. If you have no home, get one; have a roof over your head, and then don't mortgage it; don't sell it. You brethren who live in the southern section of the State, where there are large tracts of arid land unappropriated — called the waste lands of the State — secure what you can of this land. If you own a farm of this character now, hold it; the time will come when the granary of our State will be in locations now uncultivated. Today dry farming is only just begun. What was the condition, a few years ago, in Juab county. I see Brother Grace of Nephi before me; ask him what success he has had with dry farming. There is no one in Juab County today but would say  God has blessed them, and blessed that soil; yet it was only a few years ago that the people were trying to get away from there. They wanted to sell their homes because there were not sufficient irrigated farming lands to sustain them and their families; but today what do we find? Fields of hundreds of acres of the very choicest kinds of grain, yielding last year — one of the dryest seasons — 35 bushels to the acre, and this year almost the same amount, all grown on dry farm land. Scientific dry farming, with the different modes of properly treating the soil, #nd the various processes that are being adopted, will make the waste places of today blossom and bring forth grain to feed the people of this State hereafter. Now, brethren, I want you to go home and tell your people to hold their land. Don't sell your inheritance in Zion. 

I wish to say that while the good times are here, and men can obtain good wages, save some of your earnings; for good times are like the ebb and flow of the ocean — they come and go. You mark my word, just as sure as the Lord lives there will be a change, and f hope and trust that the people of the Latterday Saints will be prepared for the change when it comes. Prosperous times are when the foundation of failures are laid. During' prosperous times men reach out further than they ought to; they go beyond safe investments, and borrow money for all kinds of wildcat ventures. I say to you, now that money is plentiful, and your credit is so good that you can borrow money on your own signature, or with the signature of a friend added, f hope and trust you will use judgment and not go beyond your ability to pay. Keep out of . Don't go into debt at all, unless you have absolute security back of it, and unless it is for the purpose of controlling some land purchase, or some business that you know you are absolutely safe in going into. I wanted to say that much, my brethren and sisters, in relation to debt. I desire to say also that one very good way to save and keep out of debt — for the Latter-day Saints at least — is to obey that simple law of God before alluded to, the Word of Wisdom. 

I have been reading lately some statistics showing the amount of tobacco, cigars, and liquors of all kinds, that came into this State last year, and I was dumbfounded to note the amount. I have not the time this morning to read them to you; but think of fifty carloads of tobacco coming into the State of Utah in one year! Of course, the great bulk of it is consumed by other people; but I hope and trust that I may live to see the day when it will all be consumed by others than the Latter-day Saints. I have heard men say : "Well, it doesn't hurt me to smoke, and I have plenty of money to pay for it." There is not a man in the world that ever did use it who was not hurt physically, and, do you know, I have an idea that it weakens a man morally. Yield to the violation of this simple law, and it will be easier to yield to the violation of other laws. The first step taken in the path of error is not generally serious, and is commonly called folly; but if you take the first steps, you are liable to go farther and be overtaken in greater wrongs. That is not all, think of the example you set. Even if you have no children yourselves, you should not set a bad example before the children of the Latter-day Saints. I ask of you, my brethren and sisters, to think of this, study it. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I pray you to guard and teach your children, and while all the influences from the outside are trying to win them away from the Gospel of Jesus Christ, let your loving care and example be exercised to keep them steadfast in the faith. There are men whose hearts are filled with hatred, who try to influence our children, and embitter them against the leaders of the Church. If they are successful in getting even a doubt implanted in their minds, if you fathers and mothers do not bring an influence to bear that will overcome it, it will bring sorrow to you and a spiritual death and sorrow to them. But, I have faith in the children of the Latter-day Saints; in the boys and girls who have been born under the everlasting covenant. I feel confident they will tread the path that has been followed by their fathers and their mothers. I love the father and mother that gave me life, and I marvel at times at the sacrifices they made for the sake of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I pray God that He will give me strength, and that He will give every boy and girl, born of mothers and fathers who have been true and loyal members of the Church, the strength to stand nobly by them and by the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I have faith that they will do so. If you will call the attention of your boys and girls to the character of the men who are sustained as the authorities of this Church, how they live, what their aims are, and the love they have for mankind, and then direct their attention to the lives of those who are trying to bring disgrace upon this people,  cannot help but note the contrast I know that if our young people were informed of the true character and lives of many of those who are striving to tear down this work, they would not follow them. It seems to be the rule that, when a man becomes immoral and corrupt, he also becomes a bitter enemy of the Church, and the lower he gets the more bitterness he develops. 

My brethren and sisters, let us be loyal and true to the covenants we have made with God, and to His Church. Let us uphold and sustain the men who preside over the Church, and be loyal and true to them. In like manner let us be loyal and true to our State, and her interests, to our country and its institutions, and, above all, to God who gave us life; it is He whose hand is steadying the ark of Zion. God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lewis W. Shurtliff, and conference adjourned till 2 p. m. 


