Overflow
07 10 1906



ELDER JAMES Gr. DUFFIN. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I feel grateful, my brothers and sisters, for the blessings I have enjoyed during this conference, in meeting with you in Zion, and in listening to the words of counsel, instruction and inspiration, as they have fallen from the lips of the servants of the 

Lord. We, who have spent many years in the world as missionaries, separated from the body of the Church, can fully appreciate, I believe, the association of our brethren and sisters, when we come to attend these general conferences of the Church. The words that were uttered by our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith, at the beginning of this conference, certainly must have inspired the souls of everyone who loves the work of the Lord, with a determination that they will be more true, if possible, and more devoted to the eternal principles that God has revealed for the salvation of His children. I felt, this morning that I should like to read to you a few words from a revelation given to Isaiah the Prophet concerning this great latter-day work, and the joy and satisfaction that it would bring into the souls of those who .would receive God's word, humble themselves before Him, and render obedience unto the sacred ordinances He has revealed from heaven. I read from the twenty-ninth chapter of Isaiah : "And in that day," (speaking of the time when God was to do a marvelous work and a wonder among the people of the world) "shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darknes. The meek also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scorner is consumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off : That make a man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and turn aside the just for a thing of nought." Upon those who would receive the Gospel that God was to establish upon this earth, to them it was to bring joy and peace. They were to rejoice in the Holy One of Israel, their minds should be enlightened, their ears unstopped to hear, so that they might understand the principles God should reveal, and because of this, joy and peace should enter into their souls. To those who love lies rather than the truth, because their deeds are evil, it should bring hatred into their hearts, their voices and their hands should be raised against the doctrines of righteousness and against God's anointed. But He left on record the prediction that they would not prosper in their evil ways, neither should the wickedness of their hearts prevail over these eternal principles of truth, which He had revealed, nor should they prevail over those who render obedience unto those principles. 

Now, I want to call your attention to another promise that the Lord made through another one of His servants, who lived many hundreds of years after the time that He gave this revelation unto His servant Isaiah. I will not stop to read it to you, but will quote from the revelation given to the beloved disciple of our Lord and Master while a prisoner upon the Isle of Patmos. He says, "And I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tonsme, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him; for the hour of His judgment is come; and worship Him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Now, my brothers and sisters, here are two promises that our Father in heaven authorized His servant to record concerning the great work that He was to do in the latter days. It was to be restored to the earth by an angel — a messenger sent from the courts of glory. When this message should come to the earth, it was to bring joy and peace unto the souls of those who would receive it. Our Father in heaven has always sent His messengers to men whom He has chosen, because of their preexistent faithfulness, and they come to the earth in the time that God had appointed for them to be here. These messengers had to come to the chosen instruments of the Lord, to deliver their messages and bestow authority from heaven, and by this authority has this message gone forth among the nations of the earth, in these latter days. In fulfillment of these promises God has sent messengers in these days, first preceded by His own glorious appearance, and that of His beloved Son, Jesus Christ. These messengers have brought the Gospel of eternal life. They aopeared unto Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and his fellow-servant, Oliver Cowdery, laid, their hands upon the heads of those men and conferred upon them the authority of the Holy Priesthood. Thus endowed with power from on high, these men went out among the people; they taught the ways of life; they administered sacred ordinances unto those who would receive this glorious blessing, by which they were brought into the Church and became members of the kingdom of God. And others were called to the work of the ministry, and they also went out with this message of a re-stored Gospel; and from that day to this, the work of proclaiming the truth has never ceased. But it has not yet been fully accomplished, for He said it should go "to every nation, and kindred and tongue, and people," and the principles of eternal life should be taught to them, and they should be warned of the judgments to come. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, since I was twenty-six years of age, I have spent nine years as a missionary unto the people of this country in which we live. The Lord has seen fit to call me to preside during the past seven years, and I thought perhaps it might be of interest if I should give you statistics of some of the work we have been doing in the Central States Mission, where I am now laboring. These statistics that I shall quote cover a period of six years and a half, beginning with January 1, 1900, and ending with July 1, 1906. During this time there have been laboring in that mision 515 Elders, and nine sisters, choice spirits whom God has sent to assist in this work of the latter days. During this six years and a half the missionaries have visited 709,314 families of strangers; aoout 15 times the number of families that there are in the state of Utah. They have re-visited 55,226 of those families. They have paid visits to members of the Church, 65,994; have had 738,879 Gospel conversations, and distributed 1,146,848 tracts. These humble servants of God, and pure sisters assisting them, have sold 54,349 books, and loaned 14,807; and have held 43,036 meetings with an attendance of 944,798, nearly one million of people to whom they have preached the Gospel in public meetings, and  the street and cottage meetings. They have performed during this period of time 1,808 baptisms, and blessed 1,576 children. Now I want to call attention to the number of pages of literature that this represents. Of tracts we have used none of less than 16 pages. One of them was written by Apostle Charles W. Penrose, entitled, "What the Mormons Believe," of which we have distributed about 50,000. The other tracts we have used have been mostly 32 and 44 pages. Multiplying the number of tracts by the number of pages contained in each, we find a total of 35,949,000 pages of reading matter that have been distributed in this form during the period referred to. There were 24,500,000 pages of reading matter in the books that have been sold and loaned, making a grand total of sixty millions, four hundred and forty-nine thousand pages of reading matter distributed in that one mission during six years and a half. 

My brothers and sisters, the Lord said that this Gospel should go to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and here is a specimen of the work that is being done by the servants of the Lord, and by our lady missionaries, in fulfilling the promise that God made when He gave a revelation to His servant John, upon the Isle of Patmos. If you will go among these missionaries and ask them what the effect of this labor has been upon themselves they will say that it has brought peace into our families, it has given us joy, it has brought satisfaction to our souls, and we do indeed rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. You see then that, through the work that your sons, husbands, and daughters are doing, the promises left on record by our Father in heaven are being fulfilled in this great latter-day work. 

I want to say a word about the integrity of these young brethren among whom I have labored with so much satisfaction. This will tell the whole tale that I am going to read to you now: "Of the 515 missionaries over whom I have presided during this period of time, two remained in the mission one month; one remained two months; three served three months; three others six months; two, four months; and three, ten months; all the other missionaries remained in the field from sixteen to thirty months each. Out of the whole number, there were only two who deserted the cause of the Master. They came to us and expressed their intention to abandon the mission work assigned to them, and returned home without being released. Twelve others had good cause for returning home after they had been only one to ten months time in the mission, because of sickness contracted in their mission' work, or death, or extreme illness of near relatives at home, therefore they were given honorable releases, by request of the Priesthood at home or for other good reasons. Think of these missionaries serving without any hope of earthly recompense, looking only to their Father in heaven for reward, paying their own expenses, most of them traveling without purse or scrip, leaving home and business ' affairs, going out and cheerfully doing this arduous labor! When you consider that only two of them deserted the cause of the Master, can you find such a record anywhere on the pages of his outside the work of our Father in heaven ? 

Another thing I want to say : not one of these young men has defiled himself; not one of them. They retained their virtue. When they came home, and the arms of beloved wives, mothers and fathers, and sisters clasped them, they knew that those husbands, sons and brothers came into their arms pure as they left the fireside at home. 

My brothers and sisters, the time is nearing when I shall leave that mission, and I want to say toyou that there never has been a moment of time since I went into the Central States Mission, seven years ago this fall, that I have not enjoyed my labor, every day and moment has been a joy and satisfaction to me. When I leave there it will be with gratitude in my heart to my Father in heaven that He gave me the privilege of going intothat mission and remaining there these many years. Death has come into my family during that time. A sweet little child, two years and a. half old, died; and my dear mother laid down her worn out body while I was there. I want to say one word concerning that noble mother of mine. Though her body was racked with pain, though she would have loved to see her son ere her body was laid in the grave, yet, what was her message? "My boy, stay at your post of duty." The same sentiment has been expressed by my noble wife and each of my children. Three or four years ago, when my home was in southern Utah, my eldest boy, who had been faithful and true during this missionary work, wanted to go toschool. He desired to get an education in one of the higher institutions of learning, but he said, writ to me about some of his companions who were going, "I feel badly that I cannot go with them," but, said he, "I have made up my mind that I am going to stay here at home until we have finished this mission that God has given unto us." He is now twenty-four years of age, and is still at home, faithful and true to this work that God has given us to do, and so has every child I have, and every member of my family. Inasmuch as I shall, in a few weeks, return to my home permanently, and a man of God has been chosen to take my place, I felt it was proper that I should present some of these matters to you Latter-day Saints, that you might know what has been done by your sons and daughters in that mission. 

Another point before I close. We have published in that mission it, 500 copies of the Book of Mormon, which have all been disposed of except about 200. We have published 20,000 of the Voice of Warning; also 6,980 Cowley's Talks, and nearly 2,000,000 of tracts. Many of these have been sent to other missions, and have been purchased by the Saints. This is a little more of the work that is being done in fulfillment of the promises and prophecies of God, left on record through the writings and utterances of His servants in former as well as in later times. 

May the peace of heaven be with you, my brethren and sisters. May the Holy Spirit be in your souls. May you be faithful and true unto this work of God and the Holy Priesthood. I rejoice that your sons and daughters have returned from that mission true and faithful. 

While there they have been instructed in the truth and encour to maintain virtue, and they have been admonished that they should continue true and diligent when they return home. I feel it is my desire to continue to work in the service of my Master all the days of my life. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES DVCKW0RTH. 

(Late President of Australian Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am deeply grateful for the privilege which I enjoy of meeting with you upon this occasion. During the short time that I speak, I sincerely trust that the Good Spirit which has been with us during conference may direct my remarks, that they may be of such a character that all may be instructed and benefited by our meeting together upon this occasion. This is the first general conference of the Church which it has been my privilege to attend during the past five years, for nearly the whole of that period I have been away from home, presiding over our work in Australia. When you realize the length of time I have been deprived of the privileges that we are enjoying today you may understand, to a certain extent, at least, how much I appreciate this opportunity of meeting with the Saints in general conference. I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference just as much as the remarks which that spirit has actuated. 

No doubt all the Latter-day Saints who have been present during the sessions which have passed have enjoyed the conference, the remarks and the spirit thereof, quite as much as I have done, and doubtless great good will result therefrom. There are no other people in the world today who are blessed as are the Latter-day Saints. They have received the truth, and by reason of that fact they ought to be the best people upon the face of the earth. Our lives should be in keeping with the good instructions imparted, for only so far as these instructions are exemplified in our lives are they of lasting benefit to us. If our lives do not conform to the instructions, then, instead of their being a benefit to us, they will result in sorrow, for in the great day of the Lord we shall all be judged by the light which has been extended unto us. The question all Latter-day Saints should ask at the close of this conference should be this, How much of the instructions which have been imparted unto me will I carry out in my life? We are blessed in listening to the words of the inspired servants of God. There is no people in the world today who are blessed with the presence of Prophets, Seers and Revelators except the Latter-day Saints, and this privilege should be fully appreciated by us. But, in carrying out the instructions which these good men have given us, the Lord leaves us free to exercise our agency. There has never been any compulsion exercised upon the Latter-day Saints regarding obedience to the counsels which are given unto them. We are asked to abide by these counsels, but we are not compelled. No other people in the world are more free in this respect than are the Latter-day Saints, whatever may be said to the contrary. 

I remember upon more than one occasion, while I have been away  home, in speaking of the calls which are made upon our missionaries to go to the nations of the earth, the question was asked, "Are your young men compelled to go upon these missions upon which they are called?" I have said to those who have asked me that question that we are just as free to acceot that call, and discharge the responsibilities pertaining thereto, as we are to remain at home. There is no need of compulsion to be exercised upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints to induce them to do right. We have good and evil presented unto us, but whether we accept the good and refuse the evil, or follow the opposite course, is left to ourselves. The Lord will assist us to do good; He will assist us to refrain from that which is evil, but He compels no man to do good, or to refrain from that which is evil. This has been the course pursued by the Lord in every age of the world even before the world upon which you and I live was created, and we enjoy that freedom of agency just as well today as we did before we came upon the earth. 

I find a few words recorded in the Book of Mormon that I will read. They are found on page 164, 27th verse, chapter 2, second book of Nephi : 

"Wherefore men are created free according to the flesh, and all things are given which are expedient unto men. and they are free to choose liberty and eternal life through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death according to the captivity and power of the devil, for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself." 

You will observe that in the age when these words were penned the  of free agency was extant, and men were just as free to choose the path which led to death as they were to choose that which leads to life eternal. The same principle is taught in other pages of the Book of Mormon. I will read now from page 319 of the Book of Alma : 

"I ought not to harrow up in my desires the firm decrees of a just God, for I know that He granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life. Yea, I know that He alloweth unto men according to their wills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men, for he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless, but he that knoweth good from evil, it is given according to his desires, whether he desireth good or evil or death and remorse of conscience." 

Now that is the status of the Latter-day Saints today. They are free to choose that path which leads down to destruction and death, and become miserable like unto Satan himself. We, as Latter-day Saints, can exercise our agency to pursue that course which is pleasing in the eyes of our heavenly Father; when this conference shall be closed, therefore, let us carrw with us to our homes, to our firesides, the grand instructions which have been given unto us, and let us carry the spirit by which they have been imparted, and then indeed may we expect them to be effective in our lives. We may rest assured of this fact that, if we want to enjoy true happiness in this life and in the life to come, there is but one course for us to pursue, and that is the path of righteousness, for the path of righteousness has in every age of the world been the path of happiness; on the other hand, the path of wickedness has, in all ages of the world, led to  and wretchedness. No man, nor woman, can live a life of unrighteousness and enjoy happiness, for happiness and unrighteousness never did go together, and they never will. 

We may think at times that the counsels given by the servants of the Lord run counter to our happiness in life, but that is entirely a false idea, and wrong impression. If you want to be happy in this life and in the life to come, live in harmony with the counsels of the Lord as they are given to us by His servants, then indeed shall we enjov the greatest measure of happiness possible in mortality. Our Savior said upon one occasion, "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." In this respect the Latter-day Saints are exactly upon the same level as are the people of the world. It is not what we profess that will save us in the kingdom of God; it is what we do that will insure us the salvation which God desires to give unto all of His sons and daughters. We should show our faith by our works. The religion we have espoused is the grandest of all religions, and the organization to which we belong is the greatest, therefore, we ought to be the best people upon the face of the earth, and we are. But even for the Latter-day Saints there is much room for improvement. I believe that all of the Latter-day Saints are more or less in this condition, therefore we have need to put into oractice the grand teachings which have been delivered to us during this conference. 

We have with us a Prophet of the living- God,; ust as much endowed with authority as any man that ever lived upon the face of the earth, having just as much of the Priesthood of God as had Moses, Paul or Isaiah. We have the Twelve Apostles also, as well as the First Presidency, men endowed with power from on high, with all the rights pertaining to the Melchisedek priesthood, and the words of these men should be prized by the Latter-day Saints. Their inspired utterances should be above the price of jewels, and we should endeavor to profit by their teachings in our daily walk and conversation. The measure of our happiness, as I have said, depends uoon our allegiance to the laws and comandments of God. Speaking of the missionaries who have gone abroad, in nearly every instance — I know of no exceptions — they will tell you that the happiest years of their lives have been when they were in the nations of the earth proclaiming the principles of life and salvation. And why is this. Because they were then living closer to God than they have been at home. 

My missionary experiences have been the grandest I have yet enjoyed upon the earth. Twelve years and a half ago I went on my first mission, and during those twelve years and a half, I have been absent from home eight and a half years, laboring in the ministry, and that time has been the happiest of my life. When I have been released it has been with feelings of regret that I have taken my departure for home. I believe that this is, almost without exception, the experience of all our missionaries. But, need we go abroad to experience that feeling of happiness? God is  respecter of persons, and He is just as willing to bless us at home as in the nations of the earth; His blessings are not confined to any particular locality. It is true that there are blessings which can be obtained only in the land of Zion, but that happiness which comes from doing good is within the reach of every man, whether in Zion or in the nations of the earth. There is no reason why we may not enjoy the same Good Spirit at home, around our firesides, in our wards and stakes throughout the whole Church, that the missionaries enjoy in the nations of the earth. There should be no happier people upon the face of the earth than the Latter-day Saints. We should be the most satisfied people in the world, because we know that we have the truth. The people in the world generally are not in that enviable condition. They hope they are on the right road to salvation, but I have talked with many of them, and they cannot say they know they are right. Whereas, of the Latter-day Saints, there is hardly one amongst them who is devoid of the testimony of the divinity of the great latter-day work, they know this is not the work of man. We have had great men in the Church, and we have today as grand men as ever lived upon the face of the earth, but this is not the work of any man, it is the work of Jesus Christ, and I know it, and all Latter-day Saints may know it for themselves. There need be no dubiety upon this Question in the minds and hearts of the Latter-day Saints. The Lord is willing to bless all of us with that testimony, and without it we can never feel absolutely secure. Trialswill come, trouble will overshadow , and the time will come, sooner or later, when that testimony will be needed by every Latter-day Saint; and when trials come it will be an anchor to them in the hour of darkness and adversity. So long as they remain true to that testimony, to that knowledge, they will never be shaken from the Church, never if they are faithful because their testimony will enable them to endure, and we are not safe without it. As I said, we can all have that testimony, and we may know for ourselves that this is indeed the Church of Jesus Christ, that Being who came in the meridian of time, the Savior of the world, the Redeemer; it is His Church and net the church of any man, and v.e should have faith in Him and live in harmony with His laws and commandments. 

I t>ray God to bless you. I kno w that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and that all of his successors have been equally Prophets of God. May the Lord bless us, may we serve Him and keep His commandments during our lives, that we may have happiness in this life and increased joy in the world to come, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am very grateful for the opportunity of attending this conference, and partaking with you of the Spirit of the Lord that has been poured out upon the Latter-day Saints assembled. It has been my earnest prayer, and I feel it has been yours, that we may practice in our lives  food instructions we have received, and make them part of our conduct; that our thoughts may be changed, if they have gone astray in any particular; that our words may be guided by inspiration, and our actions in life be in harmony with the Spirit of God, the spirit of the Gospel that has been restored in this day. Some man has said that "We sow in life a thought and for that thought we reap a word, and sowing a word, we reap an action, our actions make habits, our habits make our life and when this life is sown destiny or eternal life is our reward." In other words, our destiny in the world to come will depend upon the thoughts, words, actions, and habits that permeate our lives while we sojourn upon this earth. It is my earnest desire that my thoughts will be guided, that my actions resulting therefrom, and my words, shall aid in the establishing of righteousness, and in sustaining and upholding the Priesthood of God, which has been placed on the earth. I have learned that we cannot harbor feelings against those who preside over us in any position, from a block teacher to the highest in authority, without the risk of expressing some of these thoughts; and if we give utterance to evil sentiments that are in our hearts, our actions are likely to be correspondingly shaped, and we will reap a harvest of sin in this life, and sorrow in the life to come. Men magnifying positions in the Priesthood are honored of God, and as long as God honors them, you and I, if we desire the happiness for which we pray, must carefully guard our thoughts, words and actions. 

I have had great joy in being a messenger of life and salvation to the children of men, and I have often thought, said and prayed that God would grant unto me the privilege of continuing in that good work throughout all my days on the earth. In my childhood I prayed many times for education, for lands, for riches, and other gifts of this earth; but, after thinking it all over, the last prayer in my soul is that my Father, above all the blessings of earth, would grant me the privilege of being a witness of the Gospel to the honest in heart. I have shaped my affairs twice to go away and study in the. colleges of the land, but each time when I was ready to go a call ha<; come from the authorities of God for me to go and preach the Gospel, and I have willingly gone, and acknowledged that God's overruling oower has guided my life in a way that will bring the greatest happiness, and I have striven to do that to which God has called me. 

It has given me happiness to have the privilege of laboring in the Northern States with the many that have been called there to preach and search out the honest in heart. I can say for those who labor there, that there are no better men on the earth than the young missionaries who have come to the Northern States, and there are none laboring any harder to advance the cause of truth, none praying more earnestly that God will give them His Spirit, that they may have power over the hearts of the honest, in righteousness; and that they may be led to those who are prepared to receive the Gospel. Most of the Elders who labor in the Northern States mission are boys only, but under the Spirit of God they have become powerful in bearing testi of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and fearless in their declaration that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, sent to establish righteousness in the earth. They tell the people that this Gospel will not be taken from the earth; that God has been with His servants from the time of the re-establishment and organization of His Church to the present day; that the proclamation of the truth of the Gospel plan of salvation will continue in the earth, and that the people who have received the truth and proven faithful have had their souls filled with the deepest happiness and strong assurance of eternal life. During the past two years we were very much impressed concerning the distribution of the Book of Mormon Scripture in the earth, feeling that God requires us in this age and generation to disseminate this book as another witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible has been pretty well received among the Christian world as the word of God; and upon the Latterday Saints, from the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith until now, has been laid the responsibility of establishing the Book of Mormon also as the word of the Lord. We have felt that responsibility very keenly, and have endeavored with all the means that God has given us to put this work in the hands of the people, trusting that the Spirit of the Lord may move upon them, and that they will read and learn wisdom through this New Witness, which is as potent as the Bible in declaring the word of God in the earth. Through the Prophet Joseph Smith this record was given. It was translated by the gift and power of God, and as he translated it he acquired wisdom, and learned  this book contained the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel. He ascertained that it has in it a promise that all who would read it with a prayerful heart should know of its truthfulness. 

Last year the Latter-day Saints missions in the United States combined and published in the city of Chicago, 10,000 copies of that work; the Northern States mission taking something over 3,000. This year, early in the spring, we began to urge the Elders to sell and distribute the Book of Mormon as much as possible, telling them that the first Elders of the Church were sent abroad with that Book, and no other except the Bible. There was no tracts written at that time, and the Voice of Warning was not ^et published, so the first Elders of the Church were sent abroad with this new witness for God. It contained the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel, and in many of the homes where it was read, the fruits of the Gospel followed, and hundreds were enabled to bear testimony to the fact that Joseph Smith was a Prophet, and that the Book of Mormon was the word of God, the history of God's dealings with the people who lived upon this continent. The Elders in the Northern States mission commenced the active campaign of selling the Book of Mormon in April last, and increased their energv in this direction until in the month of Tune, they sold 1,232 copies, and at the end of that month we found ourselves without a Book of Mormon in the office. Another edition of 10,000 was published in August, and since then we have sold about 2,000. 

I bear testimony that more of the Spirit of God has been enjoyed " the Elders who have striven to distribute that book than they have experienced in the distributing of any other literature that has been put into their hands. More people have inquired at our office concerning the Book of Mormon and the Prophet Joseph Smith than at any other period during the three and a half years we have had the privilege of laboring in that mission. We have found, too, that while selling large quantities of the Book of: Mormon at 50 cents a copy, wehave also increased our distribution: of Cowley's Talks, the Voice of: Warning, and the Durrant pamphlet, all of which are disposed of at ten cents per copy. During this time baptisms have not decreased, neither the tithings of the people, nor have we diminished in any other mission work that has been carried on heretofore in that part of the earth. The Spirit of the Lord has increased in the hearts of the Elders and the people, and they have received additional testimony concerning the truth of the Book of Mormon and the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Several Elders have stated that this book sells itself, that all they have to do is to get the people to- read it. If on the street, or in a store, or an office, or in the home, thev can get people to read a few passages, the Spirit of the Lord accompanies the reading, and in almost every instance where people read it they purchased a copy. 

I believe President Brigham Young said that no man had ever heard the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith, but what the Spirit of the Lord whispered to him-, that he was a servant of God,, and that no man ever heard the name of the Book of Mormon but what he was impressed that it was of the Lord. Evidences of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon are being discovered all the time, which lead the people of the world to inquire concerning it. In time it will be found in thousands of libraries, and prove a mighty witness for the Lord Jesus. We feel that we have been very successful, and that God has blessed our efforts. 

We are privileged in the city of Chicago to have a large number of students who are members of the Church, and I am proud of every one of them. They are a strong support; they teach in our Sunday school, help administer the Sacrament, and do much of the preaching. They are willing to help us on every hand to spread the Gospel, and hundreds of their fellow students have heard their testimony, because our students are not ashamed of God nor the revealed truth. They are entitled to praise from the Latter-day Saints for their support to the missionaries in that part of the earth. 

Two of our Elders, two years ago this winter, were turned out of the settlement known as Zion City, forty miles -north of Chicago, a place founded by John Alexander Dowie. When they were thus banished, we told the Elders to be of eood cheer, for the time would come when we would have the privilege of preaching the Gospel to them. The people there believe in the doctrines of faith, repentance, baptism, and in many cases the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. They acknowledge the truth of the principles of tithing, offerings, fasting and the building of temples; in fact almost all the principles that are taught  the Latter-day Saints have been incorporated in the doctrines advocated by John Alexander Dowie. One exception is the principle of authority, or the restoration of the Presthood of the Son of God. This summer that community has practically gone to pieces, and upon the streets of their city, everywhere, for the past two or three weeks, our Elders have been distributing tracts and preaching the Gospel, declaring the plan of life and salvation. We have found among that people a goodly number who have heard the Gospel from the Elders in years gone by, but who had not the courage to accept it because of persecution, but when the Dowie oeople came along preaching similar doctrines thev accepted his counterfeit. Now thev have had their lands and property taken from them, and in their poverty some are willing to receive the truth that came to them at first. One lady told me that fifteen years ago she heard the Elders in Germany, but she then lacked the courage to become a member of the Church. Three or four years ago the Dowieites came along preaching the same principles, and she gladly received them. She then moved to Zion City, and turned over her property to the corporation, and today she is a widow without anything in the world, but sad experience. She is glad to have the Mormon Elders come to her door and preach the Gospel to her again — the truth that she once turned her back upon. 

We recently held another conference in Nauvoo, the city the memory of which is dear to the heart of every Latter-dav Saint. The people there again gave us a warm welcome, displaying as much kind as if they were Latter-day Saints. They are glad to open their houses to us, and bid us God-speed. We thank the Lord that He has moved upon that people, so that the Elders have been enabled to peacefully visit that country. The people sing our songs, and seem glad to have us come among them and teach them the truth. They believe we have the true Gospel, and say we have an influence that has never been experienced in their lives before. They give us the freedom of their city, and bid all the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ welcome. Their children attend our Sunday school, sing our songs, and receive instruction just as if they were Latter-day Saint children. We are pleased with the success that has attended the labor that has been done in Hancock county, especially in Nauvoo, where we have a flourishing Sunday school. We have a congregation of honest people there who willingly come and listen to the Elders, and help us pay the rent, although they have not yet applied for baptism. 

I am happy to have the privilege of attending this conference. I am thankful to have received, through the Spirit of God, an understanding of the instructions given by our brethren. I pray God that we may have His assistance to enable us to live by all the good counsel we have heard. I desire this for myself, and pray that these things may be instilled into my life, and that I may have the power to similarly inspire the young men I have the honor to labor among, that when they come home they may, in their thoughts, words and actions prove true to God, true to His people, true to His servants. I pray that not one of us will ever turn away from the , and that we may work righteousness in the earth throughout all our days, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, 

Reedeemer of Israel, our only delight, 

On whom for a blessing we call, Our shadow bv day, and our pillar by night, 

Our King, our Deliv'rer, our all! 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Frank Y. Taylor. 


