Afternoon
07 10 1906




ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Individual responsibility in Church affairs. — Be loval and true because it is right. — The Holy Spirit a more sure guide than reason. — Who fails to perform dutv is untrue to self. 

Along with the enjoyment of the spirit of this conference my soul has had a struggle with a feeling of dread of this moment, and if I am not able to make you hear, my brethren and sisters, it is because a great deal of my energy has been -expended in suspense. I pray for your sympathy, and for your faith and prayers, that the words which I utter may conform to the spirit of this conference. If you have been affected as I am by that spirit, then you are each stronglv impressed with your individual responsibility. Probably you more strongly appreciate than ever before that this Church organization depends upon all the people, not upon just a few; and that those members who fail to carry their share of responsibility are not wholly true to their brethren. 

President Toseph F. Smith, in "his opening address, expressed this sentiment, and nearly in these words : "I come home now to the Latter-day Saints determined to keep my covenants, to be true to my duty and loyal to my God." I wondered how many, bearing the Priesthood, would say the same thing, and will go home to their fellow-workers with that same determination in their hearts. How .many Patriarchs here assembled have said to themselves, I am determined to be true to my covenants, true to my brethren, true to God? How many of the High Priests throughout the Church have that same feeling within them? It burns into the heart of how many 

Seventies? How many of the thousands of Elders who have partaken of the spirit of this conference have expressed this feeling? How many of the Lesser Priesthood? Into the hearts of how many of the Latter-day Saints has that sentiment penetrated? It means that, into as many hearts as that feeling enters, there are as many members and officers in this Church who are determined to carry out their individual responsibility; that not because it has been urged upon them by someone else; no, that is not the true spirit of the Latter-day Saint. I believe we ought to be influenced in this as a crowd of sailors was governed by one of their number many years ago. It was during the anti-slavery agitation, and a meeting was called in Fanueil Hall, Boston. Some sailors had been hired to break up the meeting. They went there in a body, danced around on the floor, sang, yelled, and in every way possible tried to prevent the orators, from addressing the meeting. In vain were they appealed to. Their love of liberty, the memory of their old home, the honor of Massachusetts, all were invoked; but still they continued their disturbance and refused to be quiet. Suddenly a man, evidently one of their number, arose. Quieted for a moment by his appearance, thinking they had found a champion, the mob ceased its noise. The man said, "Boys, I would not be quiet unless I had a mind to." Encouraged by this remark, the mob burst into loud applause, which lasted probably five minutes. When it ceased, because of the men's desire to hear more, the man continued : "No, I would not be quiet if I didn't have a mind to : but, if I were you / would have a mind to, not because of the memory of this hall, not for the honor of Massachusetts, not for . loyalty to her government only, but because you are men; and honorable men always stand up for the liberty of right, justice and free speech." They were quieted; their manhood had been touched. As members of the Church in conference assembled, I believe that we ought to go home determined to carry out the responsibility that is upon us, not merely because these brethren have urged us to do so, but because we have it in our souls to do it. 

And what is this responsibility that rests upon every member of the Church? I turn to the 107th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and there find enumerated the duties of the various organizations of the priesthood, and I read in the 99th paragraph the following : 

"Wherefore now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence." 

Two principles in that admonition stand out as the duty of the officers to whom this revelation was given. First, the learning, the knowing what one's duty is; second, to act in all diligence in the performance of that duty. To know one's duty, to learn the truth, is the duty of every Latter-day Saint, of every man and woman in the world, including those outside of this Church. All mankind, I believe, are being impelled, lifted upward by that Spirit which makes them desire the truth. In the political world even, you find great men who have been searching for political truth, for truths that would relieve political situations. In the world of morality you find great reformers reaching out for truths that will alleviate harmful social conditions. 

The same sentiment is found in thefinancial world. Scientific men are among the foremost searchers after truth. We were told this morning about that Power which impelled Columbus to go out into the ocean. In response to that feeling inspired within him to demonstrate a truth of which he felt confident, he could not content himself; he had to give expression to it. There is a natural feeling which urges men and women towards truth; it is a responsibility placed upon mankind. That responsibility rests upon the Latter-day Saints in a greater degree than upon their fellowmen. If you turn to the 88th section you will find the following admonition : And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea,, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom. Seek learning" — how? "even by study," but not alone by study, as the world searches for it, "and also by faith." 

The Latter-day Saints have learned the truth that the everlasting Gospel has been restored. And what does this knowledge bring to them? It brings to all, who have honestly and sincerely obeyed the principles of repentance and baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, which enlightens their minds, quickens their understandings, and imparts unto them a knowledge of Christ. The Latter-day Saints have a guide, a help, a means to assist in their acquisition of truth, in their desire to know what their duty is, that the world does notpossess. And this guide is necessary; man cannot find out truth; he cannot find out God by intellect alone. It has been said that no man can find out God by a miscroscope. Reason alone is not a suf113  guide in searching for truth. There is another, higher, more sure guide than reason even. Dryden, I believe it is, who says : 

"Dim as the borrowed rays of moon and stars 

To lonely, weary, wandering travelers, Is Reason to the soul; and as on high Those rolling fires discover but the sky, Not light us here, so Reason's glimmering ray Was lent, not to assure our doubtful way, 

But guide us uoward to a better day." 

Leads us to what day? To the sunlight of faith — that principle which draws our spirit into communion with the Higher Spirit which will bring all things to our remembrance, show us things to come, and teach us all things. To acquire that Spirit is the responsibility of the Latter-day Saint who would know truth. 

But knowing a thing, or merely feeling an assurance of the truth, is not sufficient. "To him who knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin." Now, where are we? Think of the instructions that have been given during this conference. You and I know now, as probably we have never realized before, what the duty of the individual Latter-day Saint is, and what the duty of the various organizations is. "To him who knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin." 

This thought brings us to consider the second duty mentioned in this revelation by the Prophet Joseph Smith: "Wherefore now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence." The man who knows what his duty is and fails to perform it, is not true to himself; he is not true to his brethren; he is not living in the  which God and conscience provides. That is where we stand, and it comes right home to you; it means me. When my conscience tells me that it is right to go along in a specified line, I am not true to myself if I do not follow that. Oh! I know we are swayed by our weaknesses, and by influences from without; but it is our duty to walk in the straight and narrow path in the performance of every duty. And mark this : Every time we have opportunity and fail to live up to that truth which is within us, every time we fail to express a good thought, every time we fail to perform a good act, we weaken ourselves, and make it more difficult to express that thought or perform that act in the future. Every time we perform a good act, every time we express a noble feelinc we make it the more easy to perform that act or express that feeling another time. 

I am reminded of a circumstance of the Russian woman who felt sympathy; she knew how to sympathize with the poor heroine on the theatre stage. This Russian lady sat in her box, comfortable in her furs and silks, and as she looked at the performance she wept in sympathy with the heroine who was suffering imaginary torments; and while that Russian woman was sympathizing with the stage heroine, her own coachman froze to death on the carriage seat ouside, because of insufficient clothing. It is not enough to feel; we must act, so that it will benefit somebody. 

We have been reminded of our personal duties in regard to the Word of Wisdom, in regard to the Priesthood; and we have been reminded also of unity, of loyalty, of love for our enemies. Nearly every duty of the Latter-day Saint has GENERAL CONFERENCE.  mentioned in this conference; there is one more which I wish to emphasize, as an application of this principle of individual responsibility. When you go home to your ward, look around next Sunday and try to estimate how many of the Latter-day Saints are absent from the Sacrament meeting. It may be that there are twenty per cent, or fifty per cent absent. Suppose your estimate is fifty per cent; then there are that many people in the Ward who are neglecting one of the duties of a Latter-day Saint. Upon whom does the responsibility of fetching in these brethren and sisters rest? First, in my opinion, it rests upon the Bishopric. As the Bishop sits there, let him look around, and notice if all the Presidents of the various organizations in the ward are present. If the presidents of the Priesthood quorums be absent, it is the duty of the Bishopric, I think, to visit those officers and bring them. They may go farther; it is their duty to visit the various families and members who are absent and endeavor to bring them in. But it is not the Bishopric's meeting; this Church rests upon all, and not upon a few. If one of the Seven Presidents of the Seventies quorum in that ward is present, and he finds that some of the Seventies are absent, the responsibility of bringing them to meeting rests upon him. If presidents of the various quorums of Deacons are present, they sboiild note what quorum members have absented themselves from that meeting, and let them assume the responsibility of visiting those members. And so throughout the various organizations in that Ward. Where is the responsibility, then? It is divided as it should be, as God  it to be, among the people composing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; the responsibility does not rest upon the officers alone, it rests upon the members also. God has blessed them with — what? Wealth? No, probably not. With intellectual superiority? Possibly not; but He has blessed them with moral strength, and with a knowledge of the Gospel, or else they were not true to themselves when they went down into the waters of baptism. He has blessed them with a knowledge of the truth; and the knowledge of the truth is not enough unless it is expressed, unless it is bringing others to that knowledge. That is the spirit and responsibility of the Latter-day Saint, and it rests upon all. Said the poet : 

"Admire the goodness of Almightv God! He riches gave, He intellectual strength To few, and therefore now commands to 

be, 

Or rich or learned, or promises reward Of peace to these. On all He moral worth 

Bestowed; and moral tribute asked from all. 

And who that could not pay? Who born so poor 

Of intellect so mean, as not to know What seemed the best : and knowing, 

might not do? As not to know that God and conscience 

bade? 

And what they bade not able to obey? And he who acted thus obeyed the law Eternal and its promises reaped of peace; 

Found peace this way alone : who sought else, 

Sought mellow grapes beneath the icy 

pole; 

Sought blooming roses on the cheek of death; 

Sought substance in a world of fleeting shades.'' 

"Wherefore let every man learn hi? duty, and act in all diligence in the performance of it. He that is slothful shall 115  be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand." 

I do not know whether I have succeeded in expressing the feelings of my heart so that you understand them; but I wish to leave this thought: that every man, every woman, must bear a part of the rseponsibility of this Church. Feeling that, does not necessarily make him imagine that it is resting upon him only. There is no man so important who cannot sink without making even a bubble, not a ripple in the great ocean of life; at the same time his importance is so great that his actions go a long way towards establishing the power, the dignity, the advancement of God's kingdom on earth. Then, no matter where we are, if we are in the hills one week from today or tomorrow, wherever circumstances or business affairs may call us, be it in the canyon or elsewhere, and we are tempted, on a cold morning, to break the Word of Wisdom by drinking two or three cups of tea or coffee, let us feel then the responsibility of right. Let each one say to himself, "The responsibility of membership in the Church is upon me; I will not yield. What though nobody sees me, I know and God knows when I yield, and every time I yield to a weakness I become weaker myself and do not respect myself." If you are in business, and your companions say, "Come, let us go in and have a drink on this bargain, or this sale," let your answer be, No, no! What though your thirsty appetite makes you long; for it, be men, be Latterday Saints, and say, "No; the re of membership in the Church rests upon me." When you are tempted to stay away from that Seventies' meeting, from that Elders' meeting, from that Deacons' quorum, and you shrink from going there, because you feel you will not be interested, say, "I will go; the duty of a Latter-day Saint is upon me; the responsibility of membership in that quorum is upon me, and I must go and help make that meeting interesting." And so, if you carry that feeling in all the duties of a Latter-day Saint, you will come to the conclusion that every time you stand by the truth, you are more of a man, you are more in harmony with God's Spirit. He loves to dwell in such tabernacles; He will guide you into all truth; He will make your soul to reioice, and you will know this Gospel is true. "He that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them" is the one that is likened unto the wise man. "It is not everyone that sayeth Lord, Lord, that shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." "Therefore, be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only." 

God bless you and all of us, that we may be Latter-day Saints in deed, children of our Father, standing always, everywhere, in all conditions, for the right, for virtue, fur purity, and for the duty that rests upon us in our various quorums. This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Emma Lucy Gates sang very effectively the beautiful sacred solo, "Angels ever bright and fair." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

It is a great surprise to me, my brethren and sisters, to be called upon to address this congregation, and I trust you will give me your sympathy and your faith and prayers. I hope that all through my life I shall ever consider the Kingdom of God and His righteousness first, last, and all the time. To me, this is the Kingdom of God or nothing; and the nothing is an impossibility to my mind. I realize with every fibre of my being that God has established in this generation His work, never more to be overthrown. I also understand, perhaps only partially, that great truth which Brother McKay has just endeavored to impress upon us,- that we all have an individual responsibility to see that the work is done which God requires at our hands; that we do it by His help and through His grace to the best of our ability; and that we must not leave to others the work that God has placed upon our shoulders. I believe most thoroughly that a man to be his best, as a father, as a husband, or as a citizen of the nation to which he belongs, must be a man who tries to serve God, who endeavors to keep the law of the Lord, who believes in God and in rewards and punishments, who listens to and cultivates the voice of his conscience, and who seeks with all his powers of heart and mind, body and soul to do that which he believes to be true and righteous. I do not believe for a moment that a man is better prepared to help his fellows who is an unbeliever in God and in our Redeemer, and in the work of the atonement that He accomplished here. In my opinion, he is the highest type of man, the best , the strongest, the bravest and the best in every relationship of life, who is in deed and in truth a Christian, or, as I would rather put it, a Saint, a servant of God. There may sometimes thoughts arise in our minds with regard to policy; time serving ideas that may afflict us for a short time; but I believe the sober, second thought of every man and every woman who has received a portion of the Spirit of God, is that it pays to serve God. It pays to do the best we can, and to learn to do better. It pays to keep our covenants. It pays now, and will pay eternally. God grant that we all may see the truth in this light; that we may use all the energies and faculties that God has blessed us with to His service. And while I am saying this I am aware of the truth taught by the Prophet Nephi, that it is by grace we are saved, after all that we can do. But grace having performed its work, and we having received the benefits of the atonement of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, we should endeavor to do our part by serving God with all the strength we have received- from Him. 

I want to bear my testimony that I have been acquainted with the Presidents of this Church intimately for many years — with Presidents Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilt ford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and" Joseph F. Smith; and though in minor particulars and characteristics they differed very materially, yet they were all the men of God's choice, the men for the hour, the men whom God selected as the leaders of His people, and they all did the work that God required at their hands. They were His mouthpieces, and they accomplished that which He placed them in the oosi117  to fulfill, every one of them. They were all prepared of God to do the work assigned them, and they all did it, and did it well. Notwithstanding the differences and peculiarities of their minor characteristics, there were some certain things in which they were all alike, namely, their love for the truth, their faith in God, their willingness to listen to His word, their uncompromising devotion and integrity to God and His work, their full belief in the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph. These characterized them all, and God was with them, and He enabled them to accomplish the work which He called them to do. I want to bear this testimony and I do so because I know it is true. I know further, that God will remain with us if we will be true to Him; and more than this, I know that He is abundantly capable of taking care of His work. At the same time we must do our part; do it in love, in faith, in zeal, and then the blessing of God will follow and His purposes will be accomplished. We none of us need to be afraid, my brethren and sisters, for God's work will prevail. The truth is mighty, and it will prevail. May we all remember this and act as though we believed it, and conscientiously do our part, bearing the portion of the responsibility that rightly belongs to us, all to the glory of God, as He will have it, for it belongs to Him. This is mv prayer, through Jesus our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

My brethren and sisters, I hope you have confidence in me, and that I can hold your attention for  few moments. I feel happy, just as happy as a man can feel with the rheumatism. 

I have been thinking, not only today, but during this conference of a testimony that my father bore when he was fifty-four years old, and it gives me a great deal of pleasure to know that I am now fifty-three years of age and have the same testimony that he had — not one whit's difference; that I have a knowledge of the truth of the Gospel. I have been taught it from my youth, just as I was taught in early days that a peach grew on a peach tree. I believe I have just as much knowledge of a peach now as the most scientific man in the world. I can tell a peach when I see it, and a peach tree; but I cannot for the life of me tell how that peach grows on a peach tree, and neither can you. Now, there are many things about this work that I do not comprehend, but because I cannot tell it all it does not prove that it is not true. I have studied the history of this Church, and I testify that this is the Lord's work, that He has given unto us Proohets and Apostles, the Holy Ghost, and all the gifts and blessings of the Gospel, and that we have been led' by inspired men. 

I now want to ask you Latterday Saints if you have counted the cost of establishing this Church? Have you considered what it has cost thousands of men and women who have been valiant in the truth and died in the faith ? The country is fairly strewn with the bodies of our people from Salt Lake City to the east. Construction is very difficult, destruction is easy. Ordinary men can criticize and destroy. It has required much sacrifice to establish this Church. I feel grateful this day, my brethren and sisters, that I have the confidence of my brethren; I must have it or I would not have been called to address you. I want also the confidence of the Saints. I say, God save the people; what can we do without them ? The Lord can accomplish great things, but He wants the people, and He will never be satisfied till He secures the hearts of the children of men. 

I desire to call attention to a thought that is in my mind; it is not new, however. I desire to advise the Latter-day Saints to stop selling their inheritances. I call your atention to the fact that this earth is your habitation; that this earth is your heaven, or will be. This earth is hell too, and there is a big lot of people in this hell now; their lives are such that this earth is of that character to them. They have no peace of mind, no rest of body, and I pity them. This earth is your habitation while you are in the flesh. If this earth is to be your heaven, I think you had better have an inheritance here, don't you ? I do not believe the doctrine for one minute that you people, or myself (and I think I am as good as some of you), are going immediately after death to the arms of Jehovah. It will take some of us a long time to get there. You had better be very good and take care of this earth. 

My father had an inheritance in Independence, Missouri, and it has never been sold by him or his heirs to any living man. The time will come, as sure as the Lord reigns, when father will claim that inheritance. He had an inheritance in Salt Lake City, on the hill, a whole block, including where the Lafayette school is now built. I was born  me Kimball mansion which now i 'mds on the same locality. I have a small place on that block, at least large enough to bury me in, and it is about all I can do to hold it. Why ? Because they tax me almost more than human nature can endure; and the end is not yet! Are you going to get frightened and run away somewhere? Are you going to sell out your inheritance every time you meet a difficulty? If the pioneers had done that they would have been going yet; but they stopped in this barren waste, and they made it habitable for you and me. I tell you, God is not pleased with some of this people, because they are selling their inheritances for a mess of pottage. I sold part of mine, and I confess that the money went through my fingers like water through a sieve. I don't know where it went, but I know I haven't got it. That is exactly what will happen to every Latter-day Saint who sells his inheritance. The Lord wants you to stay in this country; He does not want you to break for the woods. You have a right to every particle of land that you can secure legitimately and pay the taxes on. 

Now, I am going to give you a little fatherly advice, and I believe you won't take it. I advise the Latter-day Saints, as Brother Smoot did, to take up and secure the waste land throughout the State of Utah, and other sections where Latter-day Saints reside. If the Saints will keep the commandments of God, if they will raise grain enough, build up cities, and emigrate the people we are converting in the world, eliminate selfishness and avariciousness, and divide up the land and make homes for the people; if they will bless the land and dedicate it 119  the Lord, let our friends come in here, and leave our gates open to the strangers, the bowels of the earth will be opened, and there will be produced therefrom riches more than we can contain. The time will come when the strangers will have little use for their money, they will come to this people for bread, and we will feed them and treat them kindly, notwithstanding some of them have acted miserably mean. Do you believe that doctrine? My father predicted it years ago, and some people are laughing over it now. I have heard some of them pooh-pooh it; but I stand as a son of my father, as a witness of the Lord, and testify to you that the time will come among this people when it will be fulfilled. 

Don't you go off in wild speculation, or have part in wildcat schemes. You are advised to raise grain. .You had better secure an inheritance; get your titles and pay for the land. I say to you, in the language of the Prophet Joseph (\ suppose I dare quote his words) : "Be honest, be frank, and stop bowing and scraping to Gentile sophistry." Go along and do your duty; follow counsel, and preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. See that this Gospel is preached to every creature under heaven. I repeat to you the words of a promise made to my father, "Trouble not thyself about thy families, for the Lord will give them food and raiment, houses and lands, fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, if you will preach this word." God bless you. Amen. 

A baritone solo, "The Publican," was splendidly rendered by Elder Horace S. Ensign. 

ELDER RTJLON S. WELLS. 

I have been deeply impressed, more than ever before, it seems to me, with the magnitude of this great work that we are engaged in as Latter-day Saints, and I am filled with wonder when I contemplate the great army of workers who areengaged in this wonderful work which our Father has set His hand to do among the children of men. When I view this great congregation of Latter-day- Saints, I am also filled with wonder and astonishment at the enthusiasm that seems to fill the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in that work every day of my life, and I rejoice in the companionship and fellowship of the Latter-day Saints; for I feel proud that I am numbered among them, as one of those who have yielded obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

We read in the Holy Scriptures that, "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." In this connection I am led to review in my own mind the great sacrifices that have been offered by this people; how when the Gospel first came to them and they received the same, they were willing to accept the testimony of humble Elders of the Church, and in doing so they, in many instances, ostracized themselves from their companions, from their fathers and mothers, and others that were near and dear to them, and ofttimes made sacrifice of all their earthly possessions. It meant that they were broken up in their business affairs; it cost them their standing in society, and they lost the good will of their comoanions. And here at home we are sometimes called upon to make what might be termed sacGENERAL CONFERENCE. . We have a wonderful organization. Not only have we the various organizations of the Church as it has been divided into Statkes and Wards, but we have also many auxiliary organizations, all of which give plenty of occupation to the laborers in Zion. We are called upon to attend many meetings, and to engage in many labors that seem to be very irksome and tiring. Sometimes we hear complaints among the Latter-day Saints that we have too many organizations, too many meetings to attend, requiring. too much of our time. We have to do this and that, or neglect those things that have been assigned to us. Yet our brethren and sisters willingly perform these' services. There are some, however, who do not do their duty willingly. Frequently calls are made upon us to go out into the world. Our sons are called and sent out to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. This involves a great expenditure of means. It involves a sacrifice, if it is regarded from the worldly standpoint. Yet our young men go willingly, and their parents are proud to have sons in the mission field. They are proud to know that their sons are laboring for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. I ask the question, Where in all the world will vou find a people that are willing to make these sacrifices and render this service without pay, present it as an offering unto the Lord whom they adore ? I say they are not to be found in all the world, outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I wish to call attention to the fact that the laborer is worthy of his hire, and those that labor for Zion do not go without their reward. They are the best paid of all men  women upon t; .is earth, because they have enlisted in the service of the Most High, and He is the best paymaster of all. You nor I can do any service in the kingdom of God without being amply paid. What if we have forsaken father and mother? What if we have given of our substance ? It matters not. The Savior said that He that would not forsake father and mother, wives and children, houses and lands, for His name's sake, was not worthy of Him; but he that will forsake father and mother, houses and lands, for His sake, shall receive in this world an hundred fold, and in the world to come life everlasting. So that those who do labor for Zion should feel encouraged that in doing so they will receive an hundred fold. It matters not what you may be called to do, whether it be to preach this Gospel to the nations of the earth or to labor at home, God will reward you for your labor. If you are called upon to minister to the sick in the ward in which you live, God will reward you. If you are called upon to go from house to house and teach the Latter-day Saints, God will reward you an hundredfold. You cannot do anything for the kingdom of God without receiving a reward, because sacrifice brings blessings, and blessings are dependent upon that which we do in the service of our Master. 

I was asked a question a short time ago, I think it was in the Woodruff stake of Zion, by one of the brethren there. He had been reading the Scriptures, and he found the saying of James the Apostle where it reads, "If any among you are sick, let him call in the Elders, and they will anoint with oil, and the prayer of faith 121  heal the sick. And if any have sinned, their sins shall be forgiven them." He asked me the question, "Whose sins w; ll be forgiven?" I had never thought of that before. The ordinance for the. healing 1 of the sick has not been instituted in the Church for the remission of sins, but for the healing of the sick. The ordinance which has been instituted for the purpose of obtaining remission of sins is baptism, as we all understand. But here is a promise that if any have sinned, their sins shall be forgiven them. At first I did not know how to answer that question; but after a moment's reflection it came to r^ie that anyone who received the Spirit of God, their sins would be forgiven them. If we receive a remission of sins it will qualify us to have the Spirit of God with us, and the very fact that we do obtain it is evidence that our sins have been forgiven. It is for that reason that "baptism has been instituted in the Church, in order that we may. by the laying 'on of hands, obtain the Spirit of God, because that Spirit cannot dwell in an unclean tabernacle. The one that is administered to, if he has the Spirit of the Lord resting upon him so that he may be healed by that ordinance, his sins have been forgiven, and the presence of God's Holy Spirit bears witness of it. 

My brethren and sisters, let us labor for Zion; for you cannot do anything in the kingdom of God, magnifying your calling, enjoying the Spirit which issues forth from His divine presence, without haviur,' your sins remitted. And what a blessing that is! It is better than gold; it is better than the riches of this world. It is God's pay: it is the best pay that any man can get. 

God help us to be worthy of our hire, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MTIRRIN. 

My brethren and sisters, I certainly feel that I am very highly honored to have the opportunity in this great gathering of the Latterday Saints to lift up my voice, in connection with my brethren, in testimony of the glorious Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I am impressed with a remark frequently made by the president of a mission under whom I at one time labored, wherein he declared that no one could do anything against the work of God, but for it. This declaration is in harmony with the statement made by President Smith at the opening of our conference, that our Father in heaven, in His loving kindness and mercy frequently overturned the plans and schemes of those who were opposed to His work, and their thwarted efforts result in the uplifting of the Church, and the advancement of His purposes among the children of men. It is very remarkable how futile have been the efforts of those who have been arrayed against the purposes of our Father in heaven. Despite their opposition, advancement has been made, growth day by day, extension in power and numbers, and, as we have heard already in this conference, we are greater now than ever before. One of the brethren made the declaration that the close of each day found the work of God stronger than it was at the opening of the day. This is true, and this will continue to be our history. 

A few years ago I was laboring GENERAL CONFERENCE.  a missionary in the City of Bristol, England, and at the invitation of a Mr. White, a freethinker, who had been very kind to the missionaries, I attended a lecture that was delivered by the great English freethinker, Mr. Charles Bradlaugh. The title of his lecture was, "Is Christianity a persecuting religion?" and he made a very dismal showing of what had been done in the name of Christian religion. I felt at the conclusion of his lecture that he had demonstrated beyond any question that dreadful persecutions had been carried _ on by sects professing to be Christian. He did not show from the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ that there was aught in the words which had fallen from His lips that taught any soul to persecute his fellows; but he gave the history of various denominations which, contrary to the teachings and example of the Redeemer, had engaged in persecution. An opportunity was given at the close of the lecture to ask questions, and a young man arose in the audience and presented a number of queries to this effect : "Were not the early Christians very few in number and of but slight influence and power in the world?" Mr. Bradlaugh answered, "Yes." "Was not the might, the power and the wisdom of the great government of Rome arrayed against that handful of Christians; and, in connection with the opposition of the government and its soldiery, were not the religious prejudices of the age arrayed in much bitterness and determination against those early Christians ?" Mr. Bradlaugh again answered, "Yes." "Then," asked the young man, "if you do not believe that Christianity is the religion of the Lord Jesus, and that it was  and sustained by the marvelous power of God, how do you account for the failure of the men who were arrayed in such overwhelming numbers against this little handful of Christians? How can you explain the continuation of Christianity and its spread among the children of men?" I was very much interested in that question, and wondered what manner of answer could be given by the great infidel; for I knew that the power of God had been manifested in the preservation of the early Christians. Mr. Bradlaugh made this answer: "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has had a more wonderful growth than the early Christians, and that in the face of the same manner of bitter hatred and opposition; do you believe that God Almighty is answerable for their preservation?" I did not feet that this was any answer to the question, but evidence that Mr. Bradlaugh was unable to answer. I felt that the young man might have asked, had he been a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Why has not the Mormon Church been destroyed, inasmuch as a similar power and might has been arrayed against it, and the decree, made time and again, that its advancement should be stayed? What answer can be given ? 

You who may have doubt concerning the power of God in His protection of the Latter-day Saints and their wonderful preservation, or concerning His hand dealings with the early Christians, what answer can be given to the query, Why were not those early Christians destroyed? Why was not the Church planted by the Redeemer Himself uprooted in the days of its infancy? And the same question concerning the Latter-day Saints, why do we live? How is it that, long before this present day, "Mormonism" has not been destroyed from the earth root and branch? If we will study over the matter, the answer will be made clear to us, by the power and inspiration of the Holy Spirit, because God has organized this Church; because He is fulfilling the promises that have been made through the mouths of ancient Prophets, that a work should be established among men in the latter days that never would be overthrown, nor be given to another people. 

We need not marvel or wonder that we meet opposition, and misrepresentation, and that we are evilly-spoken of, if God has established us; for the Savior Himself taught the doctrine to His disciples, "Ye are not of the world; but I have chosen you out of the world; therefore the world hateth you." That is the only explanation that can be given in truth to the opposition, the evil speaking, and hatred that has followed this work. In the same chapter of John's Gospel, where the passage above is given, we read, "But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They , hated me without a cause." That has always been the condition when the truth of God has been assailed. When men have tried to destroy the work that He has planted it has been without a cause in justice or right. We ought to thank God every day that in our own hearts we know, if we are living in the light, that this hatred and evil speaking against us is without a just cause. Thank God, truth will always live  never can be destroyed. We ought to be grateful, my brethren and sisters, that this is the case, and that we have been drawn into this work, which is in very deed the Gospel of the Son of God, the power of salvation to every soul who> will receive it. 

This is my testimony, and I know that I speak the truth and lie not. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

My brethren and sisters, this is entirely a new experience for me to stand before so many people and try to feed them the bread of life. I have rejoiced with you in the spirit and instruction of this conference. I was particularly thrilled by the narrative of President Smith, in connection with his visit to Carthage jail. Did you, my brethren and sisters, ever visit for the first time, or after the lapse of many years, a spot where some dearly beloved relative of yours was buried? If you have, you can realize how sacred and hallowed those memories are which come to a person in standing, after a long absence, or for the first time, upon such ground. And so with President Smith in standing, after an interval of more than fifty years, upon the spot where his beloved uncle and father shed their blood as a testimony to the divinity of this work. 

It occurred to me, in connection with the account of the condition of some of our young people in the City of Berlin, that something of the same condition exists here at home. How many young profes4 . 

sional brethren are there who feel that their labors are such during the week that when the Sabbath day comes they want to rest ? They reason that, being engaged in intellectual pursuits during the week, they need rest on the Sabbath day. I labored myself under a similar delusion for several years; but I discovered afterwards that a person can truly rest upon the Sabbath day and still participate in religious work; that it is a change and actual rest to be engaged in the service of our Master upon the Sabbath day. 

We have had comprehensive discourses upon the principles of the Gospel during this conference. Brother Hyrum M. Smith referred to the great Decalogue, which has been called "The Autograph of the Eternal." Do we realize that the Ten Commandments stand at the very basis of the criminal code of all civilized nations? 

In connection with the remarks of Brother Nibley this morning, my mind recalled an article written in The North American Review, for August, by the Rev. Philip S. Moxom, his subject was "The Trial of Christianity." He lays down the proposition that the supreme test of any religion, or of any religious system, is its ability to produce good men and good women, and a wise and beneficent social order. Tersely expressed by our Savior, "By their fruits ye shall know them." This is the test by which we as Latterday Saints will be judged. This is the test by which we are willing to be judged. It is true that the Gospel is not doing as much for all of us as it could do, or as it is calculated to do if we would put ourselves in a position to receive its . That was the class referred to by Brother Richards this morning, who are neglectful of their duties, and who are not placing themselves in a position to receive blessings. 

I see growing up in these valleys of the mountains a superior class of young neople. Preston W. Search, an educator of some interstate reputation, in a work of his called "The Ideal School" goes out of his way to say this : "It sems to me I never saw a finer lot of school children, than in Salt Lake City." We have young men and young women growing up who are willing to go out into the sagebrush regions and redeem the country, and raise a family in pioneer life; and I have all respect and esteem for the integrity of ) r oung men and young women who are able to do that; they are altogether more worthy of praise than the young women who can preside with grace at a pink tea, or fondle a lap dog as she rides in an automobile. There is a worthy class of citizenship growing up in this mountain country. I am proud of the young people of Zion. 

I am proud to be associated with these my brethren. I know that they are true men, true citizens; and those who think to the contrary are not acquainted with their lives and motives. The time for dismissal is past, and I realize that I am trespassing now. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with us, that we may each be able to receive in our lives all the blessings that the Priesthood and the principles of the Gospel are designed to confer upon us. I ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

(closing remarks.) 

The time will not permit further delay; but I would like to say just a word. You have listened to the Presidency and to each member of the Council of the Apostles, and to nearly all of the Seven Presidents of Seventies; and we regret exceedingly that we do not have more time, that you might hear others. I need not ask you, after hearing those who have spoken during this conference, if you are satisfied that these men who have borne testimony and who have exhorted and admonished you, are in possession of the spirit of their calling. We leave this to your judgment and the inspiration you have received during the sessions of this seventyseventh semi-annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have been strongly impressed, in listening to all that my brethren have said, that the Lord, who chose them, made no mistake. They possess the spirit of their offices. The testimony of Jesus is in their hearts. They have borne record of that spirit to you, and they stand before you as approved ministers of the Gospel of the Son of God, and as true witnesses of Him to all the world. From the depths of my heart I bless these my brethren who bear this Priesthood, and who enjoy to this extent the power and spirit of their high and glorious callings. The Lord accepts them, and He will bless them; and the spirit and power of their calling will continue with them so long as they live and maintain the integrity that they exhibit before the people this moment. The people of Zion may rejoice in their  and ministrations among them; for they will minister in righteousness, and the Lord will accept their labors, and the people who will not — it will be the worse for them. 

The Lord bless Zion. May peace abide with you, my brethren and my sisters. God bless you in every capacity in which you are called to act in life, and be with you bv the presence and power of His Spirit, guide you into all truth, put into your hearts the spirit of prayer and true devotion, and that faith which cannot be moved. God lives, and Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world. Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God — living, not dead; for his name will never perish. The angel that visited him and declared God's message unto him, told him that his name should be held for good and for evil throughout the world. This prediction was made in the days of his youth, before the Church was organized, and before there was any prospect of that which has since been accomplished. The declaration was made, notwithstanding it then seemed an absolute impossibility; but from the day it was spoken until this moment, and from now on until the winding-up scene, the name of Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the nineteenth century, has been, is being and will be heralded abroad to the nations of the earth, and will be held in honor or contempt by the people of the world. But the honor in which it is now held by a few will by and by be so increased that his name shall be held in reverence and honor among the children of men as universally as the name of the Son of God is held today; for he did and is doing the work of the Master. He laid the foundaGENERAL CONFERENCE.  in this dispensation for the restoration of the principles that were taught by the Son of God, who for these principles lived, and taught, and died, and rose from the dead. Therefore I say, as the name of the Son of God shall be held in reverence and honor, and in the faith and love of men, so will the name of Joseph Smith eventually be held among the children of men, gaining prestige, increasing in honor, and commanding respect, and reverence until the world shall say that he was a servant and Prophet of God. The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth. Peace on earth, goodwill to man, is the proclamation that Joseph the Prophet made, and that is the same as his Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, made to the world. That is the mission we are trying to fulfill, and the proclamat'on we are seeking to make to the world today. It is the mission that these young men have been chosen to proclaim, and be witnesses of to the nations of the earth. It is their duty to see to it that this proclamation and this 

Gospel of peace and goodwill shall be sent to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people under the whole heavens. God bless Israel, is my earnest prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang, "There's a sound from the vale." 

Benediction was pronounced by President John R. Winder, and conference was adjourned for six months. 
