Morning
05 04 1915

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Our God, we raise to Thee Thanks for Thy blessings free 

We here enjoy; In this far western land, A true and chosen band, Led hither by Thy hand, 

We sing for joy. 

Prayer was offered by Elder C. F. Middleton. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, come, ye Saints No toil nor labor fear, 

But with joy wend your way; Though hard to you This journey may appear, 

Grace shall be as your day. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Prevalence of Gospel testimony among the Saints. — Joy accompanying testimony bearing. — Righteous living essential to salvation. — Apostasy of men highly favored of God. 

I rejoice exceedingly in having this another opportunity of meeting in general conference. I have enjoyed very much indeed all that has been said thus far during our conference, and I humbly pray that the same good spirit which has characterized the remarks that have been made by those, who have preceded me, may be given me. I do desire most earnestly that what I say may encourage and bless the Latter-day Saints, and that it may be in harmony with what has been  by those who have preceded me. 

I rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I rejoice in my association with the Latter-day Saints, and the privileges which have come to me in mingling with the people, and in learning of their feelings, of their devotion, of their love of God and for this work in which we are engaged. I rejoice in the abiding testimony of the divinity of the mission of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, which is to be found among the people. The Latter-day Saints know that Jesus was in very deed the Redeemer of the world. They have a positive knowledge that Joseph Smith was chosen of God, and that he was the instrument in the hands of the Lord in establishing again on the earth the plan of life and salvation. They know that he was a true prophet of God; they have no doubt regarding the divinity of his mission. The men who stand at the head of the various stakes of Zion and the women who preside over the Relief Societies, the principal auxiliary organization among our sisters — as I mingle among them, and also with men and women who preside over the Sabbath Schools in the stakes, and the Mutual Improvement Associations, Religion Classes and Primaries, I find a devotion and love of God and of this work among all of them which is a constant inspiration to me. I rejoice in the rich outpourings of the Spirit of the Lord in our quarterly conferences. I rejoice in the blessings that come to me and to others, as we mingle among the people, in being helped and strengthened in teaching to them the Gospel of Christ. 

My heart has been filled with gratitude, especially during the past six months, for what seemed to me to be an increased portion of the Spirit of the Lord, as I mingled among the people in discharge of the duties that devolved upon me. I know of nothing that brings greater joy to the human heart than laboring at home or abroad for the salvation of the souls of men. I know of nothing which gives us a greater love of all that is good, than teaching this Gospel of Jesus Christ. To me, one of the greatest testimonies of the divinity of the mission of our Savior is the joy and happiness that we all experience whenever we testify that He was in very deed the Son of God and the Redeemer of the world. I know of nothing that brings greater joy, except testifying regarding the divinity of the mission of the Savior than to testify regarding the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

The three years that I presided over the European mission were in very deed the most pleasurable, the most happy, the most satisfactory years of all my life. When instructing the Elders I told them whenever they seemed to be closed up in their spirits, whenever they seemed to lack ideas to express to the people, if they would only testify that they knew that Jesus was the Redeemer, and then testify regarding the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the Lord would open their mouths and bless them in speaking to the pepole. The testimony of all the Elders with whom I came in contact who had done this was that the Lord did, in very deed,  them whenever they testified of the divinity of the mission of our Savior, or when they testified regarding the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Never at other times have I been as abundantly blessed in preaching this Gospel as when I have been talking upon these two themes. I rejoice in the individual testimony of the Latter-day Saints regarding the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. I rejoice in the joy and the happiness that it brings to each and every one of us when we are doing our duty, and laboring for the advancement of the Gospel, at home and abroad. 

I rejoice in the peace that cometh to every man — a peace that passeth understanding and my ability to express it — when he is serving God. I wish that I possessed the power to inspire the Latter-day Saints to greater diligence, to greater faithfulness, to a stronger determination to serve God and to keep His commandments. There is but one path of safety to the Latter-day Saints, and that is the path of duty. It is not a testimony, it is not marvelous manifestations, it is not knowing that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, that it is the plan of salvation, it is not actually knowing that the Savior is the Redeemer, and that Joseph Smith was His prophet, that will save you and me, but it is the keeping of the commandments of God, the living the life of a Latterday Saint. 

I have been profoundly impressed upon many occasions, as I have studied the history of the early men in this Church, with the fact that one-half of the first quorum of Apostles fell by the wayside; that all of the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon, who saw the , who heard the voice of God, who heard the Lord testify to them that this work had been translated by the gift and power of God, that the Lord Himself, by His voice from heaven, had told these men to bear witness of this fact — should also fall by the wayside. The same with a majority of the eight witnesses. Oliver Cowdery, who heard the Savior's voice, and beheld a heavenly messenger before the Church was organized, gave a description, which is recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, of his ordination, in connection with the Prophet, to the Aaronic Priesthood, stating it was beyond the language of man to paint the jov and the grandeur that surrounded them upon that occasion. He also had the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, who lived upon the earth in the days of our Savior, lay their hands upon his head and ordain him to the Melchizedek, or the Higher Priesthood. In the Kirtland Temple, with the Prophet Joseph Smith, he saw the Savior, also Moses, Elias, and Elijah. He had given to him, in connection with the Prophet, every key and every authority of all the dispensations of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, from the earliest time down to the present, and yet by failing to do his duty by failing to keep the commandments of God, this man lost his standing in the Church of Christ. True, he repented and came back. The same is true of Martin Harris. I remember hearing Martin Harris in this building testify to the truth of his testimony regarding the divinity of the Book of Mormon. I also rejoice that, although he never returned to the Church, David Whitmer never varied in bearing this testimony; the very fact that this man, although he bore  testimony to the day of his death, had no joy, no satisfaction in it, shows that the Spirit giveth life, and the letter killeth. I have met some who have visited David Whitmer, and he told them that it was one of the burdens of his life to have people come there day after day to whom he had to testify regarding his knowledge of the Book of Mormon, and the visit of the angel to him. 

There is not a Latter-day Saint living who is keeping the commandments of the Lord, who would not regard it as one of the greatest joys imaginable if he could testify that he had heard the voice of God, and that the Lord had given him a commandment; and that, in fulfilment of the requirement of the Lord, he had recorded in this testimony : "we bear witness of these things." How we all. would rejoice to be able to bear such a testimony; provided, we had the Spirit of God; provided we were so living that it was not a dead letter with us. David Whitmer stopped growing, notwithstanding the manifestations that he had received, when he failed to keep the commandments of God, when he failed to recognize the proper authority in the Church of Christ. 

May the Lord bless each and all of us; and, as we grow in years and increase in understanding, may we grow in the light and knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ, in a determination to serve Him, and keep His commandments; and may all of us who hold places of responsibility in the Church so order our lives that they may be an inspiration to the people, because of our faithfulness, our diligence, our loyalty to this gospel, and our support of our file leaders, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Romania Hyde played a selection on the violin. 

ELDER RUGDER CLAWSON. 

Nebuchadnezzar's dream, and Daniel's interpretation — The great image a represenation of empires and kingdoms — Fall of earthlv kingdoms, and establishment of God's Kingdom — Marvelous facts demonstrated by Joseph Smith's glorious vision — Perfect organization of the Church — Army of the Priesthood fighting sin. 

My brethren and sisters, the violin solo to which we have just listened rendered by Romania Hyde, was beautiful indeed, and speaks well for home talent. 

The words of counsel, testimony and instruction which have already been spoken at this conference are very precious to us. I think that we ought to be thankful that we have our file leaders with us today, the Presidency of the Church, and the president of the Twelve Apostles, and that .these men are strong - in limb and body, and powerful in utterance. Surely we ought to give heed to their counsels. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that during the few moments T occupy I may have an interest in your faith and prayers, that T shall be able to say something that will be appropriate to this great gathering of Latter-day Saints, and that shall be comforting, encouraging and instructive. 

Tn ancient times a very remarkable thing happened, remarkable because it had a bearing and an influence upon the destiny of the world, to the latest generation. You  perhaps remember that upon one occasion Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, called into his presence Daniel, a young Hebrew, one of the chosen race, and demanded of this young man two things which the magicians of Babylon, the wise men, had not been able to do. One was that the young man should bring to the mind of the king a dream that he had dreamed, and then that he should give the interpretation thereof. Daniel replied and said that of himself he could not do this, but that the God of Heaven could do it. and would intervene and give the interpretation of the dream. So Daniel told the great king that in his dream he had seen a mighty image, and that this image represented the kingdoms of the world which should follow. Now, brethren and sisters, it is a fact that subsequent history has shown the exact fulfillment of Daniel's prophetic statement, so far as the world has progressed. 

It seems that Babylon, under Nebuchadnezzar and Belshazzar, represented the head of gold, .and that the great kingdom of the Medes and Persians, under Cyrus and Darius, represented the arms and shoulders of the image; and following this was the powerful kingdom of Macedonia. Daniel did not name the kingdoms; perhaps he didn't know what their names would be, but he described them; and the great kingdom of Macedonia, under Alexander the Great and others, were represented by the belly and thighs of the image, which were of brass. Then came the mighty empire of Rome under the Caesars, which had in it the power and strength of iron, to break in pieces, to trample down and destroy. The Roman Empire, which later was split in twain, was represented by the legs  the image. The comparison, you will see, is very correct and beautiful. After the decline and fall of the Roman Empire, the kingdom was divided into a number of smaller kingdoms, and these were represented by the feet and toes of the image, which were composed of iron and miry clay; that is to say, these kingdoms would have in them the strength of iron and the weakness of clay, and would not therefore cleave together. We know that they did not cleave together, that these kingdoms, the present monarchies of Europe, are divided and are at this moment engaged in a great world conflict. 

But Daniel said, and this is the particular thing I want to call your attention to, that "in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed, and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. Forasmuch," he said, "as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it break in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver and the gold, the great God of heaven has made known to the king things which would come to pass hereafter, and" he said — and I presume he said it with strong emphasis, "the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof is sure." Now, we claim that this kingdom predicted by Daniel has been set up. But a stranger might ask, "Why, Mr. Claw son, surely you do not maintain that the kingdom referred to by Daniel has been set up in this day and age of the world?" Why, if that be the case, didn't this event attract world-wide attention? Did it not create a sensation ?" No, it  not. "How do you account for that?" Well, I think the answer would be that it was overlooked, because the Lord works in a very quiet and logical way. He works through, men, through mortal men, and sometimes it may not appear to the natural eye that the Lord is doing it, that His hand is in it. Sometimes we can only discern these things spiritually, by our faith, by our spiritual sight. It was overlooked, possibly, very much as the coming of the Messiah was overlooked by the Jews. They expected that He would come with demonstrations of great power, and of majesty and might; but instead of that He came into the world in a very humble manner. He was born in a manger, and was known in His country as the son of Joseph and Mary, Joseph the carpenter. Therefore, the Jews did not perceive that He was the Savior. Thev rejected and crucified Him. 

So with reference to this great latter-day kingdom. The stranger might then ask, very consistently, "If that be the case will you kindly tell me how it was established?" Well, it happened in this way. Many years ago a boy by the name of Joseph Smith, who was nearing his fifteenth year — this was in 1820 — was seriously agitated over religious matters, due to a great revival in his neighborhood. He had a spiritual longing; he was seeking for the true church; he had not been able to find it. The contention was so serious, and the difference of opinion so great, that he could not determine which of all the sects was the true church, and so he followed the advice of James, the Apostle, who said, "If any man lack wisdom let him ask of God. who giveth liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him." This young boy relied upon the word of the Lord. He never had prayed vocally, but he believed in the scriptures. He believed what James said, and thought he would venture. So he went out into the woods to pray, a mere stripling of a boy, and had a very wonderful experience. It can be told much better in his own words than I could tell it. Remember, brethren and sisters, and friends that these words, which were written by Joseph Smith, the prophet, and this manifestation was given to him at a very youthful period of his life. He said : 

"So in accordance with this, my determination to ask of God, I retired to the woods to make the attempt. It was on the morning of a beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of 1820. It was the first time in my life that I had made such an attempt, for amidst all my anxieties I had never, as yet, made the attempt to pray vocally. 

"After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, having looked around me, finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as t o bind my tongue, so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction. 

"But, exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to destruction — not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual bein^ from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being — just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. 

"Tt no sooner appeared than I found  delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, (pointing to the other), 'This is My beloved Son, hear Him!' 

"My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sonner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right, and which I should join. 

"I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in His sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that they draw near to Me with their lips, but their hearts are far from Me; 'they teach for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof.'" 

This was a most remarkable manifestation of God's goodness and love to the boy Joseph. It seems that the Father and Son manifested themselves in person to him, proving that they were beings of personage; so that it would not be necessary to go to the scriptures to prove this fact, although it could be easily proven from the scriptures. He saw with his eyes and heard with his ears, and the testimony he gives to the world, and transmits to us, is that God is a being of body, parts and passions, in the form of man. and that the Son is the express image of the Father, but separate and distinct from Him. What a glorious revealment was this, what a glorious new revelation to the world, to confirm the old revelations con-  tained in the scriptures. 

Xow, the thing that I want to stronglv emphasize is this, that although Joseph Smith saw the Father and the Son, and although he heard  voices, this did not give him authority to act in their name, or to establish the Church of God, for that is exactly what he subsequently did. But before he could move in the direction of founding the Church of God he must have divine authority. That came to him later, as he testified, then, on the 15th day of May, in 1829, the Angel, John the Baptist appeared to him and Oliver Cowdery, and laying his hands upon their heads said: "Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Aaronic Priesthood, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and this shall not again be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering to the Lord in righteousness." 

Thus Joseph Smith received the authority, and the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood. Then a little later Peter, James and John, who held the Melchizedek, or High Priesthood, appeared and laid their hands upon his head ordaining him to the apostleship. Thus he received the power of the High Priesthood, as previously he was clothed upon with the power of the Lesser Priesthood. With this great and glorious authority, he organized the Church on the 6th day of April, 1830, with six members. 

That which followed has confirmed the truth of Joseph Smith's testimony to the world, because in the eighty-five years that have passed away the Latter-day Saints have grown to be a mighty people in the Rocky Mountains; and, moreover, they are thoroughly organized. Now, what do we have? Why, we have sixty-seven stakes of Zion. and between -seven hundred  eight hundred wards. We have Latter-day Saints, members of the Church, numbering hundreds of thousands, growing out of this very small beginning. And what more do we have? Why, we have a President of the Church, a Prophet of God, who stands in the same relation to the Church as Peter did in his day. He holds the keys of the kingdom of heaven upon the earth, and, in connection with his counselors, presides over the Church. We have Twelve Apostles, we have a presiding Patriarch of the Church, Seven Presidents of the first council of Seventy; and a Presiding Bishopric. These constitute the general authorities of the Church. We have also presidents of stakes, high councilors, bishops of wards and their counselors, to preside locally in the Church. And what further do we have? Why, we have a great body of Priesthood in the Church. There are 11,450 high priests, 11,112 seventies, 27,382 elders, a total of 49,944 men who hold the Higdi Priesthood of God. There are 8,830 priests, 10,607 teachers; and 22,722 deacons, making 42,159 who hold the Lesser, or the Aaronic Priesthood, making a total of 92,103 who hold the Priesthood. These men have been organized into quorums and are being disciplined for war. The weapon that has been put into their hands is keen in cutting; it is like a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow. This weapon is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In order that these men may become more familiar with the Gospel, courses of study are prepared for them, but I want to telt you, that these courses of study do not completely fit men for the great conflict. It is the Spirit of God, theHoly Ghost, that qualifies them, anr| these studies are simply a guide to help them along in the work. 

Now, let me sa)^ that when the shock of battle comes, men will not be struck down and destroyed, but they will be lifted up by this great army of Priesthood, and will be converted and rescued from sin and wickedness. That is the warfare in which we are engaged — to fight spiritual darkness, to fight against immorality, to fight against intemperance, to fight against dishonesty, evil-speaking and strife, to fight against the conflict between capital and labor. It is intended that with this weapon they shall correct every evil in the world, and bring peace and happiness to our Father's children, for our motto is. Peace on earth and good will to men. 

Now, brethren and sisters, and the brethren particularly, remember the mark of your high calling. May the Lord bless you and help you to do your duty, help yon to give proper attention to the Priesthood, and thereby avail yourselves of every opportunity to prepare for the battle of the great God. I humbly ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Essentiality of revelation from God to man — Comprehension of our Articles of Faith — Strange declaration of prosecuting attorney — Inspiration is revelation — "Billy" Sunday's "conversions" — Unreasonable criticism defeats itself — True history demonstrates Joseph Smith's inspiration. 

In the beautiful prayer that was offered in the opening of this, the eighty-fifth annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Brother McMurrin asked that the revelation of the mind and will of our Heavenly Father be  to the First Presidency, and that the spirit of inspiration might be given to those who speak to the people during this conference. The prayer impressed me, as no doubt it did others, and I was reminded of the fact that there are few people in all the world who believe that God reveals Himself to man in this day. No one who has received the gift of the Holy Ghost, after baptism by one holding the authority of the Holy Priesthood, will fail to know that God can reveal, and does reveal His mind and will to the members of His Church. It is ninety-five years since God revealed Himself to the boy, Joseph Smith, in the way that has been called to your attention this morning by Brother Clawson, and scarcely could it be told better than in the simple and forceful words of the Prophet himself. This visitation of the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith was the opening of a new dispensation. That wonderful passage in the Epistle of James: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not : and it shall be given him," was the passage in the Bible that impelled the boy to action. It was because of his faith, his confidence that there was a God, that he retired to the grove and pleaded with the Father to know his will concerning the churches organized at that time in the world. From that moment on, the heavens were opened unto him, not sealed to the children of God as was universally preached, but on the contrary it was evident that God had as much interest in the people, and in the establishment of His Church in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, as He ever had in any dispensation from the beginning of the world. 

Revelation, my brethren and sisters, is a fundamental principle of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We cannot deny it unless we deny "Mormonism," so-called itself. If Joseph Smith did not receive a revelation from God, and many of them, and if heavenly personages did not appear to him and others, "Mormonism" would have failed before this. I shall never, I hope, get tired of testifying that God did appear to Joseph Smith, that He has established His Church in this the last dispensation, never more to be thrown down or given to another people. There will always be a difference in the spirit of the people who believe in this great principle, there will always be a difference in their lives, as compared with those people who do not believe it, and who claim that there is no such thing as God revealing Himself to man. The ninth of our Articles of Faith states that, "We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." 

Very often I have given strangers a card on which was printed the thirteen Articles of Faith, and how often have I had them say to me, "There is nothing particularly striking in the articles; the great body of Christian people believe in the principles that are announced in the articles, with the exceptions of one, perhaps," the one I have just quoted to you. But I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that there are others of the Articles of Faith that they do not believe in, or at least do not comprehend or understand their full meaning. The first one is: "We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, 

Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." I take it for granted that nearly every one in this gathering today was present yesterday when our belief in God, His Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost was so plainly portrayed, and I believe with all my heart and soul, the doctrines taught by Brother Penrose. When strangers have said, "We believe in God the Eternal Father," I have stated, "Yes, as far as you understand Him; but our idea, our conception of God, leads us to believe He is entirely a different God from the one in whom you believe, whom, you say, is a god without body' parts or passions." I am not going to take the time of the brethren and sisters, at this morning's service to discuss this question, but I simply say, with you, that the God whom we worship has passed through all the experience that we are now passing through. He is an exalted being, a personality, and I predict the time will come when, instead of a handful of people believing in the personality of God, the great bodv of the people of the world will acknowledge that fact. 

Perhaps the question of revelation can be stated in no plainer way, conveying the sentiment of hundreds of thousands of people of this country, than was conveyed in the statement of Mr. Taylor, who prosecuted what is known as "the Smoot case," with a view of expelling me from the Senate of the United States. In his summing up of the testimony and telling why I should be expelled from that body, he made this statement: 

"Several hundred thousand sincere men and women have believed and now believe, as they believe in their own . existence, that Joseph Smith, Jr received revelations direct from God-' GENERAL CONFERENCE.  if any one ever believed that, we must assume that Senator Smoot bebelieves it. 

"Now, a senator of the United States might believe anything else in the world but that, and not be ineligible to a seat in the body of which he belongs. He might believe in polygamy, he might believe that murder was commendable, he might deny the propriety of a rule of life, of all the ten commandments, he might believe in the sacrifice of human life, he might believe in no God or in a thousand gods; he might be Jew or Gentile, Mohammedan or Buddhist, atheist or pantheist: he might believe that the world began last year, and would end next year: but to believe, with the kind of conviction that Reed Smoot possesses, that God speaks to him, or may speak to him, is to admit, by the inevitable logic of his conviction, that there is a superior authority with whom here and now he may converse, and whose command he can no more refuse to obey than he will himself not to think." 

My brethren and sisters, I frankly admit that T believe that God can speak to His children in this day and dispensation. Had I better put it stronger, and say that I know that He can? And so do you know it. This is one of the great differences between a man who belongs to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, who has received baptism by immersion, received the gift of the Holy Ghost, and received the Priesthood, from those that never have had those privileges and blessings. If we judge from the Bible we are perfectly safe in saying there has never been a dispensation, from Father Adam till the present, that God in establishing it has not revealed Himself to His representatives, to men who have carried on the work : never. And, as the last dispensation has been established, we are perfectly safe in saying none has or will be established without 

God revealing Himself to those chosen to accomplish the same. I rejoice in the fact that I have this testimony. I rejoice in the fact that I believe with all my soul the testimoney of the Prophet, that God the Father spoke to him. 

Revelation is not enjoyed by the members of the Church, only. The Constitution of the United States was revealed from God; and I cannot help but think if the people of the world would study the source of great discoveries made for the betterment of the children of men, in the sciences and in the arts, they would at once admit there was some power greater than man that had brought them about. The wireless telegraphy is a marvel and a wonder; as well as the telephone, by which the human voice is now carried from ocean to ocean. These inventions did not come about through man's wisdom alone. The development of electricity and the transmission of thousands of horsepower over a small copper wire, for hundreds of miles away from where the power is generated, have been made possible through inspiration from our Heavenly Father. We need not be told, my brethren and sisters, that the men who have made these great discoveries did not receive inspiration from a greater source than their own brain. If a man places himself in a position to receive revelation or inspiration from God, seeks it diligently and honestly, it is often granted him, particularly if his heart and soul are in attune with God's purposes. 

Yesterday we listened to some most excellent sermons : and as Brother Penrose was speaking I expressed the wish that such a sermon could be heard by every person in the world. I was reading last night  description of the revival meetings that are being held by "Billy" Sunday in the larg'e eastern cities, and I could not help but contrast the spirit of this conference, the testimonies that have been borne, and the unity of the people, with the account given of a typical meeting conducted by that man. It may be, my brethren and sisters, and I have no doubt it is a fact, that something more than the delivery of prepared speeches, couched in words to tickle the ears of the people, must be adopted to bring about a testimony in the hearts of the people that there is something in Christian religion. The ministers of the different denominations are beginning to recognize the fact that some change must be made in their services in order to create an interest in religion. They unite in inviting "Billy" Sunday to come to their churches and stir up the people, get them interested in the subject of religion with the hope that they will become identified with one or another of the organized churches. But it is my belief that no person converted in a moment of excitement will ever stay converted very long. A knowledge of God is necessary to a living conversion, and it comes by the still, small voice that speaks to the soul, through the inspiration of God, and not by getting men to sign pledges in a moment of excitement. 

There may be five or ten thousand "converted" by one sermon of Mr. Sunday, but how long will they remain converted? Most of them about as long as it took to convert them. I do not sav that he is not doing some good. I believe there is .some good accomplished by all Christian churches. I do not think it 'is necessarv for a man who preaches the Gospel of Jesus Christ  become an acrobat while delivering his message. I don't believe that such actions as indulged in by Sunday have a tendency to make a man think seriously of his God, and the step that he is asked to take. It would not impress me with the truth of his message to have him jump upon the velvet-covered stand with a view of emphasizing some point in his sermon. Rather would I be impressed by a testimony such as that igiven this morning by Brother Grant. I know it is such that appeals to men's hearts. I know they will remember it longer. I also know that an appeal only to the emotions of men, and not to their understanding, does not and cannot effect a permanent conversion. An inward monitor called the conscience is possessed by every one. No one, old or young, ever committed a wrong, at least the first wrong, but that his conscience told him it was a wrong, and conscience acts as an inspiration to man as long as he does not blunt it by repeated violations of its promptings. 

Men are trying hard to break down the fact that God established this Church by revelation through Joseph Smith. The writings of the enemies of the Church are intended to create in the minds of neople a distrust in the principle of revelation, and thus prove that no such occurrences as related by Toseph Smith ever took place; if their efforts wer° successful, the Church would cease to be a factor in the affairs of the world. There is one peculiar thing, and I have noticed it not once but many times, that the enemies of this people go bevond all bounds of reason and truth in their criticisms, so much so that anv honest person knows, when reading their attacks, that thev cannot be true. Moderation in our enemies would be far more harmful to us than the extremes to which they go. The Church and its people should not be judged by the words of their enemies, no more than the Church was in the days of our Savior. It is well to consider the statements of the historian, as well as the testimonies of our friends — compare them, study them, and they will prove the wisdom, character and mission of Joseph Smith the Prophet. 

In looking over some of the history written against the Prophet Joseph Smith, I came across the statement made by Professor Huxley in his ''Agnosticism and Christianity." I do not believe it wise for us to make as part of our sermons statements derogatory to the mission of Joseph Smith, or falsifying the position of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I am not going to read what Huxley records, other than the conclusion; if any of you desire to read all of his statement, untrue as it is, you may do so. After stating what he claims the Prophet to be, he says : "He must have been a man of some force of character, for a considerable number of disciples soon gathered around him." Yes, they gathered about him in increasing numbers as long as he lived. His memory is honored, and the Church which he established, under the guidance of God, is growing, not only in numbers but in power in many parts of the world. You have all read what Josiah Quincy, of the class of 1821, I believe, of Harvard University, has said about this remarkable man, and the probability of the future position of this Church. He certainly could not be called a friend to "Mormonism." It cer could not be claimed that he was a defender of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and yet it seems to me when I read his statement, that what he says will have to be admitted by all some time in the future. I cannot help but believe that he too was inspired. Time forbids my reading it to you. Men who lived with the Prophet, slept with him, men who were willing to die with him in defending the truth, ought to know about his character and his labors and his mission; and who could have expressed it better than it was expressed in the autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, giving an account of this wonderful man and his mission upon the earth. Again, let me ask you, my brethren and sisters, to read what President Young said of him, in the Journal of Discourses, telling of his personal knowledge of the man that God chose to open this dispensation. 

I could go on and multiply such testimonies by the hundreds, but time forbids. No matter how long I live, I never shall forget the many times that I heard my father testify of his love and loyalty to that remarkable man, Joseph Smith. He believed in him and in his mission, and loved the Gospel of Jesus Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints. He was ready and willing, if it became necessary, to sacrifice his life for the cause, as have been thousands of others. It is my testimony to you this day that the world will yet acknowledge that Joseph Smith was one of the greatest of God's servants, that it was he who was ordained to establish God's Church in this dispensation. All must admit the revelation that was given before the Church was organized, foretelling that a marvelous work and a wonder was about to come forth.  been fulfilled. Let the Prophet Joseph be judged by the records. Xo one can point to a doctrine revealed to him, and through him to the people, that is in conflict with the teachings of any of the servants of God in any dispensation of this world. 

I rejoice with the brethren who have preceded me in bearing my testimony that God lives, and that Jesus the Christ is the actual Son of God; that this work is God's work, and that He has His hand over it, directing its affairs. Men may come and men may go, men may be true to the Church, and men may be false to it. but it will continue until it has fulfilled its mission in the world. When that day comes there will be no more wars, there will be a- complete understanding between men, there will be greater love in the hearts of the children of men for one another, and everything that has been foretold by all the prophets of God will come to pass, and that day will come in God's own due time. If we are not receiving revelations from God today, it is not His fault, it is the fault of ourselves. God's work and His Church will grow and increase just as fast as we. the members of it, are capable of carrying out the instructions of God. 

May God's blessings attend us all, and may His Holy Spirit be in the habitations of the people; and may they pray to Him with the same confidence and in the same spirit that the boy Prophet prayed ninety-five years ago. May we have as much faith and confidence in God answering our prayers as he had; and all the storms from outside, all the opposition that may come from any source on earth, never can retard the growth of the Church that God has established. My brethren and sis, God bless you, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Redeemer of Israel, 

Our only delight, On whom for a blessing we call Our shadow by day, 

And our pillar by night, Our King, our Deliv'rer, our all! 

Elder William C. Parkinson pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


