Morning
06 04 1915

The congregation sang the hymn : 

O ye mountains high, where the clear blue skyArches over the vales of the free, Where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow, How I've longed to your bosom to flee. 

Elder John L. Herrick offered the opening prayer. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as stFangers on earth 

need we roam. Good tidings are sounding to us and 

each nation, And shortly the hour of redemption 

will come. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Evidences that "a great and marvelous work" has come forth — World-wide proclamation of the Gospel — Unparalleled gathering from all nations — Many millions yet to be warned — Saints should be interested in national welfare — Righteousness needed in the nation, as in the Church. 

"Now, behold a great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. Therefore, O yet that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." 

T suppose, my brethren and sis, that the varied exercises of this conference, the words of inspiration which have been spoken, have prompted us to think upon a variety of subjects. There has been some outstanding thought, perhaps, in all of our minds, varying as the different subjects, all of which are of very great importance, have been treated. It has been so with me. From the opening session of the conference, when the President of the Church made that splendid report of its condition, I have been thinking of these words of the Lord which I have read. This revelation was given more than a year before the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Church had not come into existence as a recognized body. The Book of Mormon had been published; a few men and women had been converted to the truth, and to the divinity of the mission of the boy prophet, who had translated and published it to the world. More than a year later, when the Church was finally organized, there were but six persons present who were recognized as participating in that organization, that were members of the Church. The total wealth of those people combined was scarcely sufficient to print the Book of Mormon and offer it to the world, and yet upon that little handful of men and women devolved the mission of proclaiming to the world the opening of this Gospel dispensation, and the appearance of the Father and the Son. Their mission was to conIll  false doctrine, to proclaim truth, and lay the foundations for the establishment of God's kingdom upon earth. 

I have been looking - backward over these eighty-five years of the existence of the Church. I have been making some comparisons. I have been asking myself the question, have these words of the Lord, which were spoken before the organization of the Church, been fulfilled, -were they true? And I remembered that during those eightyfive years, from that little handful of people have come the multitude who make up the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; I remembered that the Gospel had been preached in every state of this Union : that it had been preached in Mexico and Canada, and had been carried to South America; that it had been preached in the Scandinavian countries of northern Europe, where multitudes of men and women, Israelites and heirs to the Gospel by right of the promise, have been brought into the fold of Christ, and numbered among the Saints of God; that it had been preached in Germany, in Belgium, in Holland, in a limited degree in France, in the British Isles, and in the Turkish Empire : that it had been carried to India; not much done in China, but has been carried to the empire of Japan, and to all the Polynesian islands of the Pacific. Many thousands of people have believed and obeyed it; inspired by the Spirit of the Lord they have been gathered together here in the tops of the mountains. Driven from place to place, in poverty, in distress, the Church was bodily moved from the east and planted here in these mountains, with the result which we see todav. 

There are scores of individuals in the Church today each of whom possess greater wealth than its entire membership did at the time that these words of the Lord were uttered. The Gospel has been preached almost everywhere. There is not, I believe I am safe in saying, in the history of the world, a parallel to it. Greater multitudes of people may have been converted to the truth in other Gospel dispensations, but if so, that conversion occurred in their own immediate vicinity and neighborhood. To have covered the civilized world, to have circumnavigated the earth, and above all, to have brought together these people from different nations, planting them in communities, strangers to each other by nationality and birth, and establish harmony, union, one purpose," that being the accomplishment of God's will in the earth, I say that no such thing has ever been undertaken and successfully accomplished before in the world's history. A great and marvelous work was about to come forth, and I believe that we are justified in saying, not boasting, but in humility before the Lord, and giving Him credit for all that has been accomplished, that He has vindicated His word, and that a great and marvelous work has been accomplished through the ministry of His servants, endowed with the Holy Priesthood, as they have gone out from His Church, and promulgated the truths of His Gospel in the world. 

So much for the past. Now, when we contemplate these conditions, these splendid results, are we justified in saying that we have done enough, that the work of the Lord is finished, that there is nothing more for Latter-day Saints to do? GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I believe that there is no condition so dangerous, either to an individual, a community, or a nation, as that which leads him to believe that he has reached the point where there is nothing more to do, nothing more to be accomplished, no farther progress, no development; that very moment retrogression begins. So I see before me, just as I regard the accomplishments of the past a miracle wrought by the hand of God, as I look into the future greater works to be done, demanding our attention, our energy, the exercise of our faith and all the power that we can get from the Father. While it is true that the Gospel has thus been generally preached in the world, it is also true that but a very small proportion of the inhabitants of the earth have yet heard it, or looked upon the face of a man bearing the Priesthood, and authorized to speak in the name of the Lord in this dispensation; millions of people in our own country must hear the truth, millions of people in the old world, the empires of Russia, China, and India; millions of people who are in Mexico, Central and South America must hear the Gospel, as we have heard it. 

One of the great future accomplishments of this Church, and one which devolves upon us, is the preaching of the Gospel of the Redeemer to the scattered remnants of the House of Israel. I am a believer in the word of the Lord. I believe the things that are written in this book from which T read, the Doctrine and Covenants. I believe the promises of God as they are contained here in this Book of Mormon. What a strength that book has been to me! How I have thanked the Lord for it, for it has taught me the better way of life. It  plainly with the doctrines of the Gospel, teaches me my duty as a member of the Church, teaches me my duty to the state, teaches me my duty to my fellow man, and if the things contained there are true, just as^ certain as the sun shines in yonder heaven, so will the remnant who have descended from the men who wrote it, be brought to a knowledge of the truth of the Gospel of the Redeemer, come into the Church and be numbered with the Saints of God. The Lord has promised it, unconditionally; that is to say, unconditionally except as it depends upon their repentance, but that they will repent He has told us in the most definite manner, and there are millions of them around us, my brethren and sisters. These Lamanites, are heirs to the promises, and God has said, without qualification, that He will give this land to them for an everlasting inheritance, that they shall be, with us, the builders of the New Jerusalem; the powers of heaven shall be among them, and they shall know the record of their fathers which has been brought to US through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I could read to you from this same book the word of the Lord in regard to that. Perhaps I had better do it, because I like to justify what I say. by the word of the Lord : 

"Nevertheless, My work shall go forth, for inasmuch as the knowledge of a Savior has come unto the world, through the testimony of the Jews, even so shall the knowledge of a Savior come unto My people. 

"And to the Nephites, and the Jacobites, and the Josephites, and the Zoramites, through the testimony of their fathers — 

"And this testimony shall come to the knowledge of the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the Ishmaelites, 113  dwindled in unbelief because of the iniquity of their fathers, whom the Lord has suffered to destroy their brethren, the Nephites, because of their iniquities and their abominations; 

'And for this very purpose are these plates preserved, which contain these records, that the promises of the Lord might be fulfilled which He made to His people." (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 3:16-19.) 

This also was revealed to us before the organization of the Church, so this great mission is upon us. The Lord expects us to perform it, and He will hold us responsible if we shall fail. And that is but a small part of our mission. Scattered among the nations of the earth are the house of Judah, the chosen people of the Lord. How long shall they continue, how long shall they suffer, how long shall they be a hiss and a by-word among the nations of the earth, because of transgressions of their fathers? This Book of Mormon, thank the Lord, gives them hope also, and I cry to the Lord that He will prepare their hearts, for the Redeemer testifies here that when these things come forth the Jews shall begin to believe, they shall begin to turn to Christ and recognize Him as their 'Redeemer, the Messiah. Just as certainly as they have been scattered, so will the Lord gather them together again, and restore to them the lands of their possessions, and they shall forever serve Him and honor Him as their fathers did in the beginning; and they must come through the efforts of the Latter-day Saints. 

So I say, brethren and sisters, there is plenty to do; we are not to be at ease in Zion; we are not to say that the work of the Lord has been accomplished, and that there is nothing more to do, and those  the very things which the prophet, in this Book of Mormon, warns us against, and says that some of us will say; but we must continue to work. These are the things that I see in the future, that are abroad; and as we preach the Gospel abroad so is it our duty to provide for, and assist, as we have hitherto done, those of our brethren and sisters who gather up to Zion from the nations of the earth, that they, like us, may become independent men and women. If there was nothing else in the history of the Church but that one fact, tens of thousands of people taken from the sweat houses of Europe, where they or their children never could have become independent men and women, have been brought here, planted upon this promised land, where they could become a part of it, owning it, claiming it as their own, under the permission of God our Father, by whom we hold all things, and have become independent, loyal citizens of this good government of ours. That work must continue. We cannot abandon it. So it seems to me that notwithstanding the magnitude of the work which was before the Church at the time of its inception, there is a greater field before us today than there ever has been before in its history. 

There are other things for us to do, for our loyalty is not to the Church alone. We are here, we say, under the best government in the world and I believe it, and thank the Lord for it, a government, we say, which was established under the inspiration of the Lord Himself, and I believe it; we are citizens of that government. I never have been able to conceive that it is possible for me to be an acceptable member of the GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Church in the sight of God, my Father, except that I am a devoted supporter of my country and its institutions, honoring, obeying, and sustaining its laws, and just as I labor for the spread of the truth, just as I seek to bring people to a knowledge of it, so is it my duty to labor for the establishment of righteous government in the land in which I live. The Church and the State are so intimately associated that in my mind I cannot separate them, for I believe that without the State the Church could accomplish little, and that without the influence of religion, those restraining influences which come through faith in God, and acknowledgement of our Redeemer as the Savior of the world, it is at least an excedingly difficult thing that good government may be established and maintained in the world. So T must labor for better citizenship. Isn't that true? Justice, temperance, and truth are the fundamental doctrines of all good government : and if I see those doctrines threatened, is it not my duty to oppose their enemies? It seems to me that it is. Pageants may parade the streets, artists and poets may immortalize freedom on canvass and in verse, but unless the things that we do are in harmony with that which we say. "it is like sounding brass of a tinkling cymbal." And so I say that so long as there are in this great nation of ours men and women who cry for bread, who seek employment in vain, while others indulge in the extravagant accumulation and use of wealth : so long as our prisons are filled with men and women who defy the law, and those rules which are established for the security of society; so long as men in this free government shall deliberately ignore and  the will of the people whom they pretend to represent; so long as there shall remain in this land of ours a single house of assignation, where the souls and bodies of women are bartered for gold; so long as there shall remain upon the opposite sides of the streets from where houses of prayer are built, chapels of the devil, which, with open doors beckon your sons and invite them in, that they may become drunken and corrupted, their bodies and souls endangered; — I say, so long as these conditions continue there is work to do, for every man and woman who has taken upon him or her the name of the Redeemer. I do not wish to be regarded as an agitator, I do not wish to be regarded as an extremist; but my brethren and sisters, if I see these things as I move about among the cities of this country, is it my duty to be silent, or is it my duty, as a professed teacher of righteousness, to call attention to them, in order that they may be corrected? When men sell their votes by thousands, and ambitious men buy them in order that they may be magnified before the people; and attain to those places of trust where your very lives and liberties are at stake, as occurred in the last election in one of the greatest states of this republic, it seems to me that there is something to do; and if I see these forces which are making as surely for the disintegration of this government as they ever made for the disintegration of governments that have existed before it. \ cannot restrain the feeling which I have that it is my duty to call attention to them, not to complain, but in the hope that seeing them we may reform. 

Just the other day a ship struck 115  a rock, an uncharted reef, off the coast of California, and was wrecked. No one knew the rock was there before, but the captain of the vessel knows it now; he knew when he struck it. Would it be proper for him to go away and say, "That hidden rock is there, but never mind, I won't say anything about it, I will just let somebody else come along and run their ship onto it, and be wrecked as I have been?" No, he puts it on the chart, so that the next mariner who comes knows that he must avoid that spot. 

So, my brethren and sisters, if you will read the word of the Lord, if you will be admonished by the prophecies contained in these books, if you will study the history of the nations that have lived before you, you will know that there is just one thing that makes for security, and that thing is righteousness and truth in the Church, in the State, in business, and in the life of every individual who pretends to serve his people, or to serve the Lord. That is all that I wanted to urge, just that there be righteousness, that there be integrity, that there be honesty. When I see the great work which is before us, and contrast it with the past, I feel like buckling up my belt one hole shorter, as the Indian does when he lacks a meal, and going on with the fight. The battle with sin is real. Don't deceive yourselves by thinking that the devil is dead. He is very much alive; he knows the truth, he fears it, he trembles but he will never obey it until he is bound with chains and put where he belongs. And there are thousands of men in this country who are just as unconvertible as Lucifier himself, because they are his agents; 

I would that they could all be converted to the Gospel of Christ; but' if that is impossible then I regard it to be my duty, as a citizen of this country, to see to it that just and merciful laws be enacted, so that if a man refuses to yield to reason, if he refuses to be converted to the truth, he may be restrained by force and put where he belongs, that he cease to be a menace to his fellow citizens. 

The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, guide us in the right way. Oh, how precious is the Spirit of God our Father, that leads us unto all truth! I pray for it; I need it myself every moment; you need it. If you are guided by it you never will go astray, but you will feel as I do that in this fight with sin you had better die in the trenches, for that is where we all are, we are right in the trenches, in the first ranks; better die there, as those Belgians died, than that we compromise with the devil to obtain peace, for he never keeps any contract that he makes, he never did, he never will, and if you accede to him one iota, you are like the fly that goes into the web of the spider, you become so entangled that you never can escape, and there you die. God help us carry on this magnificent work until His purposes are accomplished, until the destiny of the Church is fulfilled, until the state is purified and we prepared, both religiously and civilly, for the kingdom and coming of the Lord, that His will may be done on earth as it is in heaven, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Melvin Ballard sang a hymn entitled, "Come near me, O my Savior." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Faithful continuance in righteous living essential to salvation — Obedience to the law of tithing enjoined — — Need for missionary work among the Saints at home. 

"If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable." So said the Apostle Paul in his Epistle to the Corinthians. The Latter-day Saints have hope in Christ beyond this life; yea an assurance that through Him we wilf live again; that is to say, we will be resurrected after death, as He was resurrected; and not only this, but we have hope in Christ and an assurance that we will be saved and exalted through Him, by keeping His laws and commandments. I think the Latter-day Saints understand, too, for they have been well taught, that this does not mean merely the accepting of the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel, but that we be true and faithful in keeping all of the commandments, obeying all of the laws, and that we continue, faithful unto the end. We preach the Gospel in the world, and tell the people that something more than faith is necessary to salvation, His commandments must be obeyed. T have thought that we have need, my brethren and sisters, of being taught at home that faith alone is not all that is necessary to salvation, there are so many of our people who seem to be satisfied with only their faith, and the acceptance of the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel. There are many, who have never had sufficient faith to live the laws of the Lord, making them worthy to go up to the temple and receive the higher ordinances and greater blessings which are in store for the faithful. 

One of the laws which the Lord has given us, and which is necessary for the salvation of His children and for the welfare of His work, is the law of tithing. There are many thousands of Latter-day Saints who have been true and faithful in observing this law, who pay their tithing regularly, faithfully and fully. There are others, counted by the thousands — twentytwo thousand, to be more definite, in the Church, who have had means which should have been tithed, and they have not paid a cent of tithing during the past year. They have been moving along, recognized as members of the Church, but they are not doing their full duty. They are wanting in faith to do the works which are necessary to salvation. It is our hope in Christ that we willobtain salvation and eternal life by doing these things which He has commanded us to do, things which are right for us to do. Who will say that it is not right for every member of the Church, according to his financial strength, to aid in the building up of the kingdom with his finances; and is not that what the Lord has required in this law? He does not ask one to do that which he cannot do. There is no one asked to pay a dollar's tithing until he has received ten dollars; or ten cents tithing until he has received a dollar to be tithed. If we would pay our tithing as we receive our income, or interest, we would always have something to pay as tithing. Who will pretend to say that it is not a just law? If this kingdom were on wheels, and it were possible for the Latter-day Saints to roll it forth by pushing and pulling, would we expect of the physically weak man or woman to push or pull as much as the one who is physically 117 ? Why, certainly not. A little child ought to comprehend that principle. Of course, where much is given much is expected. 

I would ask you, brethren and sisters of the Church, if a person, being a member of any organization which is effected for the common good of its members, is considered a good member of that organization, if he will not do his part in carrying it on? If finances are necessary he will be expected to do his part in a financial way. What of those who would reap the benefits of the organization, and refuse to do their part in maintaining it? I say, the law of tithing is a just, and righteous law of God, it is our Father's provision for the carrying on of His work, in large measure, and His distribution of the financial responsibility of it, among His sons and daughters who have covenanted to obey Him. Now, since we .have twenty-two thousand men and women who have means which should be tithed, and who refuse to pay their tithing, and who otherwise manifest their religious indifference, we have need of work at home as well as abroad. 

There are two great arms, at least, to this work, and the responsibility which rests upon us as Latterday Saints, is the preaching of the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and the preaching of the Gospel to the people at home. The Lord said to His Prophet Ezekiel : 

"I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel," as we elders are watchmen. "When a righteous man turns from his righteousness and commit iniquity,and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die; because thou hast not given him warning.he shall die in his sin and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thine . Nevertheless if thou warn the righteous man that the righteous sin not and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he is warned; also thou hast delivered thy soul." (Ezek. 3:20, 21.) 

There are men and women who have at some time repented of their sins, who made a good beginning, in this work, in embracing the Gospel, who have departed from their righteous ways, and are going into spiritual darkness, and it is for us to care properly for these people. I am asked, by stake presidents, when I go into their stakes, "What can we do to get these, our brethren and sisters whose names are on the nontithe payers' list, to pay their tithing?" I have had to say, "I suppose that they are not able to take meat; they need milk; we will have to begin over again and convert them by preaching to them the first principles of the Gospel, and, when they get sufficient faith, then we may hope that they will live this and other laws." 

The non-observance of this principle of tithing is only one of the indications that there is need of constant labor at home in the stakes and wards of Zion. For instance, according to the reports which we have, there are in the stakes of the Church, a population of 372,000, and according to the statistics, only about fifty per cent of these men, women and children attend a religious meeting upon the Sabbath day, including the Sunday School. Where are the 186,000 every Sabbath day, who ought to be worshiping the Lord? Isn't there something for us to do? Of the 92,000 male members who hold the Priesthood in this Church, we are told that 29,000 of them are inactive; that 27,000 of them, during the year GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

1914, did not attend a single quorum meeting. Is there not something for us to do? 

The hope we have in Christ, my brethren and sisters, is that we will obtain salvation, not by neglecting these duties, not by disregarding the commandments of the Lord, but by being true and faithful in keeping them all, and in laboring for the salvation of others. I feel that it is true religion and undefiled that we minister to the souls of men, for their salvation, at home as well as abroad, and in this ministry we establish ourselves in the faith, and anchor our souls in salvation. 

The Lord bless these hundreds and thousands of faithful workers in the Church, that they may be untiring, and the Lord bless those who are wanting in faith, and help them to keep His commandments, continuing faithful unto the end, that they may receive salvation through Christ, our Savior, I pray. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

A summary of belief in doctrines of the Gospel — Temple ordinances essential to exaltation, for living and dead — Duty of Church members to love one another, and help all mankind. 

It is always a pleasure to me to hear the Gospel preached, and to listen to the testimonies of the elders of Israel, for I accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness as it has been revealed in these latter days. I believe absolutely in the great atonement of the Son of God. I accept Him as the only begotten Son of the Father, who came into the world to atone for sin and to give to the world life, that \vc might have it more abundantly. I believe in the 

Gospel of the resurrection of the dead, and that all men shall come forth from the grave in a literal resurrection, a uniting of body and spirit, never more to be separated. I believe that the just will be exalted to thrones and powers and principalities in the kingdom of God, and that every man shall receive a reward according to his works. I believe in the doctrine of repentance from sin; that it is necessary for all men to repent. I accept the doctrine of baptism for the remission of sins, by immersion in water, the ordinance being performed by one having authority to administer in the name of the Lord. I believe in the doctrine of laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, by which we are brought into communion with our Father in heaven and learn of His ways, that we may walk in His paths. I firmly believe in the doctrine of revelation and inspiration; the privilege of man to communicate, under proper conditions and circumstances, with the Lord. I believe in the principle of prayer, and that no man can come unto God without he has in his heart the spirit of prayer., by which he communicates with the Father. I believe in the salvation of the human family, and that it is the intention and desire of the Lord to save all His children, with the exception of a very few who will not be saved, who reject salvation against themselves because of their utter wickedness and sinning against the light. I believe the Gospel is universal, and it is not merely for the handful of people known as Latter-day Saints, but that the Lord desires to save all men, and eventually will save all through their acceptance of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and obedience to His laws, with the cxcep, as stated, of the few who reject salvation against themselves. I do not believe that a man is saved in this iife by believing, or professing to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, but that he must endure to the end and keep the commandments that are given. It is a principle of the Gospel that those who do not hear the plan of salvation here will have the privilege in the spirit world, and being judged, as Peter said, according to men in the flesh, through their repentance may live according to God in the spirit, and that all mankind will be ferreted out in this life or in the spirit world, and will have the Gospel preached to them. The time will come when every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ. 

I thank the Lord for our temples, where we may go and receive blessings and Priesthood and power that are necessary for us to receive in order to gain exaltation in the kingdom of God. Where we may also go and have the privilege of working for the salvation of the dead, that they too may receive the truth and be redeemed and accept the Gospel, just as we do now in the flesh. I am thankful to the Lord for the knowledge of the eternity of the marriage covenant, which gives the husband the right to claim his wife, and the wife the right to claim her husband in the world to come, providing they have gone to the House of the Lord and been united for time and all eternity by one holding this sealing power, for in no other way can this great blessing be obtained. I am also thankful for the knowledge that the family relation, and the unity of the family, shall continue, where properlv organized, in righteousness in the life to come. 

I believe in all these doctrines that have been presented by the various speakers at this conference. I accept them all, and rejoice to know that they have been revealed in truth and power, in this dispensation of the fulness of times. I pray that we as Latter-day Saints, may be united in every particular for our welfare, and see eye to eye in all these principles of truth, and stand together for the advancement of the Gospel throughout the world. I trust that all these things find an abiding place in our hearts, that we may in very deed stand in the trenches, or in the front ranks of the battle against sin, with united purpose. 

I believe it is our solemn duty to love one another, to believe in each other, to have faith in each other, that it is our duty to overlook the faults and the failings of each other, and not to magnify them in our own eyes nor before the eyes of the world. There should be no faultfinding, no back-biting, no evil speaking, one against another, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. We should be true to each other and to every principle of our religion and not be envious one of another. We should not be jealous one of another, nor angry with each other, and there should not arise in our hearts a feeling that we will not forgive one another our trespasses. There should be no feeling in the hearts of the children of God of unforgiveness against any man, no matter who he may be. The Lord has said — T think I will read it — in one of the revelations, the following : 

Wherefore I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another, for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses, standeth condemned before the GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin. 

I the Lord will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men; 

And ye ought to say in your hearts, let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds. 

And he that repenteth not of his sins, and confesseth them not, then ye shall bring him before the church, and do with him as the scripture saith unto you, either by commandment or by revelation. 

And this ye shall do that God may be glorified, not because ye forgive not, having not compassion, but that ye may be justified in tlie eyes of the law, that ye may not offend him who is your Lawgiver. 

I believe in that doctrine. We ought not to harbor feelings one against another, but have a feeling of forgiveness and of brotherly love and sisterly love, one for another. Let each one of us remember his or her own individual failings and weaknesses and endeavor to correct them. We have not reached a condition of perfection yet. it is hardly to be expected that we will in this life, and yet, through the aid of the Holy Ghost, it is possible for us to stand united together seeing eye to eye and overcoming our sins and imperfections. If we will do this, respecting all the commandments of the Lord, we shall be a power in the world for good; we shall overwhelm and overcome all evil, all opposition to the truth, and bring to pass righteousness upon the face of the earth. For the Gospel will be spread and the people in the world will feel the influence which will be shed forth from the people of Zion. and they will be inclined more to repent of their sins and to receive the truth. 

There is no place in Zion for the wilful sinner. There is a place for the repentant sinner, for the man  turns away from iniquitv and seeks for life eternal and the' light of the Gospel. We should not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, any more than the Lord can do so, but walk uprightly and perfectly before the Lord. It is our duty to look after each other, to protect each other, to warn each other of dangers, to teach each other the principles of the Gospel of the kingdom, and to stand together with a united front against the sins of the world. 

I pray that we will do so, that we will go from this conference with a determination in our hearts to continue our labors more diligently, to stand more unitedly for the truth in every degree and particular; that the Lord may pour out His Spirit upon us, and bless us abundantly, which He will undoubtedly do, if we will observe His laws, and keep His commandments and the covenants we have made with Him to serve Him. 

This I pray, with every other blessing that will be for oiir good, in the name of the Lord lesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

Knowledge concerning God's attributes essential to intelligent worship— The relationship of Jesus Christ to God the Eternal Father, spiritually and bodily — Relationship of mankind to Deity. 

In common with my brethren and sisters who make up these assembled thousands of modern Israel, I have been fed with good food and made glad in each meeting of this conference. I have felt that the Spirit of the Lord has been present with us 121  great abundance. We have heard much concerning our temporal duties, and much relating to our spiritual welfare. It has been made plain unto us that these two classes of things differ in degree rather that in kind, and that we cannot serve God acceptably by devoting ourselves wholly to scripture study, for there are many things pertaining to temporalities which enter into our duties and our appointed experiences here upon the earth. On the other hand, we have been assured, not for the first time, by any means, that we cannot please the Lord by wholly devoting ourselves to temporal affairs, to the exclusion of the consideration of the great spiritual principles and truths that have been given us. 

We belong to the Church of Jesus Christ, and much has been said concerning His proprietorship, His mastership, in the Church, the Church that bears His name. I take it to be a plain and simple principle that we cannot worship intelligently, and therefore acceptably unto the Lord, unless we know something of the attributes and of the will of Him whom we profess to worship. The relationship of the Christ to the Eternal Father has been set forth in such plainness that I do not think any wayfaring man amongst us can fail to understand. We recognize in Jesus Christ the Son of the Eternal Father, both in spirit and in body. There is no other meaning to attach to that expression, as used bv the Eternal Father Himself— "Mine Only Begotten Son." Christ combined within His own person and nature the attributes of His mortal mother, and just as truly the attributes of His immortal Sire. By that fixed and inexorable law of nature, that  living organism shall follow after his kind, Jesus the Christ had the power to die, for He was the offspring of a mortal woman; and He had the power to withstand death indefinitely, for He was the son of an immortal Father. This simplicity of doctrine has shocked many, but the truth is frequently shocking just because of its simplicity and consequent grandeur. We must know something of the attributes of the Eternal Father, that we may the more fully comprehend His relationship to His Only Begotten Son. 

Did not Christ declare again and again that He possessed in His own person such power over life that no man could take His life from Him — in plain words, that no one could kill Him — until He would voluntarily surrender Himself, and permit mortal and infernal powers to prevail for the time being? How could it be otherwise for the Son of an immortal Father, who inherited the power to keep death in abevance? Death could not touch Him until He willed and permitted so. Did He not say also, not once but many a time, that He did what He had seen His Father do ? Did He not declare that He did only what He had seen His Father do, or what His Father had done? And did He not make it plain that He was following in the footsteps of His immortal Father, the very Eternal Father to whom we pray in the name of His Son ? It necessarily follows that the Eternal Father once passed through experiences analogous to those which His Son, the Lord Jesus, afterward passed through, and through which we are now passing. The Eternal Father, therefore, is a Being who has had experiences incident to the mortal state. He is a GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Being; He conquered death; and He gave power unto His Son to conquer death, through whom power shall be given unto the Saints, yea, unto all who will accept the boon of eternal life, to be redeemed from death. 

On an early occasion in the earthly ministry of Christ, when He first met Nathanael, Jesus recognized in the man at once an Israelite in whom was no guile. In His conversation with Nathanael Jesus the Christ called Himself for the first time, as far as our scripture records show, The Son of Man (John 1:51). Then, in an interview with Nicodemus, that renowned teacher in Israel and learned doctor of the law, Jesus called Himself again The Son of Man (John 3:13); and you will find the same expression used in the four gospels approximately eighty times. Eliminating all parallel passages, or sayings that are reported by more than one of the writers, there are approximately forty separate instances in which Jesus Christ called Himself The Son of Man; but nowhere in the four gospels do you find the title used by any other than the Christ, nor applied by the Christ to any other than Himself. 

It may be remarked, in passing, that you will find a somewhat similar expression used in the Old Testament, in the form of address; and in these instances it is plainly used in its literal and ordinary or common meaning — the son of a mortal man. It is so used approximately ninety times in the Book of Ezekiel; in each instance, however, Jehovah applies it to His prophet, addressing him as "Son of man", as the context of the several passages plainly shows, to impress  Ezekiel the fact that though he was permitted to voice and write the very words of Jehovah, he was nevertheless but a man. So also in the Book of Moses you will find that Satan blasphemously assumed to establish, or to make it appear that there existed, a similar difference between him and Moses, when he said "Moses, son of man, worship me". (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:12). 

But the distinctive title "The Son of Man" as applied to Jesus Christ occurs only once in the Old Testament. It is in the seventh chapter of Daniel, wherein is given an account of a wonderful manifestation from God, in which Daniel saw, in the vision of the night, the scenes that shall take place in a time yet future, when the Ancient of Days, Adam, who is the patriarch of the race, shall sit to judge his posterity, and they shall come before him, or as Daniel saw it, they came before him, in their order; and among them there came one like unto The Son of Man who appeared in the clouds of heaven : and when He came all power and dominion were given unto Him, and His kingdom was declared to be an allembracing and an everlasting kingdom. Thus is shown the superiority of the Son of Man over the Ancient of Days, or in other words, the supremacy of Jesus the Christ over Adam, the patriarch of the race (see Dan. 7:9-14). 

Now, in the New Testament, outside the four gospels, you will find the title "The Son of Man'' occurring about three times, and in each instance it is applied to the Christ, in His then glorified state (see Acts 7 :56; Rev. 1 :13, and 14 :14) . When Stephen stood before his unright123  judges, the heavens were opened to him, and he could not keep within his soul what he saw. He said, "Behold I see The Son of Man, standing on the right hand of God"; and for that testimony they took Stephen out and stoned him, as for the testimony of the Father they had before crucified the Christ. 

God has glorified His Son; but though the Son is glorified with the glory of the Father, you can't change the fact that He is the Son of that Father, and that Father, the Eternal Father, the Father of Jesus Christ, the Father of His spirit and the Father of His body, was once a Man, and has progressed, not by any favor but by the right of conquest over sin, and over death, to His present position of priesthood and power, of Godship and Godliness, as the Supreme Being whom we all profess to worship. We are all spirit sons and daughters of God; but Jesus Christ was and is The Son of God in a superlative and distinctive sense, God the Eternal Father being His Father both in spirit and in flesh. 

We believe in the more than im. perial status of the human race. We believe that our spirits are the offspring of Deity, and we hold that when Christ said to His apostles, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect," He was not talking of a merely idealistic yet impossible achievement; but that on the contrary He meant that it was possible for men to advance until they shall become like unto the Gods in their powers and in their attainments, through righteousness. 

According to the spirit of the revealed word, perfection is rather  than absolute. Though a man become perfect in his mortal sphere of activity, he is by no means perfect as gaged by the standard prevailing in heaven. As the Prophet Joseph said to the Church in early days, so now says the Church unto the world — if the heavens could be rent, and you could see the Eternal Father sitting upon His throne, you would see Him like a man in form. That the Eternal Father has called Himself a Man is plainly apparent in the testimony of Enoch the Seer; and in the same scripture Jesus Christ is designated "The Son of Man" even, before the time of the flood; "For in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is His name, and the name of His Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ", (Moses 6:57; compare 7:24, 47 and 54). In a certain revelation to Enoch, the Eternal Father thus spake : "Behold, I am God; Man of Holiness is my name, Man of Counsel is my name; and Endless and Eternal is my name, also." (Moses 7:35). Thus does the light of modern revelation illuminate the dark passages of old. 

The doctrine of the relationship between God and men, as made plain through the word of revelation, is today as it was of old, though in the light of later scripture we are enabled to read the meaning more clearly. It is provided that we, the sons and daughters of God, may advance until we become like unto our Eternal Father and our Eternal Mother, in that we may become perfect in our spheres as they are in theirs. That grand truth, taught by the Prophet Joseph, and ridiculed for the time, has now gripped the minds of the thinkers and philosophers of the age. You will find it hinted at and timidly expressed in the writings of many recent and learned publications in the theological field. That great truth is finding its way into the literature of the world. It was crystallized into what we may call an aphorism, by President Lorenzo Snow : "As man is God once was; as God is man may be". We know that Christ is God, and that He lived upon the earth as a Man. In the sense in which Christ was perfect in His sphere, we may become perfect in ours. We may progress, not to become each one a savior of the world in the particular sense in which Christ was the Savior of the world, but we may follow Him to eternal glory, and to eternal life, which may our Father grant, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, let us anew our journey pursue, 

Roll round with the year, And never stand still till the Master appear, 

His adorable will let us glady fulfill, And our talents improve, By the patience of hope and the labor of love. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Duncan M. McAllister. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


