Overflow
04 04 1915

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m. The services were presided over by Elder Rudger Clawson, and the Cottonwood Stake Choir, under direction of Manasseh Smith, furnished the music. 

The Choir sang the hymn : 

Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell, 

By faith and love, in every breast; Then shall we know, and taste,, and feel 

The joys that cannot be expressed. 

The invocation was offered by Elder John R. Barnes. The choir sang the hymn : 

As the dew, from heaven distilling, Gently on the grass descends, 

And revives it, thus fulfilling What Thy providence intends. 

BISHOP ORRIN P. MILLER. 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

It is a great surprise to me, my beloved brethren and sisters, to be called upon to address you for a few moments upon this occasion. My heart is full of gratitude to my Heavenly Father for this privilege, especially, of meeting with so many of the Latter-day Saints, and that we are assembled on such a beautiful Sabbath morning. The bosom of the earth having been refreshed by showers of rain, and then the sunshine, brings to our hearts thanksgiving and rejoicing, that we have such glorious conditions in coming together to worship the Lord. 

When we think that this is Easter Sunday, a very important day to us Latter-day Saints, with the views we have of the life of the Savior, it brings to us rejoicing and thanksgiving. Our hearts bound with happiness when we realize that we have been established in these valleys, in the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, according to the predictions of ancient as well as modern prophets. O what joy it brings to us when we see the tens of thousands of honest-hearted, devoted people assembling together this morning to worship the Lord, and to be taught of His ways, that we might walk in the path which He has marked out for us as His children. We could not help but repoice at this, and our hearts are made glad because we have confidence in those that are leading us as prophets, seers, and revelators, in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

The great number of people that have gathered together upon this occasion have come from the various stakes of Zion, sixty-seven stakes now organized, and different states of the Union. I presume every stake in the Church is here represented; I have noticed individuals from Canada on the north to Arizona and Old Mexico on the south, and T take it that all have come to headquarters, to the present center stake, that we may be taught of the wars and laws of the Lord, that we might be able to walk in His paths, and remain true and faithful unto the end. 

What joy and satisfaction these thoughts bring to us, when we look back over the history of our people. In looking over this congregation, we see pioneers who blazed the way across the desert and came inte these valleys many years ago, and helped to establish the ensign that was spoken of by one of the ancient , that should be established in the tops of the mountains, in the midst of the everlasting hills, and all nations should flow into it. We feel to rejoice that these prophecies are being fulfilled, and that we. the offspring of those great pioneers, are enjoying these blessings, the fruits of their labor. When we reflect upon the conditions that confronted them when they came into the^e valleys; nothing but a barren waste, not a beautiful shrub or a tree, except the few that nature had produced, the valley being desolate and barren, and the only human associate that they had, beside themselves, was the Lamanite or native Indian; and the howl of the coyote was heard on the plains and the prairies. When we look now at the condition of our people, luxury and ease evident in every valley in the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, and we are enjoying the best and happiest and most prosperous times that have ever come to our people since the settlement of these valleys; and when we reflect that many were buried upon the plains on the journey from the Missouri "River — my grandfather was buried out on the lonely desert, rolled up in a blanket and put into a shallow grave — when T reflect upon these things. T feel grateful to God for the blessings that have come to us. 

I feel like Neohi of old. full of gratitude and praise to my Heavenly Father, that T have been born of goodly parents, and that T have been taught in the ways of the Lord, that T might appreciate His blessings. And O how I rejoice that the hearts of my parents were touched when the humble elder came to them in their native country and preached unto them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as we understand and enjoy  this day. We rejoice in these things because we understand and comprehend them. My parents received the Gospel in their native country, one of them across the ocean, in the land of the troubled nations of today, and their coming to this blessed country made it possible for me to be present with you upon this occasion. Why should we not rejoice when we realize these things. 

And now, my young brethren and sisters, you who have been born in these valleys, born "under the droppings of the sanctuary," heirs to the holy priesthood in the new and everlasting covenant which God has established in the earth, how we should rejoice in these things, and always be grateful and willing to bear our testimony to the great blessings which the Lord has given unto ns as His children. How we venerate the names and the memories of our aged parents. We do not need to hire men to teach us, and to proclaim to us that the Gospel is true; thousands of white-haired veterans could stand up in the congregations of the Saints today, should the President ask them, yea, ten thousand of them could rise up and proclaim in power and authority, but in a humble spirit, that they know Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. We have been taught this truth, and have received a knowledge of it, we have received the Holy Ghost, and that testimony has come to us, having obeyed the law upon which these blessings are predicated. It is not guess-work with us; we know it for a surety, we have been converted and convinced of these truths. We have been baptized in water, the same as the Savior was baptized by John, and we have come forth out of  water, and had hands laid upon us for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and the Holy Ghost has come to us, and it has been as the promises said, a constant companion and guide to us, a monitor of righteousness and truth, that shall remain with us forever, if we are faithful. These truths abide in our hearts; we know they are true, no matter what the world may say about us Latter-clay Saints. 

I desire to bear my testimony to the principles of the Gospel as they have been revealed to us. I have endeavored in my youth to accept every one of them, as the Prophet has revealed them; and I bear my testimony to you that he has revealed no untruth, but everything that he has revealed has been the truth, and truth is mighty and will prevail. The Latter-day Saints can truly sing the beautiful hymn, 

"High on the mountain top truth's banner is unfurled, 

Ye nations, now look up, it waves to all the world." 

May the Lord bless us is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

( Of First Council of Seventy.) 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters and friends, in the glory and beauty of this beautiful Easter morn, and for the hope and the assurance which it brings unto us. It has been nearly eighty-five years now since the inauguration of these conferences, such as we are participating in today. And during that time the people of the Church have become firmly established in the faith. They have stronger assurances and more evidences of the divinity of the work than ever before. 

Men have examined, from the standpoint of reason and philosophy, in later years as never before perhaps in the history of the world, the great problems of life, particularly the immortality of the spirit. And it is interesting for us to know that their deductions are in confirmation of the teachings of the Church. I rejoice with you that our Heavenly Father sent His only begotten Son in the flesh to dwell upon the earth, and to give us an example of the perfect life, and also that He permitted that He should die for the sins of the world, and that He might be resurrected, as a concrete example of the great doctrine of the immortality of the spirit and the resurrection of the body. 

In the examination of this question of the immortality of the spirit, from the standpoint of reason and science and philosophy, men have considered the analogies we find in nature to those of the resurrection, and I think that the argument has not been stated more beautifully than by the present Secretary of this great Republic of ours. His words are familiar to many of you. They may seem trite even to some of you who are very familiar with them, but I think it would not be inappropriate upon this Easter morn, to read this brief and concise argument, by way of analogy with things we find in nature. He says : 

"If the Father deign to touch with divine power the cold and pulseless heart of the buried acorn, and to make it burst forth from its prison walls with new life, will He refuse the word of hope to the sons of men when the frost of winter comes? If matter, mute and inanimate, when touched by the forces of nature to a multitude of forms can never die, will the spirit of  surfer annihilation when it has paid a brief visit, like a royal guest, to this tenement of clay? No, I am as sure that there is another life as I am that I live this day. In Cairo I secured a few grains of wheat that had slumbered for more than three thousand years in an Egyptian tomb. As I looked upon them this thought came into my mind: If one of these grains had been planted on the banks of the Nile the year after it grew, and if all its lineal descendants had been planted and replanted from that time till now, its progeny now would be sufficiently numerous to feed the teeming millions of the world. There is in a grain of wheat an invisible something that has power to discard the body which we see, and from earth and air fashion a new body so much like that one that we cannot tell the one from the other. And if this invisible germ of life in the grain of wheat can thus pass unnumbered through three thousand resurrections, I shall not doubt that my soul has power to clothe itself with a body suited to its new existence, when this earthly form has crumbled into dust. If He stoops to give the rosebush, whose withered blossoms float upon the autumn breeze, the sweet assurance of another springtime, will He refuse the words of hope to the sons of men when the frosts of winter come? Will He leave neglected in the earth the soul of man made in the image of his Creator? 

In a little while we shall see the worm weave about itself a shroud, and appear lifeless. But not so. In a short time the cerement will be broken, and instead of the ugly worm, a beautiful winged creature will burst from the prison house, and with beautiful wings will flit from flower to flower. 

Some one has stated this argument in the form of a question which really answers itself: "Shall man alone, for whom all else survives, no resurrection know? Shall man alone, imperial man, be sown in barren ground, less privileged than the grain on which he feeds?" As I say, the question really conveys its own answer. 

But philosophers have gone deeper than these mere analogies of nature, and they have examined the arguments made of old to test them and to see whether they hold good in the light of modern reason and science. The lines of the poet Addison, which immortalize the argument of Plato, have been so examined. Addison says : 

"Plato, thou reasonest well; it must be so" — [That is, it must be that the spirit is immortal, and survives the death of the body.] Else whence this pleasing hope, This fond desire, this longing after immortality? Why shrinks the soul back upon itself, And startles at destruction? Or whence 

This secret dread and inward horror of falling into naught?" 

And he answers: 

" 'Tis the divinity that stirs within us. 'Tis heaven itself that points out an 

hereafter. And intimates eternity to man; Eternity, thou dreadful pleasing 

thought." 

As I say, the argument of the philosopher Plato embodied in these lines of the poet has been re-examined, and has been found to be sound. Of course there would not be planted in the human soul for a vain purpose the strongest desire that exists. It would not be planted there only to be mocked. 

One of the syllogysms upon the subject of the immortality of the spirit has for its terms the assumption of a reasonable universe, of a perfect Deity, and of the high value of human life. And. assuming these premises, then the conclusion follows, with almost inevitable necessity, that man was not given life for a mere day. If we predicate the existence of a rational universe, peo with creatures whose life is of high value, presided over by an allwise and perfect Father, then we can conclude that we are not mere creatures of a day, that we are not chance creatures, to live for a brief span and then pass into nothingness; but we can rely upon the conviction that came to the Prophet Job of old, when he exclaimed : "I know that my Redeemer liveth and that He shall stand at the latter day upon the earth, and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God." 

And why should there not be a resurrection of the body? Why should we not believe that the spirit is immortal? One of the greatest philosophers that America has produced, John Fisk, in a work dedicated to his own children, makes the assertion that the assumption which some people indulge, that the spirit does not survive the death of the body is the most colossal instance of baseless assumption known to all the history of philosophy. 

One Dickinson, a European chemist, speaking on this question at Harvard, giving one of the so-called Ingersoll lectures on immortality, says that it is mere dogmatism to say that the soul does not survive the death of the body, and that it is mere prejudice or inertia to declare that we cannot determine whether or not the soul does survive the death of the body. He and other philosophers use the word "soul" in the same sense as the word "spirit" is used by the Latter-day Saints. 

A short time ago, in Great Britain, there was assembled a notable gathering of scientists and philosophers, the first in the British kingdom, who came to hear one of their number, Sir Oliver Lodge, speak on this subject. After a very careful examination from a scientific and philosophical viewpoint of this subject of the immortality of the spirit, Sir Oliver Lodge said, "Already the facts so examined have convinced me that memory and affection are not limited to that association with matter by which alone they can manifest themselves here and now, and that personality persists beyond the bodily death. The evidence to my mind goes to prove that discarnate intelligence under certain conditions may interact with us." 

Investigations along that line by this philosopher and many of his associates have firmly convinced them of this great underlying doctrine of Christianity, the immortality of the spirit, or as they express it, the immortality of the soul. 

There have been many books written in recent times upon this subject. Professor Schuler of Harvard has a book on the Individual, in which he treats upon the persistency and endurance of this thing we call the individual. 

The poet Tennyson exclaims : 

"O human will that shall endure When all that seems shall suffer shock." 

Why should not the spirit and the body be immortal? They are composed of immortal elements. There is no doctrine better established in science than that of the conservation of energy; that energy, coarse, ordinary energy, cannot be annihilated. And what excuse would there be to suppose then that the form of energy, the highest known to the universe, the individual, should ever perish. Matter is also imperishable. There is no doctrine better established in science today than that matter cannot be annihilated. The particles of which our bodies are composed are immortal;  cannot be destroyed. The form may be changed, but the particles themselves can never be annihilated. And it is the promise of the Father, as exemplified in the life of the Lord and Master, that these immortal elements shall be inseparably connected with the spirit; that mortality, that corruption shall be clothed upon with incorruption. One writer of comparatively recent times publishes a book, entitled, "The Scientific Demonstration of a Future Life," in which he undertakes to prove as a matter of science that the spirit survives the death of the body. It would not be profitable to take your time to go into the contents of this book by Mr. Hudson, a' psychologist of some standing. His argument is based upon the thought that there are some faculties of the human being that do not naturally function themselves in this life, and his argument is that there must needs be a future life for these same faculties to naturally function themselves. 

We are accustomed to associate the manifestations of the spirit with the body in which it appears, and it is difficult for us to dissociate in our thoughts the combination that we have been thus accustomed to. United States District Judge Crosscup, in an argument some years ago with Prof. Haeckel, (who is said to be the only materialist today who has delved deeply into psychological phenomena and not convinced himself of the immortality of the spirit) Judge Crosscup says that if one's knowledge of the human voice were associated only with the telephone, if all one's information of the human voice, or of singing, had come to him by way of the telephone, it would be a very natural thing for him to associate the human voice  the telephone, and for him to erroneously conclude that if that instrument were destroyed that the human voice itself would cease. And he says — that it is no more reasonable to assume that the manifestations of the spirit are thus inseparably connected with the human body, than to conclude in the circumstances supposed that the human voice is inseparably connected with the telephone. 

Philosophers have gone into the question of the relation of the brain to thought, and have discussed the question whether thought is a function of the brain and some have concluded that if thought can be in any sense considered a function of the brain it is not a function of the brain in the sense that steam is a function of the tea kettle, but rather it is a permissive function or transmissive function such as these panes of glass perform in transmitting the. rays of light and heat into this room. If the medium is obscured, the function will be imperfectly performed, and yet the window glass is not the creator of the light. Beyond the pane of glass is the great orb of day, and while this medium performs that function, either perfectly or imperfectly, according to its nature and condition of cleanliness, still the sun and not the glass is the source of light and heat. So the brain is a medium through which the spirit manifests itself. 

But I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, that it is not necessary for us to go to the, reasoning of science, or the deductions of philosophy for assurance upon this subject. It may be of interest, particularly to the young who may not be as firmly founded in the truth as some of the older brethren and sisters are. But with the older por, they know that the Lord lives, that this is His Church, that we are His children, that Jesus is the Christ, and that He laid down His life in redemption of His children, and at the same time gave us the concrete assurance, that the body does not absolutely perish with its seeming death, that we can say of the apparently lifeless body, "not dead but sleeping," and be assured that the spirit of man endures, and shall endure for all the ages to come. 

May the Lord bless us, and keep us in the faith, and in the guiding, sustaining and blessed assurances which the Gospel gives unto us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A double quartet of ladies, of Taylorsville ward choir, sang, "Easter Morn." 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(President of Mexican Mission.) 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you today in conference, and I sincerely trust that during the few moments I occupy I may have the Spirit of the Lord to direct my remarks; and I ask you to give me your sympathy, your faith and prayers, that the Lord may aid me. I fully realize that to preach the gospel to a congregation, be they Latter-day Saints or people of the world, without the Spirit of God to direct, one is unable to preach the Gospel in a way that would be instructive, and that would be acceptable to our Father in heaven. 

Brethren and sisters, we are truly a remarkable people, and this great gathering today attests the remarkableness of the Latter-day work, established through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The lives of the great body of religious worshipers, known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, attest the fact that they are a peculiar people, that they are not of the world. This is exactly as it should be, for the Savior said to His disciples, when He labored with them, that if they were of the world the world would love its own, but because they were not of the world they were despised by the world. 

Our peculiarity consists in different purposes, in a different outlook for the future, in different aspirations, in different habits in life. If we are living up to the professions that we make, our lives are cleaner and better than those of the world that surround us. The Savior said to His disciples, when He was with them, that if their righteousness did not exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the pharisees, in no manner should they inherit the kingdom of heaven. The same is true today; with the great knowledge that we have of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and with the revelations we have received of the Lord as to how we ought to conduct our lives, if our righteousness is not greater than the righteousness of the people that have not received these things, I should say, in the words of the Savior, that in no wise can we inherit the kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

We are living, brethren and sisters, in a day of the fulfillment of prophecy. I will read to you just a little from the 24th chapter of Matthew. Speaking of the Savior, it says : 

"And as He sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto Him privately, saying: Tell us when these things shall be? And what shall be  sign of Thy coming and of the end of the world? And Jesus answered and said unto them: Take heed that no man deceive you, for many shall come in My name, saying I am the Christ, and shall deceive many. And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars; see that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in divers places. All these are the beginning of sorrows. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations, for my name's sake. And then shall many be offended, and shall bestray one another, and shall hate one another. And many false prophets shall rise, and shall deceive many. And because iniquity shall abound the love of many shall wax cold. But he that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved." 

It is not my purpose to particularly call your attention to this part of the Savior's prophecies that we are w itnessing the fulfillment of, for many things have occurred, since the great war in Europe began, that signify the fact, that the great conflict that is going on in the world, and the great earthquakes that have taken place during our short lives, the remarkable manifestations of those great calamities in the earth directly prove that they are the fulfillment of the prophecies of the Lord. I shall, however, during the short time that I stand before you, call your attention to another part of the prophecies of the Lord, that pertain particularly to us as a people, and that concern us even more than the destruction that is going on in Europe : it is contained in verse 14 of the same chapter: "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come." 

This has been, in some measure, fulfilled. This gospel of the kingdom has been set up in these latter days, with all of the gifts and powers that ever pertained to it in any dispensation in which it has been upon the earth, and it has been preached in many of the nations of the earth. But still there is a great work lying before this people in carrying the gospel of salvation unto millions who have never intelligently understood the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They have believed in false doctrines, and have followed after teachers who have taught for doctrines the commandments of men. They have not come in contact with the sweet spirit that emanates from a missionary clothed with the power of the holy priesthood to preach the Gospel of faith in God, the Father, in His Son Jesus Christ, and in the atonement, (which was so beautifully illustrated in the remarks made this morning by Brother Hart,) and of faith unto repentance, and baptism for the remission of sin. Millions of people have never had these things brought aright to their attention as the Lord has destined that it should be. It is our mission as a people, to preach this gospel to the world; and we should enthuse our brethren with the desire to carry this message to those millions that do not know the truth. There are thousands of men in this Church, as stated by Bishop Miller, that are in every way capable of delivering to the world the truth in regard to the religion that will save them; there are men in this congregation that could do this work effectively and well. But, are our minds led out along this line? are we thinking of the great work that devolves upon us? are we shaping our affairs to that end? I refer particularly to  of the Seventies' quorums, as they are expected to be minute men in the work of preaching the Gospel to the nations of the world. Are you preparing yourselves, and shaping your affairs so that when the call comes you can be ambassadors of life and salvation to people that know not the truth? 

This gospel is given to the world for the salvation of all mankind, providing they will live according to its. principles. But, how can they belive in Christ of whom they have not heard, and how can they hear except authorized ministers be sent to teach them that Christ is the means of salvation to the world ? It devolves upon us who have received the truth to take it to the world. It is not to be taken to one nation only, it is to be taken to all the nations of the world, according to the word of the Savior that I have read here. It is a common thing for many people to become narrow-minded. It was a common affliction among the converted Jews, they believed that the Savior's mission was particularly to them, and they believed that outside of them there was no favored people of the Lord. It took a revelation from the Lord, and a great manifestation to Peter to convince him that the Gospel was also to the Gentiles, and that it was not for him to call unclean that that the Lord had said was clean. My brethren and sisters, this work is not only to the people of the same nation and race as ourselves, it is our mission to carry this message of salvation to all the world. Let us take into consideration that all mankind are the children of our Father in heaven^ and all mankind will have, according to the unchangeable decrees of" our Father in heaven, the privileges, of coming into His kingdom, through this gospel that we have received. Peter said that he knew of a certainty, after he had received that great manifestation, that God was no respecter of persons, but that, out of every nation, he that would obey Him, and work righteousness, would be accepted of Him; and that is just as true today as it ever was. True it is that there are some nations less favored of the Lord than others. If you will read the history of those people, and the hand dealings of the Lord with them, you will find that their present conditions are a result of their failure to receive the Gospel when it has been proclaimed unto them, but, in every instance, you will also find that God's justice has been manifest unto the people. This is particularly true of the people with whom T am laboring, the Lamanites. They have been brought to the condition in which they are today because of disobedience in the past. Rut the Lord has said He would, in His own due time, give them another trial, another chance. If you will take the time to read it, you will discover that the word of the Lord should go to them, from the Gentile nations to bring them back to a knowledge of the Christ. 

I do not desire, my brethren and sisters, to occupy much more of the time this morning; but I wish to emphasize the fact that the Lord will fulfill His promises, and that in His own way, in His own time, and just as is shown very plainly in III Nephi, in the Book of Mormon, I wish to read a few words to show 'that the Lord will fulfill all of His promises to His children, but He will do it in His own way. It is well for us to accept the Lord's way. and make ourselves willing and ready to work in it. 

And now, behold, I say unto you that when the Lord shall see fit in His wisdom that these sayings shall come unto the Gentiles, according to His word, then ye may know that the covenant which the Father hath made with the children of Israel, concerning their restoration to the lands of their inheritance, is already beginning to be fulfilled; and ye may know that the words of the Lord which have been spoken by the holy prophets shall all be fulfilled; and ve need not say that the Lord delays His coming unto the children of Israel; and ye need not imagine in your hearts that the words which have been spoken are vain, for behold, the Lord will remember His covenant which He hath made unto His people of the house of Israel. And when ye shall see these things coming forth among you, then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings of the Lord, for the sword of His justice is in His right hand, and behold at that day, if ye shall spurn at His doings, He will cause that it shall soon overtake you. Wo unto him that spurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, woe unto him that shall deny the Christ and His works; yea, woe unto him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord, and that shall say the Lord no longer worketh by revelation or by prophecy, or by gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by the power of the Holy Ghost; yea, and woe unto him that shall say at that day, to get gain, that there can be no miracle wrought by Jesus Christ; for he that doeth this shall become like unto the son of perdition, for whom there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ. Yea. and ye need not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor make game of the Jews, nor any of' the remnant of the House of Tsrael, for behold the Lord remembereth His covenant unto them, and He will do unto them according to that which He hrtth sworn. Therefore ye need not suppose that ye can turn the right hand of the Lord unto the left, that lie may not execute judgment unto the house of Tsrael." (Ill Nephi, 29 chapter.) 

How many arc there of us who are entirely guiltless of the things that the Lord has told in this chap that we should not do? How many of us are entirely guiltless of looking down upon the Jews and upon certain branches of the House of Israel, and how many of us are there that do not believe implicitly in our hearts that the Lord is going to fulfill these mighty and, as they look to us, almost impossible promises unto those people? 

1 testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this word is true, and this book brought forth by the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, is a revelation of God unto the world. And I testify that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that, through the power which God gave him, He established this Church, and it shall not be taken away again, but it will go on to perfection, and those who do not go with it will be lost, because the Church is not going to be left to any other people. I testify, furthermore, that I know that those who have governed the Church, and led us up to the present time, have been inspired of God. I testify that I have received manifestations, that Joseph F. Smith, who presides over this conference, and the Church, at the present time, is a man inspired of God, and he leads this Church by the inspiration and Spirit of the Almighty. When I have heard criticism, I have told the critics that their criticism will bring them condemnation if they do not repent. God will not permit His servant to guide this Church into error, it is going to be guided to success. Again I say, Joseph F. Smith is inspired of the Lord in what he does in the government of this Church. May the Lord help us to realize our duties in this Church, and perform them faith, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"O Divine Redeemer," was sung by Sister Ada Russell. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Church Historian.) 

The limited time at my command will only permit me to express a thought which has come to me while the brethren have been speaking to us. It may be based upon the saying of the Savior, when He, in His famous sermon on the mount, speaks as follows: "Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit." 

The successful affairs of this life are as a rule made up of happy mediums. To illustrate : If a man spends his money in a very liberal and imprudent way, we call him a spendthrift. If he is too close with his means, we are tempted to call him a miser. We admire the happy medium when a man is neither a spnedthrift nor a miser. Again we sometimes find men who to all appearances are too self-important, who assume a certain extreme dignity, which conveys the idea to others, that they consider themselves better than other people. As a contrast to these we find people who, figuratively speaking, crawl in a hole, who are 'too modest, who dare not assert themselves in anything, and who dare not step to the front to show their real ability and the talent which God has given them. These are two extremes which most people do not admire. We like a man who does not exhibit either of these extremes — who is not too modest, nor too much inclined to self-assertion. Most of the successes which the human race have achieved in any of the affairs of life have been based on a happy medium. 

The Latter-day Saints are by most unprejudiced people referred to as a good and honest community. Sometimes, perhaps, we may overdraw the mark in regard to our own virtues and goodness. But true it is that we are not the people that our enemies claim that we are, when they endeavor to paint us black, and make us appear real wicked. Perhaps at times we go to the extreme in doting on and speaking of our purity and virtues, for even in that regard there is necessarily a happy medium and a certain way of getting at the truth. 

I have given this matter quite serious attention while I, during the past years, and particularly during the last few months, have been busily engaged in perusing the history of the Church, or recording the actions of the Latter-day Saints in these valleys. I have patiently gathered together the events of each day in regular chronological succession from the very day the pioneers first arrived in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in July, 1847, to the close of the Nineteenth Century, and I find this truth proven beyond all doubt and beyond every attempt at successful contradiction, that there has from the beginning been a great difference in the general morals of the Latter-day Saints when they have been alone in these mountains and when they have been associated with other people not of their faith. In other words, the Latter-day Saints, ( when they have had an opportunity to regulate their affairs according to their own religious and  convictions or practical creed), have been far better than at other times when they, in a sense, have been helpless in the hands of others, or associated with more worldly-minded and less God-fearing neighbors. 

From the day of the arrival of the pioneers here in 1847 till the month of June, 1849, the "Mormons'" were alomst alone in these valleys. There was scarcely any one here who did not belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is very interesting indeed to read of the good morals and tenets of the people as they were reduced to practice at that time — a people who showed by their actions that they were indeed a God-fearing people, though suffering with poverty and want and beset with very many difficulties incident to western pioneer life. But they were a moral and virtuous people. Scarcely an oath or anything tending to vulgarity or blasphemy were heard in the streets of Great Salt Lake City in these early days. There was no drunkenness or immoral practices to speak of. The vices that try good men's souls and which are so detrimental to the progress of a moral community were almost unknown. 

But in the year 1849, after the gold had been discovered in California, a certain class of travelers commenced to pass through the Great Salt Lake Valley. Some of these were very good people, who not only behaved themselves like gentlemen, but who also spoke truthfully of the Latter-day Saints, calling them an honest and a Godfearing people. Some of these transcontinental travelers who had listened to slanderous reports circulating in the East were indeed surprised to find that the "Mormons"  the far-off valley of the Great Salt Lake consisted chiefly of men and women of most excellent character and morals. Some of these travelers, however, were men of bad morals who endeavored to introduce vice of a serious nature among the Latter-day Saints. Thus, barring a few isolated cases, the year 1849 witnessed the first introduction into these valleys of real blasphemy, theft, robbery, and other things repugnant to the feelings of a true Christian. 

In course of time, or after the lapse of a few years, the evils introduced into the midst of our people by these travelers (who were mostly bound for California and Oregon) subsided, and the "Mormons" were again left almost alone for a season. During that period we enjoyed comparatively speaking immunity from nearly all the vices prevailing at that time in what we generally called the outside world, and the "Mormons" in. the Great Salt Lake Valley again made a record that reads well as matters of history at the present time. 

These happy conditions, however, were overturned to a very great extent in the year 1858, when the socalled Johnston Army entered the Great Salt Lake Valley. There were about six thousand American troops and upwards of eleven thousand camp-followers. Most of the latter were men of questionable character, and there were also a few women whose morals were calculated to disgrace any community who would encourage their nefarious practices; and yet these same people claimed that they came to Utah to teach the "Mormons" better morals. The complaint had been made against us in the East that we were not moral, and that we were the opposite to a 

,good people. Hence, these men and women, to whom I refer, were sent here, or came here of their own free will and choice, to introduce a higher and better civilization than the one which had existed before. Without going into details I will simply say in this connection that for the time being a most wonderful change took place in the moral status of certain localities in this intermountain region, particularly in Salt Lake City and Camp Floyd where most of the soldiers and camp-followers made their headquarters. Quarreling, fighting, stealing, robbing and killing became common occurrences among the non-"Mormon" element in these valleys. One old settler said, "I have now lived in Provo ten years and I have heard more blasphemy and witnessed more vice in Salt Lake City in twenty-four hours than I have heard or witnessed all the time I have lived in the 'Mormon' town of Provo." 

I do not desire to draw an extreme picture of these changing conditions. I desire simply to refer to facts and present the truth as I find it recorded in the annals of a people who have ever been known to keep good records. Nor do I take as my authority "Mormon" statements alone, but the statements of other honest men and women who were not afraid to tell the truth and- to speak of things as they found them. 

The Latter-day Saints are by no means a perfect people, but whatever may be said in regard to the "Mormons" on the one hand and the non-"Mormon" element on the other, the facts are these that at such times when the "Mormons" have been almost the sole inhabitants of these mountain valleys and have lived according to the religion of the Latter-day Saints — the principles or creed known as "Moimonism," which we call the true Christian religion — they have excelled in purity, honesty and sobriety. We have, in other words, fostered a practical Christian civilization whenever we have been let alone and given liberty to show our real characteristics. 

Passing on in my observations I will merely state that after the episodes of 1858 and the few following years most of the soldiers who had arrived in the Valley were ordered away to participate in the war between the North and the South, and most of the camp-followers left the territory about the same time. After their departure we had another season of peace, comparatively speaking, and Christian civilization, in which purity of life again played a most prominent part. This condition continued until the year 1869, when the Union Pacific Railroad was finished, and with that event came the introduction into Utah of a civilization of which we have never been proud. Then it was that we got the perpetual saloon, the perpetual house of ill-fame and those other perpetual things of evil which we often shudder to think of, especially when we realize what it means as temptations and inducements to out young people. 

After a while conditions again changed a little for the better. Our people succeeding to a considerable extent to maintain law and order in a mixed community. But then came the remarkable year of 1890 when the "Mormons" lost permanent control of Salt Lake City, Ogden and a few other towns. Since that time we have had to submit to the presence of nearly all the vices, evils, and abominations which are cursing nearly every large city in the whole -called civilized world. We are endeavoring to keep our young people as well as ourselves away from evil doing, but in many instances we are not as successful as we would like to be. 

From the various examples which I have quoted from history we can judge pretty well of "the fruits of the tree." We have had the privilege of looking upon the different pictures of conditions in the different periods of our territorial and state history. We can compare notes with conditions when the inhabitants of Utah were almost purely "Mormon" and when they have been mixed with other people. 

While I do not desire to laud my people, the Latter-day Saints, to the sky as a perfect people, I nevertheless glory in telling the truth. I have belonged to the Latter-day Saints since I was a little boy and I love my people. I cannot feel satisfied to stand silently by always, when I witness the wrongdoing of those who oppose us and listen to the vituperation and false accusations which come from the outside world or from people who do not know us, or. worst of all, from those enemies in our own midst who know that they are not telling the truth. Once in a while I feel like raising my voice against the false accusations concocted against us and endeavor to make such corrections as are within my power. 

Without exaggeration and without stating anything bordering on the extreme the facts are, that when we as Latter-day Saints have had an opportunity to live by ourselves and to regulate our domestic and civil affairs according to our belief and preferences, we have ever built up model Christian communities. On the other hand, when we have been  or less in the power and under the influence of people opposed to us, we have to a greater or less extent become mixed up with worldly affairs; for with our best efforts to steer clear of the "evils and vices introduced amongst us, we have occasionally yielded through weakness to that which is forbidden in the Word of God. 

In conclusion I assert that history bears out the fact that the fruit of the "Mormon" tree is good, far better than the fruit plucked from the so-called up-to-date Christian civilization which has been introduced amongst us from time to time. Whenever we have been mixed up with outside influences our high standard of morals has invariably been reduced. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May the Lord God, our Heavenly Father, enable us to be faithful and true to the commandments which He has given us and to the teachings of the Savior of the world, whom we adore and in whom we believe. May we continue to be a practical Christian people, and while we are at the present time a mixed community, let us take a consistent stand and be determined to serve the God of our fathers, remain true to our covenants, and ever have our eyes and ambition directed toward the Kingdom of God. While others may do wrong, let us endeavor to retain our characteristics of purity, honesty and uprightness. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I realize, my brethren and sisters, what it means, in some measure at least, to occupy this position, ad an audience of Latter-day Saints, many of whom have been reared in the Church, and filled missions abroad; I realize the responsibility that attends the speaker and the audience together, that the Spirit of the Lord may direct the words of the one who addresses them. 

I feel very weak in attempting to speak to you this morning, but I have been interested in the remarks that have been made by the speakers at this session of the conference; and though we remain only a few moments longer in this meeting, I trust we may find it possible to commune with each other so that we will all be edified and blessed. 

I have been interested in the missionary work for a good long while, and have learned what it means to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. In speaking to the public, either to the Latter-day Saints or those who are not termed Saints, I have found that all men are more or less interested in religion, if you can get men to gather their thoughts for a short time, and concentrate them upon the many gifts and blessings that the Lord has given His children on this earth. I have never met a man in my experience but what wanted to be saved, but desired that, sometime in the future, he might dwell with our Father in heaven. I am reminded always of the words of the Savior when He appeared unto Mary and told her to go and tell her brethren. He told her to touch Him not, for, said He, "I am not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God." All men and women in the earth are children of the same God, and are entitled to His blessings according to their works; and as a result of their works they will be rewarded at some future time. Here where we have grown up, the majority of the people who belong to the Church have, I suppose, been born under the covenant, and have been familiar with the Gospel of Jesus Christ from childhood. They have become acquainted with it through early instruction, beginning in the Primary, then in the Mutual Improvement Association, Sunday School, etc., and many have gone on missions into the world; it seems almost that they were born Latterday Saints. 

I believe that a man's condition here is largely the result of his preexistence, a subject which has been commented upon a little this morning. A person's future will depend largely upon his life here. Today's condition is largely the result of yesterday's actions, and tomorrow will be largely affected by today. If men and women are inclined toward the Lord today, they are pretty apt to be that way tomorrow, and so on. I have learned that it is very profitable for any man to be a possessor of a testimony of the Gospel; to know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God : such testimony is a gift of God. T have learned also that repentance is a gift of God, and that men cannot truly repent unless the Lord gives them the spirit of repentance. He gives all men the gift of repentance who draw near unto Him, and desire to forsake evil and choose the good. The same gospel that was given to man in the days of Adam, and in the days of all the holy prophets, is here upon the earth in this dispensation of the fulness of times. 

I am inclined to believe that the  of the Lord is nearing an end here, and that His work will not continue many more years. According to the time of the Lord, we are in the last days, and this gospel must be preached diligently. For this purpose, more men and women are sent into the world today than at any other period, and still the cry is for more missionaries. There has never been a time in the history of our missions when there was more need of numerous missionaries than at the present time. Last summer there were four cities in the Central States Mission under the ministration of only one elder and two lady missionaries, all that we could leave with them. They traveled from one city to another every week, encouraging the people who were investigating the gospel. There are some men in this congregation who could go into the mission field, if they made up their mind to do it, and it would be a splendid experience for them, and a blessing to those to whom they ministered. I want to tell you that no man ever acquired a thorough knowledge of anything except by experience. He never truly acquires a knowledge of the advantages of money only as he has to toil in earning it. Property that comes to a man through inheritance is seldom properly appreciated by him; in a majority of cases they lose it in a short time. Experience in the mission field, at home and abroad, is the best kind of training, the thing that fastens the gospel in the minds of the missionaries till they are able to hold fast and walk by the light of it. Preaching the .'gospel wherever permitted and practically living it, is a sure method of attaining success. 

The Lord has said, in the 58th section of the Doctrine and Cove, that "men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." And so, my brethren and sisters, the power is in you and me, given by our Eternal Father, to every one of His sons and daughters, that they may be prepared to work in the ministry of the Lord Jesus, at home and abroad. We can plan for a future experience in the mission field, a short or a long one, according to our desires. My brethren and sisters, it has been my desire to impress upon this body of men and women that missionaries are needed, men of experience. I want to say to you that I have never seen anyone come into the mission field yet but what there is a place for him. and there have been people somewhere who would listen to him. But we need older men than formerly. The time has arrived, I firmly believe, when men who have already had an experience in the mission field are most needed. Experience keeps men alive, fresh and able; decay results if we get into ruts, drift into easy paths, or become inactive. I believe that the Lord desires that the Priesthood in this Church should, every one of them,* be at work, at home or abroad; and I believe that all who are able to act as missionaries will be called. Joseph Smith said that every man who was called into the ministry in the world was ordained unto that calling before the world was. If that be the case, they undoubtedly understood the gospel of Jesus Christ in the pre-existent state. My brethren and , in order to obtain the blessings that have been pronounced upon the elders of Israel, those who are called will have to use the free agency that God gave unto them and exercise the power of their Priesthood in fulfilling the. requirement that has been made of them. The Lord has said that "many are called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world." Men engage in business, and lose sight of the greater blessings and privileges, and the purpose for which they came into the earth. 

My brethren and sisters, time will not permit me to speak longer. I enjoy knowing that I am a Latterday Saint. I value my membership in this Church as the greatest possession that has ever come to me. I rejoice in the knowledge that the Lord lives, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that this people called Latter-day Saints are His people. I know that those who go down into the waters of baptism will be accepted of Him. I know that Joseph Smith received the revelations of the Lord which he said he did, and that he received a visitation of the Father and the Son, and messengers from the heavenly world. 

I humbly pray that the blessings of the Lord will continue with us each day while we live upon the earth, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A male quartet rendered a selection. 

The Choir sang, "The Palms." 


