Second Overflow
04 04 1915

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., presided; and the Cottonwood stake choir was again in attendance. 

The service was commenced by the Choir singing - , the hymn : 

"An angel from on high, 

The long, long silence broke." 

Prayer was offered by Bishop Joseph A. Buttle. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Daughter of Zion." 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Words fail to express the gratitude which I have in meeting with you, this beautiful Easter Sunday, and in experiencing the sweet influence which has characterized this conference thus far. I have often heard, while in the world, the beautiful hymn : 

"O ye mountains high, Where the clear blue sky 

Arches over the vales of the free; Where the pure breezes blow, And the clear streamlets flow, 

How I long to your bosom to flee." 

Never has that hymn been sung, in my hearing, while I have been away from the body of the Church, but what I have had a longing, a yearning for this land which is so dear to me. I have often thought of St. Bernard who, when he visited Switzerland, looked over the beautiful lakes, and saw the magnificent picture that was presented to him, how he covered his eyes lest the glorious scenes should detract from his love for duty, and from the love which he bore to his Maker. When I come into the vales of these mountains, and see the snow-capped peaks, that are familiar to me, there seems to be a necessity for me to cover my eyes also, lest the appeal should be so strong that it would  from my desire to do my duty. I love these glorious mountains, and more than the mountains, I love the people who dwell here. More than the people who dwell here, even father and mother, houses and lands, and wife and children, I love that cause which I have been sent out into the world to represent. 

Eighty-five years ago this Church was organized with only six members, in the State of New York, the state where, perhaps, the greatest opposition is now prevailing against this work, and against this people. When we look over our weekly reports, in the mission field, we see there are only few baptisms, if any. The elders are plodding along, as it were, gleaning from among the crowded cities of the world, and from country districts, those who have a greater love for God than they have for their self-ambitions. It seems that the progress is not of the proportions that our elders would like to see it; arid oftentimes an elder will express himself, that he cannot see any good resulting from his labors. But when we stop to consider the report that was read this morning by our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith, and see how the Saints have been gathered from the various parts of the earth, how diligent they have been, not merely seeking this world's treasures, but how willingly they have laid' on the altar of sacrifice much of the means they have acquired to come and enter the House of the Lord, where they have done a magnificent and stupendous work for those who have gone beyond, those that were less fortunate than we. It causes my heart to leap with joy to know that my parents had the courage and fortitude to leave their possessions, and everything that was near and clear unto them, and come into these valleys of the mountains, where such love for truth can bear fruit in the hearts of their children. 

I love the people of the Lord. I love to see the progress that this work is making. Perhaps that cannot be seen or counted numerically only. I believe that the Almighty has anticipated this very condition, for we read in the 13th chapter of Matthew a statement made by the Master, that the kingdom of God was likened unto leaven which was hid in three measures of meal, and which leavened the whole lump. In order to measure the success attendant upon the work of the missionaries in the world, one must understand what the teachings of sectarian ministers were about eighty-five years ago, in the year 1830, and then compare the teachings of the same sects and organizations of today. If you will turn back the pages of ecclesiastical history, you will find great speakers whose sermons are a matter of record, who taught that awful doctrine of hell fire, that unless a person would be willing to kneel before the penitent bench, he would go into an ever-burning and never-ending hell. About twentyfive years ago this doctrine began to be disowned by the churches of the world, and thus it seems that one particle of the Gospel leaven has entered into the souls of the children of men, and they have cast off that damnable doctrine. Also, there was the doctrine taught that infants, whose parents refused to have them christened, or baptized, would go to a never-ending hell, there, perhaps, to serve as kindling for the devil. But these things have now been discarded. I doubt whether there was ever a person who has lived upon the earth, and who had been called  to lay away a little one from its mother's arms, and buried it in the grave that ever thought that that child went to hell. It is people outside of that relationship who have thought that such a little one was going to a never-ending hell. The love of Christ has more fully entered into the hearts of the children of men. All are growing nearer to it, and even though the people seek to destroy the work of the Lord, yet these things which God has ordained, these works which He has performed, albeit by the slowest growth, will stand and endure. Some one has said, ''God can make an oak tree in a hundred years, and can make a mush-room in one night." We must reach out to the one hundred year mark before the wonderful growth is fully recognized, as shown by the testimonial that you give in your attendance upon this conference, and the love and devotion you show to the cause. 

In looking through one of the large book stores in New York City, I discovered a work entitled "A Century's Change in religion." This has come from the press at as late a date as Nov., 1914. It is written by one George Harris, a very learned divine. There are many things contained therein that we cannot accept, I may say, as gospel truth; yet there are many things which he points out that have come about by the evolution of thought, and the culling process of truth. The author shows how many of the errors which our fathers inherited have been dead and buried for a number of years. I desire to read an extract from his Introductory : 

"I select this period also because a large part of it is within the recollection of many now living. Indeed, those discoveries and influences which , or are supposed to have, brought these changes have come upon us within the last fifty years. I do not mean that religious beliefs and practices were stationary for eighteen hundred years, or during the first half of the 19th century, but that the changes of the last fifty years are more marked than those, we may almost say, of all the time preceding." 

Is it not a remarkable statement for a minister to make, that the last fifty years has seen greater religious advancement than all preceding time since Jesus came and ushered in His reign. I wonder if we realize the effect of the efforts of our humble elders in crystalizing these truths in the hearts of the children of men. Now I will read to you an extract concerning a doctrine that has been entirely ignored, or ridiculed, by most of the ministers of the Christian world. It was a startling revelation to me to know that people in the world have so far ran into the realm of truth that they are growing into the desire to do work for their dead : 

"About thirty years ago a curious controversy arose, as to the decisiveness of this life. It led to the trial of five' professors in the Theological Seminary at Andover, Massachusetts, who, it was alleged, taught that those who had not heard of Christ in this life, the heathen, the generations before Christ, might, after death, have knowledge of Him and repent and be saved. A foreign missionary society refused for several years to appoint as missonaries young men who thought it possible that those who did not have the Gospel in this life might, after death, have opportunity to believe on Christ, or who went no further than saying that they did not know the fate of the heathen. 

"The accused professors argued from the universality of the Gospel. Christ died for all men, and since none can be saved except they believe on Christ, it would seem that all men will have the opportunity of knowing 

Christ; that if there are any, and there are certainly many, who do not know Him in this life, they will know Him in the intermediate state, before the day of judgment. It was thought that scripture lends itself to such a hope, for an apostle says that Christ, 'having been put to death in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit, went and preached unto the spirits in prison which aforetime were disobedient in the time of Noah;' and again says, 'For unto this end was the Gospel preached even to the dead;' and the most ancient creed of the Church says, that Christ crucified, dead and buried, descended into Hades, the abode of departed spirit. 

"The accusers said that scripture is emphatic on the decisiveness of this life, since it affirms that men shall be judged acording to the deeds done in the body; that now is the day of salvation; and said that the passages in Peter are obscure. They also declared that the 'nerve of missions' would be cut, if it were supposed that the heathen would have opportunity of salvation after death; that is, that the motive of missions is the fact that the heathen are going down to perdition. Other charges were brought, as that the professors taught that there are imperfections in the Bible; but the gravamen of the accusation was that these teachers believed and taught that there may be a second probation, and that such an opinion is very dangerous, that men will postpone repentance to a more convenient season. 

"The Board of Visitors of the Seminary, before whom the professors were tried, removed one of them from office, acquitting four, although the evidence was the same for all; the case was carried to the Supreme Court of Massachusetts; the decision of the Visitors against the removed professor was declared invalid, on the ground that the other Board of the Seminary, the Trustees, were not made a part in the trial. It is not yet twenty-five years since the verdict was given, yet it is rather difficult not to realze what it was all about. It shows, however, how real the unseen world was, how intimately related the realms of light and darkness were to this world in the thought of men." 

Now I wonder where they got that from! Surely the spirit of Elijah has spread out over the world, and it is "turning the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest the earth be smitten with a curse." I will read a little further : 

"We do not profess so intimate knowledge of the unseen world, nor affirm positively that this life determines the life to come. We do not speculate about it, we refuse to beleve that all who have not consciously accepted Christ, those cut off in youth, those who grew up in vicious surroundings, those who never heard of Christ, are doomed to eternal woe. The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting. And now a very orthodox writer says, in a book published by the American Tract Society which is most evangelical, and no one protests: 

" 'We repeat with all sacred emphasis the words, ' 'the Gospel was preached even to the dead." We note the instance that is given, the spirits in prison, which aforetime were disobedient in the time of Noah, that is, the spirits of those who perished in the flood. We must not dogmatize, we need not vainly guess; but we may reverently affirm that the Son of man is capable of reaching and influencing the souls of men on yon side of the veil, as well as on this; and that in a degree and by means infinitely beyond anything that science or faith can either dream or discover.' " 

The same writer says : 

" 'The horrible invention of a purgatory, from which man's enlightened conscience revolts, and which the Word of God makes absolutely incredible, has produced a violent reaction in modern minds, whereby even the idea of Hades — the scriptural idea of an intermediate state, where departed spirits await the resurrection of their bodies — is rudely blotted out, and so one of the grandest and one of the most fruitful periods of man's education for eternity is an utter blank in the minds of most of us. But we refuse to be robbed of what the Holy Ghost saith; whether by the abuses  Roman excess or by the violence of Protestant reaction. We hold to the teaching of Holy Scripture — whatever may be the peril to a narrow sectarian type of orthodoxy. There is no purgatory, but there is an intermediate state. And the only glimpse we get into that world unseen (Hades), reveals to us the Spirit of Jesus proclaiming His Gospel unto the dead. Here let our authoritative teaching regarding the matter begin and end, flooding all the world of Hades with the light of the Savior's presence and the music of his blessed voice.' ' 

"I think all will agree that everlasting punishment is seldom, if ever, mentioned in the pulpit now that the word 'hell' seldom crosses the lips of any preacher. While it is believed that a man may be morally ruined, the conception is rather of character debased, degenerated beyond hope of recovery, than of acute physical suffering. The fire that is not quenched, the worm that dieth not, are, it is thought, figures of corrosion and decay. The lake that burnetii with fire and brimstone for ever and ever is symbolic of lost souls consumed with remorse. There is nothing more dreadful than a ruined soul, a hardened heart. Character is fixed by purpose, and it may be that after a time it cannot be changed. Judgment is upon character; heaven is good character, Christ-like character; hell is bad character, selfish, grasping, unsympathetic character." 

Some "Mormon" elder must have explained these blessed principles to those who were moved upon to write such glorious truths. When we see the leaven raising the entire lump, our hearts are made to rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. His work is not marked out by that which can be seen by human eyes, but it is eternal in character, and of universal dominion, and will endure throughout the ages to come. 

I rejoice in having this opportunity of bearing my testimony, my brethren and sisters, for I feel that I know that God lives. There is no fiber of my being that does not respond in joyous love to God, for the light and truth that He has given unto me, for I feel that the most sacred obligation that I have is to see to it that the sentiment never enters my heart, "Am I my brother's keeper?" The Lord has said of His Saints-. "Ye are the salt of the earth." No good housewife ever makes a meal of salt, she uses just enough to make the meal palatable. Your sons and daughters out in the mission field, are a Sprinkling of salt in the fleshpots of the world. O, it causes my heart to rejoice to contemplate these things. An article from a very scholarly writer, says that the word "salt" and the word "Savior" came from the same root word. You now can see the beauty in the passage with such an explanation, "Ye are the salt of the earth" — ye are the saviors of the earth. How many of us have had it stated in our patriarchal blessings : "And you shall come forth and stand as a savior on Mount Zion, crowned with immortality and eternal life!" 

May God bless us with His Holy Spirit, that the greater degree of the religion of love, which is sure to follow the darkness of the existing horrible war, may find a resting place first in the hearts of God's people throughout the world, as enunciated by our beloved prophet, seer and revelator this morning. May God add His blessing to us all, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. HART. 

(President of Rigby Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am here this afternoon because I was requested to be here. I always prefer to sit in the audience rather than  occupy a place upon the stand. I am entirely relying upon the Spirit of the Lord to assist me in this position this afternoon. I know that if I say anything that will be of interest to us, or be beneficial, that it will be through His help, because in and of myself I am inadequate to successfully occupy such a responsible position as has been allotted to me here. 

There is a passage of scripture that very often comes to my mind. It is a passage that I think of a great deal, as it seems to me of great importance to all mankind: "This is eternal life to know Thee, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent." In other words, if we attain to the greatest blessing that is in store for mankind, that of eternal life, it is absolutely necessary that we gain for ourselves a knowledge of the Father and of the Son, a knowledge of their attributes, of their characteristics and of our relationship to them, as mortals here upon the earth. I want to say, my brethren and sisters, that the key of this knowledge has been restored to the earth in this dispensation. It has come through the restoration of the Gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We are fully aware that, at the time when this great revelation was given unto this young man, actual knowledge of the Son of God and our Heavenly Father was not in existence in the world. There was no religious denomination teaching the truth concerning those holy Beings. Mankind were being taught that God, our Heavenly Father, was a Being or a something that was not tangible, that He had neither body, parts nor passions, that He was some mythical being that we could not and ought not to be able to behold, or comprehend. I am justified in saying that, at the present time, by virtue of this key of knowledge coming to earth in this dispensation, and through the proclamation thereof by our humble elders, who have been sent to the world to preach the Gospel, the doctrine of a bodiless and passionless God, and a throneless heaven, is not so prevalent, and the truth is taking the place thereof. 

One of the great testimonies that has come under my observation, is the change that is taking hold of men's minds concerning religious principles and doctrines. Great men have come forward and advocated a principle that borders on the truth that has been restored to the Latterday Saints. They have not got it from any of their creeds, because it is not taught in any of them; but they perceived a glimmer of light, and they have put forth their views along these lines, and it appears that they are approaching a true and correct theory and idea concerning God, our Eternal Father, and Jesus Christ whom He hath sent. 

These wonderful conference gatherings, are also a testimony to me, and I do not know where you could go in all the world and see anything equal to this that is before us today, these wonderful gatherings of people from all parts of the earth, we might say. ' They have come up here according to appointment, to be instructed in the ways of the Lord. They have left their labors, their business and their worldly affairs behind them. They spend their own money, and give their time and means to come here and hear instructions from the Lord, that they may carry them back to the people with whom they associate in these United States, and abroad also. We do not gain converts through holding religious revivals, or on account  being able to send men into the world who have acquired ability to preach the Gospel; but we send, largely, young boys and girls who are inexperienced, and they humble themselves before the Lord, and carry this message to the world. It is through their humility, their cleanliness of life, their honesty of purpose, that mankind are attracted to them, and listen to the truth they proclaim. There is no organization in the world that conducts its proselyting along lines like these. They would be afraid to send their young men and young women into the world as we do. I venture to say that if they sent such missionaries among the Latter-day Saints, we would be the cause of their returning home with their religious views largely expanded, at least. 

This work is growing. We can hardly comprehend its magnitude. In the state of Idaho, where I live, there are from seventy to seventyfive thousand Latter-day Saints, and we are increasing. The influence of the Church is being felt; it is extending, results are beginning to be known and noticed, and we are glad to say that we see and realize good coming therefrom. We are doing all in our power to maintain the good influence of this great work that has been entrusted into our care in the state of Idaho. We are progressing. I can state to you in truthfulness that Idaho, the state of my adoption, has today upon its statutes the most drastic, honest, clean-cut, effective temperance legislation of any state in this nation. I want to warn those who do not live within the confines of that state that, after the fourth of next May, if you visit us it will be unlawful for you to cross the line into Idaho "with anything in the way of intoxicants in  possession. I am thankful for this. I feel that we have now, to this extent at least, been enabled to throw safeguards around our young people, that they will not have these temptations to intemperance placed before them, and we will be enabled to devote our attention to other lines of improvement. We have ample opportunity for advancement along other lines, but this is a good start. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that one of the evils we should remedy in the communities of the Latter-day Saints, as well as elsewhere, is the vicious forms of dancing. The methods and styles that are being adopted in that line, in a great many instances, are abominable. We who hold responsible positions, and have received the priesthood of the Master, should exert our influence and efforts to eradicate this evil. We ought to be as energetic in driving all evil things from our midst as the Savior of mankind was in driving the money changers out of the temple. 

I hope and pray that we will be enabled to fulfill our obligations in these responsible conditions, and handle the problems confronting us honestly and conscientiously, that good may result from our efforts; and mav the Lord bless us to this end. May He give us strength to do our duty. May He bless us with wisdom and understanding, that we will be enabled to see and comprehend our duties and thwart the enemv of the souls of our people. May His testimony be with us, that we mav grow in faith, that we may prosper and advance spiritually. Mav we gain for ourselves a knowledge of the Father and of the Son. and thereby secure the great blessing of eternal life, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Gospel Restoration;" the solo part was rendered by Sister Nellie Bennion. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

In the world, where we missionaries are laboring, it becomes necessary to combat a false and erroneous impression that generally prevails among the religious denominations of today, that by mere lip service men can please God, and that by simply giving their hand to the minister who, at the revival, has touched their hearts, they have then obtained religion and have passed to salvation; or, by simply saying that they believe in the Lord Jesus Christ they then shall be saved; or who are content to lull themselves into a sense of supposed security by repeating the words of the scripture, that "the blood of Christ cleanseth us from all sin." The disposition and feeling is, to get this matter of religion over and through with in as little time as possible. And then the religious person thinks he is saved. I remember while doing missionary work in the city of St. Louis, several years ago, reading at the entrance of a tent where gospel meetings were held, where a man was preaching healing by faith, as well as expounding his views of the doctrines of the gospel — a sign which ran: "Come and be healed and saved in 15 minutes." 

There are many in the world who believe they can be saved in 15 minutes. They remember the night theywere saved. They recall distinctlythe hour. Thev have had no experiences beyond that time. Sometimes I have attended these religious revivals, when the minister has asked those who were present who were saved to stand up, and I have never yet thought I was able to stand up. I remember on one occasion, as was usual, of a good sister coming to those who were sitting; she said to me, "Why, brother, are you not saved?" "No." said I, "I am not yet. I have been struggling for salvation, trying to obtain it, and to teach others how to get it, for many years. I do not know what I will do tomorrow, however; I may lose it all then. I understand that 'the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong, but he that endureth to the end shall be saved.' " 

I have thought, as we have rather criticized the narrow view that some take of this matter of salvation, if we Latter-day Saints are not more or less affected by the same feelings, that we, once having received the gospel, having been baptized, count ourselves in fair condition for salvation. I discover occasionally, in the mission field, those who are drifting, claiming they are members of the church. They can remember that one time they were baptized, though sometimes they do not have the record of it; but, just as long as they have been baptized, they feel that they are in a saved condition. I want to say to you. my brethren and sisters, not perhaps that you need it quite so much as some of us out in the mission field, and yet 1 cannot hell) feeling that, even at home, we need to be told that we must do more than repent of our' sins and be baptized. And what do we mean by repenting of our sins? We mean that we have forsaken the sins we have been guilty of. that we do not sin again, that when we have thus repented, if we have wronged or injured a man or woman, if we have it within our power  repair that injury, that we go to them and repair that wrong before our baptism will be approved of and fully acceptable before the Lord. As we have told those who repent in the world : "Have you wronged a man or woman, from which wrong the man or woman is now suffering? If so, and it is in your power to go to that man or woman and make the wrong right, you should do it. I believe that is the thing God desires of those who accept baptism at His hands. 

I had an experience in a northern city, a few weeks ago, where two physicians offered themselves for baptism, a man and a woman — not related, though living in the same town and following the same profession. I concluded, after investigation, that they were not ready for baptism; so I asked them to defer their baptism. T felt impressed, as John did, when he said : "Who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth fruit meet for repentance." That was my spirit and feeling toward them. And yet our hearts go out and we put forth our earnest efforts to bring men into the Church, those who are ready and prepared. In this case, however, T decided to seek the mind and will of God. Through prayer and contemplation it was revealed to me that thev were in sin and transgression. And T wrote and told them what their sins were, and told them that it would be bringing condemnation upon their own souls to offer themselves to receive the holy and sacred ordinance of baptism when yet in their sins, in their transgression and iniquity. The woman is repenting, but the man is filled with ragr. But everv word that T wrote them was confirmed by voluntary testimony from those informed  these people, that they were guilty of wrong doing, and were seeking to come into this Church to cover up their crimes and shield them from exposure, while they still continued in their sins. 

We are not seeking for men to be baptized into the Church unless they have truly and sincerely repented; and when they have thus repented and gone into the waters of baptism, and have covenanted with God to serve Him and keep His commandments, I know that their sins are forgiven them. I have seen those who have sinned and done wrong, in their ignorance, repent before God, and receive the ordinance of baptism, and have their whole heart changed, and their countenance also become like that of a child. It has been a matter of astonishment to their neighbors and relatives, who would say : "What has happened to Brother So-and-So? How changed he is! What transformation has come over his whole life!" So I know there is virtue and effect and power in the ordinance of baptism for the remission of sins. But we must know, as Latter-day Saints, that we should not stop here; we have only put on the armor, only begun the battle when we have accepted the ordinance of baptism, and had hands laid upon us for the gift of the Holy Ghost, who will teach us what else we should do. And there is no one thing that we can do and gain salvation, as was manifest in the answer of the Christ to the voting man who came asking the Master what thing he should do to inherit eternal life, he was like some of us who feel after we have done one or two things our salvation should be granted. Not one but many things the Master required of him, he answered, "All these have 

I kept from my youth up; what lack I yet?" Many other requirements were made of him, which he could not meet and we are told that the young man went away sorrowing. Do you think that you and I will have our anticipations of salvation in the kingdom of God realized on any less terms than were offered to this young man ? I tell you nay. I tell you that, to receive the ordinance of baptism, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, is only to put on the armor, just to equip us for the battle; and many of us have put on the armor, and it is rusty, we haven't done anything beyond receiving these ordinances.. As often happens with those who are given greater light and knowledge, like the self-righteous Pharisee; thank God they are not like yonder poor sinner. Sometimes we discover that those who have entered into a covenant to serve God do not live any better lives as Latter-day Saints than they lived as Methodists or Baptists, and this will stand against them as covenant breakers. We covenanted and agreed when we were baptized to obey all God's laws, and keep all the requirements that He' would make known unto us for our perfection and salvation. 

Let me name some of the additional requirements. Peter enumerated them in his second epistle, and they are appropriate for Latter-day Saints today. I don't hope to paint any new picture of what we must do to be saved, but just brighten the old one, or make it a little more luminous. I think these conferences are splendid occasions for us to sweep the cobwebs off from our spiritual vision, and think upon the things that we agreed in our hearts to do when we were received as members of the Church, when we covenanted with God to serve Him, as we entered into the waters of baptism. We remember the price our fathers and mothers were willing to pay for salvation, with what a spirit of determination they sacrificed, when they left all to come out of the world to these valleys of the mountains, crossing the plains and blazing the way to provide more favorable opportunities for us to incorporate into our lives the splendid things necessary to prepare us to live in the celestial kingdom of God. 

Peter said : "And beside this [having complied with the first principles,] giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge." What is the standard of the Latter-day Saints, with respect to virtue ? You brethren and sisters know. You young men and young women know, who have been taught and reared in the Church; we have learned it from our fatbers and mothers, that it would be better for we boys and girls to lose our lives than to lose our virtue, that we would rather die than to be despoiled, or despoil any of the daughters of God. This is the standard that has been fixed for us, and it is not a double standard : the boy must live just as pure and innocent in his life as the girl whom he would accept as his wife. We have not allowed one standard of morality for one class, or one sex, and another for another. There are those in the world, and I think some of them may be here, who seek to wrest the scriptures, and seek to justify themselves in departing from the path of rectitude and virtue. Tt is somewhat common for people to pretend to think that the old law has passed away, the law that said, though shalt not commit adulterv. But the es of the law has not passed away, though a higher one has come. Jesus not only said, "Thou shalt not commit adultery," but "He that looketh upon a woman to lust after her hath already committed adultery in his heart." 

I tell you there is a terrible wave of immorality sweeping over the world, stalking abroad in high places and in low places, affecting not only the single but the married, not only the married men but the married women. I wonder if Zion can stand unscathed by the influence of that wave. It will come, if it has not come already to you, and you must beware. Do not take too much for granted from your sons and daughters. Do not mistrust them, but yet live so close to them that you do know the very secret thoughts of their hearts, and the trend of their lives. Hold sacred the duty to do everything you can to prevent the loss of human souls, for this wave will sweep before it to death and destruction those who do not hold themselves clean and pure in thought, in their hearts, and in their lives. 

I want to tell you, if Zion shall succeed in preserving this generation from the damning influences of immorality and licentiousness, the world will yet say of the member^ of this Church, who survive the tremendous influences and forces that are seeking to push the people of the whole world into the pitfalls of sin, greater things to their honor than anything they have yet said about our fathers who founded a commonwealth, and made the desert blossom as the rose. We are still in the struggle to establish a new order of things in the world, a new race of men ancf women, whose hearts and intents are clean and . We are here to fulfill the words of one who said that we must live so that if our -hearts were disclosed, turned outside in, it would not show a single stain of sin; that we should give our name and word to no document or agreement that we would not be unwilling for the angels to attest as witnesses; that we should walk, unseduced, through life, within arm's length of that which is not ours, and nothing between us and the gratification of our desires, but the indomitable law of rectitude, and stand forth in the world as pure and clean as if we were in the presence of God Himself. This is what we should strive for, and it is the standard of virtue that we must attain. I must tell you that the men or women who think they can go into the sacred temples, and receive the blessings there to be obtained, can commit sins of this character, and escape the consequences will come up missing when they meet the examination that men and women will have to pass before entering into the kingdom of heaven, for no unclean thing can go there. And so we have to struggle with this power that is aimed at frail humanity. 

And then we are to "add to our virtue knowledge." You know we believe in knowledge. "The glory of God is intelligence" was one of the favorite sayings of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and we believe in study, we believe in learning. We are not afraid to investigate anything; but I believe that every boy and girl, before they go away from home to school, and especially before they go out of our own circles into the world elsewhere, should gain for themselves an undying testimony that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ; that the gospel  indeed the very truth of God. Men must have a true measuring rod to determine whether knowledge which comes to them is true or false. They must have a true balance or rule that is always reliable, always dependable, by which they can weigh or measure every particle of information that comes to them. What will this rule be? I have discovered that the sure action of my soul is the knowledge I have that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that our Father in heaven has spoken, that those truths contained in the revelations of God in the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants, are the very eternal truth. I have accepted them as my measuring rod, and I have not accepted as the final truth anything that does not square up to those eternal truths, that does not harmonize with the truth I have from God. Truth will harmonize with itself. Let us adopt this standard when we go out into the world, and seek the world's knowledge, its science, and everything pertaining to the world and the world's work, and we shall be saved from shipwreck. 

We have heard from our childhood that the day would come when the Latter-day Saints would be the leaders of the world. I proclaim to you that within one hundred years, and perhaps before that time, the men who will be standing in the very vanguard in directing and piloting the world's thought, knowledge and power, shall come from the Latter-day Saints. Any people who are possessed of the truth w< have, who will live up to the doctrines we have received, will come to be the light of the world, I don't care who they are, they will come to the top just as sure as the sun shines. So we are not afraid of true knowledge. 

And we are to "add to our knowledge temperance." I thank God that Idaho where so many of us live can say, as Brother Hart has just advised us, has taken a great step in adopting prohibition towards an end so dear to the heart of every Latterday Saint. We have received in the Word of Wisdom the higher law of temperance, and it is after all the thing that is necessary to be secured, to eradicate out of the hearts of men the spirit and disposition to drink intoxicating liquors. We believe that it is necessary for mankind not only to abolish the saloon, but we should abolish the very desire for it, we should spurn the desire for strong drink, crush it out and destroy it, that it may not contaminate our souls, that we transmit to our posterity no longing for that which will defile their bodies. What a shame that some of us do not appreciate the blessed heritage we have received from our fathers and mothers, who a generation Or two ago, left these things in the old world, and banished them from their lives. We know that the eye of the world is turned on Utah, and the "Mormons." We have told them of our high standard of temperance, and that we believe in prohibition. Many of them have been watching us. We have told them we would be true to the cause and destroy the whole damnable evil. 1 can't tell you how our hearts sank, and how we were shocked to know that when, apparently, we had it within our grasp to clear the balance of our state, the opportunity has slipped. I hope you will not abandon the cause, that you will espouse it so loyally that you will get it next time, and make it just as strong as 

Idaho has. In the meantime, we stand for temperance in all things. 

This is the time for men to repent. You will discover that there are appetites and desires to conquer, and this life is the molding time; this is the plastic age, and the material well tempered; and when fashioned we become brittle and hard. It will be difficult for us to change the old vessel when it is once moulded. Let us see to it, while the material is pliable, we incorporate into our lives those precious truths that our bodies may be beautiful to look upon, and we will love them, that we will desire to receive them again, and that they will not be to us a hideous monument, but full of all goodness and beauty. 

We are to "add to our temperance patience." , Do you think that one though he has lived up to all these other requirements of the gospel, but. when mad rage strikes him, yields to the wiles of the evil one, — is a fit subject for the celestial kingdom of God? Do you suppose our Father in heaven will allow a scene like that in His presence? I tell you such a one will go outside, and stay there until he has acquired control of his temper, until he has mastered his viciousness. We must have patience with ourselves and patience with others, and not try to make everybody else measure up with our standard. We will discover there are those who will set us an example in some things, while we can set them an example in others. 

"Add to your patience godliness." Godliness, we know, is cleanliness and purity, not only outside but inside. 

"Add to godliness brotherly kindness and charity." If you want to know what true charity is, read what Paul says, "Charity vaunteth  itself," "desireth no evil,'' and so forth. 

O, my brethren and sisters, there is work yet for me and for yon to do. I do not want to make it appear that it is not possible to accomplish all this. It is, and I want yon to understand that not one single requirement that has been made is non-essential. The men or women who' become candidates for celestial glory must come np to these requirements, or they will not get in. James said, "He that keepeth the whole law, and yet offendeth in one thing is guilty of breaking all." What did he mean? He did not mean that the man who broke only one commandment was in the same condition as the one who did not keep any, but that when he had kept all except one he was not able to attain celestial glory until he kept the other requirement. For instance, it is necessary that specific things be compiled with in order to produce electricity, and if we neglect one particular item, do you sunpose we will o-et electricity? No. We are as though Ave had not done anything so far as final results Right] is concerned; although we had done nine things required, and yet lack one. So I say to you that not one of the gospel requirements is non-essential. Thev are not given out of caprice of the mind of Jesus, they are eternal truths, just as eternal as the heavens are eternal, and as the law of gravitation is eternal; we must observe them if we will gain celestial glory. 

Confucius said that those who know the truth are not as great as those who love it. I would like to paraphrase his words, and say that those who know the truth as we do are not as great as those of us who love it and obey it, for "he that  the Master's will and doeth it not shall be beaten with many stripes." I do not want the Latter-day Saints to lose their opportunity. Shame upon us Latterday Saints if it can be said, truthfully, that in the Christian Scientist church a more beautiful spirit prevails than among the Latter-day Saints. While I recognize that the Christian Scientists make a hobby of this doctrine of brotherly love, it cannot and should not be said that there exists more brotherly love in that church than with the Latterday Saints. Suppose the Seventh Day Adventists, who have copied from us the doctrines of the Word of Wisdom, should set us an example in the matter of abstaining from intoxicating liquors, tea. coffee and tobacco, shall we who have received these laws from the Almighty, long before our advent friends adopted them, submit to being outdone in the matter? If the doctrine of tithing is adopted by other churches, shame upon us, who have received the word of God upon this matter, and know it to be divine, if we shall allow them to outdo us. We shall have to live the Law of Enoch before we get into the celestial kingdom of God. You know, the Prophet Joseph stated that the law of tithing was a school master to bring us to live that higher law. I am sorry that many of the Latterday Saints have not come up to the requirements of the school master. How shall we attain salvation except we can be honest It is just as necessary that a man shall be absolutely honest as it is that he shall be baptized, to obtain the celestial kingdom of God. 

My brethren and sisters, we are here reaping the reward of our former labors, and we are going hereafter to reap the consequences of our lives and works here. We know, from the doctrines that we have received, that men and women have existed before coming into this life, for countless ages, and that we have been developing certain qualities, and the reason we are separated into great classes, as the Negro race and the other races on the earth, is not a matter of caprice. God did not take three beautiful children yesterday morning, and say to one, You go to the Negro woman, and to another one, You go to that Chinese mother, and to another, You go down to that beautiful Christian home. In my opinion, there were classes and races, and separation into different groups and conditions before we came to this world, and all are getting what they are entitled to receive here. But tin's is as far as we will travel together, for after this life, some will get a celestial glory, and some a terrestrial glory, and some a telestial, and we will no longer journey in a great class, or in a great company, made up of all classes. I believe that, while there will be classes in the spheres to which we will belong, we shall be grouped on separate planets. If we comply with all requirements we will be prepared to go into the highest places for further advancement, and that is celestial glory, and it is gained by obedience to celestial law. The celestial abode will be upon this redeemed earth, for God has declared that it will fulfill the purpose for which He has created it, and it will no longer need to have the light of the sun by day nor moon and stars by night, but will have power to emit its own light. Tt shall be the home of those who overcome, and who have kept the law. and  have measured up to all the requirements. 

Thank God, there is a chance for those who struggle and do the best they can; we come up and offer ourselves as candidates for admittance, and are found wanting, in a few things, there is a chance to become perfect. I tell you, we will have to examine ourselves, and we will be examined, and see if we are fit, and many will be turned back again and again until they do become perfect in all that God has required. Some of us may fail entirely, and will lift up our eyes in sorrow, in the terrestrial or telestial w orld, beholding the celestial world and not able to enter it. Where will these be? I think, perhaps on Jupiter, or some other planet, when this glorious orb shall shine as a resplendent sun. It may be that they will look up and say, Yes, I was born in that place; it was my privilege to stay there, but I have lost it. We will know then the full meaning of those words : 

"Of all sad words of tongue or pen, The saddest are these, It might have been." 

"I might have been there, and I am not!" O, my brethren and sisters, let us struggle that we may attain the celestial glory. But, we cannot get there by lip service. It is a life's business, and then a continuation of effort, and a continuation of struggle. But, O, it is worth it. It is worth ten thousand times more than has been required; and we would never cease our effort, if* we once had the taste of that joy that belongs to those who come into the presence of God. I am willing to give my all of means, heart, mind, and sacrifice to attain it. 

We teach the doctrine that "as God is man may become." Not that all men will become what He is, but may become; how may we? By obedience to these requirements. While men will grow in the telestial and terrestrial kingdoms, they never can attain the perfection, felicity, and development of those who enjoy the celestial glory. If we get into that glorious place, we have got to walk in the light as He is in the light. And after all we have done, it will still be by the grace of God that we enter, and we will then cry unto Him, and blessed are we, if His answer is, "Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many." If He will only name my poor name, and say. "Of me thou hast not been ashamed, come into the joy of thy Lord," I shall have my heart satisfied, and feel repaid ten thousand times for all God has asked me to do. 

God give us the strength to be more faithful six months from today than we are now, and to accomplish those things that He has required. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD W. YOUNG. 

(President of Ensign Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I should esteem myself and yourselves, my audience, very happy indeed if I might be able to address you under the impulse of that same power and spirit, and intelligence that so far has controlled and dominated this meeting. It is always a great pleasure to me, and no doubt to you and the Latter-day Saints as a whole,, to have the privilege of attending these our annual and semi-annual conferences of the Church. In these great  are we permitted to listen to the testimonies and receive the benefit of the instructions, and to be roused by the enthusiasm of the brethren who so ably, and by appointment, preside over the destinies of this the Church of God. And not only is this privilege accorded us; but by reason of the fact that we come together in great numbers, fired with the same desires, entertaining the same belief, we receive a renewed enthusiasm and power, spirit and determination with reference to the gospel and our participation in the labors pertaining thereunto. 

It is always a great pleasure to us, (I undertake to say behind the back of President Smith that which I would not say before his face) — it is always a great pleasure to us Latterday Saints to have the privilege of listening to our matchless leader. We are great admirers, we who know President Smith, of his splendid intellect. We have sat many times under the potent influence of his oratory, — potent, in my humble judgment, by reason of his sincerity, by reason of his knowledge, by reason of his uncompromising faith, by reason of his mastery of the English language, by reason of his versatility of thought and idea. We have all listened time and again with the most unspeakable pleasure and the most immeasurable advantage and benefit to his sermons. This is one of the great privileges accorded us in attending these conferences. Not least among the privileges that we have on these occasions is listening to the powerful testimonies of the brethren who preside in the missions of the Church. They are filled with enthusiasm. Their knowledge of the Gospel has been kept bright by exercise. Their armor is not rusty. We all learn from them and from the power and influence that accompanies their speaking" of the great advantage that there is and would be to us to labor constantly in the work of God. If we would have that spirit which they enjoy, the spirit which we had when we labored as missionaries in the field, it is only necessary that we, like them, should devote our whole time and attention to the Gospel. Of course this is not possible to the great majority of us. But still we may conclude that we would receive a great accession of faith and of power by increasing our attention, and by multiplying our labors in the great cause of truth and righteousness. 

It is my design to address you only for a very few minutes. Time would not permit that I should speak longer. I find my text in the words, or the idea at least (I cannot recall the precise words) of President Smith in his opening address this morning. The Latter-day Saints, he said, are a charitable people, filled with the fie si re to benefit and to save the world, and not to do the world injury. That is truly a characteristic of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We could not claim that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, if it were not a gospel filled with love and characterized by charity. If ours were a doctrine of hatred, if ours were a doctrine inculcating the spirit of persecution, then we would not be walking in tne footsteps of our great and illustrious Exemplar, the Son of Man. We thank God that the history of the Church, the history of the Latter-day Saints, is not marred by any sentiment or by any act of oppression. Thank God that throughout the history of the Latter-day Saints, there has been evidenced a love of mankind, a de to bless and to benefit and to save, rather than a disposition to oppress and to constrain those who are not of our faith. Oppression would be entirely inconsistent with our views respecting God, our relation to God and our relations to each other. We could not believe as we do, that in the beginning we existed with God; that we are in very fact the children of God; that we are literally brothers and sisters; that we will be saved, all of us, according to our faith and to our works. We could not believe, as has been pointed out, that those of us who might fall by the wayside, or falter in this world, will have an opportunity in the next world of accepting the truth, and of advancing on to salvation. We could not believe that every soul that has been born into the world may become eventually, through endeavor and the things accomplished, divine in his power and attributes, — I say we could not believe all these glorious and humane truths, and then persecute and despitefully use our fellow creatures in this world. It would be absolutely inconsistent in us to oppress those who fail to believe as we believe. They have within them, as we have, not only a divine origin but the. spark of divine potentialities. 

Thank God, we do not share the conception that has marked the ages of the past, and to a large extent reaches down to the present day, notwithstanding the evolution of religious belief in the past 100 years, that a large part of these sons and daughters of God have been foreordained to eternal destruction and damnation. I can well understand why those who entertain such perverted ideas of religion, who assert that we are foreordained, do what we may, to encounter the condemna of God and to suffer irretrievably throughout eternity, would be inclined to judge us without charity or consideration. It would seem to be quite natural for such believers to exclaim: "Inasmuch as God has foreordained the condemnation of this people, well then let them be damned." I say, thank God that such charity destroying views and delusive doctrines have no part in the faith of the Latter-day Saints. Looking upon all mankind, those not of our faith as well as those that have come within the fold, as being of the same fatherhood, as brothers and sisters, with the prospect of salvation ahead of them, we would be sadly illogical if we were not filled with love and with charity, and a desire to help. 

And so, throughout the history of the Latter-day Saints, we have not been the persecutors; but rather the persecuted. We have not been the oppressors; we have been the oppressed. We have not been the libellers and the slanderers of our fellow men; we have suffered from those offenses. As it was in New York, so it was in Kirtland, — we were the persecuted. When we went into Missouri, where thousands of our members, owners of the soil, were dispossessed of their property, it was the same; and so when we were driven out of Nauvoo without offense upon our part. In this state, you may search the statutes from the time the state of Deseret was organized, before the creation of the Territory, and you will search in vain for one statute that ever discriminated in the least degree ag'ainst those who were not of the faith of the Latter-day Saints. We who have lived in this state have seen men who have slandered the leaders of this people, who have said  printed of them the most despicable things, who have accused them of unchastity, of dishonesty and of all of the crimes in the catalogue, we have seen those men live in peace in our midst and walk these streets absolutely without harm or molestation. And you know who have come from the west and the north, and from the east and the south, wherever our people have ever lived, that those who have charged these things against us and have done all manner of things to destroy us, you know that we have treated them charitably, that we have not sought to return evil for evil, but rather, following the example of Christ, that we have sought to return good for evil. I say I thank God that we are a charitable people. I thank God that we soon forget the offenses of people against us. We have elevated into the highest political positions in this state men who in other days have been among the most uncompromising of our opponents. In the charity of our hearts, we have forgotten all that they have done in the past. Thank God that we do not desire to injure others, but rather to bless them. 

Now may God help us so to live that as a community and as individuals we may grow in grace and in the things of God, and be finally not only saved but exalted in His presence; which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

Ashamed that Utah is not yet a prohibition State — Church authorities advocate temperance, and desire prohibition. 

The time is spent. It is not my purpose to detain you; but I desire to say, in conclusion of these services," that I endorse the remarks that have been made here by our brethren, and trust that they will find an abiding place in the hearts of those assembled here. And I wish to say to Brother John W. Hart, that while I am very much chagrined, humiliated and ashamed of the condition that prevails in the State of Utah, not because the people so willed it, I am proud to know that the State of Idaho and the State of Colorado and the State of Arizona, and the States of Washington and Oregon, in this Rocky Mountain region and the Pacific Coast have set an example that is worth}' to be followed. And just one more word. The remark has been made that whispering is being indulged in to some extent by some of the people to the effect, that the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints do not want prohibition, and I think I am in a position to say, that the authorities of the Church, the Presidency, and the Council of the Twelve, stand for temperance, and they do want such prohibition. Those who declare to the contrary, when they come to you, tell them that they speak that which is not true. And I think I know what I am talking about. 

I do not wish to make any more remarks because the time is spent. 

A selection, entitled, "A Perfect Day,"' was sung by a male chorus. 

The Choir sang the anthem, ''Grant us Peace," Ada Russell and Manasseh Smith rendering the duet. ' 

Elder W. D. Kuhre pronounced the benediction. 


