Afternoon
05 04 1926


ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

THE ANCIENT PROPHET'S SPECIFICATION 

It is specified by one of the ancient prophets that "In the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come and say: Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will. walk in his paths." (Micah 4:1,2) 

A FEW EVENTS SHOWING JOSEPH SMITH DIVINELY GUIDED 

Let us look at a few events in the history of the Latter-day Saints' Church and see if these satisfy the specifications contained in this ancient prediction. 

At the age of fourteen Joseph Smith became seriously interested in matters religious. In accordance with instructions which he found in holy writ, he concluded to "ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not." From that very hour, as we believe, until the early age of thirty-nine when he gave his life as a martyr, Joseph Smith was guided by Divine Providence in the establishment of the Church and the direction of its affairs. 

TEMPLE BUILDING 

For example, how, without divine guidance, could one so young and with so little chance for education have been wise enough to inaugurate the movement in temple-building that has aroused the interest of so many for so long a time? In less than a hundred years the followers of Joseph Smith have invested millions in nine different, 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 101 

splendid temples. The path these faithful followers have trodden has had temples constructed beside it all along the way. 

While the people after leaving New York located temporarily in Ohio, the inspiration of the Prophet seemed to indicate that Zion was to be established somewhere far away in the west. In June, 1831, he sent many of the elders westward on a preaching tour. The questions being asked by him and his associates were : "When will the wilderness be made to blossom as the rose? When and where will Zion be built in her glory, and where will the temple be located, unto which, in the last days, people from all nations are to come?" 

IN INDEPENDENCE 

The Prophet, Oliver Cowdery and other missionaries, met at Independence, Missouri about the middle of July, 1831. This land seemed so far west that they immediately located the city of Zion, the cenrtal gathering place of the Saints. Such was the intensity of the desire to locate a site and build a temple that under the inspiration of the spirit, Independence was chosen for this purpose. The lot then selected and dedicated is a spot on which the L. D. S. people hope, sometime, to erect a sacred building. By this act the people felt as if their Zion had been located and dedicated on the western borderline of civilization. 

The twelve hundred Church members in Missouri, in 1833, were being increased rapidly by immigration. By mob violence these twelve hundred were driven from their homes and robbed of their possessions. 

While these hardships and cruelties were severe, may not they, viewed in the light of more recent events, have been necessary in order to prepare a people strong enough and far-sighted enough to make the journey of a thousand miles across the desert and climb into the very top of the Rocky Mountains? Nothing less than years of severest training and discipline could prepare a people for such a task. 

The temple block in Independence had been dedicated in 1831. In December, 1832, through the Prophet, a direct command was given to "establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God." (D. & C. 88:119) The temple-building spinT rested so mightily upon the Prophet that the cornerstones of the temple in Kirtland were laid in July, 1833, and the building was finished and dedicated in March, 1836. 

While in this sacred structure there occurred rich outpourings of the spirit and many important heavenly manifestations, this temple was eventually abandoned. It did not satisfy the specifications named by the ancient prophet who clearly said that the temple to be built "in the last days," was to be established in the top of the mountains and was to be exalted above the hills. 

IN FAR WEST 

Those who are familiar with the history of the Church know that 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the temple-building spirit has been active in the hearts of this people from the beginning. Among the many sects and churches of today the Latter-day Saints are distinguished as builders of temples. 

On the Nation's birthday, in 1838, large numbers of church members participated in a Church celebration at Far West, Missouri, which included the laying of the foundation stones of a temple. Had this structure been completed the number of temples built by the Latterday Saint people to date would have been ten instead of nine. 

IN ILLINOIS 

The training and preparation of this people for the work they were to accomplish continued to increase in severity. They were told in unmistakable terms they must leave the state of Missouri. Stripped of the accumulation of years many suffered with the cold and for the necessities of life. They stood facing a mid-winter exodus not knowing where to go. At this trying time the Prophet himself was in prison. Brigham Young, however, with his strong leadership came forward as President of the Council of Twelve and planned and carried into effect the exodus from Missouri to Illinois. On the 1st of May, 1839, it was decided to locate the headquarters of the Church at the town of Commerce in the state of Illinois. A year later this name was changed to Nauvoo. 

.Soon the construction of dwellings was begun, and in the course of a comparatively short time a hamlet was transformed into a city. 

Prisons, mobs, persecutions, hunger and other hardships failed to dampen the temple-building ardor of the members of the Church. At a conference held on the 6th of April, 1841, the cornerstones of the Nauvoo temple were laid. On the 27th of June, 1844, while this structure was in the process of construction, the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum gave their lives as martyrs to the cause which, under divine guidance, they had instituted. Would one not naturally conclude that this peculiar people would lose interest in their peculiar work of building temples with these great leaders slain? But new leaders arose and the work continued going forward as we believe under the direction of Divine Providence. Actual labor was resumed within two weeks after the slaying of the Prophet. 

There were indications of persecution on every hand when the capstone of the Nauvoo temple was laid on the 24th of May, 1845. Not until May, 1846, was the building wholly completed and ready for dedication. Nauvoo by this time had a population of twenty thousand. Could anything less than divine inspiration induce these builders to struggle on in the midst of poverty and persecution and thus carry out their ever-increasing desire to construct a temple? 

Feeble efforts were made in the fall of 1844 to bring to justice the murderers of the Prophet. In the fall of 1845 encouraged by the acquittal of the slayers of the Prophet, mobs became more and more bold and more and more vicious. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 103 

When the people had to decide between exodus and extermination by massacre, they concluded to leave the state. Is it possible that this people still needed a more severe, a more trying training? 

Although the exodus of the people had begun, ordinance work in the temple was continued. In a few months after its dedication "the people whose energy and substance, whose sweat and blood had been spent in its rearing, were driven into the wilderness or slain." The temple was in the possession of a mob. Fire and wind finally destroyed it. So complete has been its destruction that literally not one stone is left upon another. 

The people had dedicated a temple site in Independence, they had constructed a temple in Kirtland, the foundation of a third had been laid in Far West, and a fourth had been built in Nauvoo. Not one of these, however, satisfied the specifications of the scripture. The temple to be constructed "in the last days" is not to be located on the seashore nor in the valley nor on the bank of a river, but "in the top of the mountains," and it is to be "exalted above the hills." 

To these people who were being driven, robbed and persecuted, the following words of the Master gave great satisfaction: "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsly, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven." (Matt. 5 :11, 12.) 

Perhaps no one can tell why in the wisdom of Providence, these severe experiences were necessary. Now the people, however, were thoroughly prepared. They were ready. They had their faces set like flint toward the west. 

THE HISTORIC JOURNEY 

While Nauvoo was less than seven years old, it now had twenty thousand inhabitants. These were compelled to leave their homes and journey far beyond the confines of civilization. It was in mid-winter, February 4, 1846, that this multitude began crossing the waters of the Mississippi. Ferries were used until the river was frozen. After that the crossing was made on the ice. With their sick, sleeping in tents and wagons, great harships were necessarily endured. "There is no parallel in the world's history," says Bancroft, "of this migration from Nauvoo." (Whitney's History of Utah, page 217.) 

"The people of Iowa have told me," said Colonel Thomas L. Kane, "that from morning to night they passed westward like an endless procession. They did not seem greatly out of heart, they said; but at the top of every hill, before they disappeared they were to be seen looking back, like banished Moors, on their abandoned homes and farseen temple and its glittering spires." (See Anderson's Brief History of the Church, page 82.) 

On the 14th of January, 1847, President Young announced instructions to guide the Saints in their travels. Early preparations were made 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

to vacate Winter Quarters and depart for their unknown inheritance in the wilderness. 

One hundred forty-four men, able bodied, were selected to lead on this westward journey. Because of illness one returned to camp leaving the number of one hundred forty-three with three women and two children. They had seventy-two wagons, ninety-three horses, fiftytwo mules, sixty-six oxen, and nineteen cows, besides seventeen dogs and some chickens. (See Anderson's Brief History of the Church, page 90.) 

This historic journey was begun April 7, 1847. All of April passed, May also, and still the Pioneers continued their journey onward across the American desert. June went by as did also nearly all of July, and yet they with their oxen and slowly moving teams wended their way westward, climbing the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains, higher and higher, and higher, to the very place that answers the specifications prescribed by the Prophet anciently. Who will deny that such a journey made under such conditions was directed by the power of God ? 

THE TEMPLE IN SALT LAKE CITY 

The long and trying trip seems to have increased rather than to have diminished the interest of the people in temple building. From the day the cornerstones were laid for the Salt Lake temple until it was dedicated, forty years elapsed. 

The death of the great temple-builder, Brigham Young, occurred when the walls of the Salt Lake temple extended but twenty feet above the surface of the ground. The work so well begun by him was continued during the whole administration of President John Taylor and the intensity of the effort seemed to increase during the administration of his successor, President Wilford Woodruff up to the very hour when it was dedicated, April 6, 1893. The capstone of the mighty structure was laid by him in the presence of a throng that numbered fortythousand within the confines of the temple block, while other thousands, unable to secure a place inside the walls, stood in the streets or looked from nearby windows and the roofs of adjoining buildings. 

THE SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ANCIENT PROPHET FULFILLED 

The edifice completed stands on this block. It speaks for itself. It is located in the top of the mountains. It is exalted above the hills and people from all nations have come unto it. Thus the specifications laid down by the prophet of old are satisfied, his prophecy fulfilled. ' 

These are the days, too, in which, as Daniel says, "the God of heaven shall set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed." That kingdom is located here, and in the language of Daniel, "it shall not be left to other people, and it shall endure forever." This is the place, this is the kingdom, and Jesus of Nazareth is the King. 

ELDER HUGO D. E. PETERSON 105 

ELDER HUGO D. E. PETERSON 

Former President of the Swedish Mission 

My brethren and sisters: I feel on this occasion like the young brother did this morning, when called so suddenly and without warning to speak unto you. I appreciate this opportunity that has been given to me to speak a few minutes about the Swedish mission, whence so many thousands of the blood of Israel have been gathered home to Zion. I appreciate the privilege that my brethren gave unto me to perform a mission to my native land, after having been in Zion since my youth. It was the most glorious time that I have ever experienced in my life. 

I will say, as President McMurrin said this morning, that we cannot count very many that come into the Church; but the word has to .be preached as a warning, that the people may not say they have not been warned when the Lord shall pour out his judgments on them. 

The people in Sweden have the spirit of gathering to Zion. While the elders discourage them from coming out here, we cannot stop them from coming. Their desire is to gather with their own people. I have in mind a certain intelligent, well educated young lady, who embraced the gospel less than two years ago. She holds a prominent position in one of the greatest establishments in the city of Stockholm, and is drawing a large salary. She said, "I am going to try to go out to Zion." My wife discouraged her and said, "Do not go, sister. You will probably not get such a position there as you have now, and you might become discouraged." She said: "Never mind what I may get. I will do any honorable work that may be offered me for my support, but I want to go home to Zion, that I may work in the temple of the Lord for my dead relatives." And that is the spirit that the people generally are in possession of in the far north. 

I, too, can testify that we have a lot of fine missionaries in that mission, and especially when they get the spirit of the work. They want to labor early and late for this cause. I had frequently to remind one young man who labors in the mission office that, "You cannot do it all today, leave something for tomorrow." I found him at his desk many a night after we had held our public meeting. Another young man who had not learned the language of his father and mother, being born in this city, was sent up into the northern part of Sweden. While laboring in a certain 'city, a preacher advertised that he would lecture about the "Mormons" in Utah. Our young man had not been in Sweden very many months, and had not yet mastered the language; but he went to the church to hear what the reverend gentleman might have to say. After the meeting he said to the priest, "What you have spoken here tonight is not true. I am from Utah, was born there, and am therefore thoroughly cognizant of the conditions out there. I would like to be given a few minutes to correct what you have said." The gentleman replied, "We will not permit you to speak here in this 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

building." "Very well," said the young man, "I will take the opportunity of speaking to the people on the street outside; I will give them tracts, and invite them to come to our hall, and I will there tell them the truth about Utah." The reverend gentleman evidently got frightened. He published an article in the local paper against us, and tried to belittle the elder who had taken him to task for telling fables about the Utah people and their religion, saying that the elder could not speak the Swedish language fluently. Our young brother wrote to me and said that he would like to answer the preacher's effusion, but, said he, "I am afraid the editor will find out that my written language is faultier than the language I speak." I helped him to write an article for the local paper, and told him he could use it if he saw fit. He took it to the paper, however, and the editor was liberal-minded enough to publish it. Shortly afterwards the minister left the city, and our little hall there was for some time crowded with people who wanted to hear our side. I have learned that where we have opposition it is the best advertisement we can get for our Church, as the people want to find out the other side, and they come to our meetings to investigate for themselves. In that way we have now and then the pleasure of baptizing a number of people. 

One thing that has rested on my mind for years is this: It was ninety years ago the day before yesterday that the Lord, also Moses, Elias and Elijah, visited the Prophet' Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland temple, and gave unto them all the keys that were necessary for establishing his Church and carrying out the work for the salvation of man in this last dispensation. After they had received the keys, these words were spoken to them : 

"Beheld, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi — testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." 

The application I wish to make is this, that we are ninety years nearer the culmination of the event spoken of in the revelation, namely : the second coming of the Lord, and that we should warn the people and our children, that all may be prepared to receive him. It behooves us as parents to look after our children, our sons and daughters, that the Lord has given into our care, and to teach them the principles of, and inculcate in their hearts a love for, the gospel. That is a duty resting upon us; and I would say to the young people : Follow in the footsteps of your fathers and mothers, for the world has nothing to give you that can be compared with the joy and satisfaction we feel when we live in accordance with the teachings of the Church; the joy that we have in the knowledge of the truth of the gospel and in the knowlELDER HUGO D. E. PETERSON 107 

edge that we have prophets and apostles in our midst to lead and guide us aright. There is nothing else in the world that can give us that joy. 

Sometimes it happens that young people do not watch their actions, and they overstep the bounds of propriety, causing them to feel the pangs of sorrow and regret. My attention was drawn to- an instance or two of that kind, and when appealed to, I felt compassion for them, realizing that they have lived in an environment almost the opposite of that in which our youths are reared. On such occasions I have thought how fortunate are my five daughters and four sons, in being born here in a different atmosphere, blessed with faith in the gospel and from their childhood having a chance to walk in the right path. Our mission is to save, and I have felt a happiness beyond my power to express in seeing those who have made a misstep mend their way, making their lives conform to the teachings of the Savior. They have paid their tithing, attended to their meetings and done their duties in the Church; and they have thus felt happy. I am satisfied they will not permit themselves again to be led astray. 

The Summer season is before us, brethren and sisters, when we will go to the canyons, the woods, the bathing and other resorts. See to it that our children are warned before they go out. Pray with them. I heard, many years ago, a good brother speak of a man whose son had been called to go on a mission, and how that son had spent the whole night with his father occupied in conversation, the father warning the son against making mistakes, giving him encouragement, that he might be able to perform an honorable mission. I believe we should take our boys in our arms before the time comes when we are to part with them, and warn them of certain things that will confront them when they come to a certain age, that we may come in before our enemies do, who whisper evil into their ears, and that we may warn them of things that may happen to them if they are not careful. 

I rejoice in this gospel, my brethren and sisters. I have been reared by honorable parents, and I have thanked the Lord hundreds of times on my knees that he led the elders to their door when I was young, so that I had an opportunity to be trained in the teachings of the gospel; and I wish to continue to do good as long as the Lord gives me strength and permits me to live upon the earth, that I may eventually be saved in the kingdom of the Lord. May that be the blessing to us all, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Do what is right, let the consequence follow." 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in my membership in this great Church, the Church of Christ. I shall never have the power to express fully my gratitude to the good men who left the valleys of the mountains 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and came into far distant Scandinavia and brought the gospel to my mother, to me and to mine. The gift of that visit is beyond earthly expression. While Brother Peterson was speaking to us this afternoon, having returned from one of the Scandinavian countries, my heart was filled with gratitude, and with the prayer that the time may never come when we ishall lack the courage to go forth among the nations of the earth to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Thousands of men and women in the Scandinavian countries are ready and ripened for the greater truth, and I pray, in behalf of the people whose blood runs in my veins, that ways and means may be found continually to do missionary work in those countries until the truly honest in heart may be brought to a testimony of the truth of the gospel. 

IMPORTANCE OF THE BODY 

I have rejoiced also in the proceedings of this great conference. I was deeply impressed yesterday by the voice of authority with which President Grant spoke to us about a number of important topics. I was happy to hear him mention to the Latter-day Saints the tremendous importance of caring properly for the human body. Man is an eternal spirit inhabiting a body of this earth, a perishable body, which some day we believe will be made imperishable. By means of that body, given by our Father in heaven, we are able to accomplish the great mission known as earth life. Through the body the spirit speaks, and through the body the experiences of earth are made the possession of the spirit. It is well that we give due care and consideration to the welfare of the body, which is the one great characteristic of this epoch in our eternal journey. 

A STRONG BODY PERMITS SPIRITUAL STRENGTH 

There have been times in the history of the world when the doctrine has been taught that spiritual strength may best be known if the body is weak; and that the weaker the body the stronger may be the spiritual experiences of life. Latter-day Saints have no such belief. We believe that in a strong, healthy body the spirit may do more effectively and efficiently the work which it is called upon to do here upon earth. It is a duty of Latter-day Saints to live well. We all agree to that. But it is important to Latter-day Saints also to live long upon the earth, just as long as the Lord may permit us to live. We take no pride in disease. We take pride only in those things which build us and make us strong both in body and' in spirit. 

TWO LAWS OF HEALTH 

As I have learned to understand the laws that govern our body, it seems that one fundamental law in preserving human bodies is the law of moderation. All things must be done in wisdom. No unnecessary strain must be put upon the body, nor must indolence seize upon 

ELDER JOHN A. WWTSOE 109 

us. A second great law for the preservation of bodily health, including the needs of both mind and body, is that all the faculties of man must be given due and proportionate exercise. The mind must be used and the body must be used, neither to excess nor to the exclusion of the other; otherwise, we shall not attain to that fulness of perfection of life on earth which we believe is the right of all Latter-day Saints. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM A BINDING LAW 

The Lord, as was called to our attention yesterday by President Grant, has given us a series of principles, laws if you choose, specific in their nature, which may be used safely by the Latter-day Saints for the preservation of physical and mental health. I refer to the Word of Wisdom, a great and a marvelous document, given us for our good, itself a witness that in the economy of the Lord the care of the body is very important, not to be neglected or forgotten. I know that many people believe that the Word of Wisdom is not a binding law upon us. To that view, I can only answer that yesterday I heard the prophet of God — I believe and know him to be a prophet of God — say to the Latter-day Saints that it was their duty to obey the Word of Wisdom. That ought to be sufficient for all Latter-day Saints. But, we find that from the very beginning, the Word of Wisdom has been held to be a binding law upon the Latter-day Saints. The Patriarch Hyrum Smith, brother of the Prophet, in a sermon which has been preserved and reproduced a number of times, warned the people of that day, about 1843, against following any elder of the Church who declared that the Word of Wisdom was not binding upon the Latter-day Saints. Brigham Young, the great successor of the Prophet Joseph Smith, upon many occasions urged the Latter-day Saints to obey the Word of Wisdom; and at least on one occasion said definitely that the Spirit had directed him to tell the Latter-day Saints to obey the Word of Wisdom. If I read the revelation on the Word of Wisdom correctly, I find that it says that the Word of Wisdom shows "forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation" of his people. Whatever is the will of God appears to me to be equivalent to a commandment. 

THE WARNINGS OF THE WORD OF WISDOM 

The Word of Wisdom contains certain very important warnings. It declares that alcohol, tobacco, tea and coffee are not good for the body. The revelation says "hot drinks," but before the revelation was a year old, "hot drinks" were defined to include tea and coffee. Those who read the revelation intelligently understand that it has reference to all drugs or substances that act upon the human body to produce a constant desire for them. All habit-forming substances are included. Perhaps right here is one reason why we quibble about the meaning of the Word of Wisdom. When a taste is begotten, a habit is established, or when our appetites are concerned, almost every one of us is in110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

clined to quibble just a little so that we may satisfy that appetite. The fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of alcohol, tobacco, tea, coffee and similar substances as injurious to the body and handicaps in the journey of life, is an evidence of the divine inspiration of the latter-day prophet, for the physiological value of these substances was not known in that early day. Only after the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith did the world of science establish the fact that these substances act injuriously upon the human organism. 

WHAT TO EAT 

The Lord seldom says "thou shalt not" without declaring also what we shall do. Therefore, the Lord prescribed in this revelation the foods that man may eat safely : meat in moderation, grain, vegetables "in the season thereof," and fruits "in the season thereof." Perhaps, were we more careful to obey the part of the Word of Wisdom that deals with the "do's" it might be easier to obey the "don't's," and thereby be able more easily to conquer our appetites for the forbidden things. The more completely the body is able to function as intended by nature, the better control man has over himself and less desire he has for stimulants and for all things injurious. 

MODERN KNOWLEDGE CONFORMS TO THE WORD OF WISDOM 

It is probably common knowledge to the Latter-day Saints that during the last fifteen to twenty years, the science of nutrition, the science of eating, has been developed greatly by those who make researches into this branch of knowledge. The old learning has been laid aside; and some very remarkable discoveries have enabled a new science of nutrition to be built up which is becoming very generally understood. That new science of nutrition is built largely upon the doctrine that human beings must use meat in moderation, must use the grains as nature provided them, that vegetables must be eaten freely in the season thereof, which often means as they come from mother earth; that fruits must be eaten in larger abundance than before — all practical applications of the Word of Wisdom, given in 1833, long before the science of nutrition or of physiological chemistry had been developed. 

One of the teachers in the summer school of the Utah Agricultural College, during the last two years, was Dr. E. V. McCullom, a leader in this field, who has done outstanding work in the domain of modern nutrition. On the last day of the Summer term, Dr. McCullom devoted a part of his closing lecture to a discussion of the fact that the "Mormon" Word of Wisdom coincided very well, indeed almost perfectly, with the doctrine which he had been elaborating in detail to his students throughout the preceding six weeks. It brought gratitude to my heart, when my children and some of my friends reported that this man bore such a testimony to the authoritative teaching of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 111 

WE SHOULD USE ALL KNOWLEDGE 

What we eat is of tremendous importance. We possess not only wisdom of men, but also wisdom from heaven, all of which we should use for our welfare. We should be anxious to secure and use all learning that may yet be developed. It should be our ideal to make and keep our bodies just as perfect as possible; that our lives may be extended as long as possible; so that we may accomplish as much as may be possible during our earth careers. 

AN EXAMPLE OF THE IMPORTANCE OF CORRECT FOODS 

Last November, when I was in Washington, I had the opportunity to look into the new nutrition of which the (Prophet spoke a long time ago. I went to Baltimore and into the laboratory maintained by one of the great foundations in this country. There, those in charge, to show the thorough going effect of food on the body, took two rats, one fed improper food, the other, food conforming to our new knowledge, both classes of foods in common use. The rats were chloroformed before our eyes, and opened, and their bones treated with a stain, placed under the microscope. The bony tissue of the rat which had been fed correctly was normally developed; while the tissue of the rat which had been fed improperly was imperfectly developed and diseased. This is but one of the hundreds of illustrations that might be used to verify the truth of the Word of Wisdom. 

CONCLUSION 

I have taken the liberty of offering these reflections upon the very authoritative and emphatic teaching of our President yesterday; and to call your attention, not in detail, for this is not a scientific lecture, to the importance of our obeying in detail all of the Word of Wisdom. We must refrain from the things forbidden; but we must also obey the teachings with respect to that which we should do. Already it has become evident that one of the great revelations given to man for his good is the Word of Wisdom, and also that it is one of the great evidences of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph. 

May God bless us and be with us. May we fully understand the greatness and the grandeur and the mighty possibilities of the gospel of Jesus Christ, endless in their nature and for our good, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER JOHN S. HANSEN 

Former President of the Danish Mission 

My brethren and sisters: I feel very weak and embarrassed in standing before you this afternoon; but as I have been called upon to say a few words about the work in Denmark, I will do so. 

I stand before you and look over these many faces with a feeling 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of fear, but also with happiness — fear that I may not be able to talk to you so that you can understand what I say. But when I think of all these many people who are here 1 today and of the same faith that I am, belonging to the same Church, believing the same doctrines that I have been taught and believe in, and have been trying to teach to others, then, a feeling of happiness goes through me; and I ask the Lord to be with me during the few minutes I stand before you that I may be able to give an account of myself. 

I came home three weeks ago today from my mission in Denmark, where I have labored three years, and have enjoyed my work. It was my second mission to Denmark. I was there in 1912 to 1914, and as I was twenty years old when I emigrated, and at that time could not speak a word of English, you will understand that I am better able now to speak Danish than English. I hope that you will be able to understand me, although in the last three years I have been preaching and talking mainly in my native tongue. 

Denmark is a little country belonging to the Scandinavian group. Its population is a little more than three million people. It is a good country, and the people are a good people, and it is a pleasure to labor among them. We have had a number of good brethren from Zion to help out in our, missionary work during the last three years. When I arrived, conditions were different from what they are now. A long period had elapsed; in which very few elders from Zion had been laboring in that country, and there were only six elders there when I arrived. Most of the branches were disorganized. When I left, there were twenty-five missionaries in the field doing good work, and the branches were fully organized. Most of the elders that were sent to that country while I was there were young men unable to speak the language, and it took a great deal of work with them to help them learn the language and place them so that they could be of use while learning it. But I must say that the great majority of them have been very diligent and have learned the language quickly, and have been able to do a good work,;:nd we have seen good results from our labors, many having joined the Church during this time. The prospects are good for the future. I 

I realize that I am speaking to people who represent the Church from the different wards and stakes. The Danish as well as the other missions needs missionaries, men of liberal experience in life, and with the language that they learn there they will be able to do a great work. There are many people in that land who are of the biood of Israel, and I feel sure many will embrace the gospel in the near future. But the gospel must be brought to them, and it must be preached to them in, a language and in a way they can understand, because they are surrounded with so many different influences, all trying to work with them and upon them. 

ELDER JOHN S. HANSEN 113 

Denmark has complete, religious liberty. Anyone can advocate or preach anything that he desires to preach. They had there representatives from India preaching Buddhism and other "isms." Spiritualists, Christian Scientists, International Bible Students, Seventh Day Adventists, and all these different sects, are preaching their doctrines, and many people do not know what to believe, and they come to the conclusion that it is better to leave it all alone, "Mormonism" included. And we cannot blame them. The way to teach them is to present the truth in such a way that it will reach their hearts and make an impression upon their souls. In order to do that, we must understand the condition of the people and the teachings they have been taught and have received from different sources. ' 

A number of the sects to which I have referred do not believe, in the literal resurrection of Christ. They do not believe in the resurrection of the body, and a literal resurrection is one of our testimonies to the people. We have been trying to confine our remarks to bearing testimony to the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ as it has been revealed to us in these latter days, telling them of the true and living God, a personal God, our Father in heaven, who has a body, and who can show himself, and can talk to us and be with us. Also of his Son Jesus Christ, that, he is literally resurrected with the body in which he walked and talked while upon the earth. Sometimes in our meetings, when we have borne testimony to these truths as we understand them, people have come to us and said : "These are things that we used to believe in when we were children, but now we do not know what to think, because our ministers and all these other advocates of religion have confused our minds upon the question as to whether or not man will be literally resurrected.'' 

Ministers of the state church of Denmark have come forward with the teaching that the resurrection of Christ was a spiritual resurrection, and that it was a vision the apostles saw when they met him and talked to him after his resurrection, and also that our resurrection will be a spiritual resurrection. If we understand the people and preach the truth to them, we will find that the truth will appeal to them in many ways, and it will make an impression upon them. We have found that the best way of succeeding and getting access to the hearts of the people is by talking to them from the point of view that they now have, in order that they may understand us better than if we were to talk over their heads. I find that little children understand the teachings of our Church with reference to God much better than the grown people. In our Sunday school classes we can explain to little children the personality of God, and it seeims natural to them. The people say to us, "When we were .children we believed in such a God. When our fathers and mothers 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

talked to us about God, we pictured him as a personal God, somewhat like our earthly father. It was when we. grew older that our views became confused with these different ideas that -are now in the world." What we have to do is to bring the people back to the faith of their childhood, for there is not a child but has that impression and that feeling concerning God, and understanding of him when they first hear him spoken of by their parents. 

When I went to school in that country I was taught the state religion, but my feelings and understanding of God were of a personal God; and when I was eleven years old and joined the "Mormon" Church, I kept that view and that idea of God, which I think is true. We have been trying to teach these doctrines to the people. 

Yesterday was Easter. Today is also a holiday in those old countries, being a day appointed for Church services where they celebrate the resurrection of Christ. It is strange to think that these people will congregate and talk about the great and glorious truth of Christ's having risen from the dead, and not believe that it was a literal resurrection. But when they read the gospel of St. John about Christ coming out of the grave, and the grave being empty, they explain it by saying it was a spiritual resurrection. When we hold our Easter services, we bear witness to the people of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ; that he arose from the dead; that he did take the body with him out of the grave which was laid in the grave; that he showed himself to his disciples; showed them the marks in his hands and in his feet, and that he said to them, "It is I, myself : handle me and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have." We believe also, and have taught it to the people, that all those who shall come forth in the first resurrection shall come forth with the bodies which they received here upon the earth, glorified and free from evil, and free from the results of sin, which, through the gospel of Christ, we will be able to efface. That is why the teachings referred to by Elder Widtsoe are natural to us. They fit this body which we possess and which. we have received as a gift from God for our spirit to work with eternally. This body is going to be ours throughout eternity. We must take care of it, because if we do so and use it properly, it will be so much) the better for us in the resurrection. 

I believe that the people in the world are able to accept the principles of the gospel in a great measure, if they are presented to them in a way that they can understand and grasp. I have found many times, and I hope I will not offend anyone by saying it, that our missionaries are a little too quick to judge people, or judge their capacity to understand, and they judge them from their own point of view, instead of the point of view of the people. If it is the truth that we bring tq the people, if it is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and if the Lord intends us to bring it to them, then it is our duty to 

ELDER JOHN S. HANSEN 115 

work diligently in that service, and not to give up because things seem to be difficult, or because people do not seem to understand. Maybe the difficulty is that we do not present it in a way that they can understand it, and if that is the case, then let us try to find a way to reach their hearts and their souls, and present it so they can grasp it and understand it. If we cannot do it one way, possibly we can do it in another. I have never turned away angrily from anybody who could not understand me, or who ridiculed my views. But I have always said, "We will meet again; we will talk it over again; maybe we will be able to get closer together on this point." 

It is a mistake, as some have done occasionally, to say to the person who will not understand, or cannot understand, "You are cursed. I have borne my testimony to you and you do not receive it, consequently you are cursed.'' I have always instructed the missionaries not to do that, and have told them that we are in the world to bless and save the world and not to condemn it. We have been trying to preach and teach salvation and not condemnation, and trying to explain to the people that the gospel is in the world to build up and save the people. In preaching the gospel of salvation, we find that we are greatly blessed and the Lord is with us. Our converts have not been so many in numbers, but we have been able to bring into the Church a number of good, honest souls while I have been in Denmark during the past three years. In addition, we have been able to find and get interested in the work of the Church a number of people who were practically dead; who for years have not been visited by the missionaries, and who had forgotten that they were members of the Church; but who have come back again to the Church and have taken up the work again. They have commenced again to pay their tithing, attend their meetings, and labor in the organizations; and we look upon this as being as great a work as the bringing of new converts into the fold. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel that the time is limited, as there are many others of our brethren from whom you wish to hear. But I wish, before I sit clown, being the first time I have had the privilege to stand in this place, to bear to you my testimony of the truth of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. I love it. I have tried to do my duty as far as I have been able to see it, and as far as my business has allowed me to fulfil it. I pray the Lord to be with me in the future, that I may continue in this good work, and that we may all continue to do the Lord's will; and may God help us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ALBERT R. PETERSON 

Former President of fixe Norwegian Mission This is one of the great honors that has been bestowed upon me. 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

It is the first time in my life that I have occupied this stand, and I feel it a great honor and privilege to bear my. testimony to you this afternoon to the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ which has been restored. I am thankful that I have had the privilege of raising a warning voice to the nations, and in the land of Norway, to the people in the far north, declaring unto them that the Lord has restored the gospel in these the latter days. 

I was indeed pleased when I heard the President speak regarding the Word of Wisdom, for I found it very necessary when I went into the mission field to preach this glorious principle to the world. It is a great responsibility which rests upon us as teachers and leaders in Israel. As I traveled around in the branches in Norway I saw fathers and mothers with their children smoking cigarettes; and I saw in these children the future fathers and mothers; and I thought, what will be the end if they continue to poison and contaminate their souls with this dreadful weed? I found a condition that made my heart ache! Out of the many honest, true Latter-day Saints, in the mission I found only very few who are keeping the Word of Wisdom. Is it not necessary that we as elders in Israel, when we go into the world, set worthy examples for these boys and girls, honest and true, living in those countries who do not, perhaps, understand the great necessity of keeping the Word of Wisdom as we do? Is it not necessary that we lift the voice of warning to them against that which will eventually destroy them if they continue its use? 

I did not see this condition in Norway alone, but also in other European countries that I visited — boys and girls contaminating their souls with these things. And I feel to rejoice, and thank my Father in heaven, that my parents had the courage to join the Church and accept these great principles in Denmark many years ago, and emigrate to this country. As I traveled among my relatives, who have never understood the gospel of Jesus Christ, and saw them, with trembling hands, pouring alcohol into the coffee, I thought then, O how glorious it is that the elders in this day are sent out into the world to teach us the Word of Wisdom, thus to make us better men and women, and make us stronger physically and spiritually, that we may be able to carry the burdens of the day. 

I rejoice in the privilege of being a member of this great Church, which has been organized and is costing some of the best blood on earth to establish. We all realize that when the great God of heaven wishes to do anything of importance, it must cost the blood of many good men and women. 

When I was set apart as the president of the Norwegian mission, I was told that I was denied a vise to Norway, and I felt very sorry, and also felt it would perhaps be impossible for me to enter that land. When I reached Chicago, I received permission to enter Norway and to remain there for two weeks. When I arrived, I went to the police station 

ELDER ALBERT R. PETERSON 117 

where I was to report ,and asked for permission to remain, which permission was denied me. I went again the next day with the same result. The officials said they must take the request to higher authority. I was preparing to go the next day, and while putting on my coat and hat, a little girl was in one of the rooms pleading with God that we might be permitted to remain. I felt within my soul that we would not be permitted to remain. She knew where to go. She had confidence in the Lord. She had been taught to pray; and even as the boy prophet went into the woods to pray and had confidence that God would hear and answer his prayer, this little girl also prayed to God. She came to me and said, "Papa, I know we are going to remain, for the Lord has answered my prayer." I thought then, O, if we only had the confidence and the courage of little children! And I thought, too, is it any wonder that the Lord placed before his disciples a little child and said, "Unless ye become as a little child ye cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 

It was mentioned here yesterday by President Ivins that we are not considered Christians, that we are heathens, in Norway. That is a fact They consider us heathens and not as Christians, and I believe that was the only excuse they had whereby they could keep us from entering Norway. It is a free country, free for the Christian religion, but it is not free for those who are not Christians; in their opinion we are not Christians, therefore they have been using an old law, sixty-five years old, to keep us out of Norway. We do not have any persecution from the people on the whole, but we do meet with persecution from those in authority — the government officials and the city officials. One young elder was driven from four cities. He said, "O, I will be glad when I can find a place that I can call home for at least two or three nights." The ministers write articles occasionally in the papers against us; but they do not seem to do us a great deal of harm. I remember that one of the great ministers there said, "I am not going to let down the bars now, and let those swine in here!" It was not long after he made this remark until the Lord saw fit to call him away. Men cannot stop the work of the Lord until he may see fit to stop it himself. 

There are many honest souls in Norway who are waiting to hear the gospel. The doors have been practically closed against our missionaries and our elders, and we have had a hard time getting in, but there are a few there now and I want to say to the fathers and mothers of those boys, that your boys who have been sent to Norway are honest, true workers in Israel, clean and pure. 

One little item I wish to make mention of is this: Be sure, fathers and mothers that you teach your boys to pray. O how humiliating it was to one young man when he came into the mission field, and I asked him to pray. He said : "I have never uttered a prayer in my life." Who was to blame ? Let us teach our children to pray, to live the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is not anything that will bring us such great 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

blessings as living the gospel. It will make us better men and women. I know the gospel is true. I have felt the nearness of God in far-off Norway, away up in the Narvik branch, the farthest north of any branch in the Church. Nestled in those snow-capped mountains, we find a little branch of honest, true Lattei -day Saints who are living the gospel. I am glad that I had the privilege of bearing my testimony and warning them, for it is the only hope of the nations today — that is, the gospel of Jesus Christ. May we know and realize who we are; that we are the chosen people of God; that we have been called and endowed with the holy Priesthood of God; and that we may always stand firm and in holy places, and be ready at all times to go into the world to warn the nations, and to let them know that God has spoken in these the latter days, and that his great work is rolling on. May the Lord help us to be true and firm to these principles, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

In speaking yesterday of the missionary work that is being done throughout the world, although I had a note about it on a piece of paper in front of me, I forgot to mention what I consider one of the greatest of all the missions we have, namely, the one on the Temple Block, presided over by Elders Levi Edgar Young, Benjamin Goddard, and Axel A. Madsen, aided by a number of faithful workers. 

The work which they are doing in allaying prejudice and in making the acquaintance of influential people, I feel is among the very finest missionary labors performed in any of our missions. 

The congregation sang, "Lord, dismiss us with thy blessing." Prayer was offered by Elder George S. Romney, president of the Fremont stake. 

The conference adjourned until 10 o'clock a. m., April 6. 

In the evening there was a general priesthood meeting, which was the largest priesthood assembly ever held in the Church, there being 3,207 people present. The ground floor was comfortably filled and there were many in the galleries, opened for the first time at a priesthood 


