Second Overflow
04 04 1926

A second overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 2 o'clock p. m., Sunday, April 4, 1926. 

Elder Rulon S. Wells, of the First Council of Seventy, presided. 

Singing was furnished by the coihbined choirs of Murray First ward and Mill Creek ward, of Cottonwood stake; W. F. Robinson, director; Frank W. Asper at the organ. 

The combined choirs sang "Author of faith." 

Prayer was offered by Elder William J. Robinson. 

The choir sang "Grant us peace, O Lord," Ada McDonald and Manasseh Smith singing the duet parts. 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 63 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the North Weber Stake 

In attending conference this morning, in the Tabernacle, viewing the large congregation gathered there, and knowing that they came from almost every nation under the sun, I could but reflect upon the words of our Savior in the promise given early in the history of the Church to the Prophet Joseph, wherein he said, "Behold a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." I could but feel what a wondrous thing it was 'to see that Tabernacle filled with people from almost all nations of the earth and to know that they had heard the call of the Master; that they were of the honest in heart who had listened unto that call, who had forsaken that which was near and dear unto them in other lands — kindred, friends, wealth in many cases — and sacrificed for that which they believed to be true, and in various ways gathered unto the land of Zion, where they have reared their families under hardship, toil and struggle and sacrifice, and are watching the work of the Lord grow and prosper. I, myself, was born in far-off Stockholm, Sweden; taught a foreign tongue; trained then in what is now to me a foreign religion; trained in. other customs than we have here. And the Lord, in fulfilment of the promise that he would bring about a marvelous work, called upon those who had already accepted the gospel to visit those lands; preach the gospel there, and bring the message of joy and gladness unto other hearts; and it fell to our lot to meet with those missionaries; to hear their story and testimony, and have our own hearts touched with that testimony; recognize its truth and have courage and faith enough to accept it and to come to these lands, unto these valleys. It is 52 years ago last month since I had the privilege of being initiated into the Church and Kingdom of God by baptism. In the experiences that have come to me since, the privilege of receiving the Priesthood, of using that Priesthood in various capacities, I have gained an understanding to some extent of what the Lord meant when he said that he would bring about a marvelous work in the earth. To think that this body of people we saw this morning, and that are there now gathered; those who are here; those who are out in the grounds listening; to think that they have a knowledge and a testimony for themselves that this is the work of the Lord — with no doubt whatever — a testimony from God that this work is divine; that all our ideas of the future can be resolved into the mere admonition, "live the laws of God that he has given unto you and all those mysteries will be solved.'' Give it time; serve the Lord, and we will know all that we desire to know; we will reach to all that our aspirations have sought for, and we will have eternal life in the Kingdom of God. 

To me the having within our hearts of that testimony that 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

God lives; that Jesus is the Christ, his Son, our Redeemer; to know that we are his children; to be acquainted with our relationship with him, the purpose of our being here, where we came from, where we are going, and what lies before us in the way of possibility for advancement, growth, and eternal progress — to have a testimony of that kind — is the most glorious gift that our Father could give unto us; and once received, brethren and sisters, we ought to guard that testimony as the most sacred gift in his power to give unto us. 

Can we lose that testimony? Yes. We may have the Spirit of the Lord bearing testimony to our souls that this is the truth; but if we will not live the laws by which that testimony can be retained, it will fade and grow weaker. We have experiences before us of those who have stood up and borne testimony to the goodness of God, to the divinity of this work, having a knowledge of it for themselves and how they received it, and who have gradually drifted away until it is only a mere memory that they did such a thing; the knowledge has passed away. And why? Because they have not treasured it. They have not kept it bright and fresh in their minds. 'They have not served the Lord. They have not given of their talents that God has given unto them; of their time and of their means and their thought and their strength. They have not given of it enough to retain a continuation of that testimony. In this very revelation, where the Lord said that he was to bring forth a marvelous work and a wonder, he added this: "Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind, and strength that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work; for behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. Remember faith," virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Amen." 

Those are the promises of our Father. To me the very thought of losing this wonderful individual testimony that God has given me — I dare not think of it! To have doubt come into my soul, where there is no assurance and knowledge and certainty, would unsettle all that I have so far been able to do in my life; and it would be the same to you, my brethren and sisters, if you permitted that to be done. Many of us neglect the opportunities offered unto us. We do not develop them. We receive the Priesthood and we do not magnify it; we do not honor and revere it and recognize that it is the power from God to act in his stead, that he 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 65 

has selected those to whom he has given the Priesthood to be his helpers in accomplishing the great work that he has before him. He says, "My work and my glory is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," and he calls upon his children who have heard his voice, who have accepted it and yielded obedience to his commandments; he endows them with the Priesthood and power to be helpers and assistants unto him to accomplish that — he tells us that the worth of souls is great in his mind and he sends us out to seek for those souls; "for the field," as he says, "is already white to harvest, and he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might shall have store which perisheth not." In other words, he shall have the souls of men who have heard his message; who have had faith brought into their lives; who have yielded obedience to the commandments of God, and have accepted the truth and striven to shape their lives in harmony with the teachings of the gospel; and in so doing he has added unto himself a store that cannot perish but will live eternally, a blessing, benefit, joy and consolation unto himself. Our Father says that if you should labor, as it were, all the days of your lives, and bring but one soul unto him, how great shall be your joy with that soul in the kingdom of our Father. And if ye bring many souls unto him, behold how great shall be your joy. That is why the Priesthood is given unto us. What will our Father think if we do not use that Priesthood, when we neglect to use it; or if we do use it, if we do it for our own aggrandizement, the advancement of our own purposes, our own personal gain? When we do that, we dishonor it, and instead of being helpers in his cause and laying up a store that shall not perish, we forfeit our rights and our privileges; we are not helpful, we do not obey that second commandment of which President Grant spoke this morning, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." We are not worrying, many times, about our neighbor; whether he is prospering, advancing, walking the path of righteousness, or not; we are caring only for ourselves. Now, in the midst of that kind of a feeling, it is not conducive to a perpetuation of the individual testimony that God has given us. It begins to fade and weaken and finally it disappears from us. 

I would say unto you, my brethren and sisters, as a message that I would like to give to all with whom I come in contact : Guard and treasure that individual testimony of the knowledge of the goodness of God. Why, think what it means! You are not afraid in your explorations; you can study any of the mysteries, branch out, seek to gain knowledge, investigate the things in science, go as far as you can; and yet there is no doubt in your mind. Whether you are able to solve the things that come before you; whether you are able to explain them, means nothing; but you have a testimony that this is the truth, and for that reason nothing 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

on the outside can take it away from you. Only that which is within ourselves can rob us of that testimony. 

I have heard of brethren and quorums who are studying certain things, coming across certain passages, and having their faith weakened by the fact that they cannot harmonize certain things that they have read therein, certain things that they have heard. Many of them are carried away by alleged scientific principles, that make them feel, that that which they discover in researches concerning this earth does not warrant the beliefs that they have held, and yet I have heard some of those bear testimony to the truth of the gospel. To my mind it seems almost impossible that such a thing could occur. If I know a thing, I know it. How can any one take that away from me? I might as well stand on the rock, dive into the ocean, get out beyond my depth, and then begin to doubt that I ever did stand on land, when I have an absolute knowledge in me that only a few moments before 1 dived from that rock into the water. If I am wise and have the strength, I swim back to the place from which I dived, and I am again on terra firma, on land. So it is in all our explorations, if we cannot understand them, all we need to do is swim back to that rock, our own individual testimony that God has given unto us and that we know is true. Having gotten back there secure again, we can start out, and we are strong on other explorations and thereby gather a little knowledge here and there, better knowledge, better understanding and interpretation of the things we read and discuss, and therefore strengthen our testimony instead of losing it. 

Whatever you do, do not permit anything in your lives, either of sin or transgression, of error, of misinterpretation, idleness, indolence, of failure to accept opportunity, failure to respond to a call — do not let any of these causes step in and begin to weaken that testimony, but treasure it with the beauty of the knowledge that you know where you are going. There is no uncertainty. You know what is required of you, and all you need do is to live unto it, and your lives will be shaped in harmony with God's wishes, and eternal life and joy and glory and everlasting exaltation shall be yours. 

May God bless us, that in our hearts we may have a desire for righteousness, live that which is noble and true and uplifting, and shun the things that are degrading and degenerating in character; live the law of the gospel, the law of the land, the law of our own being, and serve God with full purpose of heart. And remember, his glory and his advancement is our glory and advancement, and if we can go on with an eye single to his glory rather than to our own personal gains, joy and happiness will be ours everlastingly. May we be able to see this, get this portion of the philosophy of the gospel of Jesus Christ into our hearts, 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 67 

and shape our lives in accordance with it! Then we will find that we are sloughing off a little vice here, a little evil habit there, a wrong thought; and we are replacing them with proper thoughts, habits, and ideas in harmony with the gospel, and with God; and we become naturally new men and new women, capable of carrying on God's work and serving him and being indeed his helpers in the accomplishment of his wonderful work. May it be our lot that we may retain these testimonies, in our hearts, live righteously all the days of our lives, and receive eternal life in God's celestial kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM H. RICHARDS 

President of the Malad Stake 

We are told that "prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed; the motion of a hidden fire that trembles in the breast." If ever I experienced that in my life, my brethren and sisters, I experience it at this moment, for it is the earnest desire of my heart today that our Father in heaven will bless me, that I may be able at least to bear my testimony to the divinity of this great work in which we are engaged. I have enjoyed the remarks in this conference very much. I have enjoyed the remarks of the former speaker here this afternoon, in which he quoted the revelation which says, "Behold a great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." I have read that, time and time again, and I have wondered how the Prophet Joseph Smith, at the time he received that revelation and gave it out to the people, could have realized that a great and marvelous work was about to come forth, unless he was inspired by the influence of the Spirit of our Father in heaven. I feel with all my heart, my brethren and sisters, that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to bring forth this great work. I believe that when our Father in heaven and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared unto him, that they showed him the beauties and the marvelous work that was about to come forth through his instrumentality. There never has been a doubt in my mind with regard to his calling. 

I have always believed and have always pictured it in my mind as being fact, whenever I have read the account of the visitation of our Father in heaven and his Son Jesus Christ to the Prophet Joseph Smith. There never has been a doubt in my mind with regard to that matter and the divinity of this work. 

My brethren and sisters, I received a testimony in my young days that has never left me; and while I have been thrown into the company of men who have ridiculed the gospel, that ridicule has never had any effect upon my mind, because our Father in heaven gave me a testimony with regard to the divinity of this work. I was almost constantly with my father, a man who ac68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

cepted the gospel in his native land of Wales. He left all that was near and dear to him, and came out to this country all alone, not a relative of any kind with him; came out here for the gospel's sake; and the testimonies that he bore to me on many and many occasions sank deep into my heart, and I believed with all my heart that he was telling me the truth, because I knew he was a truthful man. I knew that what he said was true, and he would relate the experiences that they had in the old world in the young days of the gospel, when people were possessed of evil spirits; and all of those things always had an interest for me; and while I was but sixteen years of age when he died, and was the only one of his family who happened to be present with him on that occasion — at the time of his death — out of nine of us in the family, I do not believe I shall ever forget, worlds without end, when a few minutes before his death he called me to his side. I knelt down by him, and he bore his testimony to the divinity of this great work. It had an impression upon me that has never left me and never will, worlds without end. I loved my father and knew he was a truthful man, and could not doubt the testimony which he bore to me upon his deathbed. He also gave me the charge that I should take that testimony back to my brothers and sisters. I have tried, in my weak way, to impress upon them the testimony as it was impressed upon me. I hope the day- will never come that I forget his last testimony. 

Since that time I have had some experience in this Church, and the Lord has been good to me and has blessed me with an individual testimony, that I can bear without fear of any one that I ever met in my life — and, as I stated, I have been thrown, upon many occasions, into rough company. I used to freight to Montana in early days and was thrown many a time into company that had no use for "Mormonism'' in any way in the world; but I never met a man in my life that I could not look in the eye and say that I knew the gospel is true, whether he knew it or not. The Lord has blessed me to that extent that I have never feared, wherever I was, in bearing that testimony to the children of men, and I hope such a day will never come, because I know that there is nothing in connection with the gospel that we need to be ashamed of or for which we need to hang our heads in talking to anybody regarding it. Our town, Malad, has been a very much mixed town. Quite a large number of outsiders live with us. I have had to labor with them, have mixed with them upon many, many an occasion, but there has never been a time but I was willing to bear my testimony to them, and I believe that they respected me for it. I do not know of any of our Latter-day Saints who had more respect for me than the outsiders with whom I have labored in different ways, and this was exhibited when I was called to the position, that I occupy at the present time, of presELDER WILLIAM II. RICHARDS 69 

ident of the stake. Almost without an exception, those men called me by phone and said, "We knew who were going to be the president." Well, I had not thought of it myself, and as I told the brethren when they came up there, that they might just as well have taken a shotgun, taken me out in the field, and taken a shot at me; they would not have come any nearer to killing me. I love the work of the Lord, but for some cause or other it is a hard matter for me to preach the gospel. It is not, however, because of the fear of man or anything of that kind; it is a weakness of some kind that is within me. Some of the Reorganized people up our way make considerable capital out of President Young's having said on one occasion that he was "not a prophet nor the son of a prophet." I can truthfully say that I am not a preacher nor the son of a preacher. My father was a very weak man when it came to preaching the gospel standing on his feet; but when the opportunity came to him in social conversation around the fireside or anything of that kind, he was always ready an.d was able to defend the gospel, and always did it very creditably. 

I pray God to bless us, my brethren and sisters, that we may give heed to all that may be said to us during this conference; that we may not be in the position that President Grant spoke of yesterday when he said that in nearly all the congregations that he attends, they sing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet" — with the postscript, "provided he does not advise us to do things that do not suit us." I hope that whenever we receive any advice from those of our brethren who are called to those important positions, that we will be ready and willing to accept it, although it may possibly not be according to our way of thinking at the time. We have to wait only a short time until the thing will be demonstrated to our perfect satisfaction that those called to such positions are called of God and have the inspiration of God, our heavenly Father, to advise us along that line. 

I remember on many occasions hearing my father discuss the question of the personality of God to people who did not believe in a personal God. I remember the objection that they brought up. They would say that it would be impossible for a man put in the position that we believe God is, if he were a personal being, to know what is going on throughout his creations. My father used to say, "I feel that he has an organization or some way whereby he knows what is going on through all his creations." We have had to wait only a few years, brethren and sisters, before man has demonstrated that it is possible for us to hear people all around the earth, without any wires. The radio has demonstrated it and has demonstrated to my perfect satisfaction that our Father in heaven always has had some way, some means whereby he knows what is going on throughout all his creations. May God bless us, my brethren and sisters, that we may give heed to the 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

counsel given to us by our brethren, from time to time, because I know from my past experience that if we will heed, it will be for our benefit and that we will reap the benefits that we desire. May God bless us, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH B. WHITE 

President of the Hyrum Stake 

I feel very keenly the responsibility that rests upon one who attempts to address a congregation of this size. In fact my heart has been beating very rapidly ever since President Grant announced that I would be one of the speakers this afternoon. To be Latter-day Saints means service. We must be prepared on all occasions to defend the gospel; to speak upon it whenever we are called. We sometimes feel that we have not anything to say, which may be true in some cases. I think as Latter-day Saints, we depend more upon the Spirit of the Lord to actuate our remarks than does any other denomination upon the face of the earth. I am very grateful for this. The Lord knows what is best to be said; what is best to be done. If we will act in accordance with the dictates of that spirit, we will not go wrong. Whatever we do will be for the advancement of this great work. 

About five years ago, or a little more, I was called upon to preside over the Hyrum stake. I felt wholly incapable of performing that great work. But I want to bear testimony to you that this work is indeed a wonderful work, and if we will put forth the efforts necessary in order to carry the responsibility that is placed upon us, we will be able to accomplish this work. One of the greatest testimonies I have of the divinity of this work is the very rapid growth it has made since first established, through the prophet Joseph Smith, despite the great obstacles that confronted him, and by which the people have been confronted from that time up to the present. If it had not been for the help and work of the Lord, it would not have endured; nor advanced from six members to more than about five hundred thousand, the present population of the Church. President Grant gave a report this morning of the wonderful work that we are doing throughout the nations of the earth; of the spiritual growth and development of this Church. No greater privilege can come to a Latter-day Saint than to be called to perform a service in this Church. A short time ago I was checking upon the number of people in the wards and in the stake who are holding office, and I find that over 50% of the entire stake population hold offices in this Church. We know that in order to advance we must work. Success is dependent upon continuous work. We have an opportunity to work all the time, if we only will to do it, and the advancement that we would make in the future would be wonderful if 75% or 80% of those who held office in this Church would only respond to the calls that are made of them in a whole-hearted way and be absolutely dependable. We could not do otherwise than grow and flourish. 

ELDER JOSEPH B. WHITE 71 

Our organization embraces all truth. It covers every good thing. The people of the nations, the people of the world today are seeking after organization. They find that it is necessary to organize in order to protect business, and to protect themselves in a social way, in order that men may succeed in any undertaking. We have this great organization, and we could apply it, if we desire, to any line of business, and I believe it would be effective. I do not think there is any other organization in a business way that would be quite as effective as this one. 

I do not wish to continue my remarks, but I want to bear my testimony. I know this is the work of the Lord; and I know that if we will perform the duties of Latter-day Saints, we cannot but advance, gain knowledge, wisdom, and understanding; we cannot but be prosperous, if we will heed the instruction of those who preside over this Church. I pray that this may be our happy lot, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Metropolitan Singers, W. F. Robinson, director, sang two selections: (a) "Prayer Perfect;" (b) "Holy Art Thou." 

ELDER THOMAS E. McKAY 

President of the Ogden Stake 

One of the main reasons that we all so thoroughly enjoyed the chorus to which we have just listened is because of the almost perfect harmony of the voices. Not a discord did we hear. And I pray that the same harmony may continue in our midst during the time I shall stand before you; and to the end that this harmony may exist, and we may each be in tune with the Spirit of God, I trust that each one present will offer up silently a prayer that we may receive a message that will be of benefit to us. We are God's children. He lives; he is in very deed our Father. He loves us. He has a message for us because of his love. And I do pray, and I have continued to pray in my heart since President Grant announced this morning that I was to be one of the speakers, that I may be instrumental in the hands of our Father in saying something that will be of value to us. 

I am grateful for my membership in this Church. I am grateful for the association of such men as our leaders. I am grateful for the association of you, my brethren and sisters, and for your loyalty to the Church. I am grateful for the loyalty of this Church to the Constitution of this great country of ours. And if there is one truth more than another that I should like to emphasize this afternoon, it is the necessity for this loyalty. An undivided and an unselfish loyalty is essential to success in any line; I do not care whether it is in a religious line, civic line, in business, or what not; to succeed one must be loyal. And I say again, I am thankful for the loyalty of the so-called "Mormon" people, to the laws of this country. 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I often like to contemplate in connection with this theme of obedience, of loyalty, the experience of Samuel and Saul — Samuel the humble prophet of the Lord; Saul the great general, large in stature, we are told, broad-minded, a big man. Saul, as king of Israel, was called and told through the humble prophet, Samuel, to go into the cities of the Amalekites and destroy them — not to spare any. Saul gathered his armies together and in obedience to that command went among the Amalekites, but he did not carry out the instructions of the humble prophet entirely. He spared the king, Agag, and some of the fat cattle and sheep. "Why," he thought, "of course, the prophet told me to destroy everything, but he does not know the conditions that exist here; if he did, perhaps he would not have told me to destroy everything. Why not spare these fat animals and take them back; offer sacrifices; make a showing?" 

When the word came to Samuel the prophet, he was sad, we are told, and went out to meet Saul on the return of the victorious armies; and he asked Saul what it meant, this lowing of cattle and bleating of sheep. "Why," Saul said, "I brought them back to offer sacrifice to the Lord." And, O those wonderful words that Samuel gave utterance to, "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams!" 

There are Sauls in our midst today, perhaps, who think that in the wards they know more than the bishops. "The bishop is only a boy, only a young man. Others are here full of experience. They know better than the bishop what the ward needs." No; you do not, brethren or sisters. The bishop, no* matter how young he is, no matter how inexperienced he is, has been called and set apart by the authorities of God, our heavenly Father. It is our duty to give those in authority, whether bishop, president of the Relief Society, or Primary, the superintendent of the Sunday school, or the Young Men, or what not — it is our duty to give that officer undivided and unselfish loyalty, if we wish to succeed in this Church. 

In the history of the Church, from the beginning, this truth is well illustrated. There were those in the days of the Prophet who knew more than he did. were better educated, had more experience, and were not in a position to give that undivided cooperation that was essential. And what became of them? So it was in the days of President Brigham Young. There were those who knew more than he did; he is not the man for the presidency of the Church, they said. But what happened to them? You can go on through the history of the Church. It is full of examples of those who were not big enough —  I say big enough, to give undivided and unselfish loyalty. 

To be loyal is the only safe course to pursue. What is true of the individual is true of the community, is true of the nation. We are told in one of our Articles of Faith that we believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and 

ELDER THOMAS E. McKA Y 72, 

sustaining the law. There are some among us, I am sorry to say, who seem to be wavering at the present time with reference to honoring, obeying, and sustaining certain laws. "It is alright," they say, as one of the brethren quoted from President Grant, "to sustain those laws when they do not come in conflict with our business or with our appetites; otherwise they are not good for us!" 

I am thankful, I repeat again, for the loyalty of the "Mormon" people in sustaining the prohibition law, and I am sorry that some, apparently, from what they say and from their actions, are wavering. Let us, as a people, be loyal in support of those laws. They are constitutional, have been so declared. And it is the safe course, as far as the people of this Church are concerned, to honor, sustain, and obey those laws, whether we like them or not. And I want to tell you that it is the safe course for this nation to follow. When individuals or a community or a nation select only those laws that suit them, and obey them and break those other laws, they are in a dangerous position. When a constitutional amendment prohibiting slavery was passed, there were those who were not ready to sustain and uphold that amendment, just as there are those now who are not ready and willing to uphold and sustain the Constitution of the United States. The Volstead act is a part now of the Constitution of this nation, and is so declared by a large majority of the people of this great nation, and it is the duty of this nation to uphold and honor and sustain the Constitution. 

God help us, brethren and sisters, to be loyal, to be true, that we may succeed as individuals, as a community, and as a nation, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I feel sure that the Latter-day Saints who have assembled here this afternoon have been repaid a hundred fold in hearing the things that have been said. If we will hearken to the counsels that have been given in this conference, I am also sure that it will result in our happiness and exaltation. 

A great deal has been said in regard to the testimony that we have of the divinity of this work and the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. The ,Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations during the present year have had for their slogan, "We stand for an individual testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ." In this great day and age of the world, when there is so much agnosticism and so much doubt and so much unbelief, it seems to me it is particularly fitting that emphasis shall be laid upon that great and important principle upon which we stand and for which we are laboring, that we may establish it among the children of men. 

How are we going to obtain a testimony that Jesus is the Christ? 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

How may we know and have a testimony of it, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God? At no time in all the history of the world has the Lord left his children without divine guidance, without some way of communicating to them and letting them know where they stand and what is necessary for them to do in order that they may come to the knowledge of God; because to know him and to know his Son, Jesus Christ, whom he hath sent into the world, is in very deed life eternal. It is highly important, then, that in the community that is enjoying a dispensation of God's providence, a community to whom have been committed the revelations of the Lord, the building up of the Church and kingdom of God here upon the earth, it is very necessary that every man, every woman, and every child shall know that this is the work of God; that Joseph Smith is a prophet whom God has raised up in the day and age in which we live to usher in his glorious dispensation. Do we know it ? 

A great many people have some very peculiar ideas in regard to the testimony which ought to be in the hearts of every one of them. What is the testimony of Jesus Christ? What is the testimony that Joseph Smith is a true prophet of God? What is the testimony that God lives? What is the testimony that enables us to say that Peter, James, and John were apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, endowed with power from on high, and that they spake under the inspiration of the Spirit of God? How do we know these things? Let me tell you. There is only one way to know the things of God, and the Lord intends that his people shall receive that knowledge in his appointed way. There is only one way by which we may come to the knowledge of God; only one way in which we may know that Jesus is the Christ; only one way that we may know that Joseph Smith was a prophet sent of God, and it is within the reach of every member of this Church; and it is a shame unto them if they have not received it. 

Have we obeyed the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; have we had faith in him; have we believed in him; and have we been repentant and turned away from our wrongdoing? Have we hearkened to the testimony and advice and counsel of the servants of God? Have we gone into the waters of baptism and received the remission of our sins ? Have hands been laid upon us for the reception of the Holy Ghost? If we can answer these questions in the affirmative, every one of us can rise and say, "I know that this is the work of God, because I have received the gift of the Holy Ghost," through which, and through which alone, any man can know of the things of God. 

What do you suppose this gift is for? Why do we receive it? O my brethren and sisters, we are living in a world of sin, of darkness, and of error, and the minds of the people are darkened regarding the things of God. Why? Because they have not obtained the gift of the Holy Ghost. That is the condition of the world at large. We have received it. There is nothing in all the world of more practical benefit 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 75 

to those who enjoy it than the gift of the Holy Ghost. There is nothing more important to us in our lives than to have within us that wonderful gift. Every man that has the gift of the Holy Ghost, every woman, every boy and every girl who has the gift of the Holy Ghost and will keep it, just as sure as they live, they will be exalted in the celestial kingdom of God; and without it, no soul will ever obtain that salvation. And every one that has that gift knows that this is the work of God, for that is what the spirit within us knows. If we have it, then it is ours. Let the spirit speak within you, if you have received this wondrous gift, and I hope that all of you know that this is the work of God, for that is the office of the Spirit of God within you. If you do not, it is because your faith was not sincere, it is because you did not repent of sin and, therefore, you did not receive the remission of your sins, and consequently could not obtain that wonderful gift. 

But we possess that spirit in varying degrees. It manifests itself variously among the children of men, brought out by the experiences of our lives and the opportunities that have come to us, wherein the spirit has had opportunity to manifest itself in our lives. Have we given that spirit opportunity? Practical, I say, is this thing, the operations of the Holy Ghost, but some have allowed it to sleep within them; and even in that early day Paul had to write to Timothy, who was really a valiant servant of God, but became, no doubt, a little neglectful. Paul said: "Stir up the gift of God which is within thee, which thou receivedst by the laying on of my hands." That ought to be said to Latter-day Saints, if it is not awake and alive in them, bearing witness to the truth of this work. Then "stir up that gift within you," for you have the right to it. 

If you have kept the gift of the Holy Ghost, you have done so by keeping the commandments and keeping yourself sweet and clean and unspotted from the sins of the world. But if you have committed sin and grieved the Spirit of God, it may have departed from you, and that is a terrible condition to be in. 

Sometimes I have heard young men who were aftout to depart into the mission field get up in the congregation in their own ward and say that they did not know that this is the work of God, but they believed it; and they were going out! I dislike to hear a young man say that; I do not like to hear any Latter-day Saint say that. Do not say that. Why? Because you grieve the Spirit of God that is within you. You might as well say, "I haven't received the gift of the Holy Ghost," for that is exactly what it means when you say, "I haven't the testimony of the truth of this work." It is a confession that you haven't the gift of the Holy Ghost. The Spirit of God in you is continually crying out for utterance. Give it the opportunity, and when you do, you will find there will be a burning in your heart that will convince you that you speak the words of truth. You may not know 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

when you rise on your feet exactly what you are going to say, but give the Spirit a chance, it will declare the truth that this is the work of God, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. That is what the Spirit wants to say to every child of God upon the face of the earth, because God knows that they need it. 

What is the purpose of our receiving that wonderful gift, the gift of the Holy Ghost? As I stated before, we are living in a world of sin; we have a battle to fight against the powers of evil; we have the knowledge of good and evil, and God is continually striving with us by the power of his Holy Spirit. But while he is doing that, there are other powers in the world, endeavoring to destroy the souls of the children of men. That conflict did not begin here upon this earth. It began in heaven, before the foundations of this earth were laid, even in that primeval day that we sometimes read about, when "the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy." Why did they shout for joy? Because the proclamation was made that these, the children of God — you and I and all the inhabitants of the earth — standing in the presence of our Maker, should receive this earth-life experience, and thereby, with a knowledge of good and evil, work out our salvation with fear and trembling before the Lord and be brought back into his presence and exalted, clothed upon with immortality and eternal life. That was the program, and we shouted for joy, you and I and all the sons of God, as we were assembled upon that great occasion. It was necessary that the fall should take place; that Adam should introduce the race of mankind upon the earth; that the law should be broken and the penalty brought into the world, the penalty of death, that came into the world as a consequence of original sin. 

But it meant an opportunity of development, of education, of growth of those qualities that are divine, to make us like our Maker, that we might become like him in very deed; for as we were told, our eyes were opened to the knowledge of good and evil. And Jesus was chosen. "Here am I," said he. And his offer was accepted. It was the offer of doing the work that the Father would have done, carrying out the divine will. It was a law that gave to all mankind their individual liberty, free agency, with the knowledge of good and evil, to choose between the two. That is what we obtained through the fall of Adam — the privilege of living here upon this earth, with this knowledge that we have, and with free agency, the right to exercise it; but with admonition to reject the evil and do the good, that we might inherit eternal life in the presence of God. That is what we are here for, and the conflict is still on. There was another one in that council that rebelled against God. He said, "O send me, here am I, too many will be lost in that plan of yours; too many will go astray; too many will be lost, for in the free exercise of their agency they will not do the right thing, many of them, and they will be lost. So 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 77 

here am I, send me.and I will see to it that not one soul shall be lost. I will compel. This free agency will not do." Freedom was a law of heaven, but slavery and servitude was the plan of this son of the morning, Lucifer, for he it was who made that proposition. And he was rejected and cast down because of his rebellion against God and the plan of life and salvation, and with him fell one-third of the hosts of heaven. Fell where? Right down here upon this earth, where you and I are living. And we meet them every day. You meet them and so do I — Lucifer and his hordes, these that are endeavoring to lead mankind astray, away from the path of right, into that servitude where he will compel and dominate. That is the struggle that is on, and it is in everything that we do, because there is a right way and a wrong way to do everything, and when we elect to do it the right way, we are serving God and keeping his commandments; but when we do it the wrong way, we are yielding to the adversary. The great principle of refraining from sin is enjoined upon humanity, and we have daily need to practice that saving principle; but we are i-n conflict with a very formidable foe and their name is legion, Satan and all his hosts, endeavoring to gain the victory over us. 

Now then, wherein comes the benefit of the gift of the Holy Ghost? Have you thought, or do you think that you can gain the victory over so formidable a foe without the help of God? I do not think so, not one of us. And the Lord does not think so, and he desires that you shall be properly upheld and supported in your endeavor to gain this victory, and he proposes to help you. How? By giving you the gift of the Holy Ghost, without which no man can gain the victory over evil. Have you engaged in that conflict? Hasn't the Lord come to your help? Has he not rescued you from the power of the adversary? If he has, it is because the Holy Spirit has been with you. Don't you know it? Isn't that the testimony of God's power to you? 

How did you get the gift of the Holy Ghost? If you have it at all, you have received it because Peter, James, and John came and visited the Prophet Joseph Smith and laid their hands upon his head and ordained him to the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood. That is why you have it. There were some who had received the word of the Lord down, in Samaria, but they had not received the gift of the Holy Ghost. They had been baptized with water. "Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John [those same men who came to Joseph] who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost: (for as yet he was fallen upon none of them: only they were baptized [with water.]) Then they laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Ghost." Acts 8. That is what happened. And if you have received that gift of the Holy Ghost, you have received it because those same apostles came to the Prophet Joseph Smith and laid their hands upon his head and conferred that 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Holy Priesthood upon him, and gave him the power that on whomsoever he laid his hands he might receive that same gift. That is the way you got it, every one of us, either directly or indirectly, from that one source. > 

O, some people think they can get it without that. That is what Simon, the sorcerer thought. It was an outward demonstration there. It was even apparent to him, and when he saw that on whomsoever these apostles laid their hands he received the gift of the Holy Ghost, he came and offered them money, so that on whomsoever he might lay his hands, the same might also receive that gift. You remember the words of Peter, "Thy money perish with thee, for thou hast thought to buy the gift of God with money." O no, it cannot be obtained that way! It cannot be obtained except as God gives it to us. Through the restoration of the Priesthood, we have received these wonderful gifts, the gift of the Holy Ghost, practical in all of its phases, practical to all of us. 

But it is a terrible thing to get the gift of the Holy Ghost and then lose it. We can only do that through transgression. If we have only kept ourselves clean, we have it still, if hands have been laid upon us in this Church; and_we should stir up that gift until it is alive within us. It will manifest itself, if you will become active; if you will take your part; if you lift up your voice and cry repentance and labor for Zion. The Spirit will show itself within you, if you will declare the truths of heaven; you cannot but say that you know, and the Spirit does know it. It is a terrible thing to lose it, and that is what some people have done. I call attention to one historical instance of it. There was David, the shepherd king of Israel, a man after God's own heart. How the Lord loved that man! He was full of faith; said he, "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures : he leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul : he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake." That was the testimony of David. O how full and overflowing was he with that faith and confidence in God, in whom he believed to the bottom of his soul. But David sinned against God, and in the agony of his soul and in his repentant mood, he cried out to the Lord. "Create in me a clean heart, O-God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy Spirit from me." O, Latter-day Saints, it is a terrible thing to have it taken away. David obtained a promise before he died that the Lord would not leave his soul in hell, and I like to think that he will yet receive compensation for all that he has done in upbuilding the faith of mankind in those unstinted words of his wherein he expresses his devotion and faith in God. 

It was practical in every way. Paul wrote to the Corinthian Saints — that is to Saints like yourselves, who had faith in God, had repented of their sins, had received the remission of their sins in the waters of baptism and had received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands — and said unto them, "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are." So might we say to Latter-day Saints, "Know ye not that ye are the temples of God, and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" Are you not conscious of that, Latter-day Saints? We can realize it. Do not defile that temple, for it is holy. Do not transgress the laws of God, and you will keep the gift of the Holy Ghost; and as long as you do, that is the testimony of the truth of this work, and the only way to have a testimony. What we may not know through the gift of the Holy Ghost is hardly worth knowing. "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into "the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of a man which is in him ? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God." 

If we have the Spirit of God, then, and then only, can we know the things of God. So let us cultivate the gift of the Holy Ghost that we received by the laying on of hands, for he will lead us back into the presence of God. He is the Comforter, the teacher, the educator, our tutor, our monitor, our daily companion. If we will only so live that we may enjoy his sweet presence, it will enlighten our minds, enlarge our understanding, fill us with wisdom and knowledge and understanding, that we may know the things of God by his holy Spirit, and without it we cannot come to that knowledge. 

I rejoice this afternoon in the testimony that I have that this is true, that it is a reality, it is God's way of helping his children to gain victory over evil. The difference between us and the world at large consists, then, primarily in this thing. There are many good people in the world, just as good perhaps as we are. We are sending our missionaries out to them. Why? That they may take unto' the inhabitants of the earth, our brothers and sisters who know not the truth, the glad tidings that they, too, may receive the same joys that we have, that they may receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. That is the difference between the world and us. If they can only secure the gift of the Holy Ghost, it will enable them to work out their salvation and bring them back into the presence of God. But there is only one way to get it, and Latter-day Saints know what that way is. And so we send our missionaries out with that message to tell unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they, too, may receive that priceless gift, and be enabled to overcome this world of sin, and eventually be saved and exalted in the celestial kingdom of God. 

May the Lord help us to appreciate, then, what it means to have the gift of the Holy Ghost, and let us not say, as long as we have 

,80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

this gift, that we do not know that this is the work of God. I have heard it sometimes said, "Oh, you want to be very careful about saying what you know." Very true, that may be so; but let me tell you, it is sometimes more dangerous in telling them that you do not know; for then you give the adversary a hold upon you. Do not fall into that danger, because when you say that, you merely indicate that you are not in possession of the gift of the Holy Ghost. Develop it then within you, and as you labor in the ministry, as you labor in advocating the truth, as you labor in bringing men and women to a knowledge of it, and in perfecting your own lives and overcoming your own weaknesses, by the power and influence of that Holy Spirit, you will grow in the knowledge of God, and your testimony will grow day by day; it will burn in your hearts and you will know it beyond all shadow of doubt. That is the office of the Spirit of God, the gift of the Holy Ghost. May we then prize it above all things, and so live that we may always enjoy his sweet companionship, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An anthem was sung by the choir, "God is our refuge and strength." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder David R. Lyon of the Ensign stake. The meeting adjourned. 

SECOND DAY 


