Afternoon
04 04 1926

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

I read from the twenty-fourth chapter of Luke, beginning at the first verse: 

Christ's resurrection 

"Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 25 

"And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. 

"And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. 

"And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments : 

"And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? 

"He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, 

"Saying, the Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. 

And they remembered his words." 

DOUBLE ASSURANCE OF THE RISEN LORD 

Throughout the Christian world today this event is celebrated, the theme discussed, the thought memorized, and appropriate words are spoken upon this and kindred scripture concerning the resurrection of our Lord. Our flowers here, these Easter lilies, symbolize that thought, and we, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, believe every word of the scripture which I have read. We accept it literally. We believe that the same body which the Lord Jesus had in his mortal life was resurrected and became a glorified body of flesh and bone. We have evidence of this in addition to that contained in the New Testament; for as Latter-day Saints we believe that this same Jesus, who was crucified and who rose from the dead, did in these latter days appear and reveal himself to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and taught him how to lay the foundation of this great latterday work. 

So we have a double assurance, not only the assurance of the scriptures which Christians generally accept, but the further assurance that the same Jesus has come to earth in these latter times and has established the same Church, the same doctrines, the same principles of salvation, with the same power and authority which he instituted in the meridian of time, before his crucifixion and after. 

PRINCIPLES AND DOCTRINES THE SAME AS CHRIST TAUGHT 

He has given to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in these days the same authority and principles and has empowered it to perform the same work which he instructed his apostles and disciples to perform in former times, namely, to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. It is the same doctrine, without any change. The Savior commanded his disciples to go forth and depend not upon themselves, but upon the Lord, and he promised that he would feed and clothe them and take care of them. In other words, they were not to ask : "Is there a salary connected with it ? How much are we going to get?" In the olden time, as you read in the scriptures, he said nothing of salary, but on the contrary, his instructions were that they should go without purse or scrip, and depend upon the Lord. 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

THE SAME DOCTRINE 

The same doctrine is preached today by the Church of Jesus Christ; and as we heard from President Grant this morning, over 2,500 of our missionaries are out in the world today, doing that very work and doing it in the very same way. They maintain themselves, they depend upon their own efforts. The Church does not hire them. There is no hiring in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in that sense. It is true that when a man is asked to devote the whole of his time to Church work, he must be supplied with sufficient to live on. The people among whom the elders labor in the missions of the world usually take care of them where they can. If they cannot, and converts or friends cannot assist them, then these men are expected to furnish the means themselves and make that much of a sacrifice for preaching and teaching and delivering this wonderful message to the world. 

THE WORK IS DONE WITHOUT PAY 

Here at home our bishops are called to act as fathers to the people in their wards. Are they paid any salaries ? No. It is true that they are allowed a little, the general average of which amounts to 50 cents a day, for taking care of the tithes and for being responsible for the money, but not for presiding over the ward, and not for administering in the authority of the priesthood. It is given for the special work he performs as bishop — that of taking in the tithes, looking after the hay, the butter, the eggs, or whatever is turned in on tithing. For this particular work a meagre allowance is made which amounts to about 50 cents a day per bishop; but no salary is paid to our bishops. 

Then there are others, such as the men on this stand, and mission presidents also, who are called to devote their entire time to the Church. They have no time to look after temporal affairs of their own; they must work and go where they are sent. They are liable to be called to go to this mission or the other mission, even to the ends of the earth, any day, any hour, and they are expected to comply, and do comply. So they have no time to provide means for their families, or to speculate in this or the other. It is necessary, therefore, for the Church to provide for them. But even they do not receive "salaries," because a salary is what a man receives when he hires himself out. Over there in the office of the Short Line Railroad company, or in any of the big offices or stores, men are hired for certain amounts, and if they do well, the salary is increased. A man may go from one job to another, and do the best he can for his family and for himself, and that is all right; he is entitled to do it. That is working for hire, or for a salary. But could you get one of the mission presidents to leave the Church work and hire himself out for money? No. Could you hire any of these seventies, the presiding bishopric, the apostles, the presidency of the Church? Not one, not one. Of necessity, when a 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIB LEY 27 

man has not the means to support himself, the Church must support him, so that he can continue his work. 

.Such men as I have mentioned, therefore, who are devoting their entire time to the Church, receive an allowance, though a very meagre one in comparison to what is usually allowed men of that kind in other walks of life. There are men on this stand, and throughout the Church, who, by devoting their entire time to their own affairs, could double or treble or quadruple the small allowance that is given them by the Church for their support. 

So I can safely say that in this Church, as in the primitive church, there is no hireling service. The same spirit of sacrifice that the Lord then required obtains now in his Church. Our parents sacrificed for this work in coming to this land and redeeming it from the desert it was. Our missionaries go out now and sacrifice. It is essentially a work of sacrifice. They give the best years of their lives for the work of the Lord without any thought of compensation. There is a continual stream of missionaries coming and going. What for? To deliver this message to the world, namely : that the Lord God of heaven  — this same Jesus Christ of whom I have read who was crucified and put to death, and who obtained through the keys of the resurrection power over death and the grave; for he said : "I am the resurrection and the life" — has established the same kind of a Church in this day, and has restored the same gospel as was preached in his day; and he expects us to deliver that most important message. 

THE MOST IMPORTANT THING FOR THE WORLD TO KNOW 

Now let me tell you, my brethren and sisters, the most important thing for the world to know today is that God lives, and that Jesus is indeed the Christ, the Son of the living God, and that he has restored his work to the earth through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith the Prophet. The same doctrine of faith is here today that was in the primitive church. The same doctrine of repentance is here. The same doctrine of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins is here. The same doctrine of the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost is here. The same power of the Holy Priesthood is here. The power of God unto salvation is here today in this Church as strong, as powerful, and as potent as it was in the days of Jesus Christ, when he dwelt here in the flesh. The same principles are advanced — love, patience, integrity, sacrifice, everything that makes for righteousness and the well-being of mankind. Every principle, every ideal, every thought that makes for the betterment and the salvation of mankind is here in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today, as it was nineteen hundred years ago in the primitive church. And the beauty of it all is that you know it! You are not deceived. 

THE CHURCH BUILT UPON THE ROCK OF REVELATION 

We would be foolish to try to deceive ourselves. We know by 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the same power that Peter knew; and what was that? "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" the Savior asked. And they said: "Some say thou art John the Baptist; some Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets." The Savior said: "But whom say ye that I am?" Peter answered and said unto him: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God." And the Savior answered, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: [as much as to say, it is a fine thing to have that testimony, that knowledge] for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven * * * '* and upon this rock [this rock of revelation] I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 

We are built upon the same rock of revelation. We have the knowledge of God. The key to the knowledge of God is in this Church. The power of the Priesthood is here, the same power as formerly, to lead the people, and the people know it. It is written here in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants that it shall come to pass that God's people shall come to know who are the servants of the Lord, and who are not, and they shall judge all things, and so forth. 

This individual testimony, this positive assurance which is given to every Latter-day Saint through revelation, by the power of the Holy Ghost, is the same testimony and spirit that our fathers and mothers received when they joined the Church in the old countries. And every man and woman in all the world may receive it if they only will. There is a challenge here in the last chapter of the Book of Mormon, which is to all people, that any man who, with real intent, not half believing, but believing fully, shall say in his heart: "Oh, God, show me thy way, thy truth, thy light, the right path, and I will follow it, no matter what its name is or how discredited it may be by the world," will receive in his heart a testimony, if he so ask of God. 

FOR A TESTIMONY, GO TO THE LORD 

So all we say to our friends, our neighbors, our brethren and sisters everywhere, is : Take it to the Lord. You need not take our word; go to the Lord in prayer, but in the true spirit of faith, for no other spirit will avail, and you have my word for it, and the word of ten thousand Latter-day Saints here assembled, that you will receive the same testimony, for the Lord does not fail. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in being permitted to labor in this great cause. I have been at it for more than sixty years, and more and more I see the splendor of it, the glory of it, the power of it, the strength, the salvation that is in it. I know it is true, it is of God. You cannot fail, my brethren and sisters, if you but put your trust in him. And if we have erred or done ought amiss, that blessed principle of repentance which he has implanted in his Church is here to save us if we will but correct our error, forsake evil, and cleave to that which is good. 

Where can we find anything -like it ? Where else in all the world is 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIB LEY 29 

there such an organization. There is within it that power, that impelling force that brings you and me and Latter-day Saints everywhere, in joy, in gladness, in pleasure, to serve the Lord. It brings us to respect the Priesthood — the apostles, the bishops of the wards, the presidencies of stakes, each in his order and in his place, because the Lord has called them, by that same power and spirit that I have spoken of, namely, by the gower of revelation. How are we to acquire that? If you will read the eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord tells you this, if you will pray about it : 

"Behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon ycu and which shall dwell in your heart. 

"Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by which Moses brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground." 

This is the spirit that he gave to all his ancient prophets and apostles. 

I testify that this is the same spirit and influence' that he gave to President Young in his ministry, and to every succeeding president. It is the spirit that he gives to President Grant today in his ministry, and he receives it in the same way, by prayer, by faith, by righteous living, by being worthy to receive it. That counts for a lot, I want to tell you. "Worthy art thou, O Lord," it was said of him, "to sit on high." 

THE SPIRIT OF SACRIFICE IS THE SPIRIT OF THIS WORK 

The president of the Church today gives us, by counsel, by advice, by the inspiration of the spirit, that admonition which is for our salvation. After the president talked this forenoon and after President Ivins' splendid discourse, I was going over all these items in my mind and I thought : "What sane man — I don't care what his religion is, or if he has no religion — what sane man anywhere could object to the teachings of these brethren?" Now put that question to yourselves, my brethren and sisters and friends. Were they not good, were they not wholesome, were they not for the betterment of mankind for the best that is in men, for good government, for good order, for good citizenship? The gospel of Jesus Christ is intended to make me a better husband, a better father, a better citizen, if I will only obey its laws. 

Let us, my brethren and sisters be willing to sacrifice for the Lord, for his work. There is a great work yet to perform in all the world. As we have heard from the president, missionaries are called for from every quarter. We have had volunteers, and many who have been called, who have gone and have done a splendid work. I recall now one of them, and I am going to mention his name: Brother A. A. Hinckley. He wrote to the presidency sometime ago and said : "I see that there has been a call for missionaries to go out for six months." And he further said : "The Lord has blessed me very much, I ought to be very grateful, and I am very grateful;" and he went on to mention the blessings, for the spirit of gratitude was in his heart. "Now I am 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

willing to go, I am willing to stay, I am willing to do whatever you want me to do." With tears in my eyes, I listened as the president read that letter, and I thought, "God bless such a man." 

THE SPIRIT OF SACRIFICE 

There is the spirit of this work, there is the spirit that makes this thing go, that holds me and holds you — the real spirit of sacrifice. Willing to go on missions ? Yes, anxious to go, to let everybody know that God has spoken, that we have the knowledge of God, the testimony of it, the same Christ our Lord that was crucified, whose resurrection the people in all the world are celebrating today. He has put into our hearts the knowledge that the greatest thing that we have to do and that his Church will forever have to do, so far as I know, is to proclaim this gospel, to spread this truth, to bring people into the same way of thinking, the same spirit and power that is in the priesthood and in the Church, the same happiness, the same joy, the same blessing, the same salvation. That is the greatest work that is before you and me, and we ought to be anxiously engaged in such a work, and not wait until we are commanded in all things; for he that waits until he is commanded, and does nothing until he is commanded, the same is a slothful servant and unworthy. 

MAY THE LORD GLORIFY HIS WORK 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will magnify and glorify his work. We can't do it; but he will do it through us, — through you, through me, and men and women like you and me; for it is his work. It is by his power, as President Grant read to you, in that greeting this morning. It is the Lord we say who has done it. As stated in the Holy Bible (Psalm 100): "It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves," so it is he that hath made this work and brought it to pass, and put the power and the spirit in it, which no man can do; but with that spirit in us we can conquer the world for righteousness, for peace on earth, good will toward all men, which I humbly pray he will hasten, in his time, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Following the sermon by President Nibley, the choir and congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

APROPOS OF EASTER DAY: "WE STAND FOR AN INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONY 1 OF THE DIVINITY OF JESUS CHRIST" 

The adoption by the Mutual Improvement Associations of this their latest slogan was most opportune. For it comes at a time when the question of Christ's divinity is being widely agitated. Someone has wittily said that the automobile is fast resolving the 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 31 

human race into two great classes — the quick and the dead. Even so, though in quite another way, the controversy over the divinity or non-divinity of Jesus of Nazareth is dividing the Christian world into two opposing militant camps — the Fundamentalists and the Modernists, so-called. 

FUNDAMENTALISTS VS MODERNISTS 

The Fundamentalists, with whom I class myself and all Latterday Saints, in a general way, are those who adhere to the old and established belief that Jesus Christ was the very Son of God, born of a virgin mother; that he was the author of the resurrection, the giver of eternal life, and withal a worker of miracles. We verily believe that he walked upon water, turned water into wine, healed the sick, cast out devils, gave sight to the blind, caused the lame to walk, and did many other mighty and marvelous works, all by virtue of the divine power within him. 

The Modernists, who regard themselves as advanced thinkers, as the intellectually "quick," while their opponents are the spiritually "dead," look upon Jesus as a good and great man, the wisest and noblest teacher that the world has ever known. But they scout the idea of his being a miracle-worker, or the author and giver of eternal life. They do not positively deny that he could have worked a miracle, had he been so minded; they are simply not convinced that he could or did. This I believe is a fair statement of their position. 

Many years ago, when I was a ward bishop in this city, a Primary Association conference was held one Sunday evening in the ward chapel. One of the sisters, gathering the little tots around her on the stand, told them the story of Jesus feeding the multitude in the miraculous manner set forth in the New Testament. Going home that night, one of the mothers, anxious to impress the lesson upon the mind of her little son, asked him certain questions concerning it. "What did Sister Blank tell us this evening?" The boy replied: "She told us how the Savior fed the people.'' How many people?" "Five thousand." "And what did he feed them with?" "Five loaves of bread and two fishes." "Well, now," said the mother, "how do you suppose he could do that?" The little fellow mused a moment, and then blurted out: "Well, I don't believe those in the middle got any." 

He was a Modernist. He did not believe in miracles. He did not realize that it was by divine power that this marvelous deed was done. His child mind could not allow for the difference — the vast difference between the omnipotence of Almighty God and the puny strength of mortal man. And that's the trouble with many grown up children at the present time. 

They who doubt the divinity of Jesus Christ can hardly be expected to believe in the wonderful works wrought by him. But 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

they who accept him as the Son of God can accept his miracles also, the problem resolving itself into a simple question of cause and effect. 

"natural supernaturalism" 

Men say that they do not believe in miracles because they are contrary to the laws of nature.- "What are the laws of Nature?" asks Carlyle, and answers his own question thus: 

"To me perhaps the rising of one from the dead were no violation of these laws, but a confirmation, if some far deeper law, now first penetrated into, and by spiritual force, even as the rest have all been, were brought to bear on us with its material force. 

" 'But is it not the deepest law of Nature that she be constant?' cries an illuminated class. 'Is not the machine of the universe fixt to move by unalterable rules?' Probable enough, good friends * * * And now of you, too, I make the old inquiry : What those same unalterable rules, forming the complete statute book of Nature, may possibly be ? 

"'They stand written in our works of science,' say you; 'in the accumulated record of man's experience.' Was man with his experience present at the creation, then, to see how it all went on? Have any deepest scientific individuals yet dived down to the foundations of the universe, and gauged everything there? Did the Maker take them into his counsel, that they read his ground-plan of the incomprehensible All, and can say, This stands marked therein, and no more than this? Alas, not in any wise! 

"To the minnow, every cranny and pebble and quality and accident of its little native creek may have become familiar; but does the minnow understand the ocean tides and periodic currents, the trade winds and monsoons and moon's eclipses, by all of which the condition of its little creek is regulated, and may, from time to time (unmiraculously enough) be quite upset and reversed? Such a minnow is man; his creek this planet earth; his ocean the immeasurable All; his monsoons and periodic currents the mysterious force of Providence through aeons of aeons." — Sartor Resartus. 

MIRACLES, THE FRUITS OF FAITH 

I need but add to this masterly philosophic defense, that it were indeed a pitiful begging of the question for any one to say : Because I cannot do a certain thing, therefore it cannot be done; I cannot work a miracle, consequently no miracle was ever wrought. Miracles are the fruits of faith. Nobody claims that unbelief can perform them. 

Time will not permit me to pursue this subject further, nor is it necessary that I should do so. Before sitting down, however, I would like to touch upon another topic, suggested by Carlyle's pointed question: "Was man present at the Creation?" 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 33 

WHEN MORNING STARS SANG TOGETHER 

A similar question was once put to a righteous man named Job, whom God answered "out of the whirlwind/' saying: "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare if thou hast understanding * * * When the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" (Job 38:1-7.) 

Job does not seem to have answered the question. Perhaps he did not have sufficient "understanding," and, unlike the "illuminated class" mentioned, would not assume to know what he did not know. But another righteous man named Abraham, who lived four centuries before the time of Job, had virtually answered that question; and his answer slept for two thousand years in the wrappings of a mummy in the catacombs of Egypt, awaiting the hour when Joseph Smith would give to the world his translation of the Book of Abraham. Therein the Father of the Faithful says : 

ABRAHAM AND PRE-EXISTENCE 

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

"And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me : Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

"And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him : We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." (Abraham 3 :22-26.) 

How majestic! How sublime! And how wonderfully comprehensive! Surely the Book of Abraham bears testimony to its own divine origin. The sublimity of its doctrines and the spirit accompanying them are proof positive that they came right down from heaven. 

BISHOP SPALDING AND THE SPEAKER 

I bear in mind a conversation that I had with the late Bishop Franklin S. Spalding, of the Episcopal Church, whose untimely accidental death some years ago we all deeply deplored. He had attacked the Book of Abraham in a published commentary, and was 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

answered by a number of our brethren through the press. Soon afterwards I met the Bishop, with whom I was quite well acquainted, and he said to me : "Why have you not answered me ?" "I have," was my reply; "I have been answering you all over the country, but it hasn't gotten into the papers." "Oh, indeed, and what have you been saying?" he inquired. "I have been saying this: 

" 'Truth is truth, where'er 'tis found, On Christian or on heathen ground.' 

"And whether it be taken from an ancient hill in North America, as was the Book of Mormon; or from the catacombs of Egypt, as was the Book, of Abraham, if it's true, it's true, no matter who translated it, or how many supposed flaws appear in the translation. The character of the content and the spirit that goes along with it, determines better, than all else its truth, its authenticity. We know Shakespeare's writings by the very sound of them — they have the Shakespearean ring. Literary experts can tell the difference between those writings and all others. We recognize Milton's poetry by the Miltonic ring; the poetry of Byron and Tennyson by the Byronic or Tennysonian ring. Then, if God speaks, why should it not have a Godlike ring, something that no man can counterfeit, nor any but a spiritual expert fully appreciate?" 

Bishop Spalding agreed with me. Not as to the Book of Abraham, but as to the best way of testing any book. "I am one with you," he said, "in the belief that the highest evidence of the truth of any work is the spirit that it breathes and the wisdom that it inculcates." "Then," said I, "this Book of Abraham needs no defense from me, nor from anyone else. It speaks for itself; it defends itself. By the majesty of its language, by the sublimity of its teachings and by the Spirit that permeates them, it proclaims itself divine." 

A GRAMMATICAL ERROR 

Prior to that time I had a conversation with another wouldbe censor of our sacred books. He accosted me on the street with the question: "Bishop Whitney, do you believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God?" "I certainly do," said I. "Well, can't God speak grammatically?" "Of course he can." "Then why was this grammatical error left in the Book of Mormon ?" — and he quoted it. "Do you really want to know?" "Yes," he said. "Well, I think that was left there just to keep you out of the Church." 

He seemed surprised: "Doesn't God want me in his Church?" "No," I said; "he only wants, honest seekers after truth; and if you think more of a grammatical error than you do of your soul's salvation, you are not fit for the kingdom of heaven, and the Lord doesn't want you." 

ELDER ORSON E. WHITNEY 35 

He was astonished. It was something he hadn't thought of. He felt very much as Goliath did when the stone sank into his forehead — such a thing had never entered his head before. 

THE CREATION TWO-FOLD 

Back now to the Book of Abraham: "And then the Lord said, Let us go down. And they went down at the beginning, and they, that is the Gods, organized and formed the heavens and the earth." 

The creation was two-fold, firstly, spiritual; secondly, temporal. All divine creations have a spirit, even the trees and the flowers. In other words, they are souls, spirit and body combined. A learned man who was a chemist set himself to the task of making a grain of wheat, in imitation of one produced by the God of nature. Taking such a grain, he separated it into its component parts, finding that there was so much lime, so much silica, so much of this element and that, in its composition. Then, taking just such proportions of each element, he brought them together by his chemical skill and created a grain of wheat, so exactly similar to the natural grain, that the eye could not detect the difference. But there was a difference — a vast difference. He planted the two grains, and the one that God made sprang up, while the one that man made stayed down. God's wheat grain had a spirit; the other had none. 

"There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth it understanding.'' There is a spirit in all of our Father's creations. They were made "for a wise and glorious purpose," and will be perpetuated in the great hereafter. The poet Byron, in a cynical epitaph on the monument of his favorite dog, wrote: "Denied in heaven the soul he held on earth." But "Mormonism"' teaches no such doctrine. Joseph Smith declared that not only the human race, but the lower orders of the animal creation were designed for eternal felicity. And John the Revelator teaches the same doctrine in the sublime symbolism of the Apocalypse. 

PURPOSES OF EARTH LIFE 

This earth was created, not out of nothing, as antiquated theology asserts; but out of eternal spirit and eternal element; and it is but one of millions like it that have been created, peopled and redeemed by the same All-wise God, who has placed his children here, primarily to give their spirits bodies, that they might become souls, capable of endless increase and advancement; also that it might be seen whether they would do all that the Lord requires at their hands. 

We are here for education and development, through joy and sorrow, through smiles and tears, through pleasure and pain, bitter and sweet, light and darkness, enduring the vicissitudes 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and contrasts of mortal life, that we may become wise and gain a glorious experience. And if we now walk by faith, as we once walked by sight, and keep this second estate as we kept the first, or spirit estate (and were "added upon" for so doing), we shall reap the promised reward and "have glory added upon our heads forever and ever.'' 

CARLYLE ANSWERED 

Yes, Carlyle, man was present at the creation — but not with his mortal experience, nor yet with his mortal blindness. With clear, unclouded vision we looked on while the foundations of the earth were laid; and it was because we could see past the gloom to the glory that lay beyond, that "the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy.'' 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"Wherefore of these men * * * must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection." 

THE GREATEST OF ALL MIRACLES 

The greatest of all miracles is being celebrated by the Christian world today in the world-wide festival called Easter. Elder Whitney has referred to the reasonableness of the miracles of Jesus Christ. I say the greatest of all miracles is his resurrection from the dead; professed followers of the risen Lord are celebrating, in form at least, this great miracle. We have heard today that many people reject the reality of the resurrection of the Lord. They believe, or profess to believe, in his teachings, but do not believe in the immaculate conception, nor in his literal resurrection from the grave; yet, this latter fact was the very foundation of the early Christian church. The passage I have just read in your hearing is contained in the first chapter of Acts, and is accepted as being the testimony of Peter, the chief apostle on the occasion when the eleven had met to choose one to take the place of Judas Iscariot. It always interests me to study about the class of men that surrounded the apostles at that time, from whom the apostles chose this special witness. They were men who had been "witnesses" of the resurrection. Only such a one was considered eligible and worthy to be chosen one of the Twelve Apostles. I read further: 

"This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses. 

"Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed forth this, which ye now see and hear." 

Peter then continues : 

"Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know : 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 37 

"Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain: "Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death." 

THE REALITY OF THE RESURRECTION OF JESUS CHRIST 

There seems to have been no question about the reality of Christ's resurrection in Peter's mind when he spoke to the very men, some of whom at least, had been witnesses of Jesus' death. Prior to this, as I have said, Peter had declared to the eleven that "we must choose from among those who are such witnesses, one who will stand by us as eye witness of the Lord's resurrection." There is no doubt, so far as the first chapter and the second chapter of Acts are concerned that the resurrection of Jesus Christ was a reality. No Christian can read it without being convinced that these early apostles, were firmly convinced that the resurrection of the Lord was real. Jesus their Lord was as real to them after his resurrection as he had been prior to his crucifixion, a man among them, though divine. 

Later another man testified to the same thing. He was Paul, known as Saul of Tarsus. In his early life Saul did not believe that Jesus Christ had risen from the dead. When he was sitting at the feet of Gamaliel, studying the philosophy of the times, he undoubtedly would have_ ridiculed the idea. To that extent, Paul was a modernist in every sense of the word. Just before his conversion he not only ridiculed the idea, but secured papers that authorized him to punish all who did believe in the resurrection of Christ, and yet Paul was a Pharisee, the members of which sect believed in the doctrine of the resurrection. However, there came a wonderful change in this persecutor's life. This same Jesus who had been crucified and who had risen from the dead, appeared to Paul when he was on his way to Damascus with papers in his pocket to- arrest the saints who dwelt in that old city. 

"Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" said the voice. "Who art thou, Lord ?" "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks." "What wouldst thou have me do?" "Arise and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do." Later Paul wrote that testimony, and we have it today as the oldest authentic written record testifying to the literal resurrection of the Lord. That oldest written testimony is not the one I have just read in Acts, it is not found in Matthew, the first book in the New Testament, it is not in Mark nor Luke nor John, but the first epistle to the Corinthians. If you will turn there to that epistle you will find a wonderful array of testimony to the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In the Fifteenth Chapter I read the following : 

"For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; 

"And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to Hie scriptures : 

"And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve; 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"After that, he was seen of above five thousand brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. 

"After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apostles. 

"And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time. 

"For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God," 

WITNESSES TO THE RESURRECTION 

Some may say : "If we knew that these testimonies were the direct testimonies of these men, then we should give full credence to them." "But," say the critics, "we do not know that Peter's testimony as recorded in Acts is as he gave it, because he did not write the Acts of the Apostles." True, but we do know that Paul and Luke and Mark and other writers of the New Testament did communicate with Peter as the chief of the apostles. We do know from this authentic record from which I have read that Paul communed with some of these five hundred men, at least our inference that he did is justifiable. He watched them so closely that when one of those eye-witnesses died he evidently took note of it as much as to say: "There is another of the eye witnesses to the resurrected Lord gone to the other side." What else can you read in that phrase, "but some have fallen asleep?" Mark, Luke and Paul conversed with Peter. We have that testimony from Paul's own writings; and what would be the nature of their conversation? "Peter," Paul would say, "did you really see the resurrected Lord ?" Peter's answer was affirmative, because here Paul says : "He was seen of Cephas" or Peter. Paul in another place says : "I conversed with James," who was then presiding over the branch in Jerusalem. There can be no doubt that Paul would say : "James, did you see the risen Lord ?" James' answer is found in the fifteenth chapter of Corinthians. 

What can we do if we cannot accept such irrefutable evidence? To me their testimonies mean but one thing, and that is that Jesus Christ who was born of the Virgin Mary, who preached the gospel after his own name, who sought the lost ones, whose life as we know' it, even from the fragmentary accounts thereof, is an inspiration and has been an inspiration to millions, for two thousand years, who was crucified in ignominy and who was buried; that this same Jesus Christ arose from the grave literally, and that the early Christian church was founded upon that divine fact. 

THE GREAT AND COMFORTING MESSAGE 

Marvelous miracle it is! but oh, what a message to your soul and to mine! If he, Lord and Savior, conquered death after having taken upon himself mortality, then we have the divine assurance that our spirits shall transcend that thing which we call death. We have the assurance that our loved ones who have gone before, now live, for death cannot touch the offspring of God, the spirit which is divine. That is the message. 

ELDER DAVID O. M.cKAY 39 

As was stated here on another occasion, we have witnesses nearer to our day than Peter, Mark and Paul and the others. This vast congregation is assembled on this Easter day because of witnesses in this dispensation, of the reality of Christ's resurrection, and the integrity of these men is unquestioned, too, by all honest persons who have studied the characters of these witnesses. Those who misunderstand it are those who in ignorance or through wilfulness desire so to do. 

A LATTER-DAY WITNESS 

The latter-day witness is this : that Jesus Christ, the resurrected Lord, appeared by the side of his eternal Father who introduced him in this dispensation as follows : 

"This is my beloved Son, hear him;" As the Christian church in the meridian of time was founded upon the reality of the living Christ, — not merely upon the teachings of the Great Teacher — so the Church of Jesus Christ in this age was founded upon the reality of Christ's existence and upon the reality of his appearance in this dispensation to the earnest seeking boy, Joseph Smith. 

OTHER CORROBORATIVE WITNESSES 

Other witnesses corroborate the testimony of the reality of Christ's appearing, and also to the reality of the appearing of resurrected beings, which confirms the reality of the resurrection from the dead. Christ's personality, as his divinity, persisted after death. This being true, then God is beyond all doubt a resurrected personal being. 

"It is the eye of faith that sees the broad horizons, the color and the gleam. Religion standing on the known experience of the race, makes one bold and glorious affirmation. She asserts that this power that makes for truth, for beauty and for goodness is not less personal than we." [And that is the declaration of the Church of Jesus Christ, that he is not less personal than we, and that his Father, the eternal Father, is a personal God.] "This leap of faith is justified because God cannot be less than the greatest of his works, the cause must be adequate to the effect. When, therefore, we call God personal, we have interpreted him by the loftiest symbol we have. He may be infinitely more. He cannot be less. When we call God a spirit, we use the clearest lens we have to look at the infinite. As Herbert Spencer has well said : 'The choice is not between a personal God and something lower, but between God and something higher.' " 

So wrote Charles Dinsmore of Yale. 

WHERE THE L. D. S. CHURCH STANDS ON THE QUESTION 

So, the Latter-day Saints declare to the world that God is a personal God, not just a power, and force, he is that and more. He is all that because of his divine and eternal personality, and the Church stands on the reality of the resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. 

AN APPEAL TO THE YOUTH OF THE CHURCH 

Fellowworkers, young men of Israel, standing on that platform, having in our hearts the testimony that Christ lives, and that this is 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

his Church, I ask you how can we turn an indifferent ear to the appeal made this morning by the President of our Church to defend, to honor the laws of our land, to labor by example and by precept to establish in all our communities, a determination to keep the communities pure from the contaminating influences of alcoholic beverages and tobacco. I should like to see the application of this testimony, the reality of Christ's resurrection and belief on his gospel, made manifest in a high moral and spiritual condition that would radiate righteousness from the individual lives and the communities of those who make that profession. Latter-day Saints, a message was given this morning in an appeal to sustain the Eigtheenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and I hope we shall never hear of officers in the stakes or in wards, nor of young men, nor young women who are led astray by the propaganda that is now being spread over this country with the avowed intention to bring about a modification of the prohibition law. If you have the testimony of Jesus Christ, if you know that the principles he has revealed are true, then you will obey the Word of Wisdom, and also stand by the prohibition laws of this country. Knowing as I do that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true, I pray God to help me and mine and my friends to be true to those principles, which we all know Christ will be pleased to have us incorporate in our lives. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I will read a verse or two from the fifth chapter of the Gospel according to St. John : 

"For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth; and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. 

"For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will. 

"For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son: 

"That all men should honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. 

"He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father which hath sent him. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life." 

CHRIST THE FIRST' FRUITS OF THE RESURRECTION 

During this conference we have had presented the evidence from the scriptures that Jesus Christ arose from the dead and was the first fruits of the resurrection. The witnesses of this wonderful occurrence cannot be impeached. In this day the tendency of the religious world is away from this fundamental truth, and ministers and teachers are denying that Jesus is the Christ, the Only Begotten Son of God. I have read this passage to show that the Savior taught that no man can testify of God and reject his Son; and that no man can deny that Jesus Christ is the ReELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 41 

deemer of the world and believe in the Father who sent him. We must honor the Father through the Son, and he who rejects the Son and denies the power of the resurrection knows not God. Again the Savior said: 

"He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him." 

This does not mean that those who reject the Son shall not come forth in the resurrection, for all shall be raised from the dead, but the unbeliever shall not partake of eternal life in the kingdom of God where dwell the Father and the Son. It is, however, the purpose of the Father to extend the power of the resurrection to all men, through the atonement of the Son, and thus give immortality to all his children. The fact remains, however, that we cannot be in fellowship with God and not accept the Sonship of Jesus Christ and believe in his power to redeem us from the grave. Therefore all who reject the authority of the Son have the wrath of God abiding on them. 

WHY THE RESURRECTION ? 

At this point the question arises in my mind : Why the resurrection ? That it is a fact we know, that is, we who are Latter-day Saints, for the Lord has revealed it unto us, and the scriptures on this truth are clear. We know that Christ appeared to his disciples after his resurrection and they have testified of his appearance unto them. Now, why should there be a resurrection and the promise made that all men shall come forth from their graves? A great many people believe that the mortal body has served its purpose in this life and will not come forth from the dead, but that the spirit rises to dwell with God. Then why did Jesus Christ come into the world to die? Was it because the plan that the Father had arranged in the beginning had been frustrated, or destroyed, through the fall of man? Adam had a body before death came upon him and his fall was a part of the great plan of man's salvation. Mortality, and consequently death is due to the fall, and Jesus Christ came into the world to make reparation and to give man, through the resurrection, immortality and eternal life. In the Book of Mormon we are informed that man partakes of mortality that he may obtain experiences that could not come to him in any other way, and that through his obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is based on the infinite sacrifice of the Son of God, he may obtain salvation and exaltation in the presence of the Father and the Son. 

Surely the Lord understood the end from the beginning, and it was perfectly understood in the councils in the heavens before the world was made, that Jesus Christ was to come into this world to die and thus repair a broken law and again restore life to man42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

kind that they might have it more abundantly. Peter testifies of this in the following words : 

"Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers; 

"But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot: 

"Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you." 

So Peter has testified that Christ was called and foreordained to come into the world to bring to pass the resurrection and the redemption of man through the shedding of his blood; and this is according to a plan devised before the foundation of the world was laid. Moreover, the Lord, speaking to John on the Isle of Patmos, says : 

"Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory and blessing." 

'Then again in the same vision it is written : 

"And it was given unto him (the beast) to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues, and nations. 

"And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world." 

By these scriptures we are informed that Christ was chosen before man was on earth to make atonement for death and sin in this world and thus give to man immortal life through the resurrection. This doctrine was fully understood by the prophets of old. The Redeemer, himself, while walking along the road with his two disciples after his resurrection instructed them in these things, as follows : 

"And he said unto them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: _ . 

"Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? 

"And beginning with Moses and the Prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself." 

EXISTENCE IN MORTALITY MOST IMPORTANT 

After this conversation he met with the eleven apostles and again repeated these prophecies and later sent his disciples forth as witnesses 'to testify of him in all the world. 

When men deny the resurrection of Christ and the coming forth from their graves of all mankind, it is a confession on their part that they are ignorant of the work of the Lord regarding the destiny of man. Our existence in mortality is most important. It is not accidental. It was never intended that we should pass through this life without coming in contact with sin, without temptation, without mortality. Adam was sent into the world to perform a mission including the bringing to pass these very things that we in the mortal state might obtain experiences by coming in contact with all the vicissitudes of mortal life. In this way we receive an education that could not be obtained in any other way. So mortality came through the will of God, and through the fall of man death has passed upon all men. Through the atonement of Jesus Christ life is restored again and death is overcome and destroyed. Immortality and eternal life constitute the great work of the Father and the last enemy to be destroyed, we are informed, is death. When Christ has destroyed death by bringing to pass the resurrection of all mankind from the grave, he will have finished his work and then he will deliver up the kingdom to his Father. 

man's resurrection assured 

These bodies which we have received are not to be laid away in the grave never to be taken up again. Those who believe such a doctrine have no understanding of the work of salvation. These bodies were given us that the spirit might dwell in them, and after passing through this mortal life, and death, they will be brought forth in the resurrection, spirit and body inseparably united — "Never to be divided" — and in this condition the righteous shall receive a fulness of joy. Those who have not been righteous and have failed to heed the counsels of God shall then receive such rewards as they are entitled to receive according to their works, but even they shall die no more the temporal death. 

The great work of the Lord is to bless all men and to do by them the very best that he can; but our Father in heaven is governed by law, as his children are subject to law, and he, therefore, will measure out to each man that which he is entitled to receive according to his works. 

Without these bodies a spirit could not be made perfect, for it is incomplete. The body without the spirit is dead. It takes both the spirit and the body to constitute a perfect soul. We came here to this earth to obtain the greatest boon that could be given, physical bodies to clothe our spirits. The punishment of Satan and his angels is that they were denied the privilege of mortal existence in bodies of flesh and bones because of their rebellion. The spirit of man, clothed in a tabernacle of flesh and bones, as Jesus Christ was after his resurrection, will have power through obedience to the laws of the gospel to advance in righteousness, truth, wisdom and power, to the fulness, and thus become a son of God. 

So, we see, our lives here in the flesh, where we endure all the ills and the joys of mortality is not accidental, but a part of the great plan of eternal progression according to the decrees of our Father in heaven before this world came into being. Here we are proving ourselves through our free agency for a place in eternity. If we are faithful and live in keeping with the laws that govern in 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the kingdom of God, accepting the mission of our Lord, Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of all mankind from the grave, and, on condition of our repentance, our Redeemer from our individual sins, we shall be counted worthy of a place in the Celestial Kingdom of God. 

May we as Latter-day Saints be faithful in the discharge of all obligations, commandments and principles that pertain to our salvation, that we may obtain these great blessings which are promised by the Father, through his Only Begotten Son, and which cannot be received only through obedience, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have received somewhat more than seventy telephone calls since the meeting started, announcing that people are listening in at various places. I received one from a .nephew-in-law of mine, Edward W. Spencer, of Evanston, in which he said : "I got every word of your opening address over the radio." 

I remember being ridiculed because I believed in the Book of Mormon, because an alleged absolute impossibility was recorded in that book, namely that the Savior's words were heard all over the land. I remember saying to the professor (I was a young, unmarried man at the time), that I believed in a God who could arrange, if he saw fit to do so, that the words of Jesus Christ could be heard all over the world. I remember reading recently of a man who heard a song nine thousand miles over the radio. He was in a house with the doors closed, and the song was sung in a house or station with the doors closed, nine thousand miles away. Thank the Lord for faith as a boy, in the truths that are being demonstrated, which were miracles beyond all belief in early days! Thank the Lord for the testimony of Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon: 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and, through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

Following the announcement of the general Priesthood meeting to be held in the Tabernacle on Monday evening at 7 o'clock; the Sunday School Union conference meeting to be held at 7 o'clock on Sunday evening; and the special Priesthood meeting to be held Wednesday morning, April 7, the choir sang the "Hallelujah Chorus." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Charles E. Rowan, Jr., president of the Garfield stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned until Monday morning, at 10 o'clock, April 5. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 45 


