12
Afternoon
07 10 1911
Elder George F. Richards
28
54-56

None

Sacrifice made willingly for the Gospel's sake. — Hymns sung in L. D. S. meetings should express true sentiments. — Musical ability a God-given talent to be used.  
  
I have seen, heard and felt much during this conference for which I am thankful to the Lord. The large attendance at the meetings, the singing, the inspiring remarks and the influence of the Holy Spirit, all contribute to make this conference most interesting.  
  
Those of us who have had years of experience in the Church, who have tried to conform our lives to the spirit and teachings of the gospel love to hear it expounded and when we do hear it touched upon by song or Sermon it vibrates through our souls. From sneaker to hearer the Spirit flows as oil from vessel to vessel, and we are able to testify to its truth.  
  
My heart has been made to rejoice in the testimony of my brethren, and in the instructions they have given during this conference. As I listened to the opening discourse yesterday morning by our beloved President, my mind seemed enlightened and my capacity enlarged to comprehend the beauties of the gospel, as I seldom have been privileged to do; and my love of the truth and my appreciation of what the Lord has done for me and for you in providing a means of salvation and exaltation in His presence were greatly stimulated.  
  
I thank the Lord that I have been able to see the truth, to love it and to obey it; notwithstanding the gospel requires that we deny ourselves many things which our carnal appetites and desires crave, and the gratification of which would give us a degree of pleasure. Notwithstanding it requires us to sacrifice, in some instances, association with parents, wives, husbands, children, friends, occupation and place among the people, and to sacrifice our time and means. I thank God for the gospel. I desire to say unto this vast congregation that I find my greatest joy and satisfaction in denying myself, and sacrificing in this way for the gospel, to the extent that I have been called upon to thus sacrifice. It is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, and the stranger that is with us, that as we engage to serve the Lord, to keep His commandments, and in proper spirit deny ourselves and sacrifice for the cause of truth, we are better, happier and more hopeful. God sustains us by His power and by a testimony and assurance on every occasion that the thing which we have done is pleasing and acceptable unto Him. It is food to our souls, it sustains and builds us up, it gives us joy, and hope of the blessing of eternal life.  
  
I know the gospel is true, and I know the words to which we have listened during this conference are true, and I commend them to all who have had the privilege of hearing. The singing of the songs of Zion causes our souls to vibrate with a hearty response, and with our hearts full of joy and praise we sing to the Lord in our conferences, and in other meetings and worshiping assemblies. The Lord has said that when we sing His praises, when the sacred hymns are the sentiments of our hearts, they will be received by Him as a prayer, and will be answered in blessings upon our heads. I have been delighted with the singing during this conference, that of the choir and congregation, and also the vocal solos which we have heard.  
  
Just a word of criticism in relation to singing, although I do not pose as a musician or a singer. In my traveling among the Saints, I have observed in some quarters that there is a disposition to displace the Latter-day Saint hymns with sectarian songs, which have been composed by those who know not the gospel, and not, in every instance, are the sentiments expressed in those songs in harmony with the truth. It is a matter of embarrassment to call our peoples' attention on such occasions to the necessity for culling out those hymns which do not express the truth, in which we can pour out our souls and sing with meaning and heart to the Lord, such as will meet with His approval and call down a blessing upon us. I suppose that some of our brethren, choir leaders, would say that these hymns are old, that we want something new, something full of life and vim. I want to call attention to the fact that that which is dearer to us than all else, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, is not new. There is nothing with which we have to do that is older than the gospel; there is nothing dearer. Do we love our fathers and our mothers less because of their age, because they are getting old? No; and I tell you that these hymns, which have been selected by inspiration from the Lord, they are never tiring to the Latter-day Saints. They contain valuable sermons, and the people like to hear them, and we ought not to tire in singing them. Even in vocal solos there are some in our hymn books, such as "O, my Father," "The Seer," "Come, come ye Saints," and others that cannot be outdone or improved upon. I think it would be nice for our singers to try and arrange beautiful music to these beautiful words of praise and prayer to God. I know it would be edifying and appreciated by the Latter-day Saints, especially since we are adopting as a practice in the Church, more universally, congregational singing.  
  
I desire to call attention of the bishops of the wards, and the choir leaders, to the fact that there is much talent among the Latter-day Saints which is dormant, which ought to be developing, and which should be encouraged among the young people. That is the time, while people are young, to develop the talent, and to utilize the abilities of those who are specially gifted. They should be encouraged to use, to a greater degree, the talent which God has given to them. I recognize that all talents are God-given. This would enable the Saints more universally to join in congregational singing. Unto the people I would say, when you are solicited to join with the choirs of the Church to sing these hymns, you ought to feel that it is a mission, and feel that you are honored, to be called to sing in the congregations of the Saints the hymns inspired of the Lord. This is a very important feature of the worship of the Latter-day Saints.  
  
Brethren and sisters, I rejoice with you in the blessings of the Lord to us as a people; the blessings which I enjoy you enjoy; the knowledge and testimony which I have of the truth, I know that hundreds and thousands of you enjoy, in common with me. It is well for us to be reminded of these things as we always are when we meet in the worship of the Lord. I advise the Saints to be faithful in attendance upon their sacramental and worshiping meetings, as well as at your quorum and auxiliary association meetings, and thus give evidence to the Lord of your appreciation of what He has done for you.  
  
I pray the blessing of the Lord upon all Israel. May His Spirit guide us in the ways of truth, duty and righteousness, that we may be saved in His kingdom, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 