18
Overflow
08 10 1911
Elder Andrew Kimball. 
73
81-83

None

None

(President of St. Joseph Stake.) 

The Latter-day Saints are known as a peculiar people, and among their peculiarities is the fact that they are a plain and common-sense people, endeavoring to live in harmony as the sons and daughters of God. In listening to the remarks of those who have preceded me, I am strengthened in that thought, which I desire to dwell upon, that is, that we are looking forward to even a stronger degree of unity, not only unity in faith, but in material affairs as well. To attain to this position, I am inclined to advise, that those who are blessed today with the material things of life should restrain themselves a little, that they should hold back in the expenditure of funds upon their children, that there might, consequently, be a more equal condition. I regret to notice, without any disposition to criticize, however, the tendency towards classification. I have observed in our Church schools that parents who can afford to dress them well, are allowing their girls to attend school clad in silks and satins, with their heads adorned by expensive hats, and some of the boys also are dressed in the finest of fashionable clothing. The boys and girls that develop in this life to the best men and women, are usually children of poor parents. This habit I am speaking of to some extent humiliates the feelings of those not well off.  
  
I notice that there has been improvement among the ladies in that they have acquired the habit of uncovering their heads in our meetings. There is a better condition in this respect, they are thus on an equality, not trying to outdo one another, or to distract the attention of the congregation. This is enough to make us feel better for the change.  
  
If you carefully observe the men and women who have made the best of this life, you will find that generally, they are those whose parents have not been able to squander means on their sons and daughters. At Berkley, California, one of the lecturers in the Summer School made this observation, that we must get back to first principles again. I submit, my brethren and sisters, that we ought to get back those sweet feelings that we enjoyed when the Saints would walk long distances to congregate, that they might have a good shake of the hands and meet on equality. I remember the early days in this valley, when our mothers wore the same kind of bonnets, and dressed in calico, they did not envy each other, they were all equal. But, I do not consider there is anything too good for the children of God, if we don't worship it. There is no fabric, too nice for the pure daughters of God. It is the flaunting of rich clothing in such a way as to annoy those who are less fortunate in life that creates inequality and hurts the feelings of the people. I do hope, my brethren and sisters, that we will endeavor to restrain ourselves in the follies and fashions of the world. In my experience I have learned that the men and women we love most are not those who dress the finest, but are those who make the best of the opportunities presented to them. The man and woman that we place in any position any time we need them, are they who will work cheerfully and do anything that is desired of them. We can depend upon such men. whether it be in the digging of a ditch or speaking in the pulpit, whatever they may be called upon to do.  
  
Regarding our missionaries, some of our Elders spend too much money in the world. While traveling in the mission field, I traveled almost absolutely without purse or scrip. It is to be regretted that some of our boys now find they have not enough faith to preach without purse or scrip in the world. We want our boys to go out among the people and win their way. "The laborer is worthy of his hire." I always thought it an unfair proposition that, when we go out and give our time, and make the sacrifice of the comforts of home, to carry the pearl of great price to the world, that the people are not willing to give us our food and a bed to sleep in. I think it is a mistake for us to spend so much money, we are not training the people of the world aright in that direction. I have experienced it, and know what I am talking about. In my own experience, and in association with other ciders, I have found we have succeeded best when we went without purse or scrip.  
  
In this great educational period every boy and girl must go to school, we want them to go and we desire that they should have educational privileges. But what is it doing for us at home? If we want to have a weak generation of boys and girls give them a fine education and all the money they want for fashionable clothes and amusements. The rank and file of this people, the substantial element upon whom God may rely, will go right along avoiding extremes, and can always be depended upon. If we are going to reach the splendid condition Brother Ballard has been telling us about, it will be by restraining ourselves, getting back into the ranks, and using the common sense God has given us, not following after the foolish fashions of the world. I submit it matters little what the position may be, as a rule the strongest, the happiest, the best, and the wisest of men are those who dress simply and live simply, who work for the good of humanity. May God grant that we shall all realize these things, and march in the ranks with the people of God, who are building up His kingdom and accomplishing His purposes upon the earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
