21
Second Overflow
08 10 1911
Elder John L. Herrick. 
53
89-91

None

None

(President of Western States Mission.) 

The inspirational remarks of President Smith at the opening of the conference suggested to my mind this question: Is it worth while to be an exemplary Latter-day Saint? Emerson said, "A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and done his best, what he has said and done otherwise shall bring him no peace." I believe those words.  
  
In the missionary field we have opportunities for observing many things which do not ordinarily come to the attention of the people at home in the body of the Church and I call to mind an experience of recent date which will illustrate the point I would like to make: A professor of several years standing at the law school of Ann Arbor had moved to Colorado for his health, and in talking with one of our members over a business proposition he made the remark, "I was in Ann Arbor for a number of years. I had occasion to know and see men who came there to study law and it was my observation that the young men who came from Utah, most of whom were known as 'Mormons,' were ahead of all others of the world that came to that institution. Let me ask you why," said he, "why is it that they made such records?" The answer was given that, undoubtedly, it was because of the lives that those men had been urged to live; that they had been taught in their youth to be virtuous, to abstain from alcoholic liquors and from tobacco, tea, coffee and stimulants of every kind. "Well," be said, "if that be the case, I would to God that my children might be reared in such an atmosphere instead of where they are today." It is not only those, my friends, who go to school to Ann Arbor and the colleges of the East or West — it is not only to those we are to look for exemplary men and women, but it is to every one of us, and if we wish for it in our hearts to be exemplary in our manners, in our habits, we do more than any other one thing in the world to advocate "Mormonism."  
  
Let me give you another picture: A family with whom we became acquainted in Denver had visited a number of families in Utah, and we were invited to their home one evening to have dinner with a number of others of their friends, and as coffee was placed before us and we declined they asked why it was, and the opportunity came for me to explain that it was a part of our religion, a tenet of our faith, that we abstain from the use of such things. "Why, that is a peculiar thing!" said the gentleman, "we have been out in Utah a number of times in the home of so and so," (and, by the way, the man he spoke of was a man of my own town and I knew him very well, — a man representative in the Church, too), "and they have put both tea and coffee before us in their home and we never knew that your people had such a law in the Church." Now, it may have been that those good people, out of generosity in entertaining the visitors, desired them to have what they wanted. It was not a question, hardly, of deciding that they could put on the usual beverage, as was illustrated a few days ago through one of the illustrious men of this nation, in addressing a toast to the Chief Executive of this country, when he said, "I propose a toast to our honored guest with the sparkling beverage sealed with the approval of the Almighty," and that was water. Perhaps our friends thought that they could not put water on the table without being thought lacking in courtesy when entertaining their friends from abroad, but it seems to me that we ought to live up to every principle in our homes, and let people who visit us understand how we live and what we do there. It will go farther toward impressing them with our belief and our faith than anything else.  
  
Just now we in Colorado, of the Western States Mission, are in the centre of the fight being waged by a renegade member of one of the splendid and cherished families of this state, a fight that is intended to rid Colorado of the "Mormon Plague." Think of it! Well, I see in it only good, for at the time when one of his greatest efforts thus far made during his campaign, in one of the churches in Denver a few weeks ago, a prominent citizen of this country, a man who has traveled world wide, stepped out on the street during a meeting one Sunday afternoon in Denver, with several hundred people assembled, and interrupted one of our speakers, saying, "Young man, permit me to say a few words. " He took his place with the elders and said to the people, "I want to say to you that I have traveled all over the world. I have also traveled largely in Utah and wherever there are 'Mormons,' and I have done approximately two million dollars worth of business with them and have yet to lose a dollar, and I want to say to you here today that they are an honest people and a good people. Futhermore, when it comes to morality, you will not find angels in heaven any purer than the women and girls who belong to the 'Mormon' Church." He continued, "Utah ranks third in education in the United States. And who has accomplished that? Why the 'Mormon' people, because they have been in control of Utah for all these years. I was born and raised a Roman Catholic, but," said he, "I am going to raise my voice here and everywhere I go in behalf of that people." An acquaintance of his, a traveling man whom he had not met for several years, stepped out after he had concluded his talk, and said, "I want to say amen to what has been said by my friend, for I have had large business interests in Utah for over twenty years and what he has said to you is true." Another man still, a stranger to both, took off his hat and remarked, "The words spoken here are true."  
  
Now, perhaps we may have a little agitation; I don't doubt it; but when we can have men who will, of their own accord, stand up on the street corners and defend us, I think we have nothing particularly to fear.  
  
My brothers and sisters, there may arise certain things in our lives which will bring to us the thought that good days are preparing for us; a raise in rents, a political victory; the return of a lost one; a bringing back to life of a dear one who was afflicted; all may tend temporarily to bring us to believe that all is well. But after all, it depends on individual action. Ours is essentially an individual work and each one of us will have to answer for his or her actions, not only in a measure to our friends and neighbors, but to our God. Again, the words of Emerson, "Nothing can bring you peace but yourselves. Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles." We have the principles which will exalt and save us if we will rightly live them. Let us not fear the world. Let us admonish all to weigh well the principles that we teach and practice and see if they find therein anything objectionable. Let us look them straight in the face and say we claim the God given right in this free country to believe as we choose, "and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, when or what they may."  
  
May the blessings of heaven be with you, my dear friends and likewise all Israel, that our principles may direct us aright, and that our examples may be such that they will attract the world; and that we may be saved in the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
