25
Second Overflow
08 10 1911
Elder George Albert Smith. 
31
102-103

None

Admonition to sustain the Church authorities, and do the will of God.  
  
We will now present the general authorities of the Church, and we desire that each one of you here will vote as you feel that you ought to vote. In voting for the general authorities of the Church, we exercise the individual privilege that we have to sustain them, and, if we think there is any good reason why they should not be sustained, it is our privilege to vote against them.  
  
I feel to say to the Latter-day Saints today that, as far as I am concerned, this conference has been profitable to me, and I hope that we may all go home with this feeling. I believe it will be profitable for us to examine ourselves and see wherein we may make improvement in our lives, that we may continue to enjoy the blessings of the Lord, and that we may indeed increase within us the measure of power of the Spirit of God. You may fall, and I may fall by the wayside, but, as sure as the sun shines, this is the work of Jehovah, and He will communicate a knowledge of it, by the power of His Spirit, to the hearts of the children of men.  
  
Let us obey those who are in authority over us, and sustain them not alone by word of mouth, but by acts and efforts; through this obedience we may know every moment that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and that there is placed within our reach His gospel for the uplift and salvation of the human family.  
  
Let each one of us who are here today examine ourselves, find wherein we are short of what our Father in heaven would have us be, repent of our sins and turn unto Him with full purpose of heart. I promise you, in the name of the Lord, if we will do this that this conference will have been productive of good for us as long as we remain upon the earth.  
  
May the Lord add His blessing. May peace, joy and comfort be in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. May the gospel of our Lord find its way into the hearts of the children of men, that they may be touched by its purity, and by the evident divinity of the work that the Lord has established for their salvation, that they may understand the desire of our Father, and may be saved. May we put our shoulder to the wheel, each and all of us, and help to carry this work to a successful fruition, that in the end of our lives there may come unto all of us that welcome plaudit, "Well done, thou faithful servant." This is my prayer in the.name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
