26
Outdoor
08 10 1911
Elder Benjamin Goddard
63
104

None

None

(Of Bureau of Information)

My brethren, sisters and friends, we all rejoice and thank God for the privilege of meeting in General Conference, and we cannot fail to notice, from the increased attendance at each succeeding conference, that "Zion is growing." For many years past, it has been impossible to accommodate the visitors in the buildings on Temple block during the sessions, and when the weather is as auspicious as on this occasion, the large crowd assembled on the outside cannot all hear the speakers in an open-air meeting.  
  
We are glad to greet you in this meeting, and regret that we cannot provide seats for all present. We observe that in the congregation we have representatives from many countries, and from the islands of the sea. Elders who have labored in New Zealand will remember how patiently the Saints in that far-off land would remain at such meetings as these, seated upon the ground or standing for eight and nine hours at a time.  
  
However, we do not intend to weary you at this session, but we trust that all who have come to worship may be blessed in this gathering. I commend unto you again the thought that "Zion is growing." It now appears that the time will come when the Temple block will not hold the assembled Saints at conference time. Our buildings are already too small, and the words of our hymn are applicable to this feature of our work, as well as to the spreading of the Saints into the different localities where they dwell.  
  
We often sing  
  
Give us room that we may dwell, Zion's children cry aloud;  
 
See their numbers how they swell! How they gather like a cloud!  
  
Zion, now arise and shine! Lo, thy light from heaven is come!  
 
These that crowd from far are thine; Give thy sons and daughters room.  
  
We feel that God will respond to this plea, for the Spirit that has caused Israel to gather together has emanated from Him.  
  
May the blessings invoked upon this congregation by President Smart be realized. May our hearts indeed be receptive, and may our souls be blessed by the truths that may be given unto us.  
  
The brethren who will speak, come before you in all humility, and with no other desire than to serve God, and respond to the call made of them. It depends largely upon us how much blessing we receive from the Lord at this meeting. We rely upon the promise "Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled." May the Spirit of the Lord satisfy the cravings of our hearts, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 