27
Outdoor
08 10 1911
Elder Rey L. Pratt. 
26
104-107

None

None

(President of the Mexican Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I sincerely desire an interest in your faith and prayers, and in your sympathy, that I may be able to say something upon this occasion that will be beneficial.  
  
In the little experience that I have had in the preaching of the gospel in the world, I have learned this one lesson better than any other, that man of his own strength is not capable to teach his fellowman the things of God. 
  
I rejoice in this privilege, and it is to me indeed a pleasure to see so many of my brethren and sisters congregated together on this spot to partake of the good spirit that has been poured out upon the people during our conference. I am thankful for the gospel, and I am thankful that I am a partaker of its blessings; and that I have been counted worthy to spread the gospel message in the world.  
  
We read in the Scriptures that John saw that in the last day an angel should fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto those who dwell upon the earth, to every people, every nation, every kindred and every tongue. We also find that the Savior commissioned His apostles, after His resurrection, to take this same message and preach it unto every creature, saying that those who obeyed it, those who put it into practice, should be saved. It has been my privilege to be engaged in this work during the past five years, and it does me good to know that the gospel is being preached throughout the world, and that thousands are receiving its message. I know, with Paul, that it is the power of God unto salvation, and I know that it is the only plan by which man can be redeemed.  
  
The Scriptures that I have cited teaches that the gospel is not alone unto one people, not alone unto those who are in a state of enlightened civilization. The gospel is unto every creature, and it is for the purpose of saving all mankind and bringing them to a knowledge of the truth, and saving them in the presence of our Father in heaven. It is for the purpose of teaching mankind faith in God, that true God whom to know is life eternal. It is for the teaching of mankind that they cannot be saved in His presence in their sins. If men are wicked, they must repent, or they cannot be brought into that state of salvation that is prepared for those only who will accept the truth. It is a mistaken idea to believe that men can be saved in the highest degree of glory in any manner of sin. Men must be pure,  
  
I rejoiced in the remarks of our beloved Apostle McKay yesterday, when he taught so faithfully the duties of those who receive the gospel. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that if there are men in this congregation who are addicted to the habit of drinking, before they can be saved in the presence of our Father in heaven, they must repent of that evil; and I say the same to any who. may be guilty of taking advantage of their brethren. They must repent or they cannot be saved. And I say the same to young people who, perchance, are addicted to any evils that exist in the world today, they must become clean. They must emulate the great example that was set us by our Savior, and be free, and clean, and pure from everything that is evil. Men may say that it is impossible for us to attain this in mortal life. I had the privilege of traveling with a learned Greek in Mexico, away down near the Isthmus of Tehauntapeck, and I had an opportunity to explain to him some of the principles of our gospel. He is a man that speaks about ten different languages, and has traveled this globe over, and he says that he has investigated most creeds, and he believes it utterly impossible for men in this mortal sphere to attain to that condition of perfection. He was particularly emphatic in the statement that he believed that the people among whom I am called to labor, the Mexicans, the Lamanites, descendants of Father Lehi, who reside on this continent, are incapable in their nature of receiving and putting into practice these principles. But, I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the gospel is for the salvation of every man who will avail himself of it, and it makes no difference unto the Lord the color of a man's skin, or the nation to which he belongs. When the gospel message is presented to him if he will accept it, he has the power to cast out of himself every evil that he may have inherited, or that he may have acquired, and though his sins be as scarlet, he can be washed pure and white as wool by the blood of our Savior, through obedience to the principles of the gospel. I testify to you, because I know whereof I speak, that although the people among whom I labor have been brought low, in the providences of the Lord, and have been in the dregs of degradation, sin and crime, I have seen them washed clean, and made pure, and many of them are today the equals of any men and women that live on the earth in purity, and in goodness of life. There is no other power under the sun that could have done this for them except the gospel of our Savior, and His redeeming grace.  
  
It is a grand mission, my brethren and sisters, to carry this message into the world, and I have received more joy, more satisfaction, and more consolation in my labors among those who know not the truth, than I have in any other duty, or privilege, or pleasure that I have enjoyed in my life. I say to the young and the middle-aged, and the able-bodied, that there are millions yet who have not heard the gospel, millions who are seeking for the truth, millions who are in error because they do not know any better, and what a blessed privilege it is to carry the truth that we have received, and redeem those who are in such a condition! Woe unto us, I say, woe unto me if I do not preach the gospel, for freely I have received, and it should be our desire, and it is our duty to give freely. Not only preach it in the world, but live a consistent, a clean, and a pure life at home or abroad, that those who are not of us may see our good works, and be led to glorify our Father in heaven because of them.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I love this work. I am glad to have this privilege of speaking to you today and bearing my testimony that I know that the gospel is true, that I know it will never be taken from this world again until this world is redeemed. My prayer is that the blessings of the Lord may be poured out upon this people, that they may continue to grow in numbers and in good works, and that the gospel may continue to be carried unto all the world until the prophecy of the Savior is fulfilled, when He said that this gospel of the kingdom should be preached in all the world as a witness before the end should come, a witness that men have the privilege of accepting the gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, and that none may present themselves before our Father in heaven on the grand judgment day and be able to say, "Lord, I had not the privilege in my mortal life of hearing those principles."  
  
May God grant that we may have the spirit of this work upon us. Particularly I appeal to the young men. Pray for it, my brethren, the desire to carry the gospel unto the world; pray for the privilege. Avail yourselves of every opportunity to acquire knowledge, and the Lord will prepare you and will grant you this grand favor; and He will fill your hearts with joy such as you have not yet felt, if you do so. May this be our happy lot; and may the Lord bless you all, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
