29
Outdoor
08 10 1911
Elder Joseph R. Shepherd. 
76
111-113

None

None

(President of Bear Lake Stake.) 

To speak in the open air, my brethren and sisters, is a new experience for me. I therefore pray that the Lord will sustain me, that I may be able to be heard by this large congregation. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the testimonies of my brethren who have spoken here this afternoon, as well as in the proceedings at the regular meetings of our conference.  
  
One of the testimonies, it seems to me, of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, can be witnessed upon this block when the semi-annual conferences of the Church are held. Where in the world will you find such a general response to the call of any other church for a gathering of its members as you will see upon these grounds at each conference? From all parts of this country the Saints gather to hear the word of the Lord. I doubt if such a sight as this can be witnessed anywhere in the world, tens of thousands gathered from various parts of the United States, from Canada, from Mexico, and from islands of the sea, to hear the servants of the Lord. When we witness the conduct of these people who gather to these conferences, we also have another witness that they are engaged in the work of the Lord, for the test can be applied, according to the words of our Master, "By their fruits ye shall know them," and thus we may see that the people gathered at this conference, belong to the Church of Christ. We cannot gather grapes of thorns nor figs of thistles. When we wish to judge a system, we must judge it by that which it produces. We must judge it by that which is manifested by the people, by their acts, by the lives of all those that belong to the organization or system, and we invite the world to thus investigate "Mormonism." We invite the world to compare the results of "Mormonism" with the results of any other system of religion that has been promulgated on the earth in these latter days. We are willing, with all of our weaknesses, to submit to that test. We acknowledge that we have failings, we know that many of us can improve in our lives, and yet, with all of this, we know that, as a result of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the organization which He has established in this day, that there has been gathered from the nations the best people upon the face of the earth. And this is as it should be. We should be as a light set upon a hill, whose light cannot be hid; and if we are not better than the world, then we have failed in performing that which God designed that we should do.  
  
As I came to this conference, I came with a full car-load of brethren and sisters from our little town, and attached to the train was a car that had been set aside for those who wished to indulge in smoking tobacco. I am proud to say that that car was empty all the way along, and that not one of our brethren took advantage of it for that purpose. This is one of the fruits of Mormonism. We have some among us who use tobacco, but take the people as a rule, they are living godly lives, they are striving to redeem themselves and their families, and further than that to redeem the world.  
  
I want to impress upon you, my brethren and sisters, the necessity of our living good lives in accordance with the principles of our religion. "By their fruits shall ye know them." I believe that the truths of "Mormonism" are having more effect in the world, and with those with whom we associate by reason of the every-day conduct of the Saints than by their preaching. I believe that by setting good examples, by living righteous and pure lives, that we are making the greater impression upon those with whom we associate. Therefore, how necessary it is that every Latter-day Saint, male and female, old and young, should realize that wherever they go, and under whatever circumstances they may be placed, their lives should be such as to command respect, and be a silent witness and testimony to the world that their good life is a result of the teaching of that system of religion commonly called "Mormonism.  
  
I have talked with many people who have come from different parts of the nation, business men, tourists, and others, and I say to you it is my opinion that the pure lives, the excellent example that is set by the Latter-day Saints as a people, is doing more to break down the prejudice of the world at large, and is doing more in commanding respect, than any other thing that we can do. Again I say that is as it should be. We cannot expect to gather good fruit from a corrupt tree, neither will we get corrupt fruit from a good tree. These are the words of our Savior, and they are true. That is the test that will be applied, and, as I said in the beginning of my remarks, with all of our weaknesses, we are willing that this test shall be applied to the Latter-day Saints, as compared with other religious organizations.  
  
I presume that you will find no larger percentage of people who own their own homes, or who are independent so far as means are concerned, than among the Latter-day Saints. I presume you will find no people where education is valued higher than it is among the Latter-day Saints, where the arts and sciences are encouraged more; nor a people purer in their habits and lives. I doubt whether you can find upon the face of the earth a people among whom. there are so few who indulge in the intoxicating drink habit, and in the use of tobacco. All of these things are evidence that the source from which the people get their instruction is pure, and logically, we must infer that the source, the Church, is of God, because its teachings are uplifting, elevating, and are producing in this western country a people who can stand up and look the whole world in the face, and are not ashamed of their religion.  
  
I repeat, this is as it should be. I wish to impress upon every man, woman, and child claiming to be Latter-day Saints, the necessity of living pure and circumspect lives, because wherever you go you are either supporting, encouraging, and working for the benefit of this Church, or else you are pulling it down — one or the other. Your conduct in life will either add to the dignity of the Church or else bring reproach upon it. How pleasant it is to go into communities where the greater number of that community do not belong to the Church, but who speak well of some individuals in that community who are Latter-day Saints. On the other hand, how discouraging it is if our young men, or older men, who may be working or traveling among those who are not of our faith, conduct themselves so as to bring reproach upon the Church. Let us live, my brethren and sisters, so that, whether we be at home or abroad, we always are witnesses for the kingdom of God, and are always seeking to build up the kingdom.  
  
We do not have to go upon missions to perform missionary work, we can be missionaries at home. We can be missionaries in our traveling, wherever we may be. The gatherings at these conferences are a testimony to the people that there is something behind this work that is above the wisdom of man, and thinking people must come to the conclusion that it is supported by a divine power. How pleasant it is to see upon these grounds so many people who are not using tobacco. Wherever in the world can you find such a large concourse of people as are attending this conference and see so few who are smoking tobacco? You cannot find it, you may go anywhere you please. Now this is a testimony that the work of the Lord is reforming the people. We have been gathered, as has been stated, from all parts of the world. We have been brought here to learn of God's ways, and we are learning of God's ways, and we are setting an example to the world. May God help us to let our light so shine that those who see our good works may be led to glorify our Father who is in heaven, and give credit to that organization which God has established in these last days for bringing about the redemption of mankind, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
