8
Morning 
07 10 1911
Elder Hyrum M. Smith
33
39-43

None

Qualifications of successful Teachers designated. — Detailed statement of Teachers' duties. — Proper deportment of family when Teachers visit. — The faithful strengthened, the slothful encouraged to good works, by Teachers.  
  
The reference of the brethren to the question of teaching among the Latter-day Saints has given me a desire to speak a few words upon the same subject. It has come prominently before the attention of the General Authorities of the Church that there is a great lack of teaching among the stakes of Zion, and in the wards of the Church, a very great neglect of duty on the part of those who are called to be teachers among the people, and, as a consequence, the Saints in their families are not being visited and instructed as the Lord designed that they should be.  
 
In the organization of the Church, the Lord has provided officers in the Holy Priesthood, and has defined their duties. We have been informed that it is the teacher's duty to be a watchman over the Church, to strengthen them, and to see that there is no iniquity in the Church, neither backbiting nor evil speaking, and to see that the people attend to their family duties and their Church duties. Brethren, we who are called to be teachers, many of us at least, have not as fully as we should have done, performed the labor allotted unto us.  
  
Now, there is a certain preparation that should be had on the part of a teacher prior to his entering into the homes of the Saints to instruct them in their family and religious duties. In the first place, he should be duly ordained to the holy Priesthood, and called and set apart to labor among the people. Now, authority is not all that is necessary in order to be a successful teacher. He must have knowledge also, for except he have knowledge concerning the things of God, how can he impart instruction unto the Latter-day Saints? Therefore, the brother holding the Priesthood and designated as a teacher among the people ,should have a knowledge of the truth. He should be well informed upon the principles of the gospel. He should be familiar with the doctrines of life and salvation. He should be a student of the Scriptures. He should understand the word of the Lord, and be familiar with His commandments. And when he has this knowledge, then he should have a desire in his heart to impart of this knowledge unto the people, and to see that the people are instructed in the gospel, and are obedient thereto. Before a teacher attempts to go into the homes of the people on any special visit, he should make his going a matter of prayer before the Lord. As has been suggested by President Lyman, he should go before the Lord and ask His blessings upon his labors, that he might enjoy the inspiration of the Spirit, that by the Spirit he may be directed in whatsoever things he should say and do.  
  
When he has made this preparation, and is qualified through knowledge and testimony, then when he enters into the homes of the Saints he can make inquiry of them concerning their condition and their conduct and their standing as members of the Church. The authority of the Priesthood gives him the right to ask questions of the family as to their diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord, as to their faithfulness in performing the duties that the gospel enjoins upon them. The teacher has the right to inquire into everything pertaining to the welfare and standing of the people who call themselves Latter-day Saints. He may ask them if they live in peace together, if there is love. and affection existing between husband and wife, if there is proper affection and love in the father and the mother for the children, and whether or not the children respect and honor their fathers and their mothers, as the Lord has commanded. He may inquire if the children live together in love and peace as brothers and sisters ought to live, and if the family engage in prayer night and morning; and if the parents teach their children to pray vocally, and believe in and remember their secret prayers, as commanded in the revelations of the Lord. He may inquire of the Saints if they backbite or speak evil of their neighbors, or of one another, or if there is quarreling or contention, or dissension and lack of brotherly love and kindness exhibited in the family, on the part of any member towards any other member, or on the part of members of the family towards their neighbors and friends. He may inquire if the Saints sustain and uphold the Priesthood of God, and those whom the Lord has called to preside as general authorities in the Church, or as the local authorities in stake or ward or branch; whether or not they accent the restoration of the gospel and believe in it and believe in the Prophets who have been inspired and raised up to perform the work the Lord has allotted them in the latter days; and whether or not they accept the organization of the Church. The teacher may inquire of the family if they attend their sacrament meetings on the Sabbath day, and partake of the sacrament and if they do so worthily; and if they honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. These servants of the Lord may also inquire if there are members in the family who take the name of the Lord in vain; if they are honest and if they are truthful, and if they are pure. All these things the teacher has the right to inquire about, and it is his duty to inquire about them.  
 
As a part of the preparation of a teacher it would be well, it seems to me, to find out the condition and the standing of the members of the Church in the district, as shown by the ward records, and besides this, as I have shown, he has the right to inquire of the family and the members thereof in all things pertaining to their standing and fellowship and conduct as members of the Church. The teacher should be prepared, and able to expound the word of the Lord, and to preach the gospel, and to correct whatsoever ought to be corrected that he discovers in the family, or in any member thereof. He should also teach the first principles of the gospel. He should inquire of the parents if they have taught their children the gospel of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and repentance of sin, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands, for the gift of the Holy Ghost; and if they have taught them to pray, and walk uprightly before the Lord. And then, according as his findings may be, he can preach or give counsel or instruction. He should be prepared to answer questions that might be asked of him by members of the family, thereby enlightening their minds or removing therefrom doubts that may be lurking there concerning the doctrines of the Church or the principles of salvation. He should be able to make clear to the understanding of all the members of the household everything pertaining to this glorious latter-day work.  
  
Now let the teachers go forth and do their duty, and accomplish the strengthening of the Church, and the increasing of faith among the people and stir up the Saints to greater diligence in the performing of the duties and obligations of their membership in the Church.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I would like to say a word pertaining to the duties of the Saints. You fathers and mothers, you heads of families, you parents of children who have homes in Zion, and you children, what is your duty with relation to the coming of the teachers into your households? It is the duty of the father or the head of the house to welcome most earnestly the servants of the Lord, to call his wife and his children together, and to bring order and peace in the house, and to introduce to his children or family the teachers as the servants of the Lord, who have come in the name of the Lord, and with the authority of the Priesthood, to teach the family and to inquire into their welfare and their conduct. Then the family shall submit to the instructions that the teacher shall be led to impart unto them, and there shall be no spirit of resentment or objection on the part of members of the family to the questions or inquiries that may be made of them by the servants of the Lord.  
  
I have been informed by some teachers that there are some members of the Church who object to the teachers inquiring into their personal lives, and conduct, and questioning them about their faith in the gospel and their obedience in keeping the commandments of God considering them impertinent and unnecessary. Well now, you Latter-day Saints, if there are any who take such a position as that, you are in error, you are mistaken, and you don't understand the rights of the Priesthood as you should, nor the object of the coming of the teachers to your homes, as you should, neither have you the proper spirit in your own heart, if you resent the good will of the teachers when they ask these questions in order to find out your condition, that they may help you and bless you, and be a strength and a power to you in helping you to overcome the weaknesses of the flesh. You cannot show disrespect to the Priesthood without bringing upon yourselves the displeasure of the Lord. Most of us men in the Church hold the Priesthood ourselves, and if a teacher comes into my house and he holds a lesser office in the Priesthood than I, and for that reason or any other I resent his making inquiry into my personal life and conduct, and standing in the Church, I disrespect the Priesthood. If I disrespect the Priesthood as it is held by another, I dishonor the Priesthood as I may hold it myself, and I should not do that. We should respect the Priesthood and honor it. no matter who holds it, and especially should we honor and respect a man who endeavors to magnify his calling in the midst of the Saints.  
  
Now, I would like to say that much for both teacher and those who shall be taught, that we shall teach our children and set them the example, when the teachers come into our houses, of respect for them as the servants of the Lord; show them that if they respect the teacher who holds the Priesthood, they likewise respect their father who also holds the Priesthood, and that in dishonoring any servant of God who holds that Priesthood, he dishonors his own father, and himself, and whosoever dishonors the Priesthood of God, shows dishonor to God Himself. Therefore, welcome the teachers to your homes, listen to them, answer their questions. We all may rest assured that whenever we object to any question that a teacher may ask, as he is moved upon and inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, we condemn ourselves. Where is the man who pays an honest tithing who will object to the teacher asking him if he pays his tithing? Why, instead he will feel a little sorry if the teacher does not ask him that question, so that he may answer, yes, honestly, before the Lord I pay my tithes and my offerings. We will only object to those things wherein we fail to do our duty. If we object it will be when we are at fault. If we do not pay our tithing and offerings we do not want to be asked if we do pay them. If we are not pure in heart we would not like to be asked if we are. If we take the name of God in vain, why some of us would not like to have the bishop, or his representative, the teacher, inquire of us if we keep the Lord's name holy; and if we desecrate the Sabbath day we may feel a little offended if we are asked about it, but we should not be. If we have the proper spirit, the proper understanding of the rights of the Priesthood, and of the organization, and authority of the Church, then even if we have offended in some things, we will have the spirit of humility and confess our sins, acknowledge our shortcomings, and have in our hearts the desire and show a willingness to be assisted by the teachers in overcoming these things; that through the instructions and the counsel and the good feelings of these servants of the Lord, we ourselves may be helped in overcoming these weaknesses of the flesh.  
  
Now, I pray the Lord to bless us all, that we may put into effect the organization of the Church, to the end, that every home shall be visited by those holding the Priesthood, and that every man visiting shall be endowed with knowledge and inspiration and ability to teach, and that every family will have the spirit of reception, to receive and rejoice in whatsoever instructions may be imparted, and to receive likewise with humility whatsoever reproof may be found necessary to be given by those who are our instructors. Thus may the Church be indeed blessed and benefitted, and the people strengthened, and iniquity be done away, and sin be repented of, and righteousness and good feeling and love for God and man, and a determination to serve Him and keep His commandments, be manifest on the part of every member in the Church of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 