Morning
05 10 1941

Conference reconvened Sunday morning, October S, at 10 o'clock. 

Every seat and available space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied far in advance of the time to commence this session of the Conference. In addition, the large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was crowded with people, amplifying equipment having been installed so that those who could not be accommodated in the Tabernacle could listen to the proceedings as they were broadcast by radio. 

President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, conducted the meeting. 

The music for this session was furnished by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall conducting. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Due to the inclemency of the weather President Grant has considered it advisable not to come down to the session this morning, but in all probability he will be with us this afternoon. 

There are on the stand the Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles of the Church, the Assistants to the Twelve, six of the First Council of the Seventy, and all of the Presiding Bishopric. 

The Tabernacle is crowded to capacity, people standing in the aisles, the galleries, and the doorways, and we are informed that the Assembly Hall is also filled with an overflow meeting. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "For the Strength of the Hills" — Evan Stephens. 

Elder Hervin Bunderson, President of the Box Elder Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am very happy to be here today. A few weeks ago as I lay on a hospital bed, not knowing just when I would get out, I was looking forward to the opportunity I might have of meeting with you brethren and sisters again. I would like to take this occasion to thank those who  flowers and messages of encouragement to me. I have no other way of reaching many of you, but with all my heart I thank you for your kindness. 

ENCOURAGEMENT FOR WOMEN TO JOIN THE RELIEF SOCIETY 

This Conference is usually preceded by the Conference of our National Woman's Relief Society, an organization of which I am proud and for which I am grateful. They set us a fine example in attendance and program. I wonder at times if some of the women of the Church really appreciate that wonderful organization, the first society for women in all the world that has persisted. I suggest today that you men encourage your wives and daughters to become members. It is the department in the Church that the Lord particularly provided for women. I think it would be fine to surprise the Relief Society by helping to increase their membership to 100,000, yes, and make it 200,000 while we are at it. I am sure it would prove a real blessing for all wives to attend the Relief Society meetings in the Wards and Branches in which they live. 

THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD DEMONSTRATION 

The other night I saw here on the platform a group of your boys of the Aaronic Priesthood. I think that was a marvelous demonstration and I wonder if anybody ever heard any finer singing than they treated us to. It was lovely. I feel to commend the Presiding Bishopric for the splendid work that they are doing in supervising the Aaronic Priesthood. Let us all give them a hand in the Wards and Stakes in which we live. 

THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST ABSORBS ALL TRUTH 

Last night this house was filled with men who hold the Priesthood. They were standing all around the gallery and seated in the aisles. I might mention other groups that are all intended to develop character. Is it not wonderful to belong to a Church that absorbs everything that is praiseworthy? Every good thing is a part of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. This is His Church. He directed its organization; He gave it His name. Sometimes we carelessly refer to it as our Church but it is not ours. I feel grateful that I have the privilege of having my name enrolled on the records as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

As we go to and fro in the world other church leaders think that we are trying to take their membership away from them to add to our numbers. That is not what we are trying to do. We are trying to add something to what they already have. They do not have anything that is important for exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom that is not a part of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. All the churches together do not have any more virtues or laws and regulations set up by the Lord than has this one little Church. All that they have that is desirable we have, and in addition, Divine Authority. We are a small organization, but we, if we do our duty, will be the leaven that will leaven the lump. 

>8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

We have had wonderful weather up to this morning, and now we are reminded of the fact that while we are here in comfort, across the seas, perhaps at this very hour, millions of men are facing one another upon the battlefield destroying each other and in many cities lives are being wiped out by the thousands. Why ? Because they have failed to adopt the Christian teachings that were given by our Lord. That is why. There could not be any war if the so-called Christian nations really lived according to the teachings that Jesus of Nazareth gave to them. Surely we ought to be grateful this morning that we have been permitted to receive the Gospel and partake of the blessings that result from honoring it. 

I have no doubt that there are some here who were blinded and had difficulty to understand the Gospel, but when the light came how beautiful it must have been. How satisfying to understand that everything that is desirable in all the world may be enjoyed by the members of the Church of Jesus Christ. 

OUR MISSIONARIES AND SOLDIERS NEED ENCOURAGEMENT 

I am thinking this morning of our representatives in the missionary field, scattered throughout the different sections of this country and in some foreign lands. Pray for them, brethren and sisters. They need the help of the Lord and they need our faith and prayers. Write to them and encourage them, that when they get a letter from home they will know that they are remembered all the time. 

Reference has been made to our men who have gone into the army of the United States. They need our encouragement and I hope that those of us who know any of these men will find time occasionally to send them a few lines and inspire in them a determination to live up to the ideals of their forebears and of the Church that they represent, because these men who have gone out from Zion do represent the Church. 

THE TABERNACLE CHOIR RECEIVES PRAISE 

This morning we have enjoyed this marvelous Tabernacle Choir. Do you realize what it is doing? I wonder if you know how many people appreciate the members of the Choir. These singers interest them in the Gospel of Jesus Christ in a way that none of the rest of us can because they have the facility of the great organ and the combination of their tuneful voices inspired with a desire to bless mankind. 

Some time ago I received a request from a fine Catholic man in Northern California who was injured in the World War. He said, "I wish you would have the Tabernacle Choir sing something for me on a certain Sunday." He explained that he had to go on the operating table the next day to have his leg taken off and wanted to have the Tabernacle Choir sing for him. He mentioned the song he desired to have sung. I telephoned to the Choir leader and asked if it were possible. He said, "No, the program is already prepared, but say to that good man that if he will listen in we will sing something that will be pleasing to him." 

I wrote him that they were going to sing and that it would be something he would enjoy. He asked the hospital attendant if he could have the privilege of bringing a radio into his room, but was told that radios were not allowed in that hospital. He was greatly disappointed. Then he sent for the Superintendent and finally convinced him that he was entitled to a radio. He told him he was going to lose his leg, that he was an ex-soldier in a government hospital and that the radio would not bother anybody else. And so he gained permission to have the radio in his room. Then he sent for his folks who lived sixty or seventy miles north. They came down and sat around his bed and enjoyed the music. When this great choir was singing he listened with genuine satisfaction, the result of which was that the next morning when the doctor examined him, he said: "There is no necessity of taking you into the operating room, man, your leg is getting all right. We will not take it off." 

In a few days my friend wrote to me and said : "I wonder if other people would think what I think," inferring that he had been healed by hearing the hymns of praise that the Lord loves to hear. 

I want to say to this Tabernacle Choir that is only one of the many blessings that we could trace to them if we had time, for others have come to my attention. 

OBEDIENCE TO THE COMMANDMENTS BRINGS BLESSINGS 

How blessed we are in this Church! We have these lovely flowers on the stand and can enjoy the comfort of this building while it is snowing outside. Here we are fed the bread of life and are promised every blessing we can desire if we will be faithful, but we will only receive these blessings and enjoy them if we keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father. He has told us in great plainness that the world will be in distress, that there will be warfare from one end of the world to the other, that the wicked shall slay the wicked and that peace shall be taken from the earth. And He has said, too, that the only place where there will be safety will be in Zion. Will we make this Zion? Will we keep it to be Zion, because Zion means the pure in heart ? 

When I look into the faces of you good people here, when I mingle with you in your homes, in the Wards and Stakes of the Church, I wonder if we really appreciate the opportunities that are ours to set an example to the world, that they too may desire to know what the Lord has given to us. Then, as I see some of the brethren and sisters a little careless in their attitude towards their blessings I wonder if they realize that these blessings may be lost. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ can only be a benefit and blessing to us if we keep the commandments of the Lord. We cannot live like the world and hope to have the favor of our Heavenly Father. We must live as the Lord indicates that we should live. It is true that He has said that if we will keep His commandments, if we will be worthy of His blessings He will exalt us; and when the final test comes when Satan and his cohorts will be trying in every way to destroy the world, the 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Day 

Lord says, "I will come down from heaven for the preservation of my people." 

Are we going to be worthy of that preservation? Because only those who are worthy will be preserved. And after all He has given to us — and He has bestowed upon us everything that He has given anybody that ever lived in the world that is worthwhile — He has said that unless we keep His commandments we will- forfeit our blessings and the calamities that are already abroad in the earth and are spreading day by day will find us. 

Brethren and sisters, how grateful we ought to be for such information, to know that God is interested in us and to know He has provided a way for our safety not only here but for our eternal exaltation as well. How grateful we ought to be that we are considered worthy to have our names upon the records of His Church as members in good standing. How embarrassed we will be, when we check on ourselves, if we find that our names are not there and that we are not entitled to the blessings of eternal life in the Celestial Kingdom. 

The Lord has told us very plainly that all our blessings are predicated upon obedience to His laws and His laws are so plain. Faith, repentance, baptism, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are the first principles. Then He offers other things, including Temple work, salvation for the dead and missionary work in all the world. In our great universities we have marvelous training, but I want to say that without the training of the Gospel of Jesus Christ those who graduate from the great universities of the world will be disappointed that they have not earned a place in the Celestial Kingdom. 

A GOOD EXAMPLE IS EXPECTED OF MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH 

This is the Lord's Church. This is His world. He has prepared it for us and given us the opportunity to dwell here under the most favorable circumstances of any people that has ever lived upon the earth. Are we grateful for it? Do we manifest by our conduct day by day, in our association with our fellows, that we do appreciate it ? 

The Lord has said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Are we thinking of that? Do you realize that every soul in the world is precious to Him, and that we have the key that may be turned to open the door of life and salvation to millions of God's children who do not understand ? Are we appreciative of it ? If we are, then let us put our own homes in order. Husbands and wives should live together in peace and happiness. The man who should be dearest of all in the world to the wife is her husband, and the woman who should be most precious in all the world to the husband is his wife, and not anything but death should separate them. 

Let us be examples of righteousness to our children, have our family prayers and ask the blessing upon the food. Let our children see. that as husbands and wives we are affectionate with one another. While there is yet time take the opportunity as husbands and wives to bless each other with your love, with your kindness and your helpfulness in 101  way. Take opportunity while there is yet time to teach your sons and daughters how to live to be happy. The Lord has said that it is our duty to do so and if we fail to teach them the Gospel — faith, repentance, baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost when eight years of age — the sin be upon our heads. Let us not be found sinful in that regard. Let our homes be sanctuaries of peace and hope and love. Wherever we go let us radiate sunshine that will attract others and will make them desire to know what the Gospel of Jesus Christ really is. 

As I stand here this morning and realize the blessings that have come to me through the faith and devotion of my forebears, my father, my grandfathers, my greatgrandfathers and their wives, all members of the Church, is it any wonder that I have pride in my ancestors? Oh, how proud we are to trace ourselves back to these great men and women who have lived and kept the commandments of God and have set examples in the world. How pleased we are to say, "These were my forebears." There is another thought that should be in our minds, and that is, when we join them in heaven, if we are permitted to do so, will they be proud of us ? They will be proud only if we have kept the commandments of God and if we have been worthy of exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom. 

Now brethren, the storm is on — not the snowstorm — but the storm of malice and hatef ulness and disagreeable feeling, and bitterness in the hearts of the children of men. Let us not partake of it; no matter what group we may have belonged to in the past, let us come into the sanctuary of the House of the Lord and attune ourselves to the spirit that is always present when He is there. Then when we go out we can resist the temptations that sometimes threaten to destroy us, and in turn destroy our families. 

TESTIMONY AND BLESSING 

I know that God lives; I know that Jesus is the Christ; I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God; I know that this Church was organized by Him for the blessing of all mankind who would be worthy to accept it or who would prepare themselves to accept it. We need not hesitate to divide with our non-Mormon neighbor the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ if we have qualified to do so. If we will store our minds so that we know what it means and as opportunity offers drop the words of encouragement and help that they need they will bless us forever. 

There are people living in this city and elsewhere, not members of the Church, who are probably listening in to this program this morning. They have not yet joined the Church, but they know that there is something comforting and uplifting that comes from this house when we have services here, and I have had some of them say to me, "It is a blessed privilege that we have to sit at home and listen over the radio to the program that you have down there at the Tabernacle." 

Now, brethren and sisters, peace be with you. God bless you. Let 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

us each here this morning renew our determination to be worthy of our membership in this Church and determine that as far as it is possible we will do what the Lord would have us do to bless His other children, for inasmuch as we do it unto these, His other children, He has said we are doing it unto Him. 

Think what it will mean if, instead of having been selfish trying to save only our own little family, we can count by the dozens and by the hundreds men and women that we have influenced to accept the Gospel of our Lord. Then will we feel blessed indeed and enjoy their love and appreciation forever. 

I pray that we may so live that He who knoweth all things will welcome us and say : "Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." 

That this glorious greeting may be for us and all that we may be able to influence in the world, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10:30 to 11 :00 a. m., Mountain Standard Time, the regular weekly nation-wide broadcast of choral and organ music and brief spoken word was presented as part of the General Conference proceedings. This program was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and broadcast through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting System's coast-to-coast network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by short wave transmission to many foreign lands. The broadcast originated with Radio Station KSL, Salt Lake City, and exclusive of routine introductory and closing announcements, was as follows : 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans : With the passing of another week of life we pause, according to the custom of many years, to welcome you again within these hallowed walls, shadowed by the everlasting hills of the West. This is the 638th nationwide performance of this traditional broadcast from Temple Square, heard each week at this hour through the facilities of the Columbia network and its affiliated stations. 

The audience that fills the Tabernacle this morning is gathered here from out of many lands. 

* * * 

We begin with one of the vigorous hymns of the restoration by William W. Phelps, as arranged by the conductor, — -"Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." 

"Now Let us Rejoice," by Wm. W. Phelps, arranged by Cornwall Choir 

"Nocturne," by Grieg Organ 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans: As this traditional hour from Temple Square continues, we turn to the works of Franz Joseph Haydn, to present from "The Passion" the chorus known as "Lamb of God." It begins with words from St. Luke which are among the most unforgettable of all scripture — "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do." (Luke 23 :34) 

"Lamb of God," from "The Passion," by Haydn Choir 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans: There seems to have come to dwell among us the spirit of escape. Perhaps it has always been present, but the tenseness of our times makes it more apparent. We seem to want to escape reality; to postpone the day of settlement; to prefer present pleasure to future happiness; to escape the consequences of our own mistakes. There are some who seek to escape by borrowing rather than face the restrictions of a sound economy. There are some who would rather mortgage the future than curtail their appetites. There are some who would like to escape from truth, because acceptance of it isn't convenient to their way of thinking or living. There are some who count heavily on mercy and the opportunities of the moment, rather than on justice and the certain reckoning of the future. Some have become materially and spiritually insolvent — bankrupt, both in the things of this world and in things of the realm beyond — and rather than facing the facts and paying the price and beginning again on humble but substantial foundations, they prefer continuing on borrowed time, always with the shadow of inevitable consequences hanging over them, but never looking at things quite squarely. No doubt there would be less of the spirit of escape if we could bring ourselves to the realization that there is no such thing as permanent postponement. Retribution cannot forever be outdistanced. The judgments of men may be slow, but they are sure, and yet more certain are the judgments of God. No one was ever able to cheat at anything permanently. No one has ever been able to postpone a time of reckoning forever — even though he may have departed this life before he faced the facts — for it is written in the record of scripture : 

Verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed." (D. and C. 1 :2,3) 

And since there is no way of permanent escape, to all who seek an easy way out it should be said : Face the issues as they come; pay the price, whatever it is; make your peace; put your house in order, and build on sure foundations for that future wherein no mistakes have yet been made. 

"High on the Mountain Top" by Ebenezer Beesley Organ 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans: For the hymn just concluded we are indebted to Ebenezer Beesley — "High on the Mountain Top a Banner is Unfurled," as arranged by the organist. 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

"To Thee O Lord," by Kalinnokoff Choir 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans: We close now from Temple Square with a chorus from Mendelssohn's "Elijah," combining a scriptural text from Isaiah and the Psalms — "And then shall your light break forth as the light of morning breaketh — -Lord, our Creator, how excellent thy name is in all the nations! Thou fillest heaven with thy glory!" 

"And then shall your Light Break Forth," by Mendelssohn 

Choir 

The Tabernacle Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. 

The Choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "O Say, What Is Truth ?"— Jaques. 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am convinced that we cannot afford to be so distracted by the exigencies which these perilous times have put upon us as to forget the fundamental institutions, principles and virtues upon which our national life and civilization are founded. We of the Church are constantly having our attention directed to these fundamentals and they have been and will be made the subject matter for addresses at this Conference. It is upon one of these fundamental institutions of society -that I wish to speak today — the home. I am painfully aware of the fact that I can scarcely hope to add a single new thought to this old subject. I am hopeful, however, that I may be able to refresh your own thinking a little about this all-important institution. 

THE FAMILY RELATIONSHIP THE FIRST FORM OF GOVERNMENT 

To get anything like an adequate idea of the place of the home in our civilization and society, I think it necessary to look back upon its history. 

It would not be possible to trace even the outline of its development in the time allotted to me. May I, however, merely call attention to a few well recognized facts concerning it. The government initiated in and growing out of the home was the first known form of human government. The head of the family came to be the chieftain of the tribe or clan and his lineal descendants were accorded the inherited right of sovereignty. The patriarchs were not only prophets, they were lawgivers and their peoples were submissive to their will. In this respect earthly governments came to be prototypes of divine government, for the very genius of divine government is fatherhood and a recognition of the family relationship. God, the Creator, is the Father, the Proprietor, and the Ruler; men, the children, bound by the ties of filial obli105 , are the subjects of government, — amenable in all respects to the will and dictates of the Father. 

Then, too, throughout the history of civilization, blood ties and race have been the strongest cohesive factors in the grouping of society. Many of the greatest nations have been but enlarged families with blood strains of remarkable purity. 

THE HOME THE FOUNDATION OF SOCIETY 

The home has ever been the center of economic interest. It has undoubtedly produced a greater part of the wealth of the world and it has also spent it. 

It is the primary educational institution. Important as schools have been they have never occupied a position more than complementary to the home, which is the nursery not only of all human beings but of all virtue. 

Governments which have attained high place in the world's history and affairs have, I think without exception, been those which have given due recognition to the home as a fundamental institution of society. They have enacted laws for its protection and advancement, and crimes against the home and its sanctity have been regarded as among the most heinous offenses. 

In this connection I recall the statement of an eminent man who at one time, speaking in the British House of Parliament against the imposition of a tax on the homes of the poor, said, in substance, "My home may be a poor and rude one; the roof may leak; the wind may enter; the, rain may enter, but the King of England with all his army cannot enter. My home is my castle, sacred and inviolate to me and my family." Such a conception of home has lain at the very foundation of English and American law and government and that conception is in no small way responsible for the rights and liberties which we now enjoy. 

VALUE OF OLD-FASHIONED HOME LIFE 

What is its prospect in this dramatic evolution of persons, things and institutions which is now in process? I would not venture a sure prediction but I do agree with Dr. Henry Van Dyke who said that "If old-fashioned American family life vanishes nothing can take its place." 

What was an old-fashioned American home, or rather I should say, what is it, because I am thankful to note that there are still some such homes left in the land? You know what it is. You know that it is not just a house, however grand and imposing the house may be and however embellished it may be with costly furniture, rich hangings and floor coverings woven of the toil of far-off Persia. You know that it is not a mansion wherein reside a man and a woman, fretting under the bonds of a marriage contract, a poodle dog and a retinue of servants whose chief function it is to see that the three chief occupants of the house, the man, the wife and the dog, enjoy equality of right and privilege. And you know that such an old-fashioned home is not ordinarily located 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Day 

among the costly residences of the rich. You know that it is usually to be found among the modest and humble, but not among the poor of the land for they are not truly poor who maintain a real home. You know that in an old-fashioned American home you will find a large family of happy boys and girls, for whom father and mother willingly, patiently and lovingly devote lives of toil and service; not for ostentation and pride and the gratification of selfish desires but to fulfill high conceptions of duty and the laws of God. Are such homes happy? 

AN IDEAL HOME 

I used to live in the heart of a city. My nearest neighbor lived in a real home. He had a yard in which his children might play. They had flowers and gardens, trees and welcome shade from the summer sun. His girls, educated, cultured and refined helped their mother with housework. His boys assisted in keeping up the place outside. They loved their home. It belonged to them all. The feeling of ownership and proprietorship was with them. It begat thrift, economy and industry. Their common interest stimulated mutual confidence and affection that cement and enrich the natural ties of family. They were happy and content and they were splendid citizens. 

FAMILY LIFE IN APARTMENTS NOT IDEAL 

Most of the other people who resided in my neighborhood lived in large apartment houses. Some few had children. These boys and girls had no yards, no gardens, no flowers, no places to play, no property to care for and no responsibility. They came to my lot and my neighbor's. I did not blame them. They had no place to go. They injured and destroyed the flowers, shrubs, and lawns and other property. I forgave them. They had had nothing of their own of similar kind consequently they had never learned how to care for property. 

The girls who lived in these apartments did not do housework. There was not much to be done, and besides they had no time for it because it takes all the time of these girls to take care of themselves. It is a big job. Their first task of the day is to prepare themselves for public presentation. I have not time to describe the perplexities of that operation. Suffice it to say that it requires a very great deal of labor and material to produce the finished product. Then there are the daily movies, the teas, the auto rides, the dances and the cabarets all requiring constant re-arrangement of toilet and appearance and involving an immense- expenditure of energy. These girls of the apartments are really hard-working girls. They have my sympathy, but like the boys they do not have real homes, and I fear they are not learning to be real women. 

Yet this life of the apartment is the new home life; perhaps here depicted in the extreme. Its advocates say that it is more desirable than the old home life; that it has more conveniences, ease and luxury and less of work and responsibility. They clinch the argument by declaring that it costs less. It does, and it is worth less, The old-fashioned American 107  life costs more but it is worth more. It costs more in work, selfsacrifice, patience, sleepless nights, heart-aches, and loving service, but the smile of a babe, the kiss of a beautiful daughter, and the handclasp of a manly boy are worth more than all the cost. 

REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MAKING OF GOOD HOMES 

The cry of the world is for men and women. I know of no place where they can be found except in the homes of the people. The homes which produce real men and women must be presided over and maintained by men of strength and courage, of virtue and of vision, and by women of tenderness, unselfishness, and infinite patience and love — endowments of God for the motherhood of the race. Good living is the first requirement of every parent. God pity the unfortunate parent who comes to the realization, as some day all must surely do, that the sins of the child are chiefly attributable to his or her own bad example or neglect. 

Criminologists tell us that most of our delinquencies originate in bad or neglected homes. Economists say that the training of the home is largely responsible for the thrift, industry, and prosperity of the nation. Doctors advise us that the health of the people depends on its care and teachings, and the eugenist assures us that the whole trend of human happiness, intelligence, goodness and endurance depends on it. 

Do you know that statisticians have scientifically calculated that the United States will support a population of not to exceed two hundred million people, and that we are very rapidly approaching "this point of saturation" ? The character of the nation and its destiny depend almost entirely on the families who shall make up the two hundred million. Will they be families descended from the old stocks of America who set up her great institutions and who have fought for and fostered her liberty, her equity and her justice, or will they be families in the stream of whose blood does not course the great impulses, the indomitable will, and idealism which have been and are the genius of our Democracy? Such questions must give pause and concern to every lover of America. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT OF IDEAL HOMES A GREAT MISSION 

To the members of our Church the home has an enlarged significance that is subordinate to nothing else in life, for it constitutes not only the source of our greatest happiness here in this life, but also the foundation of our exaltation and glory in the life to come. After all, it is essentially a religious institution. It has its origin in religious ceremony. It is the fulfillment of divine command. Its government is of a religious nature, and the finest of its products are spiritual. 

So it is here in the humble and yet exalted institution of the home that I find the greatest opportunity and mission for men and women. I am sorry to say, however, that the record does not in all cases disclose a very creditable response to this big opportunity and obligation. Modern education has not always produced good home makers. Recently published data informs us that the average number of children in the lam108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Dag 

ilies of the boot-blacks of America is slightly over four, while the average number of children in the families of school teachers is slightly under two. Now it may be that two school teachers exercise more and better influence than four boot-blacks, but how long w«l it take on the present respective rates of increase for the boot-blacks to crowd out the school teachers ? I present this illustration from a popular scientist, not in derogation of people who follow humble vocations, but to emphasize the fact that the world supply of intelligence, goodness and beauty is largely a matter of propagation. 

LATTER-DAY SAINT HOMES 

There is. in this respect a traditional and rather well advertised distinction which our people enjoy. They have been noted for their large families and had they been better understood they would be famous for their good families. Children have been our best crop and in the good old homes there has been an abundance of them. Eight, ten and a dozen in a family were common numbers. 

What families they have been! In days of privation and striving how they have stood together! The sacrifices which they have made, one for another; the love, the service, and nobility which have come from these great homes will probably never be known to many, but those who know of it and speak of the accomplishments of our Church in the first century of its existence, mention first the noble fathers and mothers who in log cabins of the frontier or mansions of luxury have served faithfully as priests and priestesses in the temple of the home. 

Our Church calls to its members and to all people to maintain the integrity, the purity and the high purposes of this sacred institution. I trust that no one will ever so yield to the insidious appeals of selfishness, vanity, and the world, as to be swerved from so doing. 

CHILDREN THE JOY OF THE HOME 

To warn of a great danger I must speak of it more specifically. I do so most reverently. If it shall please the Lord to send to your home a goodly number of children, I hope, I pray, you will not deny them entrance. If you should, it would cause you infinite sorrow and remorse. One has said that he could wish his worst enemy no more hell than this, that in the life to come someone might approach him and say, "I might have come down into the land of America and done good beyond computation, but if I came at all I had to come through your home and you were not man enough or woman enough to receive me. You broke down the frail footway on which I must cross and then you thought you had done a clevfer thing." 

ETERNITY OF THE MARRIAGE COVENANT 

I said that for our Church the home had a great religious significance. We believe that the marriage compact is not for life only or "until death doth part" but for all eternity; that when the covenant is 109  into in the proper manner and place and sealed by the power of the Holy Priesthood, which is the delegated authority of God to man, it becomes an everlasting union, an eternal institution into which there shall enter all children born in such wedlock, and that the ties of kinship so created are eternal ties recognized in heaven as on earth. Our heaven is little more than a projection of the sacred institutions of our homes into eternity. 

The spirits of men, which are the literal children of the Father, are by Him permitted to take on mortality through a home, it being the chief purpose of the administrators of the home to guide the spirits so entrusted to their keeping back to the eternal presence whence they came. 

So it is that we strive so diligently to maintain our children in the bond of this eternal covenant and union. We do not fear death because death does not break this bond. We must all go by way of it to find place in the eternal family circle. But we do fear sin that may deprive us of the presence of a loved one when we meet in our future homes. 

We deplore divorce. It strikes at the very foundation of the home. The number of divorces among our people is relatively low. 

Perhaps this mere glimpse into our philosophy of life and heaven and exaltation will serve to justify our undying interest in the homes of the people. 

We rely on these institutions to produce the manhood and the womanhood for the Church and the nation. Respect for law, order and established institutions must come from good family life if it comes at all. Boys and girls who grow up to call father "the old man" and mother "the old woman" are not likely to be easily amenable to the necessary restrictions which society imposes. If they cannot respect and love home and parents, their affection and regard for any worthy cause and institution are doubtful. 

RELIGION A SAFEGUARD 

So, I do not question the dominant place of home in our civilization, but I am concerned about the kind of homes we shall maintain. I believe the nation would be infinitely more secure if the influence of pure religion could come to every home. I have confidence in family prayer. It would be far better if the Sabbath were observed as a holy day rather than a holiday. The enemies of society are not reverent, God-loving people. 

We live in a Christian nation, founded on Christian principles. The only real hope for the world lies in the democracy and altruism of Christ. Christian homes are the answer. 

Years ago it was a common thing to see in houses placards or framed mottos, worked in attractive designs and colors, hung , over walls and mantels, bearing the inscription : "God bless our home." It is not fashionable to display these mottos now. One never sees them any more. I trust, however, that if they may not hereafter hang on the walls of our houses, they may be deeply inscribed in our hearts. God bless our homes! 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

ELDER HAROLD B. LEE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The length of time that has elapsed since the April Conference has only served to impress upon me the sacredness of the position I am now called to occupy. I am therefore dependent upon the Spirit of our Heavenly Father today, and pray for an interest in your faith and prayers. 

THE LORD CONCERNED IN THE WELFARE OF HIS CHILDREN 

I trust the words that I shall speak to you this morning will be words of wisdom and words guided by the spirit of this great Conference. 

During the last five and a half years my mind has been occupied largely in matters that pertain to the safety and welfare of this people. In my study of this subject and my attention to these matters, I have become impressed with the rich outpouring of the Spirit that has dictated counsel, wisdom, and revelation sufficient for our needs. That the Lord is concerned about the welfare of this people there can be no question, as is evidenced by a revelation given early in the history of this Church to the Prophet Joseph in these words : 

And it is my purpose to provide for my Saints, for all things are mine. 

But it must needs be done in mine own way. (D. & C. 104:15, 16.) 

I received some time ago a letter from a friend that suggests the concern of our Father, and the way by which His concern will be manifest. I quote : 

For over a century men have been preaching the gospel of salvation but have never lifted their eyes beyond the old sectarian concept of a salvation men have to die to get. When we become conscious of the fact that there is no time limit upon the saving principles and powers of the Gospel but that they may be drawn upon to meet the problems of today and tomorrow, as well as of the Hereafter, we will then become the people who will be the light of the world. INSPIRED LEADERSHIP THE PRESENT NEED 

The dispensation in which you and I live is intended to be a demonstration of the power and effectiveness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to meet these everyday problems here and now. The Lord declared in 1838: 

For thus shall my Church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations; 

And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth. (D. and C. 115:4-6.) 111 

The uncertainty of the leadership of men of the world in this day is evidenced by the fact that we have many changing programs that over night, and day by day seem to fluctuate between poles of the greatest of uncertainty. We hear much about "the abundant life," and "social security," and there are some I fear who are believers in the thought that these goals will come from the working out of the philosophies of men. Enterprising newspaper writers have suggested as you gather to this Conference that you are coming here, perhaps, as you have never done before to, hear words of direction and counsel from those who stand as your Church leaders, and well you might come in this day, for the Prophet has declared : 

Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets. (Amos 3:7.) 

Last night as we left the Priesthood meeting you heard the thunder roar, you saw the lowering of clouds, and you said to yourselves : "Well, it looks like we are going to have storms tomorrow." And yesterday morning and the day before as the sun came up on a cloudless sky you said, "Well, it looks like we will have fair weather." And you who have thus been able to read most accurately the signs of the weather might well listen to what the Master said to those in His day as He used these expressions as a parable : 

O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times? (Matthew 16:3.) 

THE LORD'S PLAN 

My purpose in the few minutes that I stand here will be to give you something of what the Lord has said pertaining to this day, and what might be the expectation of the Latter-day Saints concerning the way by which the Lord would guide us to safe shores. Not only has the Lord given us the plan to follow, but He has given us in the revelations one of the basic, if not the most basic reason for the ills that beset mankind. This is what the Lord said, and I suppose as you understand this you will recognize in it the reason for selfishness and for jealousies that develop into bitterness and hatred, and finally into war and bloodshed. Here is the simple statement of the Lord : 

But it is not given that one man should possess that which is above another, wherefore the world lieth in sin. (D. and C. 49:20.) 

While the world today is groping for a solution, (and I repeat that some of our people, I am afraid, have the mistaken notion that they must look to some development of the philosophies of men in this nation or copied from nations abroad, to solve present problems) the Latterday Saints should never lose sight of the fact that for over one hundred years the Lord has given us the way, and the plan by which might come the ultimate solution of all the economic problems of this day. Listen to what the Lord said in a revelation : 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Dag 

For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened; yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments. 

Therefore, I give unto you this commandment, that ye bind yourselves by this covenant, and it shall be done according to the laws of the Lord. 

Behold, here is wisdom also in me for your good. 

And you are to be equal, or in other words, you are to have equal claims on the properties, for the benefit of managing the concerns of your stewardships, every man according to his wants and his needs, inasmuch as his wants are just — 

And all this for the benefit of the Church of the living God, that every man may improve upon his talent, that every man may gain other talents, yea, even an hundred fold, to be cast into the Lord's storehouse, to become the common property of the whole Church — 

Every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God. (D. and C. 82:14-19.) 

THE REVELATION PERTAINING TO THE UNITED ORDER 

One year prior to the receiving of that revelation the Lord gave the details — the minutest of details — of the organization we have come to call the United Order. He told us how consecrations were to be made and were to be received; He told us how the residue or surpluses were to be handled and distributed; He told us something about the establishment of stewardships and private ownerships, and how those within such an organization should act. This is not the first time that such an organization has been given to this people. We read that shortly after the crucifixion of the Savior the followers of our Lord and Savior established an order where they had all things in common, and two hundred years after the Savior's coming we find a people on this continent of which it was said that they likewise were living in close bonds of fellowship and love, so much so that there was not to be found a happier people anywhere on the face of the earth. 

BEGINNING OF THE CHURCH WELFARE PLAN 

Five and a half years ago when I, under an assignment from the First Presidency, accompanied Brother Melvin J. Ballard throughout the Church to make the initial announcement of the present movement known as the Church Welfare Plan, he was asked everywhere : "Is this the beginning of the United Order?" And to all such questioners Brother Ballard's answer was the same : "No, it is not the beginning of the United Order, but it may be that in this movement the Lord may be giving His people an examination to see how far they have come toward a condition where they might live as one." 

As I have thought about that question, and as I have thought about his answer, I have had difficulty understanding how a people who are not able to sacrifice to a point where they can pay a tenth of their interest annually and abstain from two meals on the first Sunday of the month and pay that as an offering for the care of the needy, I have difficulty in understanding how we can believe that many of our people are more than ten percent ready for the United Order. 113 

Furthermore, I have difficulty understanding that they would be able to live in the United Order were it to be instituted in this day. I also have grave doubts that prosperous times will make possible that happy day spoken of. I fear we must yet see more difficult and trying times than any we have yet passed through before such a day can come. 

There are some things of which I am sure, and that is that contrary to the belief and mistaken ideas of some of our people, the United Order will not be a Socialistic or Communistic set-up; it will be something distinctive and yet will be more capitalistic in its nature than either Socialism or Communism, in that private ownership and individual responsibility will be maintained. I am sure also that when it comes it will come from the leaders of this Church whom you sustain as prophets, seers, and revelators, and will not come from some man who does not occupy that position. It will not come as a political program, legislated by men not possessed of that authority. I am also convinced that the time is here when Zion must put on her beautiful garments preparatory for the second coming of the Savior, and I believe firmly that that preparation is in progress. I am likewise persuaded that the Church Welfare Plan is contributing mightily to that preparation. 

It is more than just a coincidence that our Presidency, in 1936, from this stand announcing the beginning of this Welfare movement, made this significant statement : 

No pains must be spared to wipe out all feeling of diffidence, shame, or embarrassment on the part of those receiving relief. The Ward must be one great family of equals. 

THE PURPOSE OF THE PLAN TO HELP THE POOR 

I have seen from a humble beginning an organization grow to where now there has been produced throughout the Church great quantities of foodstuffs. I have seen a system of equitable distribution of those foodstuffs grow up under the guidance of our leaders, so much so that the eighty-three storehouses we now have, or that are in course of construction, may each have an equitable supply of all these commodities, and as great a variety as though they were here in the center part of the Church. I remember also that no Bishop today who is faithful in bearing his responsibility may say that he cannot take care of faithful members of his Ward because he has insufficient funds. I know that in these years we have been striving to a great end, and we have been led by the hand of our Father. 

We have come, yes, in a day when "The way of the Lord," as He described it, would be applied, when the poor would be exalted, or in other words stimulated to success and pride, and uplifted because the rich have been made low, or in other words, because the rich have been made humble and willing to give of their substance, their time, and their talent, and their wisdom, and their example that the poor might be thus guided and directed. I have seen team work and cooperation grow, and I have , seen the Priesthood take its place in blessing this Church temporally and spiritually in a most glorious way. 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

PREPARATION NECESSARY BEFORE THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST 

I am persuaded that the days of trial and tribulation, the time for testing the fidelity of the Latter-day Saints is here as has been foretold. I am also convinced that you and I will not be prepared for the living of the Celestial law in preparation for the Second Coming if we are not able to live the law of tithing, and pay our Fast offerings, and subscribe wholeheartedly to the workings of the Welfare Plan at the present time. In my mind there is grave doubt that any man can abide the day of the Second Coming who is not willing and able to follow the leadership of these men whom the Lord has set to counsel and guide us in this day. 

I thank the Lord that we are not dependent alone upon the faith of those who lived centuries ago, or even a hundred years ago, for revelations that were given unto them in that day. In this day He has given us leaders who are possessed of the same spirit of revelation. This is what the Lord said, speaking to those who held Apostleship : 

And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost. 

And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation. (D. and C. 68:3, 4.) 

INSPIRED WORDS OF PAST CHURCH LEADERS 

It should not be necessary today for us to expect new written revelation on every point when we have these men thus possessed of that same spirit of revelation. A brief review of the past instruction of our leaders should only serve to warn the disobedient and to encourage the obedient to continue faithful. Today listen to the words of President Wilf ord Woodruff that he spoke more than forty years ago : 

So far as temporal matters are concerned, we have got to go to work and provide for ourselves. The day will come when you will see the necessity for making your own shoes and clothing, raising your own food, and uniting together to carry out the purposes of the Lord. We will- be preserved in the mountains of Israel in the day of God's judgment. 

I therefore say to you, my brethren and sisters, prepare for that which is to come. 

Have you made that preparation? Have you become a self-sustaining people ? We were warned to be so by a man whom we sustained as the representative of our Heavenly Father here upon this earth. Today we are suffering from difficulties between capital and labor. Are you aware that our leader of nearly forty years ago told us something that if we would have heeded would have guided us safely past some of the ills of the present time. 

Lorenzo Snow spoke these words : 

Ye toiling millions who in the sweat of your faces earn your daily bread, the day of your redemption draweth nigh. Cease to waste your 115  on that which helps to keep you in want. Regard not the wealth of your enemy and your employer as your oppressor. Seek for the union of capital and labor. Be provident when in prosperity. Do not become a prey to designing men who seek to stir up strife for their own selfish ends. Strive for your rights by all lawful means, and desist from violence and destruction. Dissipation and vice are the chains that bind you to slavery. 

Men and women of wealth, use your riches to give employment to the laborer; take the idle from the crowded centers of population, and place them on the unfilled areas that await the hand of industry. Unlock your vaults, unloose your purses, and invest in enterprises that will give work to the unemployed and relieve the wretchedness I that poisons the moral atmosphere around you. Make others happy and you will be happy yourself. 

We have heard much said in this Conference about keeping out of debt and avoiding speculation. From this stand just nine years ago now, from the inspired lips of our late President Anthony W. Ivins he spoke these words; (and they should be something of a condemnation to those who disregarded his words, and should be something of a blessing to those who listened to and kept ^hat counsel.) This is what he said referring to and warning against borrowing and going into debt : 

I fear that under existing conditions we are gradually drifting toward a paternal government, a government which will so entrench itself that the people will become powerless to disrupt it, in which the lives and liberties of the people at large may be jeopardized. They are pouring millions of dollars in this time of need into sources for the benefit of the people, and it is a great benefit and perhaps salvation, 'but it is going to result in this, I am going to make this statement, that if the present policy is continued it will not be long before the government will be in the banking business, it will be in the farming business, it will be in the cattle and sheep business, for many of these debts will never be paid. This will mean the appointment of innumerable agencies. The government now is overloaded with commissions and agencies, some of them administering the very laws that Congress itself has enacted. Someone else should be administering those laws. If you want to save yourselves from the bondage of debt and political influences which are not of your own choosing, I ask you to think of what I have said. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we have men today who have told us repeatedly and also warned against the evil and vice of liquor in, our midst. We have been told that we must patronize and foster home industry, to avoid speculation, to make savings in foods and clothing for at least a year. We have had our leaders plead with us to pursue a course that would tend to keep us out of war. I admonish you in all sobriety and seriousness to listen and heed before it is too late. 

Oh, may we not be those of whom the Lord complained : 

In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me. (D. and C. 101:8.) 

Remember that the Lord said : 

For if you will that I give unto you a place in the celestial world, 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Day 

you must prepare yourselves by doing the things which I have commanded you and required of you. (D. and C. 78:7.) 

SAFETY IN FOLLOWING COUNSEL OF CHURCH LEADERS 

Today you and I are here because we listened to the counsel of President Brigham Young, and turned deaf ears to the pleadings of men like James J. Strang, Sidney Rigdon and others who would have led us from the path of truth and right. I bear you my witness in all humility that if your children and my children, our grandchildren, our greatgrandchildren, remain faithful to this Church it will be because you and I remained steadfast in the testimony that these men are the prophets of the living God and that we must follow their counsel if we would be saved in the days of peril. Therefore, "stand ye in holy places and be not moved," that we might abide the day of the coming of the Son of Man and be caught up in the clouds of heaven to meet our Redeemer when He comes on earth to reign, and reign with Him a thousand years with our children and the redeemed of our Father's house, I pray humbly, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I must confess that as disturbing as it is to stand before this congregation it is not so much so as the experience I have already been through this morning in presenting the nationwide broadcast. I never approach the microphone before a broadcast without fear and trembling, even though I have presented nationwide broadcasts from this pulpit every week, with rare exceptions, for nearly twelve years. I have a great deal of respect for five or ten minutes of time; I know what it is worth on the radio. I know that it is sufficient time for a man to get himself into a great deal of trouble. I know that multiplied by the number of people here, it is a great responsibility, and I know that a message can come forth in that time if the Lord so directs, and to this end I ask your faith and prayers. 

A SURVEY RESULTING IN REARRANGEMENT OF THE TEN COMMANDMENTS 

I am indebted to Dr. Carlton Culmsee of the Brigham Young University for inviting my attention to a survey recently conducted by a professor of psychology. The survey queried students and teachers in two of the major institutions of learning in America, one in the far west, and one in the middle west. The result announced in the press earlier in the year, was the rearrangement of the order of the Ten Commandments. The presumption of rearranging the order of the Ten Commandments is exceeded only by the manner in which they were rearranged. These many students and teachers were asked to list the Ten Commandments in what they considered to be the order of their im117 , and the results indicate facts with which you and I are already familiar. 

For example, the Fourth Commandment, referring to observance of the Sabbath day was moved to ninth place. I am sure that we see the evidences of this feeling all about us. I would hesitate to make the mistake that some in ancient Israel made in particularizing too much on what should and should not be done on the Sabbath day, but I am sure that most Latter-day Saints know when they are keeping the Sabbath day and when they are not keeping it, in spite of all the rationalizing that we do. I must confess I am still old-fashioned enough to be shocked to go among the Wards and Stakes and find Ward or Stake officers excused for deer hunting, or pheasant hunting, or for fishing' —  not fishers of men, by the way. I am not sure that this is not a day on which to catch up with all the odd jobs that have been neglected during the week. I am sure that it is not a day for public celebration or for athletic contests. I am disturbed in my thoughts when buses come into my neighborhood and take our young men and women off for a day of Sabbath skiing. I am sure in my own heart that it is not a day for patronizing places of commercial entertainment, and I am sure, to repeat, that we know in our hearts when we are and when we are not keeping this day of rest and worship and good works. 

Another of the significant changes in this survey was the moving of the Third Commandment to tenth place. That has reference to profanity, to the taking of the name of the Lord in vain. The students so queried considered that of least importance. I am inclined to believe that it would have been eliminated entirely, except that there was the place to fill, and they had to include it somewhere. Our brother, Joseph Fielding Smith, has recently written two articles that have appeared in current issues of the Improvement Era on the proper use of the name of Deity, which I commend for your reading and re-reading. I am sure that this revolting practice of prevalent profanity is grievous in the sight of our Father in heaven, and an offense to every sensitive and thoughtful and reverent man or woman. 

Another most significant change was this: The First Commandment was relegated to the seventh position, that one that has reference to the Lord God and our relationship to Him. In other words, it means that in the thinking of these university students, and I believe they are a barometer of thinking generally, the Lord has been relegated to a place of secondary importance in the scheme of religion, and religion in their minds has been reduced to a system of ethical standards, and when we reduce religion to a mere code of ethics we have stripped it of its life and power. 

The complete order of rearrangement was as follows, with the original scriptural number in parenthesis : 

1. Thou shalt not kill. (6) 

2. Thou shalt not steal. (8) 

3. Thou shalt not commit adultery. (7) 

5. Honor thy father and thy mother. C5) 

6. Thou shalt not covet. (10) 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Day 

7. I am the Lord thy God, thou shalt have no other Gods before me. (1) 

8. Thou shalt not make unto me a graven image. (2) 

9. Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. (4) 

10. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord, thy God in vain. (3) 

I am sure that the Lord knew what He was doing, that He is enough of a teacher, to state first things first, and I repeat, that the presumption of rearranging the order of the Ten Commandments according to their supposed current social importance is exceeded only by the significance of the order of this rearrangement. The fact is if we were to keep the First Commandment — and love the Lord our God with all our hearts, and have no other Gods before Him — all the others would follow in due course without any difficulty whatever. 

TRUTH NEEDS NO EMBELLISHMENT 

I am aware that we live in an age of great exaggeration, of unguarded statement, of propaganda, as has so frequently been spoken of in this conference — that shouting is sometimes thought to be a substitute for truth, that there are those, the type of which you know as well as I, who believe if they shout a thing long enough and loud enough some of it will be believed regardless of its inherent truth or falsity. 

It was invited to my attention recently by a student of Scripture, not of our Church, that the Savior of the world seldom indulged in the use of modifiers or intensifiers, or adjectives. He simply stated plain truth without undue embellishment, and I think this is a thought to keep well in mind in this day when everything is represented as being "colossal" "stupendous" or "Gargantuan" or "ultra" or something of the kind  — whatever it is the "greatest" of whatever it is. In the face of such statements I remind myself that a truth quietly spoken carries its own weight, and we must go about our business quietly and earnestly with "the warning voice, every man to his neighbor, in mildness and in meekness," (Doctrine and Covenants, 38:41), proclaiming that which we know to be true, with tactfulness, with plainness, and with unceasing diligence on all occasions. 

If you can imagine the Sermon on the Mount littered with extravagant adjectives, you know what I mean. "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God" — "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." What could add to such conclusive statements ? So, without any adjectives, I wish to add my testimony to yours that I know that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith and all of his successors have been the representatives of God our Father on the earth in this dispensation — and that all men may come to that knowledge, and that we who have it may walk in harmony with it, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang "Thy Word is a Lantern" — Purcell. Elder Paul C. Child, President of the Pioneer Stake, offered the closing prayer. 


