Morning
04 10 1941

The third session of the Conference was held Saturday morning, October 4, at 10 o'clock. 

President Heber J. Grant was present and presided. President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, conducted the exercises. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

We are pleased to announce the presence of President Heber J. Grant at this session. The exercises will be conducted under his presidency and supervision. Saturday. October 4 Second Day 

Yesterday, when the list of those who have passed away was read, one name was omitted because her demise took place after the list was made up. I very sorrowfully announce the passing of Sister Joseph F. Merrill, beloved wife of Elder Joseph F. Merrill of the Council of the Twelve. She passed away Monday, September 29, 1941. Our hearts beat as one in sympathy with our fellow-worker in his bereavement. 

So far as I can observe, all the General Authorities who are in the city are present on the stand in their places this morning. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "High On The Mountain Top" — Beesley. 

Elder Albert L. Larsen, President of the San Bernardino Stake, offered the invocation. 

The Pasadena Stake male quartet, A. M. Gish, director, sang "Lead Kindly Light"— Dudley Buck. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. (John 14:1) 

Such were the words given by Jesus to His Apostles just at the conclusion of the Last Supper. If He could offer such consolation on that solemn occasion, facing betrayal and death as He was, I am sure that He would say the same to the people today, many of whom feel discouraged and distressed. The Savior also gave an antidote to trouble, which is belief in God. Absolute faith in Christ will drive out fear and will alleviate sorrow. We have a beautiful hymn written by Sister Woodmansee, that expresses that thought : 

When dark and drear the skies appear, 

And doubt and dread would thee enthrall, 

Look up, nor fear, the day is near, And Providence is over all. 

It is true the world is passing through a period of transition, of sorrow, and to many of despair. Nations are being subjected to tyranny. The four devastating Horsemen — War, Famine, Pestilence, and Death — are galloping seemingly unchecked. The daily press announced recently — "The greatest battle of annihilation in all history." Freedom of the individual to speak, to act, and to work is being shackled. Systems of government heretofore advocated as the best and safest for mankind are being questioned. Religious truths, once held sacred, are now doubted, ridiculed, or rejected. In some parts of the world, even hell itself seems to have broken loose, spreading hatred, terror and death in its wake. Now as never before we should put our trust in God, "stand fast in the faith, quit ourselves like men, be strong." GENERAL CONFERENCE THE CHURCH WELFARE PLAN 

Many of you heard this morning the program given by the Church Welfare Committee. The Church Welfare Plan was organized just five and a half years ago, the underlying purpose of which is three-fold, viz : 

1. To supply in a helpful and dignified manner food, clothing and shelter to every person so in need. 

2. To assist men and women who, through misfortune, ill luck, or disaster, find themselves without gainful employment, to become once again self-supporting; and 

3. To increase among the members of the Church the true spirit of the brotherhood of Christ, having in mind in all their service the divine saying, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

The plan is not something new, but rather a means of uniting along well established lines quorum, auxiliary, and ecclesiastical groups in their efforts to serve one another and the Church. Presidencies of Stakes, Bishoprics of Wards, quorum officials, Relief Society officers, now work unitedly instead of independently in giving relief and helpfulness to those who merit assistance. The only modification or addition in the ecclesiastical organizations of the Church is the uniting of several Stakes in what is called a Region. 

NUMBER OF PERSONS NOW ENGAGED 

The latest report (furnished upon request by Elder Roscoe Eardley), shows that there are now serving on Welfare Committees 9,754 persons; that there are 83 storehouses already completed or in process of being built; that during 1941, and still active, there are 1,590 quorum projects; that 173 homes were built during 1939-40 with quorum assistance, and 92 thus far during 1941. 

An interesting development of the Welfare Plan during 1941 was : 

First. The number of persons who had been working on Churchdirected projects who found employment in defense and private industry. 

Second. The increased number of faithful quorum members, Relief Society sisters, and others who donated their labors to carry the Welfare Plan forward. 

Of such voluntary service you heard some encouraging examples this morning. Here are others : 

During the first eight months of 1941 in the Salt Lake Region 1,055 persons were assisted by Personal Welfare committees of Priesthood quorums, Ward Work directors, and Church Welfare employment departments. Proportionately good records have been made by other Regions, including northern Utah, which centers at Ogden; southern California, which centers at Los Angeles, and eastern Idaho, which centers at Idaho Falls. 

In addition to the 1,590 quorum projects already named, Priesthood groups have been organized to assist at storehouse centers and on other projects under the direction of the Regions. Assistance has been given 

BRINGS NEW CHEER 

Notwithstanding the topsy-turviness of the world generally, I bring to you this morning a word of encouragement, a note of cheer, a message of hope and faith. I say this first because I have faith in the overruling power of Providence. Man, through his littleness, through his rejection of the Gospel, his selfishness and weakness, brings contention and strife upon himself. He is, as Emerson says : 

A divinity in disguise. A god playing the fool. It seems as if heaven had sent its insane angels into our world as to an asylum, and here they will break out into their native music and utter at intervals the words they have heard in heaven. Then the mad fit returns and they mope and wallow like dogs. 

But a wise Father will work out of men's mistakes and blunders greater blessings than they might have obtained with their own wisest foresight. Gloomy clouds often hang heavily about us, but the rains that descend from them often prove a blessing. So it may be with the ominous clouds lowering today over civilization. 

I do not believe in the advocacy of discouragement and gloom; better, the gospel of Hope. Remember, the Church of Christ is established never more to be thrown down or given to another people. The Gospel has not yet been preached to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, and I am sure that the Lord will open up the way for the consummation of His purposes. 

There are many things as a Church for which we should be grateful and hopeful, and I am going to name some of these this morning. 

CHURCH CONDITIONS 

Conditions were never more favorable or more promising in the Church than today. Priesthood quorums were never more active as groups than they are today. More presidencies of quorums are sensing their responsibilities as presiding officers, and as a result are striving more earnestly to set their quorums in order. 

The Auxiliary associations show progress all along the line. 

The Relief Society, numbering over ninety thousand, now extends to all Latter-day Saint women the opportunity for service and development which comes through membership in this society, and the officers hope that at the end of the year 1941 nine thousand more women will join their ranks, thus increasing their membership to one hundred thousand by the Centennial year. 

TITHING 

As we heard yesterday, the tithes of the people show a most encouraging increase over last year, and indeed, over any previous year. 

FAST OFFERINGS 

Fast offerings also reflect a more general adherence to this important phase of Church policy and true Christian practice.  the building of meeting houses, the renovating of buildings already erected, and in beautifying public grounds. 

During the past three months, in the Salt Lake Region, 926 Priesthood quorum members have donated labor at Welfare Square, and 1,500 Relief Society workers have assisted in preserving foods for storing. Men and women, eager to help, have sometimes traveled great distances. For example, five Relief Society workers living 136 miles distant from the regional cannery, came at their own expense. Sisters from another Stake, 35 to 60 miles away from the cannery, came on a number of occasions, supplying .their own transportation and bringing their own lunches. This group included not only the Relief Society workers but a number of younger women of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, accompanied by their Stake and Ward officers. 

EXCELLENT RESULTS 

During the past summer, Stake Presidents, accompanied by Priesthood quorum members have come to Welfare Square to work on Welfare projects. The same procedure has been followed by a number of bishoprics with excellent results. Part of the work accomplished by these men has been the loading and unloading of more than 200 cars of wheat. As a result of these activities, it is estimated that fully one-third more has been produced during 1941 than during other years since the Welfare Plan was inaugurated. 

A further important development has been the closer cooperation between the Relief Society organizations, the Ward Welfare committees, and the Priesthood quorums. Closer association of the brethren and sisters in Welfare Work has prepared the way to meet more efficiently any emergencies that may arise in the future. 

EUROPEAN MISSIONS 

As we heard yesterday, encouraging word comes even from our branches in war-torn Europe. In Great Britain the historic publication, The Millennial Star, is issued every week, as it has been practically every week since 1840. 

We might go on enumerating conditions evidencing the progress in the Church, but time will not permit. 

In the light of all these facts, and many others we might mention, are we not justified in having our souls lifted, our hearts encouraged, and our hopes brightened? Our plain duty is to move forward with a determination to do what the Lord requires of us, "to deal justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with our God." 

THE GOSPEL OF LOVE 

Absolute trust in the Lord will awaken a desire, at least, to try to live in accordance with Christ's teachings, chief of which is to LOVE, not hate one another. Now, as perhaps never before, all men and esSecond Dag  Latter-day Saints should preach and practice the gospel of love, and decry, as well as deplore, manifestations of ill-will and hate. 

He that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he g-oeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes. 

In answer to a lawyer's question, which is the great commandment in the law, Jesus answered in one word, "Love," and then He specifically stated whom we should love; first, the Lord "with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind;" and, second, "thy neighbor as thyself." 

The opposite of Love is Hate. As Christ is the personification of love, so Satan is the embodiment of hate. 

Hate is cruel and vicious; even when unexpressed and smouldering, it consumes the individual as surely as when it bursts into flame. Hate feeds on envy. It prompts and justifies unrighteous conquest; it looks for weaknesses in others; lives in the realm of iniquity and feeds on falsehood and slander; it injures the hater even more than the hated. It "is of all things the mightiest divider, nay, is division itself." 

Rejection of the Gospel of Love, which is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, brought on the World War that began in 1914, with what result? 

Seven million men killed, twenty million wounded, five million of whom were maimed and crippled for life. Six million men imprisoned. Twenty million women in Europe deprived of a home of their own. Countless millions who suffered privations in the trenches, and in lonely homes of the poor. Fifty billion dollars worth of material and property destroyed. One hundred billion dollars to provide for the cost of the war and interest. 

Hatred smouldering in the hearts of Germans against men and nations who imposed upon Germany what to the Germans were unjust terms of peace is the cause of the present world-wide conflict. As a result, millions of men are again being slaughtered, homes broken up, property destroyed, women and children massacred, nations subjugated or practically obliterated, the right of self-government destroyed, and liberty itself threatened. 

Terrible as things are, I repeat, I still have faith that God will overrule all for the good of humanity. 

There are things in the world which we may and should despise, but we can condemn the evil without hating the man. We should develop an aversion for the things which we ourselves can and should resist or overcome, and for the things which Christ hated. We can have an aversion for the works of the flesh as enumerated by Paul, among which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, hatred, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings and such EVILS TO BE CONDEMNED ; "of the which I tell you before as I have also told you in times past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God." ATTENTION TO LITTLE THINGS VITAL IN ERADICATING HATE 

When the rich young ruler asked Jesus "what great thing may I do to obtain eternal life ?" the Master called his attention not to any one great thing, but to several specific commandments. 

So there may not be any great act we may do to eradicate hate, war, and suffering in the world; but there are many little but very important duties within our power and province to accomplish. 

This is a time when men and women should curb their tempers, and when prompted to condemn others, to hold their tongues. In national affairs, for example, there are those who think actual participation in the European conflict will be necessary to end the struggle and to bring about peace. There are others who think such a step would be most tragic. The interventionist and the isolationist each has equal rights to his views, and each may be equally sincere in expressing them. My message, therefore, today, is to keep hate and enmity out of the controversy. 

Then, too, an election is approaching. Candidates and policies will come before us for consideration. In times past, political campaigns have engendered animosity and sometimes personal hatred. Hate thus harbored indicates an inferior grade of intelligence, a low degree of culture. 

ELIMINATE HATRED 

I know of no better way to bring about harmony in the home, in the neighborhood, in organizations, peace in our country, and in the world than for every man and woman first to eliminate from his or her heart the enemies of harmony and peace such as hatred, selfishness, greed, animosity and envy. 

Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 

Pertinent to this thought, Charles Wagner, author of The Simple Life, makes this comment : 

Each person's base of operations is the field of his immediate duty, neglect this field, and all you undertake at a distance is compromised. First, then, be of your own country, your own city, your own home, your own church, your own work-shop; then, if you can, set out from this to go beyond it. That is the plain and natural order, and a man must fortify himself with very bad reasons to arrive at reversing it. 

Brethren and sisters: "Let not your heart be troubled, ye believe in God," believe also in the Gospel of Jesus Christ — a belief such as the Savior had in mind on that solemn occasion will express itself in action. So in conclusion : 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

Keep your faith in the God above, 

And faith in His righteous truth; 'Twill bring you back to your absent love 

And the joys of a vanished youth. 

You'll smile once more when your tears are shed, 

Meet trouble and swiltfy rout it; For faith is the strength of the soul inside, 

And lost is the man without it. 

May increased faith and trust in the Lord and in the Gospel of Jesus Christ supplant the spirit of contention and hate now so rampant, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the New England 

Mission 

It is a joy to me to come across the Continent from Boston to attend this Conference of the Church, and I humbly pray that I may say something that will be helpful to us all. 

A TRIBUTE TO MISSIONARIES LARORING IN NEW ENGLAND 

The parents of some of our missionaries in New England are present here to-day, and you may be assured that your boys and girls are doing a fine work in the cities where they have been called" to labor. They are clean, honest, and true; and have become fine students of the Gospel. They would hardly like me to speak about their work, for they have learned the secret of success because they have forgotten themselves and think only of the work of God. They realize their call to the service of the Church, and they know that there is no sphere of life in which a man can more certainly lay out all his talents than in the service of his Maker. They come in contact with all kinds of people, human beings in every conceivable relation, and there is no life so rich or so full of those joys which come from serving people at the point of their greatest need. They realize that the Master is calling and they give answer. He calls not to comfort nor to power, as the world reckons power : He calls for heroic service. Your sons and daughters have taken up the cross to follow Him, and this they are doing nobly. You are very happy, I know, in having them in the field, and you may rest assured that we will do all we can for them. They will honor the call, for they are working under the direction of the Spirit of the Lord, and their lives are made beautiful in consequence. 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SEVENTY 

I should like to say a few words to the Seventies assembled here this morning, because we are interested in you and the great work which the Lord has appointed you to do. We are the men who are ordained to go forth to give the message of the Master to the world. You have discovered that the most significant factor in human life is to be found in  ability to make response to great principles and great ideals; in you is power for great action by faith, and hope, and love. In a word, you are to show yourselves responsive to the Spirit of the living God who speaks through all of you to the souls of men. The message is a word of duty uttered from above, it is also the word of highest privilege uttered from within. "If thou wilt enter into LIFE, keep the commandments." "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength." This is the first imperative which you, my brother Seventies, must abide by if you would "enter into life." Be sure of God! By simple living and loving worship, by purifying yourselves, by continual moral obedience keep close to Him. You are giving help in ushering in the Kingdom of God. The King is calling and you are answering. It is a great living duty, a duty of love and thanksgiving. From now on more than ever before, you are to hear the admonition of Paul : "Wherefore, I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." You are responsible to teach the Restoration of the Gospel to the world, and your hearts must be prepared for this great responsibility. 

You recall from your history that the Prophet Joseph Smith brought the Seventies into existence in February, 1835. It was a glorious occasion for it followed within a few days the calling of the Twelve Apostles in fulfillment of the revelation given before the organization of the Church. These twelve men were chosen from those who went up in Zion's Camp and the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon were to select and ordain them. Another meeting was called for February 28, and the brethren were chosen from those who went to Missouri in Zion's Camp and these brethren constituted the first Quorum of Seventy. Hazen Aldrich, Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, Leonard Rich, Zebedee Coltrin, Lyman Sherman, and Sylvester Smith were called to the office of the President of this Quorum of Seventy. These brethren and those appointed to form the first Quorum were ordained under thhe hands of the First Presidency. And says the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

The Seventy are also called to preach the Gospel, and to be especial witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world; thus differing from other officers in the Church in the duties of their calling. 

POWER IN THE PRIESTHOOD TO BRING ABOUT CHANGES 

We do not have any individual organizations of the Priesthood in the New England Mission, but we are teaching the few members we have the meaning and power of the various offices of the Priesthood, and in our Youth organizations we are emphasizing the restoration of the Gospel and the coming of John the Baptist and Peter, James, and John who restored the full power of God to the Prophet Joseph and his brethren. This power we have to-day, and it is the one thing that is to bring a new life of Faith into the world. It is a truth of the highest importance, for man is made in the image of God. "God created man in His own image; in the image of God created He him." Man is divine; and in this day 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

when people are speaking of the hours of doom, we must stir that gift of God within us and within the world, for man can rise above sin and wrong and bring about the supremacy of Truth. We recall the last words that Jesus uttered when He sent His disciples forth : 

Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. 

That is the message that must ring true in our hearts to go forth into the world and preach the Gospel. We are told to keep the commandments of God, we who are divine in the sight of God sent into this life for a divine and holy purpose. If we will remember these divine words of Paul the Apostle we will keep the commandments of God, for we will look up and not down; and we will not leave this awful feeling of doom and despair, in our hearts, for God lives, and we have everything of beauty and truth and goodness. 

UNITED EFFORT NECESSARY TO SUCCESS 

Let me say in conclusion to all of us Seventies. We will be united as never before for this great cause. And if we are united, we will keep in mind these words of Paul : 

For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God. 

It is in God's love that we will be able to love mankind and in loving mankind we will love God, and it is with this spirit, my brethren and sisters, that the Elders, the missionaries, your sons and your daughters are going forth in the New England Mission; never with hate, never with unkindness, never with anything false, but with Truth, with kindness, with hope, and with a knowledge in their hearts that they are the servants of the living God. This is what I wanted to say to you as your servant and fellow-laborer and brother, and as a co-laborer with our fine boys and girls in New England. 

God bless us all that the truth of this message of the living God may live in our hearts forever, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the Temple Square Mission 

As you are aware, I am laboring in the Temple Square Mission. 

EARLY GUIDE SERVICE 

My first contact with guide service was when I was a young boy running up and down the dusty streets in my bare feet. We were living in one of the houses of Grandfather Taylor, and because of the interest in him, strangers who came to visit Salt Lake City were taken by the  driver past grandfather's homes. The hack driver would always stop and make explanations of who lived in the house or houses and something about the doctrines and practices of the Church. We boys used to line up quite near to the carriage and listen to the stories that were told by the driver. When the driver was through and commenced his way up the street, we trotted along in the dust and said in our indignation : "Liar, liar, liar." Mother didn't approve of it very much, not because we weren't telling the truth but because of the company we were keeping. She had the fine philosophy of life that it is never worthwhile to get even or to hurt people, when trying to put over your own cause. She also had in mind the good people who were riding in the carriage who had to listen to what was told them. 

BEGINNING OF THE BUREAU OF INFORMATION 

It was in 1901 that the thought came to some of the brethren that it would be a good thing if the Church would provide an organization to take care of this situation and enable our visiting friends to hear the story from our point of view instead of allowing men who were prejudiced and who were not familiar with the ways of life and doctrines of the Church to do all of the teaching. The matter was presented to the M. I. A. General Board and it resulted in a committee being organized to look after the strangers, especially those who were visiting within this sacred Block. Later it was taken over by the First Presidency, and a number of missionaries were called to labor on the Block. In the commencement of any new type of work the servants of the Lord are not only inspired in effecting its organization but they also have the inspiration to choose the type of men who will pioneer the movement. Even though the organization is important, it is just as important to select the right man to commence it. Brother Benjamin Goddard was chosen to do this work, and he laid a splendid foundation on which others who followed him might build. Others might continue to add to the building and perhaps to polish the stones but without such a solid foundation and introduction, I am quite sure that it would not be going along as efficiently as it is today. 

Succeeding Brother Goddard was President Levi Edgar Young; after him, Joseph S. Peery, and then Joseph J. Cannon. Each one has done a magnificent work in this Temple Square Mission. 

INTEREST IN THE WORK MANIFESTED 

The guides are all interested in the work. They are real missionaries. They are trying to do everything they can to inspire and put into the hearts of men and women a knowledge and testimony of the truthfulness of this great work. Sometimes when we discuss releasing missionaries they come and ask that extensions might be made in their case because they love the work and do not desire to be released. 

This year we have had around 416,000 people come to the Block as visitors. This is something like 89,000 more people than we had last 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 year. Today, because of war conditions and employment possibilities in different parts of the country, and because Europe is not open to travel, people are traveling extensively in this country. 

Among some of the interesting things to the tourists as they visit the Block are the way we handle our young people, both in a religious and a social way; our Temple work and the conception we have of the justice of God in requiring both the living and dead to do the same things in order to receive the same rewards; that men and women are able to obtain help and assistance, even though they may be on the other side. To them it is a new and thought-provoking doctrine. They are interested in our conception of marriage and family relationship, both here and hereafter. The doctrine that men and women, if they are faithful and true, may have each other, may have their children, may have their fathers and mothers in the eternities, is startling but satisfying. In speaking to a group one time, mention was made that women might have their husbands on the other side. A woman spoke up and said, "What! No rest in heaven" ? Undoubtedly this lady had not had such a happy married life, but as we talk about the Temple work and its possibilities, I notice that the older people who are in the crowd look at each other and draw a bit closer and one can almost hear them say, "That is what we would like to have happen to us." And the young couples who are traveling, perhaps on their honeymoon, hold each other's hand more firmly and one can almost hear them say, "God being willing, we will live this life righteously and have each other forever and ever." 

May the Lord bless us and keep us as we walk through life, that the inspiration and power of God shall always be with us and that we shall take a happy interest in men and women not of our faith, that they, too, might see and understand the beauty of the Gospel and eventually, because of the righteousness of their lives, find their way back into the presence of God, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

We shall now be favored with another selection from the Pasadena Stake Male Quartet. You will perhaps be interested to know that this quartet is made up of Brother George Waite, first tenor, from Eastmont Ward; Brother Monte Green, baritone, from the Montibello Ward; Brother Geert Hulshoff , basso, of Belvedere Ward; Albert Gish, second tenor, Monrovia Ward. All are High Priests in Pasadena Stake. They call the quartet Melkomen, which contains, you will recognize, the first syllable of the Melchizedek Priesthood. The brethren will now sing for us, "The Story of Old," by Parks; director, Brother A. M. Gish. 

The male quartet from Pasadena Stake sang "The Story of Old." — Parks. 

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles and President of the Northwestern States Mission 

All my life I have looked with the spirit of reverence upon this building. I never dreamed that one day I should be privileged to sit upon these red plush seats. Since living within a stone's throw of Temple Block, my mother was always anxious that we attend the two o'clock afternoon session each Sunday, and as a boy I used to say: 

Mother, it does not do any good for me to go over there, I just go to sleep. I cannot stay awake in the Tabernacle. 

Well, son, that shows there's a good spirit there. (Laughter) There is nothing to be afraid of, and I want you to go. 

But she was not speaking of today; for I am afraid. 

CONDITIONS IN THE NORTHWEST 

I come from the great Northwest where I am laboring with young men and women that are gloriously fine. There are about 130 of them in our Mission, and about 11,000 members of the Church that we have on record scattered throughout the Northwestern States — a glorious part of the world, the most beautiful perhaps of all the world. They are busy now because of the conditions that prevail in creating armament and ships, erecting airports and providing facilities so that the United States will be ready. There is not very much unemployment in the Northwest. Our farmers are having some difficulties up around the Missoula district, the rains have been so copious that the wheat is sprouting in the shocks; they are unable to thresh it. This has been a wet year. 

The Saints in the Mission are living the Gospel. The tithes have almost doubled this year over last year, and the missionaries have distributed more Books of Mormon than ever before. The people are openminded and kind to us. Rarely do we hear anyone criticise. 

VISIT TO ALASKA 

Recently it was my privilege to travel to the far north and visit Alaska, which is part of the Northwestern States Mission. We have established there in Fairbanks a nice Branch of the Church. The missionaries went there last winter. During the summer months we had six missionaries laboring in Alaska. The two that were assigned to Anchorage have been very successful in establishing a Branch which now is functioning on its own. The Branch President, Brother Joseph Tibbitts, is in charge, and the soldier boys, those of the airport, many of them members of our Church, are in attendance, and they find a great deal of comfort in being permitted to go to a Branch of the Church and participate there in the Sunday School and the Mutual Improvement organization. 

The Government is doing a tremendous job in that part of the world. There is a great airbase at Fairbanks, hangars the like of which 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 4 I have never seen in my life. Likewise in Anchorage, a city of 2500 people, now they have 12,000 people living there. In three or four days they erect themselves little homes, hammering together some twoby-fours and nailing cellotex on the sides. They are taking their families into these places and are rearing them. Rents are very high and the Government is paying tremendous wages to the workers there. 

As Brother Greenwood was talking this morning in the Welfare meeting, warning our people about leaving home and security to go away to work at jobs that will perhaps last but a few months, I thought of what happened when I was in Alaska. One man had taken his family all the way to Anchorage, and it takes a week on the ocean to get there — to get one of those big paying jobs that of course would be shortlived. He passed away and left his wife and three little children there with his mother-in-law, with no visible means of support, but thank God she had found a little Branch of the Church. We were able to finance her trip back to the States, where she was provided for, and where she had friends who could help her become located. 

HAPPINESS IN THE GOSPEL 

I am grateful for a Church that is practical, grateful for a Church that reaches into our everyday lives and makes us happy. No one can live the Gospel of Jesus Christ and not be happy. No matter what our difficulties may be or what our trials may be, there is always someone near by in our Church to help us. I found it to be true in Europe; in South Africa likewise, and in the far north of Alaska; always the same spirit, always the same love; always the desire upon the part of the presiding Authorities to bless and encourage and protect. What a Church is ours! What love goes out to the people! What love and devotion are expressed by the people and shown by the people for their leadership! How glorious it is to have men who are willing to sacrifice and give, as our leaders do, to be with us and to bless us! 

I am grateful for the opportunity that has come to me and mine to associate with the young people of the Church. 

FULFILMENT OF A PATRIARCHAL BLESSING 

When I was a lad, the Patriarch, placing his hands upon my head, said that my life should be cast with the youth of the Church. As a Bishop I took that to be my responsibility and labored with the young people. I labored for some thirteen years on the General Board of the Mutual Improvement Association, and as a Mission President. The work with these lovely young men and women who come out into the mission field has been the joy of my life, and they keep my wife and myself buoyant in our spirits and feeling every day to thank the Lord for our opportunities. And so the Lord has blessed us and helped us in the work that has been ours to do, and we are so grateful. 

THE TEMPLE AT CARDSTON PRAISED ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

 is an institution that bears a great influence among the people there, especially the membership of our Church. The leader of that institution is President Edward J. Wood. I am speaking of the Cardston Temple. I have discovered that permitting the missionaries to have one trip to the Cardston Temple has revitalized their lives, for they have not realized just what temple activity meant until they came under the spell of that man. 

A MISSIONARY HEALED THROUGH FAITH 

Not so very long ago a group of our missionaries were leaving Vancouver to take this trip over to Cardston to the Temple. One of these missionaries had had a drooping eyelid from his birth, and had been operated upon by the doctors, and had come under doctors' care, but had never been helped in the slightest degree. In talking with his District President he was talking about that eye, it worried him a bit. The District President said: 

Well, you know what happened to me. I had a blessing here last May and my eyesight has been restored and I do not even wear my glasses any more. Why don't you have your eye fixed while you are over there this time? Why not have President Wood give you a blessing? 

The missionaries went over to the Temple and finished their visit and were just on the point of leaving. President Wood came into the room just before they were going out of the temple and said: 

I understand there are some people here who want blessings. The spirit of healing is in the Temple, and if your faith is right, and if the Lord is willing, you may have the blessing you desire. 

That young Elder stood there and heard those remarks, and then President Wood bowed his head and began to pray. This Elder said to me : 

President Smith, while he was praying the most wonderful feeling came over me I shall never forget it all the days of my life. That eyelid went up, and I walked out of the temple with my eye healed. 

As I stood and looked at him and noticed that that eye was more open than the left one, I marveled at his condition. A month had passed since the occurrence, I had heard about it and was wondering whether it would remain so, but it has remained so, and he has called in all his one-eyed photographs from the missionaries and says he wants to give them one with his two eyes open instead of just the one. 

And so, my brethren and sisters, no matter what difficulties and trials come to us we always have access to our Heavenly Father who will always reward us if we are humble. Remember, when we do what He says then we have a promise. 

May God bless us all to remember this fact, that it is through our faith and through our works that our blessings come, and not through what others may do for us. May peace be in your homes, and joy and happiness be with you always, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

ELDER KENNETH R. STEVENS 

Former President of the Tahitian Mission 

My brethren and sisters : This is an unusual surprise to me, for I had not expected that the opportunity would be provided for me to occupy this position. Neither, however, did I anticipate that a call would place me in charge of one of the Missions of this Church. 

I bring you greetings from our brethren and sisters in the Gospel in the land of Tahiti, in the South Pacific. They are some 1500 strong, and in addition to those who claim membership in our Church, I also bring you greetings from some more than 20,000 residents of those islands who have an appreciation of our program, and though they do not claim membership in our Church, principally because of the habits which make it impossible for them to conform to our standards, yet they appreciate the value of our program in their midst and would hesitate to see it taken out entirely. They truly mourned the loss of the missionaries when they were withdrawn from those islands, and they look forward to the time when they may return. 

I rejoice that while being in the midst of that people I came to learn through their legends that there was a time when they believed in the Gods of heaven as we do, even a plurality of Gods, and that they believed in the creation of this earth even as our doctrine teaches. This, however, has been explained away and replaced by modern Christian doctrine which teaches of a God who is everywhere present, and so small He dwells in the human heart, but who has no parts nor passions, and by a different story of the creation. And so it thrilled me when our missionaries preached Mormonism to have those people nod their heads and say, "It sounds like the old doctrine which was common to our people." 

I bear you my testimony in humility that I appreciate my membership in the Church. I hold it dearly sacred, and trust that I may continue to be favored with activity in the Church, because I realize that only in that service is there safety for each of us. 

My testimony helps me to understand that it is God's Church to which we belong, that it was established under His own immediate supervision, and that the Church membership will be held individually responsible for its degree of adherence to the principles, ordinances, and covenants which we accept. 

And may I express my appreciation to my parents who helped me establish a foundation for the testimony I have of the Gospel. My father gave his life for the Gospel in the missionary service of the Church while laboring in New Zealand; and this sacrifice, while he was but a young man, made an indelible impression on my mind that our Church must have the Truth. The teachings of my widowed mother and the close and intimate friendship and association which we have been permitted to enjoy, have further aided me in standing by the Truth when I might have been tempted to do wrong. I am thankful that she still lives and continues to find joy and happiness in the program of the Church. 

God bless us all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My beloved brethren and sisters : It is a pleasure for me to stand before you and bear my testimony in this General Conference. I have been delighted with the spirit of the Conference thus far and with the messages we have heard. I am more than pleased that our beloved President is able to be with us and that God has given him the measure of health which he enjoys. I want to assure him that my prayer for him daily is that God will prolong his life so long as it is sweet for him and within the purposes of God that he should stand at the head of the Church. I enjoyed the message of each of his Counselors, and recommend to all of us that we carry those messages in our hearts and strive to live their import and purpose. 

I was very much pleased with what President McKay gave us this morning, with the message of cheer and comfort. He indicated that while we should be cheerful we should recognize the presence of certain evil practices within our midst. Some of those practices have come down to us from the past, and one hundred years of our life have not been sufficient to eradicate them from our midst. 

LATTER-DAY SAINT BELIEF REGARDING GOD 

In all our history we have claimed the right to worship God according to the dictates of our conscience, and we have added we extend to other people the same privilege. We have done that, we have offered in many instances the facilities of the Church for the worship of other denominations. We are a tolerant people, but I wish to suggest this morning that in the idea of toleration which we foster we should never think of adopting the practices of other people which are not according to our standards and beliefs. 

We can never for a moment fail to recognize the fact that we do worship God in a different manner from most people; that the type of God to which reference was just made is not the one we worship. We must always teach our children that the revelation to Joseph Smith of the identity and personality of God and Jesus Christ was real, and that as Latter-day Saints we should accept it as such. We should always teach them the necessity of living the standards of the Church — honesty, uprightness, integrity and virtues of many kinds, and chastity. 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG SHOULD BE TAUGHT 

Many people believe that naturally and inherently we know the difference between right and wrong. I am not a psychologist, but I have grown up with the belief that we have a God-given conscience that teaches us to do what we know to be right and restrains us from doing what we know to be wrong, but I am a firm believer in the fact that our idea of right and wrong has grown out of the ( revelations of God to mankind, and that it is established in the minds of our children by the teachings of their mothers and their fathers. If they fail to learn through our neglect that 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

certain things are wrong and do them, there is then the responsibility lying at the doors of their fathers and mothers. It is our duty as fathers and mothers to teach them frankly these things. It is our duty as leaders in the Priesthood quorums to discuss these things, to come to a mutual understanding of what is right and what is wrong, and to avail ourselves of public opportunity to teach our children so that no child growing up in our midst can say he has never been taught. 

I reiterate what I said here at one time, that when a person can go to an officer of the Church and say, "Nobody has ever taught me that a certain grievous sin that we decry is a sin," somebody is at fault, for every man and woman in our communities should know that adultery and fornication and kindred practices are sinful in the sight of God and in the sight of this community. And in all our liberality and in all the concession that we may make to the belief of other people, allowing them to worship how, when, where, and what they may, we can never recede from our standards and adopt theirs, and be true to the trust that God has placed in us, and true to the heritage that we have received from our fathers and our mothers. 

A TESTIMONY OF THE GOSPEL ADDS STRENGTH AGAINST TEMPTATION 

I believe it is a fortunate thing and a truth that we are superior in our private lives to our ancestors, and I believe that superiority has grown out of the testimony that has been handed down to us from our parents, and through the inspiration of God our Heavenly Father that this work is true, that it has given us a devotion which other people lack for the standards of righteousness and uprightness, of truth and integrity. 

I believe that we should stress them more, I believe that we should lay special stress upon the necessity of honesty in our dealings one with another, for the love of a man for his fellowmen cannot be fostered when he takes advantage of him in business relations or social contact. 

I pray that God will give us His Holy Spirit, that we may live these standards, that we may keep them dear to our hearts, that we may have the grace and the gift of appealing to our young people with confidence. When a boy comes to me and says, "I have done a certain thing, but I could not tell it to my father; I could not tell it to my Bishop," I feel that there has been a barrier raised between those people and him that ought to be removed, that never should have existed. And when another boy comes to me and says, "I have stopped this practice because my Bishop and came to me and put his arm around me, he is my friend," I know that in that instance at least there was no barrier and the Spirit of God had full play between those two, and that boy is well upon his way. That is my feeling, brethren and sisters, I believe it sincerely and honestly. I believe we should teach these things more carefully, more intimately in our homes, in our quorums, and in our contacts socially one with another. I may even be the keeper of my neighbor's son in that respect, and if I see an opportunity to help I have an obligation and duty to do so. 

May God help us to meet these responsibilties fully, completely. , that the generation that grows up at our feet may call us blessed because of the light that we have held to them in the battle of life, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH L. WIRTHLIN 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord will guide and direct me in my remarks this morning. 

THE AMERICAN CONSTITUTION INSPIRED 

As the Bible is referred to as "the law and the testimony" in a religious sense, the Constitution of the United States is "the law and the testimony" of American democracy. Its framers were inspired men, and the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts it as such in view of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith indicating that the Lord had a hand in the framing of this great document. I quote from Section 101 of the Doctrine and Covenants, Verse 77, wherein the Lord declares : 

According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained _ for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles. 

The American Constitution or Bill of Rights was paid for with the life blood of our Revolutionary fathers, and men for generations before them fought kings, died in battle, suffered imprisonment, and in some instances were executed in order to win personal freedom. 

EVENTS FORETOLD BY JEFFERSON 

The chief author of the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson, was not only an inspired man in what he advocated, but I believe he was blessed with the gift of prophecy* I should like to read a Jeffersonian prophecy to you : 

The spirit of the times may alter, will alter. Our rulers will become corrupt, our people careless. A single zealot may become persecutor, and better men be his victims. It can never be too often repeated, that the time for fixing every essential right, on a legal basis, is while our rulers are honest, and ourselves united. From the conclusion of this war (of the Revolution) we shall be going down hill. It will not then be necessary to resort every moment to the people for support. They will be forgotten, therefore, and their rights disregarded. They will forget themselves, but in the sole faculty of making money, and will never think of uniting to effect a due respect for their rights. The shackles, therefore, which shall not be knocked off at the conclusion of the war, will remain on us long, will be made heavier and heavier, till our rights shall revive or expire in a convulsion. 

AN APOSTASY FROM TRUE DEMOCRACY 

And as I view conditions today in the light of Jefferson's prophecy, 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Dag 

a great apostasy has taken place from "the law and the testimony" of American democracy, or the Constitution of the United States. Just as there has been an apostasy from the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, there has been an apostasy from those divinely given principles of Government which have been transmitted to us by the inspired men who founded this great nation. 

What is apostasy ? Webster defines apostasy as being : "Abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; total desertion of principles or faith." 

Stop and think for a moment if you will, of the statement of Jefferson and then of what is transpiring today. "A single zealot may become persecutor." And a situation of this kind is evidenced in our Government today wherein bureaucrats call free men before them, try them, and sentence them. In addition thereto, bureaucrats have assumed the right or taken the privilege of enacting law, depriving the national assembly and representatives of the people of the sole right to legislate, and have deprived the judiciary of its right to try offenders of the law. 

The people have been f orgotten by the administrators of their Government. There is no question about it. Many Governmental policies now in operation are being imposed upon the people without their consent or knowledge. In contemplation of these conditions, it can readily be seen that a great apostasy from "the law and the testimony" of the American democracy, the Constitution, is taking shape and form. 

Furthermore, the people are being lulled to sleep by an opiate called "borrowed prosperity." As Jefferson indicated, the people are so inclined toward the gaining of wealth they are forsaking the fundamental law of this great republic. 

A new danger — American being arrayed against American in a new line of class demarkation which will divide this great nation, and, as has been said, "a house divided against itself cannot stand." 

One of these groups in the face of a national emergency is literally lying down on the job, while our boys are in the military camps without proper weapons in their hands to learn the science of war. In the days of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln such a situation would have been handled as rebellion, and it should be handled as such today if America and American institutions are to continue. 

One of the great fundamentals advocated by the founders of this American nation was that of frugal administration of government affairs. Never before in the history of the world has there been such an extravagant expenditure of the people's money. 

Someone made reference to four or five freedoms. We have had more than four or five freedoms, for I think of at least the sixth one— the right under the Constitution of the United States for every man to work how, when, or where he will — and that right has disappeared. It is gone and now lies in the hands of a group who rule the laboring class of the United States. 

I point out these few facts to you in substantiation of the point that as a people and a government we are on the high road of apostasy from  inspired Bill of Rights bequeathed to us by the founders of this great republic. 

SOUTH CAROLINA POLITICS 

One of the most insidious practices was again drawn to our attention during the last two weeks, with reference to a Senatorial primary held in South Carolina. There were three candidates in the field for the office of United States Senator; and as usual there was the favored candidate. He called upon the "powers that be," returning to his State with the announcement to the voters that $28,000,000 would soon be spent for the development of certain power projects. 

This grant transmuted into votes, did not quite win the nomination. A run-off was required. The favored candidate's 48 per cent of the total vote was close to a majority, but to make it doubly sure, another $1,056,000 P. W. A. grant was made in favor of the capital of the State. ( Time, September 29, 1941 ) 

I say this candidate will be an expensive senator. He will have cost the voters of his State and of the United States $29,056,000. More than that, he is not worth one cent as a representative of the people of his State, for he is responsible to those who made it possible for the Federal Government to spend $29,056,000 for his State. He will become nothing more or less than a rubber stamp. 

In the light of the above practice, a new form of apostasy is taking place, in that politicians and government agencies bid for the votes of the people; and when the votes of the people are placed on the auction block to be purchased by the highest bidder, what will the outcome be ? 

DESTRUCTION OF FOOD DECRIED 

The founders of this great country believed in thrift and in conserving all of the country's resources, but again apostasy has been in the hearts of men. During the last ten years funds have been expended without regard to amounts, to use, or to the benefits derived from such wild expenditures — food was destroyed when there were hungry mouths that should have been provided with it. But thank God, in the Kingdom of the Christ now upon the earth, there are some modern Josephs of Egypt who during the time of wild spending and destruction of food advised this people to conserve their resources against the day of need. The day of need has arrived, as had been predicted. Millions of people in stricken Europe will feel the pangs of hunger. This day is now recognized by those who were responsible for the destruction of food, advising us to produce more, to practice the principle of conservation. Would it not have been a wiser policy to have heeded the inspired servants of God seven or eight years ago and saved that which was destroyed ? 

While the policy of producing more food and conserving it is being advocated on one hand, yet on the other hand those who are responsible for national finances continue to spend lavishly and without reservation 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

on projects which, in the ultimate, will be of but little benefit to the people as a whole. 

What will be the ultimate outcome of it all ? Thomas Jefferson has predicted what it will be, and may I repeat his statement to you : 

The shackles, therefore, which shall not be knocked off at the conclusion of the war, will remain on us long, will be made heavier and heavier, until our rights shall * * * expire in a convulsion. 

If our rights expire in a convulsion, the body politic now being slowly drugged by the opiate of a borrowed prosperity, will suffer a major financial operation, which will cause the death of the world's greatest democracy; and the vultures and the buzzards of some foreign "ism" will be waiting the moment to step in and devour the carcass. 

THE POSITION OF THE CHURCH 

There should be no question with reference to the stand of the members of the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ with reference to the principles of American democracy, for Brigham Young declared : 

I expect to see the day when the Elders of Israel will assist civil and religious liberty and every constitutional liberty bequeathed to us by our fathers, and spread these rights abroad in connection with the Gospel for the salvation of all nations. I shall see this whether I live or die. (J. of D. p. 553) 

Again he declared : 

I do not lift my voice against the great and glorious Government guaranteed to every citizen by our Constitution, but against those corrupt administrators who trample the Constitution and just laws under their feet. (J. of D. p. 555) 

And in making an effort for the preservation of our great Bill of Rights, may we do so energetically and willingly that others seeing our example will be inspired to follow after us and not for one moment to continue in the lethargy we are now in, for we may find ourselves in the position of a conquered and trampled France, best stated in the words of old Marshal Petain when he pronounced the following requiem over his stricken country: 

Our spirit of enjoyment was stronger than our spirit of sacrifice. We wanted to have more than we wanted to give. We tried to spare effort, and met disaster. 

After apostasy there is always an opportunity of restitution and restoration. I would to God that another angel could fly through the midst of heaven, as did that angel that John the Revelator saw, that angel which returned to earth and brought the Gospel of Jesus Christ! Oh, if such an angel could now fly through the midst of the heavens, warning and forewarning the American people of what ultimately lies before them, what a blessing it would be! But, on the other hand, I wish to assure you the Lord will not send an angel. It is not necessary, for His restored Church is upon the earth, and at its head there stands  Prophet, a Revelator, and a Seer who has warned this people and the American people over a period of many years. 

And now, I pray that those who belong to this Church will hearken to that warning. I sincerely hope the American nation will turn for counsel toward these great mountains where the House of the Lord is established, where His inspired servants may be found, and, above all, that this nation's people will hearken to that counsel, to achieve the place that Thomas Jefferson predicted would be our blessing if we followed the fundamentals of government as laid down by the founders of this great nation, and to avoid the catastrophe that now lies immediately ahead : 

Let us then with courage and confidence pursue our own Federal and republican principles, our attachment to our Union and representative government. Kindly separated by Nature and a wide ocean from the exterminating havoc of one quarter of the globe; too high minded to endure the degradations of the others; possessing a chosen country, with room enough for our descendants to the hundredth and thousandth generation; entertaining a due sense of our equal rights to the use of our own faculties, to the acquisitions of our industry, to honor and confidence from our fellow-citizens, resulting, not from birth, but from our actions and their sense of therrt; enlightened by a benign religion, professed, indeed and practised in various forms, yet all of them including honesty, truth, temperance, gratitude, and the love of man; acknowledging and adoring an overruling Providence which by all its dispensations proves that it delights in the happiness of man here and his greater happiness hereafter; and with all these blessings, what more is necessary to make us a happy and a prosperous people? Still one thing more, fellow citizens, a wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, which shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government, and this is necessary to close the circle of our felicities. 

As members of this Church we know what our relationship to the Government of the United States is. We know what our responsibilities are, for God has revealed them to us. I sincerely pray as citizens of the United States, as members of this great Church, we will set an example which will create, if it is possible, a restitution of all those glorious privileges and blessings that we have lost and are losing — and we will arouse America by our example. 

I testify to you that the destiny of this Church is leadership; it is God's Church, it is His work, and as Brigham Young declared, the Elders of the Church will not only carry the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the nations of the earth, but they will also carry those principles of freedom and equal rights, which will be beneficial to all flesh. 

May we, in the spirit of the martyred Emancipator, approach this task : 

With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan, to 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Dag 

do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations. 

that in the end, "this Government of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth." 

This I humbly pray will be its blessing, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

The singers from the Pasadena Stake have contributed to the inspiration of this very important meeting. We appreciate the service they have rendered and sincerely thank them. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "How Firm A Foundation." Elder William H. Reeder, Jr., President of the Mount Ogden Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


