Morning
03 10 1941

The opening session of the Conference convened Friday morning, October 3, at 10 o'clock. 

President Heber J. Grant was present and presided. President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, conducted the services. 

The music for this session was furnished by the combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of Bonneville, Cottonwood, Emigration, Ensign, Highland, and Wells Stakes. Brother Frank W. Asper was at the organ. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

At the request of President Grant, who is presiding on this occasion, and also President Clark, I now announce the opening of the 112th SemiAnnual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know that I express your feelings and the loving sentiments of the entire Church when I say that we are thankful and grateful that President Grant has sufficiently recovered from his recent illness to be present at this Conference. 

All official meetings are announced in the Conference Folder. Copies of the Folder are obtainable at the Tabernacle entrances, and all persons interested are requested to provide themselves with a copy and become acquainted with the announcements therein contained. 

Notice of all unofficial gatherings will be given in the Deseret News. 

Through the courtesy of Radio Station KSL, the proceedings of this Conference are being broadcast. It will be necessary, therefore, to make some announcements which to you who are present might seem unimportant or non-essential. 

There are present on the stand this morning President Grant and his two Counselors, all the members of the Council of the Twelve, all the Assistants to the Twelve, six of the First Council of the Seventy, and all the Presiding Bishopric. 

The combined choruses and the congregation sang the hymn, "O Ye Mountains High" — Penrose. 

Elder J. Emmett Bird, President of the Kolob Stake, offered the invocation. 

The combined choruses of Relief Society Singing Mothers sang "Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord" — Evan Stephens. (Arranged for Singing Mothers by Wade N. Stephens) Director : Josephine Brower of the Wells Stake. 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE— 1941 

Elder Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference, read for the information of the Conference the following report of changes : 

Special Appointments : 

Hugh B. Brown, appointed Religious Coordinator of military camps, with headquarters in California. 

Marion G. Romney, one of the five Assistants to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, appointed Assistant Managing Director of the Church Welfare Plan. 

J. Karl Wood, principal of the seminary at Hyrum, Utah, appointed Supervisor of the Church Seminary system. 

New Mission Presidents : 

Ernest C. Rossiter, manager of Temple Square Hotel, appointed to succeed Eugene M. Cannon as President of the Tahitian Mission. 

Elbert R. Curtis, second counselor in Granite Stake Presidency, appointed to succeed President W. W. Seegmiller of the Western States Mission. 

William L. Warner of Richfield, Utah, member of Sevier Stake Presidency, appointed to succeed President EIRay L. Christiansen of the Texas Mission. 

Walter Miller of Taber, Alberta, Canada, appointed to preside over the newly-formed Western Canadian Mission, with headquarters at Edmonton, Alberta. President Miller is under the supervision of the presidents of Alberta, Lethbridge, and Taylor Stakes. 

New Stake Organised : 

The South Salt Lake Stake was organized August 31, 1941, by a division of Wells and Grant Stakes, and consists of Burton, Columbus, Central Park, Eldredge, Southgate, and Miller wards. The Wells Stake is now composed of Belvedere, Ivins, Jefferson, McKay, McKinley, Waterloo, Wells, and Whittier Wards. The Grant Stake is now composed of East Mill Creek, Grandview, Hillcrest, Wandamere, Wilford, and Springview Wards. 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Day 

Stake Presidents Chosen: 

William A. Pettit chosen president of the Pasadena Stake, to succeed President Bertram M. Jones. 

Claudius Brown chosen president of the Twin Falls Stake, to sue-  ceed President Jesse W. Richins. 

Christian Call chosen president of the Idaho Stake, to succeed President Alonzo J. Gilbert. 

Dermont Madsen chosen president of the Moroni Stake, to succeed President Joseph R. Christiansen. 

Axel J. Andresen chosen president of the newly-organized South Salt Lake Stake. 

Owen G. Reichman chosen president of the Bonneville Stake, to succeed President Marion G. Romney. 

New Wards Organized: 

St. Anthony Third Ward, Yellowstone Stake, formed by a division of the St. Anthony First Ward. 

San Bernardino Second Ward, San Bernardino Stake, formed by a division of the San Bernardino Ward and from the Colton Branch. 

Bonneville Ward, Bonneville Stake, formed by a division of the Yale and Yalecrest Wards. 

Springview Ward, Grant Stake, formed by a division of the Wandamere Ward. 

Eldredge Ward, South Salt Lake Stake, formed by a division of the Miller Ward. 

Capitol Ward, Washington Stake, formed by a division of the Washington Ward. 

Independent Branches Made Wards : 

Homedale Ward, Nampa Stake, formerly Homedale Branch. 

San Bernardino Second Ward, formerly Colton Branch and part of San Bernardino Ward. 

Ivins Ward, St. George Stake, formerly Ivins Branch. 

Flagstaff Ward, Snowflake Stake, formerly Flagstaff Branch. 

La Cienega Ward, Inglewood Stake, formerly La Cienega Branch. 

Rockport Ward, Summit Stake, formerly Rockport Branch. 

Everett Ward, Seattle Stake, formerly Everett Branch. 

New Independent Branches : 

Canal Zone Branch, independent of any stake or mission, to be accountable directly to Church headquarters in Salt Lake City. 

Hawthorne Branch, Reno Stake. 

Ward Disorganised : 

Rosette Ward, Bear River Stake, merged with Park Valley Ward — new unit to be known as the Park Valley Ward. 

Ward Transferred: 

Papago Ward transferred from Phoenix Stake to Maricopa Stake. 

Ward Name Changed: 

San Bernardino Ward, San Bernardino Stake, name changed to San Bernardino First Ward. 

Branch Name Changed: 

Snake Valley Branch, Nevada Stake, name changed to Garrison Branch. 

Obituary; 

Rulon S. Wells, senior president of the First Council of Seventy, member of the Council of Seventy for 48 years, former European Mission President, and member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. for 29 years, died May 7, 1941. 

John Wells, counselor in the Presiding Bishopric for 20 years, died April 18, 1941. 

B. Cecil Gates, Church music composer, conductor, and director, former member of the Y. M. M. I. A. General Board and of the Church General Music Committee, died August 29, 1941. 

Alfred Cornelius Rees, member of the General Board of the Deseret Sunday School Union, and former president of the East German Mission, died July 26, 1941. 

Mrs. Stringham Stevens (Beatrice Farley Stevens), member of the General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society since 1937, chairman of the Society's music committee, and also active in M. I. A. and Primary work, died June 19, 1941. 

Mrs. Isaac Brockbank (Mary Park Brockbank), 98 years old, believed to be the last surviving pioneer of 1847, died August 18, 1941. 

L. A. Ramsey, noted Utah artist, who has painted a number of religious portraits and subjects for the Church, died May 11, 1941. Fourteen of his portraits now hang in the Salt Lake Temple. 

Bishops who have passed away while in the service : 

Bishop J. Alma Smith of the Bridgeland Ward, Duchesne Stake, died March 28, 1941, after having served 2y 2 years. 

Bishop John O. Smith of the Malta Ward, Raft River Stake, died April 28, 1941, after having served Ay 2 years. 

Bishop Milton Bodell, Herriman Ward, West Jordan Stake, died June 18, 1941, after having served five years. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

With gratification to our Father in Heaven for the preservation of the life of our beloved President, it is now my supreme joy to announce our next speaker, President Heber J. Grant. 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Dag 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I shall not speak loud, I would like the people at the rear of the room, if they are hearing me now, to raise their hands. (Many hands were raised.) Thank you. 

EXPLAINS CONDITION OF HEALTH 

The doctor gave me only twenty minutes, but I have concluded to take a lot more than twenty minutes. By not speaking loud I do not believe it will hurt me; I hope not at least. 

I have been asked for a year and a half, in fact a little longer than that, "How do you feel?" I have said, "Better than yesterday," and I believe it is true, but the improvement has been limited, and I am not yet in good health. Judging from the newspapers one would think I was in first class condition, but they overdid it. 

I am very, very happy to be here this moirning, grateful beyond my power of expression for the blessings of the Lord, when I realize that I could not move my left arm at all, nor my left leg; that I could not possibly touch my chin with my fingers; that one of my eyes was crooked; and that my mouth was twisted. I feel very happy that I look quite natural, in fact I think I look better than I am. 

I thought I was better than I am, and the doctor had only allowed me two hours a day. I spent four hours and twenty minutes one day, and I felt so fine that after dinner I went down to the doctor's office to insist on having four hours a day, only to be sent home and sent to bed. He discovered that my blood pressure had gone out of sight, and so I have not tried to fool him since. However, I am glad to say that he has now given me two and a half hours a day instead of two, to attend to the duties that devolve upon me. 

I went to the wonderful banquet that was held in Provo for fiftyyear students at the Brigham Young University, and it lasted over three hours. I did not get to sleep until along about one o'clock in the morning. Then I attended the Commencement exercises which lasted another three hours the following day. I tried my best to go to sleep in the back seat of a car while driving from Provo to Salt Lake, and failed. The following day I got a sentence of ten days in bed. So I am not looking for a sentence today. The doctor told me that he thought twenty minutes should be my limit, and that I ought to go to one meeting a day only during this Conference. I telephoned to him this morning that I had had a very strenuous day yesterday, but I had had a wonderfully good night last night, and I wanted more than twenty minutes. 

He said: "I will come to your house at twelve o'clock today to see how you are. I am not going to take a chance." 

A SERMON DELIVERED IN THE PAST 

Instead of trying to prepare a sermon I have decided, as Brother Preston Nibley gave me on the first Sunday of September his book, Presidents of the Church, which he has just published, — he told me this  the first copy off the press — to read something from it. I have read it through since then; that is, I have read part of it, and had my family read the rest to me. I am very pleased with the book, and I find there are several long-winded talks of mine in it. I have decided that the talk which I made when I became the President of the Church is as good, if not better, than I can possibly make in my present condition of health, so I am going to read from that, and I am going to read slowly; I am not going to read loudly, and if the people in any part of the house are not hearing me I wish they would raise their hands, and I shall try to raise my voice a little, but not very much. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITHES BLESSING 

President Joseph F. Smith as you know died on November 19, 1918, and the night that he died I visited him. His hand was strong, and he shook hands with me vigorously and freely and made the following statement : 

The Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord bless you, you have a great responsibility. Always remember this is the Lord's work, and not man's. 

I wish to the Lord that all the people would remember that, who are members of the Church, and try to seek the Lord first and not something else. 

The Lord is greater than any man. He knows who he wants to lead his Church and never makes any mistake. The Lord bless you. 

These are the last words that Joseph F. Smith spoke to anybody. 

PLEDGES MADE IN FIRST ADDRESS 

In my first address I said : 

I feel humble beyond any language with which God has endowed me to express it, in standing before you here this morning, occupying the position in which you have just voted to sustain me. I recall standing before an audience in Tooele, after having been sustained as president of that Stake when I was a young man 23 years of age, pledging to that audience the best that was in me. I stand here today in all humility, acknowledging my own weakness, my own lack of wisdom and information, and my lack of ability to occupy the exalted position in which you have voted to sustain me. But as I said as a boy in Tooele, I say here today, that by and with the help of the Lord, I shall do the best that I can to fulfill every obligation that shall rest upon me as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to the full extent of my ability. 

I will ask no man to be more liberal with his means than I am with mine, in proportion to what he possesses, for the advancement of God's Kingdom. I will ask no man to observe the Word of Wisdom any more closely than I will observe it. I will ask no man to be any more conscientious and prompt in the payment of his tithes and his offerings than I will be. I will ask no man to be more willing to come early and go late, and to labor with full power of mind and body, than I will labor, always in humility. I hope and pray for the 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Day 

blessings of the Lord, acknowledging freely and frankly that without the Lord's blessings it will be an impossibility for me to make a success of the high calling whereunto I have been called. But, like Nephi of old, I know the Lord makes no requirement of the children of men save He will prepare a way for them, whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has required. With this knowledge in my heart I accept the great responsibility without fear of the consequences, knowing that God will sustain me as He has sustained all of my predecessors who have occupied this position, provided always, that I shall labor in humility and in diligence, ever seeking for the guidance of His Holy Spirit; and this I shall endeavor to do. 

GRATEFUL FOR THE SPIRIT OF GOOD WILL EXISTING 

I think that we as a people have very great cause to rejoice in the era of good will and fellowship that is existing towards us as a people among those who are not of our faith, in comparison with the conditions that existed some years ago. I do not know of any single thing that has happened in my experience during the long time that I have been one of the General Authorities of the Church [46 years at that time] that has impressed me more profoundly with the change in sentiment towards the Latter-day Saints than the reception that was accorded to me December last when I went to Kansas City and delivered a speech upon the accomplishments of Mormonism. When I reflect upon the fact that in the leading hotel in that wonderful and progressive city ... I was permitted to stand up within ten miles of Independence, the place from which the Latter-day Saints were expelled, by an expulsion and exterminating order of the governor of the State, Governor Boggs, and to proclaim the accomplishments of the Latter-day Saints; to relate the prophecies of Joseph Smith, to give to those men that were there assembled — over 300 of the leading influential business men of the city — the testimony of Josiah Quincy regarding the Prophet Joseph Smith — 

KANSAS CITY SPEECH 

You are all aware of that wonderful testimony to the effect that of all the men whom he had ever met, the Prophet was one of the greatest, etc. It takes over a page arid a half to relate it, so I shall not read any part of it. 

To repeat to them the great pioneer hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints;" to relate the hardships, the drivings and the persecutions of the Latter-day Saints, and to have that body of representative men receive that address with approval, applaud it in many places, and many of them come to me after the meeting and shake hands and congratulate me upon the address; and to have some of the members of the Board of Directors of that great club — the Knife and Fork Club of Kansas City — (which I understood is second only to the Gridiron Club at Washington) — to have them say that they hoped for a return date so that they could hear more of our people — 

I was requested afterwards to return and make a speech before the Chamber of Commerce. I was requested in the first speech to tell only of the accomplishments of the Church financially and otherwise, but the request came afterwards to return and tell of our faith, and later I delivered an address quoting the Articles of Faith and giving the best that was in me. The secretary said that he wished that the six thousand  of the Chamber of Commerce could have a copy of the speech. I told him we had a printing office ten miles away, and that he should have six thousand copies. I do not know whether he ever delivered them or not, but I mailed them. 

To have them say that they hoped for a return date so that they could hear more of our people; and then stop to reflect upon the fact that the Prophet and his followers in the early days were expelled from Missouri; that many of them were murdered; that all kinds of crimes were committed upon the people; that their property was confiscated; that we have never received anything for our property that belonged to us in that section, that today some of the valuable country we traveled over there is the very property that our people owned, (for when you follow up many abstracts of valuable property you will find that the title centers in the bishop of the Mormon Church) — 

I told them I owned indirectly through the Church half of Kansas City, but I could not get any of it. 

I say to stop and reflect that the drivings and the persecutions of the Latter-day Saints, of which no tongue can tell and no pen can paint the conditions; and then to realize that there is a feeling in that community now, among the people residing in the very place, so to speak, 'from which President Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Living God and others were driven out; to be invited to go there and be asked to talk of the accomplishments of Mormonism, and to have that talk received with open arms, shows the most wonderful change in sentiment. 

HONORED AT A DINNER 

And to have a dinner given to me three years ago by the leading people of this city, and to have telegrams from New York to San Francisco of good will and congratulations; to have our newspapers, all of them, give splendid accounts, and to have the paper that used to abuse us give us the finest kind of treatment today — the change that has come about, I am grateful for beyond all my power of expression. 

OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH ADVISED TO KEEP COMMANDMENTS 

I announced here at the Priesthood meeting last night, and I have decided to announce it again, that we expect all the General Officers of the Church — [and when I say all I mean all], each and every one of them, from this very day, to be absolute full tithe-payers, to really and truly observe the Word of Wisdom; and we ask all of the officers of the Church and all members of the General Boards, and all Stake and Ward officers, if they are not living the Gospel and honestly and conscientiously paying their tithing, to kindly step aside unless from this day they live up to these provisions. 

I repeat it and emphasize it today, we do not want any man or any woman occupying a position who is not keeping the commandments of God. 

We feel that in all the Stakes, every Stake President, every counselor to a Stake President, every Stake Clerk, and every High Councilor, standing at the head of the people in the Stake — we ask 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Day 

them to kindly step aside unless they are living up to these laws. They are given the responsibility of presiding, and every officer who is a presiding officer should say from today: I am going to serve the Lord, so that my example will be worthy of imitation. 

No man can teach the Word of Wisdom by the Spirit of God who does not live it. No man can proclaim this Gospel by the Spirit of the Living God unless that man is living his religion; and with this great undertaking that we have before us now we must renew our loyalty to God, and I believe beyond a shadow of doubt that God inspires and blesses, and multiplies our substance when we are honest with Him. 

I not only believe it, but I know it. The great majority of all the Latter-day Saints that are honest tithepayers are the most prosperous of all the people. I am not talking of individual exceptions. God says that "When you do what I say, I am bound," and He has said that people rob Him in their tithes and their offerings, and we want it stopped. 

I want to leave with this vast audience my deep appreciation of all that has been said here. I endorse it with all my heart, and I renew again everything that I said in the ten or fifteen minutes at the close of our Conference six month ago, and I renew it again today. I ask every man and woman occupying a place of responsibility whose duty it is to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to live it and to keep the commandments of God, so that their example will teach it; and if they cannot do it we will go on loving them, we will go on putting our arms around them, we will go on praying for them that they may become strong enough to live it. But unless they are able to live it we ask them to please step aside so that those who are living it can teach it. No man can teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ under the inspiration of the living God and with power from on high unless he is living it. He can go on as a member and we will never put a block in his way, because the Gospel is one of love and of forgiveness, but we want true men and women as our officers in the Priesthood and in the Relief Societies, and in all the organizations, and a man has no right to be in a High Council who cannot stand up and say that he knows the Gospel is true and that he is living it. 

TESTIMONY AS TO THE BOOK OF MORMON 

Now I have a lot more. The doctor said I was to speak but once. I am going to speak again, so I think I will quit for this time. I rejoice beyond all the power of expression which God has given me that I know the Gospel is true. I rejoice that there came into my heart as a boy, probably not quite sixteen, when I read the Book of Mormon faithfully and diligently and prayerfully, a perfect assurance that it was true and I have never met anything since then, and that is nearly seventy years ago, that has ever weakened my faith in the Book of Mormon. 

I am grateful that there came into my heart a love and admiration for Nephi, and I am grateful that that man believed and taught and declared that God asked nothing of men but what He prepared the way whereby they could do that thing that He required. There is nothing that God asks of you or of me but what you could do, and do easily, and if you do it God will bless you, and if you do not do it you will lose your faith and we will have to labor with you to try to warm up your hearts and get you back again. 

PRAISES PAST LEADERS 

God lives. God directs the affairs of this Church. Tin's is the work of God. And the men whom the Lord has chosen, as recorded in this book, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith — I knew and loved them all except the Prophet, and I loved him with all my heart because of the testimony of my dear mother that he was the finest man that ever lived; and the same testimony time and again was given by Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Emmeline B. Wells and the other leading women of the Relief Society. My mother was president for thirty years of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. I grew up as a little boy in the Relief Society meetings, and the sisters who knew the Prophet Joseph, fine, lovely, intelligent, wonderful women, all stated that he was the most noble, splendid man that ever lived. 

I was intimate from the time I was a child of six with Brigham Young. I attended many times his prayer meetings in the Lion House. On two occasions when he was praying I turned and looked. It seemed as though he had the Lord right there talking to him and asking him what he wanted and telling him what he needed. 

I was very glad the last time I saw him and shook hands with him to have him smile and make me a promise. I had been elected Assistant Cashier of Zion's Savings Bank. I was not only the assistant cashier, but I was the janitor, the paying and receiving teller, the bookkeeper and the whole thing. I closed the bank Wednesday evenings and put a sign on the door, "This bank will open at 12 :30 tomorrow. The assistant cashier has gone to Fast meeting." 

BLESSED THROUGH MAKING A GENEROUS DONATION 

We used to have Fast meetings on Thursdays, and while I happen to think of it I will tell you about one of those Fast meetings. 

Bishop Edwin D. Woolley made an exceptional talk and he pleaded with the people to be honest with the Lord and to be generous with their money, and he was generous with his. I know it because I used to help him in keeping his books. Among other things he said, "The Lord rewards men four-fold." I happened to have fifty dollars in my pocket. The bank had not opened and I could not deposit it. After the meeting I handed the money to the Bishop and he said, "My boy, why five dollars would be your share of this." I said, "Brother Woolley, didn't you say the Lord rewards four-fold ? My dear mother needs a couple of hundred dollars." {Laughter). He smiled and said, "My boy, do you expect to get it quicker if I take that other forty-five dollars ?" He had taken the five and shoved forty-five back to me. I said, "I certainly do. I thought you were inspired in your talk and I believe every word you said." 

Walking to the bank an idea popped into my head. I went into Wells-Fargo Bank, where I had worked, and made arrangements for them to cash my draft on New York for a sum sufficiently large to take care of all I could possibly buy of certain bonds within forty-eight hours. 



12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Dag 

They said, "Certainly your credit will be good if you get authority from the man to whom you are shipping the bonds." So I wired the man in New York, whom I knew, and I made $218.50 in two days. I went to the Bishop and told him that the Lord did not give me sufficient in addition to pay all the tithing, that I had to dig up the difference between twenty-one and a fraction dollars and eighteen dollars and fifty cents to pay my tithing. I got my two hundred dollars. 

I have had my prayers answered time and time again, and not only have I had my prayers answered but I know as I know that I live that God hears and answers the prayers of honest people. I know He saved the life of my little girl when she was dying, who is now the head of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement 'Association. 

AN INSPIRED PATRIARCHAL BLESSING 

I know that He inspired John Rowberry to give me a blessing that I should leave Tooele and become one of the leading men in the Church, and it came true. And he said, "I saw something while blessing you that I dare not put in your blessing," and it came to me as plain as though a voice had said it, "He saw you as the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." I afterwards thought, "My gracious, I must be silly to think that that is true,", and I never breathed it or said a word about it until that came to me. He gave me a marvelous blessing. 

And he blessed that little girl. She was very, very sick, a child just a few months old. He gave her a fine blessing, and then he turned to me and said, "While we were blessing the child did you get the inspiration of the Lord that she should live ?" I said "No." He said : "I did. Go to that desk and get a piece of paper, and let me give this child her patriarchal blessing." He promised her many, many things, and he promised her life. She lived and those things have been fulfilled. 

DAUGHTER HEALED BY THE POWER OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

When she was dying in Washington and I was praying to the Lord to spare her life, it came to me as plain as any voice ever spoke, although I heard nothing : "Send for the Elders to rebuke the destroyer, and your child shall live." 

Brother George Q. Cannon and Brother Hiram B. Clawson were in Washington at the time. I sent for them, they blessed her and promised her life and many things, all of which have been fulfilled; and among other things, they announced that the adversary had decreed her death, but by the authority of the Priesthood of the living God they rebuked this decree and promised her life. 

Before leaving Washington I was in the boarding house where the children had been sick, and the lady who kept the boarding house had left for the day. Her husband was there and he said to me : "I will have to tell you a joke on my wife. She believes in spiritualistic mediums." So do I but I believe they are inspired of the devil. I said to the man, "I am glad to hear your message." He told me that his wife went to the medium, and the medium said : "I see two little girls in your home, and I see that the older one is taken sick. I now see that the next one is sick. And I see them sick nigh unto death. I now see the younger girl die. I see her body put in a coffin, and I see it taken to a railroad station. I see it go through great cities, I now see it cross a great river, I now see it go through some more great cities, and I see it cross another great river. Now I see it travel through a sparsely settled country." You all know that forty years ago, after crossing the Mississippi and the Missouri rivers, the country this side of Omaha was a sparsely settled country. "I see it go west, west, climbing mountains, mountains, mountains. I see it stop and go south a little way" — from Ogden to Salt Lake. "I see the coffin taken off the train, then taken to a side hill and buried, in a place almost completely surrounded by mountains." 

Thank God for the authority of the Priesthood of the living God that rebuked the decree of death! The medium who told what was going to happen, told what the devil would like. But thank God for the Priesthood, and she is alive and well, and is the mother of seven fine children and the grandmother of eight more. 

God bless you one and all, I ask it in the name of our Redeemer. Amen. 

The combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers sang "Cradle Song" — Brahms. Director Meryl T. Cardall of the Emigration Stake. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brothers and sisters : In common with you, I have been inspired and made grateful by the message which has been delivered by President Heber J. Grant, the representative of God on this earth. May we hearken to what he has said, may we obey his counsel in all things. I know him to be a righteous man, a man whom God loves, and to whom God reveals His mind and His will, and this is my testimony to you and to the world. May God spare him yet many years to guide and direct this people. 

THE CHURCH IN A PROSPEROUS CONDITION 

I thought perhaps I might begin my remarks by saying to you a few things about the Church in general. As I have explained to you before, we build at the beginning of each year a budget in which we allocate to the various activities of the Church certain funds which we hope — and as to which our hopes have always been realized — you brethren and sisters will furnish by your tithes and offerings. And may I say here, with gratitude to our Heavenly Father, and with congratulations to you and to the Church generally, that this promises to be the banner year of the Church in the matter of tithes and offerings. We are living within our budget, and we are doing this so far, notwithstanding the fact that 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Day 

the cost of building and of materials generally which we have to use in our work has considerably advanced. 

Our great building projects completed during the year, or which are now going on, are the Idaho Falls Temple, which we are pushing rapidly to a conclusion; the Joseph Smith Memorial building down at the Brigham Young University which is finished and will be dedicated soon, and the various Ward buildings which we are building all over the Church. 

We have been most grateful for your work in carrying on the beautification program. All over the Church it is noticeable that we are improving our yards, cleaning them up, painting our buildings, repairing the fences, things that we should do, because the Lord loves order and He loves us to live in orderly places. 

The Relief Society just now is making a drive, as you know, to reach one hundred thousand members. We hope that all Bishops will cooperate with the presidents of the Relief Societies of their Wards in helping to attain this desired end. 

THE TRUE MEANING OF FAST OFFERINGS 

There has been some good deal of talk among the people with reference to Fast offerings, and I should like to repeat here what was said yesterday, both by President McKay and by myself, before the Bishops : Do not, brethren and sisters, and members of the Church generally, get the impression that a dollar is the ceiling on Fast offerings. A dollar is the ceiling which we said we hoped you might at least reach for one year, but the real ceiling of the Fast offering is the price of two meals per month for the twelve months : not a dollar, but the price of the meals. If you have a five cent meal, then twelve times ten would be one dollartwenty cents; if you have a ten cent meal it would be two-forty a year; if you have a fifteen cent meal, it would be three dollars and sixty cents; and if you have a twenty cent meal — and most of you eat that kind of meal — then you owe the Lord and the poor four dollars and eighty cents as your Fast offering. 

WORK GOING ON IN FOREIGN LANDS 

We are glad to say that the missionary work is going forward in these war times in foreign countries. We are having some difficulty in getting missionaries into some countries, but we hope and shall try to carry on to the full extent possible this missionary work in foreign lands. 

CHURCH ACTIVITIES IN ARMY CAMPS AND DEFENSE INDUSTRIES 

You have already heard of the appointment of Brother Hugh B. Brown to help in the army camps. We may say that Brother Brown is being received most kindly. He is going around to the different camps, he is trying to get in touch with the sons whom you have sent into those camps. He is trying to arrange so that these boys who are there can, if they wish, carry on their work as Latter-day Saints. Recently we asked the Bishops to notify you that we could supply, through the Deseret Book Company, three books that you might send to your sons who are in the army camps, at cost. You can send the Book of Mormon, the Articles of Faith by Brother Talmage, and a Song Book, for one dollar and three cents, or if you send another Song Book it costs one dollar thirty-three cents. I think there are few if any Latter-day Saints who could not send their boys in the camps these books properly inscribed. I can assure you from the reports that we have received that practically nothing you can do will do more to hold these boys along the road that you want them to travel than for you to send these books. We have arranged that where the people are tob poor to spend a dollar on their sons, we can take care of it. 

We are also trying to organize the defense workers who are working in defense industries, particularly on the Western Coast; we are arranging with the Presidents of the Stakes in that section to cooperate together and coordinate their labors to bring these young boys into the Wards, where they are in the Stakes, and into the Branches, where they are in the Missions, so that they can participate in Church activities. We are trying to arrange so that no one will be neglected or be forgotten, and that everybody will have an opportunity, every young man who wishes it, to continue his activities in Church work to the utmost limit that is possible under the conditions. 

SEES PERILOUS TIMES 

We come here today, my brethren and sisters, all of us, with faith, we hope with testimony. We come here in the hope that the Lord will inspire those who speak to us, so to speak that we may gain strength, increased knowledge, that our testimonies will be intensified and made stronger to the end always that we may be able to live the Gospel and enjoy its blessings. We all know how we ought to live, I do not need to tell you about that, but I do perhaps need to exhort myself and to exhort you to live as we know we ought to live. 

I have in the past, for the last eight years, talked about the perilous times that were coming, and now about the perilous times that we are in. I do not intend to go over that ground again, but I do call your attention to the fact that we urge upon you thrift, economy, getting out of debt, and keeping out of debt. We have told you about the bad effects of interest; we have told you about the war prosperity, and the depression which is to come. All that has been said in the past, all that I have said, I want to incorporate here by reference. We said these things when it was unpopular to say them, when we were thought to be going against the course we should go, but now everybody is talking about these things, and we do hope that the people will realize that, after all, the old virtues are the sound ones, the old virtues are the things upon which we must build. . 

I have also talked about our participation in the war, and I told you years ago that there was to be an effort to take our boys across the Water. You do not need to have any doubt about it now, I suppose. 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Day 

It is not only being sought for on the other side, but it is being planned for on this side. 

I have also spoken about what I will call commodity insurance, remembering that sometime you may be ill, that sometime you may be thrown out of employment, sometime you may have death in your homes; remembering that your crops may sometimes fail. We have urged you to get enough material together so that you would have some insurance against those conditions. I am talking about foodstuffs and the things that are necessary in our living. I renew that suggestion. 

WARNING AGAINST COMMUNISM 

I have been preaching against Communism for twenty years. I still warn you against it, and I tell you that we are drifting toward it more rapidly than some of us understand, and I tell you that when Communism comes, the ownership of the things which are necessary to feed your families is going to be taken away from us. I tell you freedom of speech will go, freedom of the press will go, and freedom of religion will go. 

I have warned you against propaganda and hate. We are in the midst of the greatest exhibition of propaganda that the world has ever seen, and all directed toward one end. Just do not believe all you read. 

EARLY LEADERS REBUKED BY THE LORD 

The First Presidency was organized in March of 1833. In May of that year the Lord gave a revelation to the Prophet, and I am going to read a few verses from that revelation, because I think the instructions and the admonition and the command here given are of the last and ultimate importance today. 

But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth. 

But verily I say unto you, my servant Frederick G. Williams, you have continued under this condemnation; 

You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction. 

I am reading from the 93rd section of the Doctrine and Covenants. 

And now a commandment I give unto you — if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house. 

Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he has not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, first set in order thy house. 

Verily, I say unto my servant Joseph Smith Junior, or in other words, I will call you friends, for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me —  

I called you servants for the world's sake, and ye are their servants for my sake — 

And now, verily I say unto Joseph Smith Junior, — you have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand rebuked before the Lord; Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place. 

What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always lest that wicked one have power in you, and remove you out of your place. 

My servant Newel K. Whitney also, a bishop in my Church, hath need to be chastened, and set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home, and pray always, or they shall be removed out of their place. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO TEACH CHILDREN 

Now, as I see it, my brethren and sisters, that is the crying need of the Church today. We must set in order our own houses, we must see that our children are properly taught; they must understand what the commandments of the Lord are, and we shall not have our skirts clear if we do not do all that is in our power, not alone by precept, but by example, in bringing them to live according to the principles of the Gospel. In no other way can salvation and exaltation come, and our troubles will be great, even as the Lord told the First Presidency over a hundred years ago, our troubles will be great if we fail in teaching our children properly. We are coming too much to the point where we condone sin instead of forgiving the repentant sinner, and there is a great difference between those two things. The Lord has said He cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, and yet He has proclaimed time and time again His willingness to extend mercy, to extend forgiveness, to receive back that person who, sinning, has sincerely repented, and by this ye shall know that they have repented, namely, that they confess their sins and forsake them. 

It is becoming a practice today to try to coax, cajole, buy children to be good. We hesitate, some of us, to say to children, you must not do this, you must not do that, and to our young people we hesitate to do this, because we may offend them. The Lord has made it perfectly clear, from Adam until now, and has told us in no unmistaken words, that there are certain things "thou shalt not" do. Adam fell because he violated one "Thou shalt not." Moses from Sinai gave a whole series of commandments, only one of which has not "Thou shalt not" in it. 

My brethren and sisters, our young people welcome, they expect that we shall tell them what to do and what not to do, and what not to do must be told them in such language, in such terms, and with such emphasis that they are not left in doubt. Try this on your young people and you will be amazed at the response you will get. They are hungering for the Gospel. See to it that we do not starve them; they must be fed. 

My time is up. May the Lord bless you. May He bless all of us. May He increase our faith, our testimony. May He give us all of the things that we need spiritually and temporally, so that we can perform our duties, so that we can set our houses in order, so that we can save our children, for their sakes, for our own sakes, because otherwise the Lord will not bless us, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 ELDER CLIFFORD E. YOUNG 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I am sure that you appreciate my position here this morning. I have been impressed as you have with the spirit of this Conference thus far, particularly to have our leader talk to us as he has. We do believe that which we have heard. 

FOLLOWING GOOD ADVICE BRINGS SECURITY 

If we could carry to our homes the counsel that President Clark has given, and if we could carry out this advice in our administrative work in the Ward and the Stakes, I am sure we would find a reawakening. On one occasion the Lord said to His disciples : 

My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 

This has a far-sweeping significance. In the last five years, perhaps six, we have been advised of steps we should take to make ourselves economically secure. We have passed through one economic tragedy we were not prepared to meet, for we had been laboring in some degree of lethargy; so I repeat that we were not prepared to take care of the economic needs of our people. The result was that we became more or less confused in our thinking and lost sight of some of the old standards that had been set up in the Church. 

PRESIDENT YOUNG'S EPISTLE TO SAMUEL BRANNAN 

I am reminded now of an epistle that President Young sent to the Saints in California by Samuel Brannan. Brother Brannan intercepted the Mormon people on their way westward out on Green River. You remember he had instructions to take a group of Saints then residing in the eastern part of the United States around Cape Horn and up to San Francisco, and it was originally intended that they should later join the Saints in the Rocky Mountains. They settled in 1846 around San Francisco Bay, and in 1847, when Samuel Brannan learned of the coming of the pioneers under the leadership of Brigham Young, he, with two others set out across the mountains and over the Oregon Trail, and about the last of June, 1847, met the Mormon leader on Green River. He remained with the pioneers and came into the Valley with them, and as he was about to leave, President Young gave some very definite instructions in an epistle which Brother Brannan was to take back to the Saints. 

Among other things, the President wrote this : 

We feel to say to those who are unitedly engaged with Brother Brannan in laboring for the good of the whole, that the poor, the widow, and fatherless may not want, that you will be blessed if you keep your contracts to the end of the two years, and labor diligently in your several occupations; and when that time shall expire, we hope you will be able to cancel all your obligations and have enough to give  family an inheritance or stewardship, that he may commence, as it were, anew in the world, just as we are commencing here at this place (Salt Lake City). We do not believe in having all things in common and on general principles, as some have taught, both in the Church and out, but we believe that it is right for every man to have his stewardship, according to the ability that God has given him. 

Now the reason he said that at that time was that he wanted the Saints to understand that they should be individualistic, should stand on their own foundation, and that they should work for what they got, giving full value, maintaining an integrity consistent with their standing as members of the Church. 

The epistle is an interesting one and all of it is worth our reading, but the point I wish to emphasize is the point that President Young made with Samuel Brannan, that the Saints must be consistent, must be loyal to their trust, but must stand independently and aloof except for the help that they themselves might contribute to a common cause. 

SUCCESS OF THE WELFARE PLAN DEPENDS UPON LOYALTY 

The President pointed out that it was the duty of the leading brethren to look after those who were unfortunate, and who could not make their contribution because of illness or physical defect or otherwise, that all the membership of the Church should contribute their part and do their part. In this instruction, as I see it, is the very essence of the success of our Welfare Program. Not in what we receive, but in what we do, in what we contribute in our own Wards and Stakes. We have not been so successful in the production of commodities, not so successful as we would like to be, and yet we feel there has been attained a degree of success because of the loyalty of the men and women who have sought to do their part. When men and women will go down on projects and work in the mornings and the evenings; will assemble at our storehouses, women who are busy in their homes, yet are willing to assemble in the storehouses and do their part in furthering this great program — I say when men and women will do that we need not fear the outcome, although the material things may not be so plentiful as we would like. It is in the spirit of the thing that we feel the power and the strength of this effort. 

So my brethren and sisters — my time is limited — if I may just say this : if we will DO, we will know of the doctrines. If we will contribute of our energies, and our efforts, we can accomplish much. Brother Clark has pointed out what may be accomplished in the Fast if we do our part, and then concentrate, centralize that in the great divisions of the Stakes and the Regions, and finally the central storehouse. What may we not be able to do to help meet that which confronts the Latter-Day Saints, and may confront them when the time of need comes! 

So I repeat the words of the Savior; "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." The doctrine He was teaching was not His, but belonged to God, as every bit of energy and effort that is put forth under the Welfare Plan for the 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Dag 

benefit and blessing of the people is in harmony with the will and purposes of God. If we do His will, we will know of its effectiveness and of its blessings. And may God help us to do this, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am sure, brethren and sisters, we were all pleased to hear the President of the Church, and to know that he was able to stand before us and address us in the opening of this Conference. If I were to undertake to comment on his remarks I would say that the principles that he laid down when he became the President of the Church have actuated his life in the years that have succeeded. He has been an example unto the members of the Church. He has been full of persuasion, and has taught us well as a people. I believe we are so well taught that if we should do as well as we know, and leave undone the things we know we ought not to do, we would be in the way of salvation. We have need therefore of being impressed with the necessity of doing things we know we ought to do. 

A WAR FOUGHT FOR A PRINCIPLE 

Our Savior has been an example to us in all things. I call attention to the war that took place in heaven of which we read in the Bible, the 12th chapter of Revelation, and the Pearl of Great Price, where one of our Father's sons who was regarded as a noble and great one, presented a plan for our salvation that would oblige us to comply with the law without the exercise of our agency, and he would take away from our Father in heaven His honor and His glory. In that council in heaven the Firstborn of the Father in the spirit came forward with a simple but forceful declaration : "Father, thy will be clone, and the glory be thine forever." 

The battle was fought, whatever its nature, upon this platform of principles, and we have reason to believe that we were among those who stood with the Savior, our Elder Brother, true and faithful, and those who rebelled were cast out and down, and God's purposes and His will are made to obtain in the plan of man's salvation. The Savior is our great exemplar and we are instructed by Scripture that we should walk in the light as He is in the light, with the promise that we will have fellowship one with another, and His blood will cleanse us from all sin. We have good reason to believe that the principle which the Savior presented in the council of heaven, pertained not to the spirit life alone, but to our existence here on the earth. 

Of course the earth was not framed at that time, but the end is known unto God even from the beginning. Provision was made even at that time for redeeming mankind from a fall that had not yet taken place, through the atonement of Christ, and that was one of the purposes of His being chosen, and that we might all have forgiveness of sin through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. The Father gave  Son, and the Son gave Himself, the greatest gift that ever was given, the greatest sacrifice that ever was made, the greatest service that ever was rendered. We are asked to follow in His footsteps, and I think that means that we should be willing to give all we have, if need be, and our lives, if necessary, for the Cause, to aid in the purpose of our Heavenly Father in the saving of His children. 

We are not so much interested in our own welfare as we should be, and we can apply this spirit of the Christ to our individual lives in this respect. 

"Thy will be done" meant of course that we will do the things that will please our Father in heaven, and when we are doing His will we are pleasing Him. I want to tell you, brethren and sisters, it is apparent that many of us are doing things that are not pleasing to our Father in heaven, and we know it, so we have need to be reminded. 

The Scriptures tell us that faith is the first principle of revealed religion, the foundation of all righteousness, and the moving cause in all action. Faith being the foundation of all righteousness, we may conclude logically that our unrighteousness is due to a lack of faith. I am sure, brethren and sisters, if we had the faith that we should have, that our Father in heaven expects of us, there is no requirement made of us but that we would gladly respond to it; and the blessings held out to us we would take advantage of. 

TEMPLE MARRIAGE A GREAT BLESSING 

It is a matter of great disappointment to the Authorities of the Church and to the Lord that many of its members will satisfy themselves to be married with a ceremony until death separates them — a time marriage. We call those marriages performed in the Church outside of the Temples civil marriages, and those in the Temple, Temple marriages. I want to explain to you that the Temple marriages have all the elements of a civil marriage, that a man performing a Temple marriage has authority of law the same as those who perform the civil marriages outside of the Temple, and also has authority in the holy Priesthood, by special appointment, the sealing power by which the man and woman are sealed as husband and wife for time and for all eternity, and not only that, but some of the greatest blessings our Father has for His children, intended for the very elect of the Lord, are pronounced upon them through their faithfulness in the keeping of their covenants, blessings that are attainable in no other way but in the marriage relation in the new and everlasting covenant. 

The leaders in the Wards, particularly the Bishops have the principal responsibility of teaching the young people, or seeing that they are taught what their opportunities are in the matter of marriage and of receiving the sacred ordinances of the holy endowments in the Temple of the Lord which are to prepare them to enter into and receive an exaltation in the kingdom of God. They should be so well instructed that when a young man comes to the Bishop for a recommend who has 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Dag 

not complied with the prescribed conditions so as to be worthy to go to the Temple, he could consistently deny him the privilege. 

BLESSINGS TO BE SOUGHT THROUGH WORTHINESS 

There are a great many members of the Church who have been married in the Temple who have not been worthy of the Temple blessings. They have need of repentance. 

We have others who have not gone to the Temple because they could not have a recommend. They know they are not living the Gospel so as to be worthy to receive those great blessings pertaining to the endowment and the sealing of husband and wife, and this is displeasing in the sight of the Lord. 

And there are others who could have a recommend to go to the Temple, but choose to be married for time and in civil marriage rather than a marriage in the Temple of the Lord. 

NEGLECT OF OPPORTUNITIES BRINGS REGRET 

Now let me tell you of an experience I had while presiding in the Salt Lake Temple. A lady came to me as the President of the Temple, sobbing in her sorrow, in her disappointment. I heard her story. She said that she and her husband were members of the Church, and could have gone to the Temple, but they did not give serious thought to it, and after they had two children the husband died. Later, she married a man not a member of the Church, and these two children — a boy and a girl — had now arrived to their teens, and in the genealogical class where they were studying they had learned that those who had not been born under the new and everlasting covenant must of necessity be sealed to their parents, and so they came to their mother and wanted to know if they could be sealed to the father and the mother. The facts are that the parents had neglected being sealed in life, and after the death of the husband, and father, the wife had neglected going to the Temple to be sealed to the husband and have the children sealed to their parents, she has now married outside of the Church, and the doors of the Temple are closed against her. Not only is she deprived of the blessings of the holy endowment and of being a sealed wife to a man for eternity, but her children have not the privilege of being sealed to their parents. These parents have done their children a very great injustice in not having been married in the Temple that the children might be born under the new and everlasting covenant. 

And that represents but one class, brethren and sisters. 

I had a letter at one time from one of our northern settlements, I think it came from a Ward Teacher who made representations that a couple could have gone to the Temple, but they lived a long distance from the Temple; they intended to go but they kept putting it off until they had three children, and then the husband was taken sick and died. Later on a good brother came along and courted this widow and she married him for time, with the understanding that he would go to the 

Temple with her and stand as proxy for her husband, that she might be sealed to her husband and have her children sealed to them. The time went by and this promise was neglected, until now she has three children by her second husband, and the second husband thinks now that he has just as much right to that woman as the first husband, and the woman seemed to be in doubt as to what was the right thing to do, or what her privileges were. Of course, she not having been sealed to any man, has her choice. She can be sealed to whichever one she likes. When she mourned the loss of her husband I suppose she thought she could never love another, but time heals the wound, and another man comes into her life, and now she is in a position where she must judge between a live man and a dead man, and usually they prefer a live man, (laughter) and the live man has the advantage over the dead man, he is present to plead his cause. And so if the woman decides in favor of the second husband which is her right, if she desires it, and is sealed to him, the only way she can have her children is to have them sealed to her and to the man to whom she is sealed. The children having been young while their father lived, and this man, if he has been a good stepfather, the children have learned to love him and respect him as such and they want to be sealed to their mother. The only way to be sealed to her is to be sealed to this man. They are perfectly willing, even when they are grown up and can decide for themselves. 

How about the first husband, the father of those children? He has lost his wife; he has lost his children, through neglect, being indifferent to his own interests and the mind and the will of the Lord concerning him. As I have said, it is a displeasure to the Lord if any of these members of the Church should not be living so as to get a recommend to the Temple, or if those who are worthy do not go to the Temple for those blessings. 

These represent certain classes. I want to tell you there are in this Church today more than 30,000 men over twenty years of age that hold some office in the Aaronic Priesthood that have never been advanced to the Melchizedek Priesthood. That means they have never been to the Temple and received their endowments. It means that if they are married they have married outside of the Temple. It means they are in danger of losing their wives and their children, and they are doing an injustice to their children, bringing up their family without giving them the privilege of being born under the new and everlasting covenant. 

And so the Prophet Joseph has left of record this statement, that whenever the Lord offers a man a blessing and he rejects that offer, that man is damned. 

We cannot ignore the fact that there are incentives held out to us to do the things we know we ought to do to obtain salvation, and condemnation awaits us if we neglect those duties. 

I see my time has expired. I thank the Lord for the help He has given me, for I believe, brethren and sisters, I have spoken under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord and the will of the Lord concerning us. There are many other things just as important as those of which I have been speaking and wherein we are showing some neglect. So in 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Dag 

the spirit of humility, and in love, faith, hope, and charity I would call upon the Latter-day Saints who have need of it to repent while they have the opportunity and make their calling and election sure, and may God help us all, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Before we close this session I think it appropriate to read an appeal that has come to the First Presidency from the Chief of Police of Salt Lake City. 

My Dear Brethren: The Ward Teachers pamphlet for August, 1941, appealed to Latter-day Saints to obey traffic laws, to stop the waste of human life and property resulting froni a disregard of these laws. What a timely, important message. 

May I urge that this matter again be brought to the attention of all those who attend this Conference. 

We stress the importance of keeping our bodies healthy and strong through observance of the Word of Wisdom. It is almost as important to achieve the same results by obviating accidents, both to ourselves and to others. There is a definite responsibility resting upon the shoulders of each Latter-day Saint. 

Our problem is to try to convince everyone as to the seriousness of this situation. This is difficult, for deaths and accidents have increased despite numerous safety campaigns. Fewer than 24,000 were killed by bombs in Britain during 1940. More than 34,000 were killed by automobiles in the United States during 1940. 

The 1940 record for accidents and fatalities was appalling; but the 1941 figures to date are staggering. There is a more wanton disregard for life and property than ever before. Hence this personal appeal, for we have our share locally. 

We desire that everyone may have a time of rejoicing at Conference and we earnestly hope that all may be able to return to their respective homes, free from all accidents and harm. 

EDUCATION, ENFORCEMENT, ENGINEERING, all play their part in a safety program. However, the human equation is the most important of all. Therefore, particularly during Conference please be careful. 

Keep mentally alert while walking or driving. Remember, 150 pounds or so of human flesh is certainly not a fit antagonist for 3000 pounds of steel. 

Human life is sacred. It should be preserved in every way possible. In this, as in all other things, let us be real Latter-day Saints. 

One other reminder. Please do not leave clothing or other valuable property in your automobiles unless you are there to watch over it. 

With the kindliest of personal regards, I remain, Respectfully, 

REED E. VETTERLI, 

Chief of Police 

That is an appeal which needs no comment. Let us heed it. The combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers will now sing, "Holy Art Thou," by Handel; Director : Mrs. Olive Rich of the 

Bonneville Stake. The solo part will be sung by Sister Ruth Jensen Clawson. 

May I express to you our sincere appreciation and gratitude to the Singing Mothers for the inspirational service they have rendered this session. 

The benediction will be offered by Elder German E. Ellsworth, after which this Conference will be adjourned until this afternoon at 2 o'clock. 

The combined choruses of Relief Society Singing Mothers sang "Holy Art Thou" — Handel. Director: Olive Rich of the Bonneville Stake. Soloist: Ruth Jensen Clawson. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder German E. Ellsworth. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


