Afternoon
05 10 1941

The concluding session of the Conference convened Sunday, October 5, at 2 o'clock p. m. 

Once more the great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity. An overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle, and a great many other people assembled on the grounds, where, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, they were able to listen to the proceedings of the Conference as broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

President Heber J. Grant was present and presided. President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, conducted the services. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session — J. Spencer Cornwall, director. Frank W. Asper was at the organ. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

The time has arrived for the opening of this the last session of this the 112th Semi- Annual Conference of the Church. 

An overflow meeting is now being held in the Assembly Hall, two_ of the brethren are there presiding. 

The exercises as rendered here and the sermons given will be given there over the radio. 

Those who are standing and desire seats may find them in the Assembly Hall. 

There are present on the stand this afternoon President Grant, his Counselors, the Twelve Apostles of the Church, the Assistants to the Twelve, six of the First Council of the Seventy, and all of the Presiding Bishopric. 

The Choir sang, "Prayer of Thanksgiving." 

Elder H. Clay Cummings, President of the Wasatch Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang, "Lost in the Night"— Christiansen. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH SUSTAINED 

President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities, General Officers, and General Auxiliary Officers, who were sustained by the unanimous vote of the congregation, as follows: 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

George Albert Smith Joseph F. Merrill 

George F. Richards Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Albert E. Bowen 

Stephen L Richards Sylvester Q. Cannon 

Richard R. Lyman Harold B. Lee 

ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

ASSISTANTS TO THE TWELVE 

Marion G. Romney Clifford E. Young 

Thomas E. McKay Alma Sonne 

Nicholas G. Smith 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

THE FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy 

Samuel O. Bennion Richard L. Evans 

Oscar A. Kirkham 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED 121 GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin L. West 

Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen Richard R. Lyman 

Frank Evans, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

SEMINARY SUPERVISORS 

M. Lynn Bennion J. Karl Wood 

AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer 

Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Lester F. Hewlett, President J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE 

ADVISERS 

John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards 

Albert E. Bowen Marvin O. Ashton 

Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin 

John H. Taylor 

General Presidency of Relief Society 

GENERAL COMMITTEE 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman 

Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman 

Harold B. Lee, Managing Director 

Marion G. Romney, Assistant Managing Director 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson 

Campbell M. Brown William E. Ryberg 

Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens 

J. Frank Ward 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Amy Brown Lyman, President Marcia K. Howells, First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, First Assistant Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Green Hinckley, Superintendent Adele Cannon Howells, First Assistant Superintendent Janet Murdoch Thompson, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters : I have been wonderfully thrilled by the spirit of this Conference. We have had a most excellent time. I feel personally as if I had been fed on the bread of life for three days here while this great congress of the Church has been in session. That is a good thought I take it — congress. 

I feel that we have been greatly blessed in the Conference. We have been thrilled by the Tabernacle Choir. The more I have listened to their fine work the better pleased I have been. 123 

THE VALUE OF GOOD LEADERSHIP 

This thought has been in my mind while listening to the Choir: What would we do without this addition to our service ? And what would we do without the help of the General Authorities of the Church? Leadership is what we need, and we have leadership in this dispensation of the Lord; there is leadership everywhere. It only remains to be sought out, and that too by the influence of the Spirit of God. There has been leadership in every dispensation of the Church, and the finest kind of leadership. Good leadership means effective work; poor leadership means poor work. That is a rule that will always be in force. 

ENOCH CALLED TO A GREAT WORK 

I take it, brethren and sisters, that the Church is well satisfied with its present leadership, including the addition of the new member of the First Council of the Seventy. 

There was leadership in the days of the antediluvians from Adam down to Noah. It is not very much enlarged upon in the Scriptures, but there was good leadership there. The Lord spoke to Enoch and said to him : "Go unto this people and call upon them to repent from their sins, or they will be destroyed." The Spirit of the Lord fell upon Enoch, and he was called upon to do a great work, but he endeavored to get the Lord to excuse him because he was of a stammering tongue. The Lord commanded him to go and he would be prospered, and he did a great work. 

I have a few items here in respect to Enoch. It says : 

The fear of the Lord was upon all nations, so great was the glory of the Lord, which was upon the people. And the Lord blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish. 

And the Lord called His people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there were no poor among them. 

It was an ideal condition. So great was their righteousness that they were finally caught up into heaven. 

And Enoch continued his preaching in righteousness unto the people of God. And it came to pass in his days, that he built a city that was called the City of Holiness, even Zion. 

And it came to pass that Enoch talked with the Lord; and he said unto the Lord: Surely Zion shall dwell in safety forever. But the Lord said unto Enoch: Zion have I blessed, but the residue of the people have I cursed. 

And it came to pass that the Lord showed unto Enoch all the inhabitants of the earth; and he beheld, and lo, Zion, in process of time, was taken up into heaven. And the Lord said unto Enoch; Behold mine abode forever. 

You can see by this that Enoch accomplished a great work. At one time the Lord said unto him : "Enoch, walk with me." An invitation from the Lord to His servant to walk with Him. Enoch must have felt very much complimented by this invitation. 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Dag 

THE LORD'S PROMISE TO ENOCH 

And there is just a little more I would like to read to you if you are not getting tired. Perhaps it will rest you if I speak rapidly : 

And Enoch beheld the Son of Man ascend up unto the Father; and he called unto the Lord, saying: Wilt thou not come again upon the earth? Forasmuch as thou art God, and I know thee, and thou hast sworn unto me, and commanded me that I should ask in the name of thine Only Begotten; thou hast made me, and given unto me a right to thy throne, and not of myself, but through thine own grace; wherefore I ask thee, if thou wilt not come again on the earth. 

A very pertinent question. 

And the Lord said unto Enoch: As I live, even so will I come in the last days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance, to fulfil the oath which I have made unto you concerning the children of Noah; 

And the day shall come that the earth shall rest, but before that day the heavens shall be darkened, and a veil of darkness shall cover the earth; and the heavens shall shake, and also the earth; and great tribulations shall be among the children of men, but my people will I preserve. 

* * * 

And it came to pass that Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, in the last days, to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of a thousand years; 

But before that day he saw great tribulations among the wicked; he also saw the sea, that it was troubled, and men's hearts failing them, looking forth with fear for the judgments of the Almighty God, which should come upon the wicked. , 

And the Lord showed Enoch all things, even unto the end of the world; and he saw the day of the righteous, the hour of their redemption; and received a fulness of joy. 

These wonderful words are found in the seventh chapter of the Book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price. It gives us the wonderful truth of the consummation of the promises of the Savior to return to the earth in the latter days, and 'we can depend upon it because the announcement was made by the Lord Himself that He would return. So we have that assurance, and we have the further assurance of a millennium, a thousand years of peace and righteousness. So we can be sure that these prophecies will be fulfilled. Whenever the Lord speaks it is to our interest to give attention and to receive His words, for we know that His words never fail. If He makes a promise He keeps the promise, but it is not always so with man. 

I rejoice in standing before you. I am thankful for my membership in the Church, for the opportunity to give service. From my heart and soul I pray that His peace and blessing may rest upon the members of the Church in every land and clime, in the worthy name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 125 

BISHOP LEGRAND RICHARDS 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

My brethren and sisters: My heart has been stirred with deep gratitude for the teaching and testimonies of my brethren during this Conference, and for my membership in this Church and my association with you Latter-day Saints. 

THE EARTH BEING PREPARED FOR THE COMING OF CHRIST 

It has been made plain to us today, as we have been taught all our lives, that judgment should befall the nations until men's hearts should fail them with fear, and as Brother Sonne pointed out yesterday, quoting the words of Brother Penrose, that the nations of this earth should be broken up like the potter's vessel. Notwithstanding these judgments, I take it there is little any of us can do about it because the Lord is to continue His judgments among the nations until they shall beat their swords into plough-shares and their spears into pruning-hooks, and learn war no more. 

Inasmuch as we can do little about this, we should be more concerned with the opposite force that is operating in the earth. We are not unmindful of the message of Mormonism to the world, that He has sent His messenger to prepare the way of His coming, and He shall come quickly to His Temple, and He shall come cleansing and purifying as refiner's fire and fuller's soap. And so the thing that should concern us as Latter-day Saints, if we are in harmony with His great plan of preparation, is to prepare for His coming. 

I desire to read a few words from the 50th Psalm, as I think David saw this relating to our day and the great work that should come forth among the children of men : 

The mighty God, even the Lord, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof." 

Your missionary boys have been called into the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof, declaring that the mighty God hath spoken. 

Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. 

And how has He shined out of Zion, the perfection of beauty? By sending forth His ambassadors of eternal truth to the nations of the earth to bear witness of the restoration of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence; a fire shall devour before Him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about Him. 

He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that He may judge His people. 

Gather my Saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

SACRIFICE REQUIRED OF ALL THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Not only were our pioneer fathers and mothers required to sacrifice in order that they might prove themselves worthy to stand among the Saints of God who are to be gathered in these latter days, but we are required to make sacrifices also. We may not be required to forsake our homes and go into new lands; we may not be required to lay our loved ones away by the side of the road; we may not be driven out by friends and ridiculed and reviled, but the Lord nevertheless expects sacrifices at our hands. And I want to say to you that I think the Lord does not let such sacrifices go unrewarded. 

FAITH SHOWN BY THE MOTHER OF JESSE KNIGHT 

Some of you will have read with interest the book recently published by J. Will Knight on the Knight Family, and I find there an incident that appealed to me as a reward of sacrifice. If you have read it, you will recall that Brother Jesse Knight's mother had been married before she married Jesse's father, and after becoming a widow and burying two children, she gathered with the Saints in Kirtland; and as she arrived there, the brethren were around trying to gather contributions from the scanty means of the Saints in order to be able to liberate the Prophet Joseph. Sister Knight turned her purse upside down and gave them all she had; I think some fifty dollars. The Lord of Israel and the angels in heaven could not overlook a sacrifice of that kind. She later married Jesse's father, and raised a family. Then her husband died and she moved to St. George. When she came to visit Jesse on one occasion, she failed to say anything to him about becoming active in the Church. For many years Jesse had done very little, and finally, when she was about to return, he said : 

"Mother, how is it you are not preaching to me as you usually do ?" 

She answered : "Jesse, I have prayed in the Temple for my children many times, and on one occasion the Lord made known to me that I was not to worry about you any more, that you would one day understand for yourself — and I never intend to argue again with you about religion." 

And you know how literally this promise was fulfilled, for soon after Jesse did understand, and he rendered a great service to the Church. 

MANIFESTATIONS OF FAITH AMONG THE SAINTS 

There is hardly a family among the Saints but what could testify of the sacrifices that have been made for the Gospel in this last dispensation. I remember working with a young man before I went on my first mission. He had been driven from his home, and his young wife had deserted him because as he was passing a street corner one evening in an eastern city, on his way home from work, he stopped at a street meeting and listened to the testimonies of our missionaries, and their explanation of the doctrines of the Church, which he explained pierced his heart like a two-edge sword. He joined the Church and his people cast him out. I was with him when he received a telegram announcing the birth of his 127 . He did not have the spirit of hardness or retaliation. He said, with feelings of emotion and tears in his eyes : "The only desire I have in my soul is some day to stand on that same street corner and proclaim to the people of my own town the restoration of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ." 

We may not have to make such sacrifices as have been made in years gone by, but as I travel through the Church and witness the marvelous manifestations of the faith of the Latter-day Saints, I feel impressed that the Lord truly has gathered His Saints who have made a covenant with Him by sacrifice. In all the Auxiliary organizations of the Church we see how people give of their time and their talents for the building up of the Kingdom. Right here, we witness the sacrifice of the Tabernacle Choir members to carry on their great work. We just presented the Aaronic Priesthood pageant, and in its preparation there were those, such as Sister Evelyn Wood and Brother Lee A. Palmer, who worked through two nights without any sleep; the boys came night after nighty to practice. We enjoy what is going on but we little realize the sacrifice back of it all. We sat here and listened to a wonderful quartette of our brethren from Southern California, and I am sure they paid their own transportation to come here and sing for us. The sacrifices made for missionary and Temple work are marvelous. There is a spirit of sacrifice in the heart of every true Latter-day Saint who has been touched with the testimony of the Holy Ghost, the power by which this work is moving onward in the world. 

PROMISES OF THE LORD TO THOSE WHO SERVE HIM 

We often have quoted to us the third chapter of Malachi, which I feel relates to this people in our day and time, when the Lord was to send His messenger and prepare the way for His coming. Then He indicates that from their fathers' days they had departed from Him, and they asked how, and he said: "In payment of your tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation," meaning the nation of Israel. 

Then He promises to pour out the blessings of heaven upon them if they will return unto Him, and we usually stop at about that point. I desire to read the latter part of that chapter, commencing with the 13th verse : 

Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee? Ye have said, It is vain to serve God. 

Have you ever heard such a conversation in the midst of the Latter-day Saints? 

And what profit is it that we have kept His ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? 

And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. 

We often hear people remark that the wicked are blessed even above many of the faithful Saints, and that is what Malachi of old heard. 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another; and the Lord hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before Him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name. 

And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in that day When I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. 

Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. 

Those of us who have labored in different parts of the Church and have faith in the promises of the prophets have, I am sure, deep down in our souls a desire that when the God of Israel fulfills this promise, when He makes up His book of remembrance, when He writes therein the names of His jewels, we wish to see recorded therein the names of those whom we loved and among whom we have labored. 

EVIDENCES OF FAITH SEEN AMONG THE PEOPLE 

I think back to the time when I labored as a missionary as a young man in Holland, to the kindness of those Dutch people, and their faithfulness in keeping the commandments of the Lord; I am sure that if it shall ever by my privilege to enter into His presence, where the book of remembrance shall be opened and His jewels shall be remembered, I would not be happy if my Dutch friends were not there. And I feel the same about the Saints among whom I have labored as a Bishop in three different Wards, and as a President of a Stake in California, and the good Southern Saints in the South where I had the privilege to preside. 

As I travel through the Stakes of Zion and see the people come from great distances, to listen to the representatives of the General Authorities who are sent unto them, I feel to say, God bless the Latterday Saints. They truly are evidencing their faith in God and in His great Latter-day work by the sacrifices they are willing to make. 

Some years ago I heard President Grant from this pulpit in a Priesthood meeting promise the Latter-day Saints that if they would pay their tithes and their offerings, the Lord would bless them with increased power and leadership in their own families. I was in a Stake of Zion a few weeks ago where a Bishop was released after a service of twentythree years, and when we called him to speak, he told the great joy he had had in witnessing the blessings of the Lord upon the members of his Ward because of their faithfulness. He told of one brother and sister who had paid their tithing conscientiously and regularly for all those years, and he said they have a posterity of some eighty-odd and there is not one but pays his tithing and keeps the Word of Wisdom. 

INSTANCES RELATED OF FAITHFUL TITHE-PAYERS 

When I was president of the Rotterdam Branch in Holland many years ago, a sister came to me after the meeting one Sunday morning, and said: "Brother Richards, I have only earned a quarter this week. (That is ten cents American money). Should I pay tithing on it?" 129 

I looked at her for a minute, and then said : "Sister, if this were my Church, I would not take your tithing. But it is not my Church, it is the Lord's Church, and tithing is a principle upon which blessings of the Lord are predicated; and sister, if you have only earned twenty-five cents this week, I surely do think you need a blessing, so I would advise you to pay your tithing and be blesssed." And I wrote her a receipt for two and a half cents. (We happened to have a coin of that denomination in Holland). She later emigrated to Utah and raised a fine family. 

Many of those people lived under very meager circumstances, and could not save anything from week to week. And when we brought them the Gospel, they would say, "You would not expect us to pay tithing, would you?" And I would give them the same answer. I have seen family after family emigrate to this land, own their own homes, drive their own automobiles, educate their children, and send their boys and girls on missions. I want to tell you the spirit of sacrifice has not gone out of this Church. 

I stood on the porch of a beautiful home in Idaho a few weeks ago with 160 acres of as fine irrigated land as I ever saw, surrounding that home, and the good brother, a convert to the Church, said to me : "My wife said, 'Father, if the Church asked for it, would you give it to them' ?" And he straightened up and said, "I replied : 'Yes, mother, and there would not be a penny against it either.' " Surely the Lord has been gathering His Saints together unto Him, those who have made a covenant with Him by sacrifice. 

CLOSING TESTIMONY AND BLESSING 

God bless the Latter-day Saints. God bless you, my brethren and sisters. This is His work, and He is busy preparing the way for His coming. It is important that we harmonize our lives with His great program of preparation, and when the voice of the Lord comes unto us that we heed it and that we follow the leadership of those who are sent to guide us in the way of eternal truth. May the Lord bless every man and woman in this Church for their sacrifices for the building up of the Kingdom of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang, "Abide With Me"— Monk. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

ACKNOWLEDGING THE HAND OF THE LORD IN TRIALS 

Many years ago, my brethren and sisters, I became acquainted with a teaching in the 59th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that to avoid offending God we must be willing to acknowledge his hand in all things. That teaching came strongly to my mind when we followed the casket of the mother of our seven children to the hillside. It again came to my mind nearly two years later when the body of our oldest 

130 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

son, a fine, upstanding, clean young man was being lowered into the grave. There came over me at that time, as I witnessed that lowering, one of the most satisfying feelings I ever had, and these words : "The boy is absolutely secure." 

I felt to thank the Lord that that was the case because I had thai same feeling with respect to his mother. And more recently the same thought has come to me. I stood the test before. I want to tell you that with the Lord's help as I have received it in the past, I shall stand it again. 

IMPORTANCE OF LIVING OUR RELIGION 

When I heard two returned Mission Presidents speak Saturday afternoon, each appealing to the Latter-day Saints to live their religion. I felt that there is no advice that perhaps is more important than that. I felt then as I have felt many years during the past, that we are under an obligation to do that very thing. 

When we go into the waters of baptism, when we partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, and when we stand on our feet and bear testimony to the divinity of this work, we are thereby obligated as strongly as I know how it is possible to obligate a human soul to keep the commandments of the Lord. But it is not easy to do this. The influence of heredity, of environment and of evil power that is in the earth, personified or headed by Satan himself, are all opposed to our keeping the commandments of the Lord. To overcome all of these we must struggle, but may I say that my own belief is that the Lord gives every one of us the strength to keep His commandments if we will worthily and earnestly seek His help that we may do it. 

We are faced, my brethren and sisters, those of us who stand here in the pulpit with a very heavy responsibility. You have come from far and wide; you have come to be spiritually fed; you have come up to be strengthened and instructed. Out of all the many timely questions and problems which face us, which shall we talk about? It has been my custom to think of this matter days before the Conference opens and try to get if I can some help in suggestion. I have done that same thing for this occasion, and I have committed to writing some notes that I will read in part, if not in all. The time is very short. 

In the time allotted to me today I purpose speaking of a very live issue that is disturbing all liberty-loving Americans, none more than Latter-day Saints, but an issue that many fear to discuss publicly, especially the politicians. 

PRACTICAL RELIGION THE NEED OF THE WORLD 

It is trite to speak of the world-wide troublous times now existing and of the chaotic conditions that prevail everywhere. These matters furnish themes that are discussed in religious meetings perhaps more frequently than in other ordinary types of assemblies. This is true for the reason, probably, that more and more thoughtful people are coming to believe that a cure for the ills of this troubled world will be found, if it is found at all, in the teachings of Jesus. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 131 

In this view the Latter-day Saints are a unit. Their religion is a very practical religion — the one taught by the Master. In the 25th chapter of Matthew we find a beautiful parable, the closing words of which are as follows : 

Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee and hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in? or naked and clothed thee? or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? 

And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. 

THE VALUE OF LIBERTY 

A notable application of this doctrine of the Master is found in the Welfare Program of the Church. But the doctrine of service is not limited in its applications to the primary necessities of life — food, shelter and clothing. There are things of greater value than these and things for which men have given their lives all down through the ages. Liberty is one of these, national liberty and personal liberty, the liberty to talk, to work, to worship and to exercise our God-given free agencies, so long as we do not infringe upon similar rights of others. 

We live in America, in a nation whose founders declared to all the world that "we hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, that they are edowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; — That to secure these rights governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." You recognize, of course, that these statements are quoted from the Declaration of Independence. 

To secure these rights the colonists fought the War of Independence through 8 years of blood, tears and terrible sufferings. To them liberty was more precious than life. For when it was won they would bequeath to their descendants the priceless heritage of freedom. 

A few years after winning the war the founders of this Republic published another epoch-making document from which I quote the following : 

We the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America. 

The Constitution thus spoken of consisted of seven Articles and became the supreme law of the land in 1788. Soon a Bill of Rights in the form of ten Amendments to the Constitution was proposed by Congress in 1789 and become a part of this great document two years later. 

The first of these ten amendments is as follows : 

Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the 



132 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the Government for a redress of grievences. 

Thus by action of the people two history-making documents publicised to all the world the fact that in America was founded a nation, the purpose of which was to secure to every citizen the inalienable right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." Hence our government exists for the individual rather than the individual for the government. To this concept of the purpose of government, totalitarianism is diametrically opposed, for it asserts that the individual exists for the State. Personal liberty is, therefore, non-existent in a totalitarian State. 

But between principle and practice there is frequently a wide gulf. It was because of their religion that the Mormons suffered violent persecution, and were finally driven from the boundaries of civilization — f rom the settled areas of a land that guaranteed religious liberty. And this was in America, the only country in all the world in which, at the time, religious liberty was guaranteed by the fundamental law of the land. But the Mormons might have said as did Jesus of Nazareth "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do." The coming of the Mormons to the arid wilderness of the Rocky Mountains proved to be not only a great blessing for them but for the nation also. 

I speak of these things only in passing. They presented problems that were successfully solved by the settlers of these arid regions. We are faced today with many other weighty problems, the solution of which prevailed then. There are many dangers that threaten our inherited liberties, both those of the country and those of the individual citizen. Indeed, as I see it, this country has never faced a darker situation. This is due to many factors, one of which I shall discuss briefly. 

THE "CLOSED SHOP" A MENACE TO LIBERTY 

The very foundations upon which this country has been builded to become great and mighty are gravely threatened and her basic principles of personal liberty are fast fading away. Time will permit of mentioning only one of these. But it is the most basic of all, the one emphasized in the Declaration of Independence — "The right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." When we deny an able-bodied man "the right to work" we rob him of his independence and destroy his happiness. It is this denial that faces myriads of willing workers in America today, because a new tyranny — one never dreamed of by the founders — has arisen, that of "the closed shop" including the check-off system. 

PROFESSOR DOUGLAS JOHNSON'S VIEWS 

Discussing this new tyranny Professor Douglas Johnson of Columbia University says — and I summarize a few of his paragraphs— that he was born when every American was a free man — free to work when, where, and how he pleased. Were he born in this age of bureaucratic control of industry and Union tyranny over' labor, he would not be employed at the factory unless he joined the Union. He would not be 133  to the Union unless a shortage of labor appeared in prospect. But if admitted he would have to pay from $50 to $200 or more in initiation fees in addition to dues and special assessments. The money for these payments he would never see, for it would be deducted from his pay before he would receive it. 

Once on the job he would likely be told to go slow "for we're not going to work our heads off." If a fellow workman should be discharged for negligence and laziness a strike would be called demanding his reinstatement on the spurious plea that he was let out for Union activities — a violation of the law. If a worker refused to strike, believing the discharge was merited and attempted to continue work, he would be in danger of being severely handled and beaten, his car wrecked, his home picketed, etc. No protection for him would come from the sheriff, and the governor of the State would not order out the militia to stop mass picketing for fear of bloodshed. 

Prof. Johnson goes on to say (I have omitted many of the details) this is not a mad dream but a calm statement of what has been happening, day after day, some of it here, some there, to countless American citizens — happening to honest family-loving, God-fearing American laboring men. 

He asserts that a vast majority of our laboring men are outside of Unions. A vast majority of those inside are decent, honest, law-abiding citizens. Most of those inside and outside of Unions are liberty-loving. But all of them are held under a tyranny utterly un-Amercan both in its origins and in its effects. It is a tyranny which denies to American workers their most fundamental rights, limits their freedom, stifles their initiative, checks their energies and holds them down to the low level of their less competent and less diligent fellows. It is a tyranny which preserves the right to strike (which nobody opposes in normal times) while denying to the many the "right to work." It places moderately paid workers at the mercy of highly paid agitators. Most of all it saps the independence of the worker, dampens his ambition and shuts for him the door of hope of a better future, lock-stepping him with indolent, less-competent and less ambitious associates. 

Thus while the American laborer has gained much from the Union movement, which no one would wish to see him lose, he has also lost much which Prof. Johnson indicates but which I shall not consider here. 

In the foregoing I have summarized a part of Dr. Johnson's article. He illustrated his statements by a number of specific examples the mention of which I omit. We all know the situation, at least in a general way, and we know it is rapidly becoming worse, and that the "closed shop" system is rapidly spreading. This is a system of force that places plants and institutions employing labor in the hands of selfish, irresponsible labor leaders, agitators and organizers who force owners, managements, laborers, the public and even government officials to do their unrighteous bidding. Thus freedom is crushed and the guarantees of our inspired Constitution are thrown to the winds. Where the "closed shop" comes in freedom goes out, and the inalienable right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" vanishes. 

134 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

Now of one thing I feel sure. The vast majority of the patriotic liberty-loving people of America want the guarantees of our inspired Constitution maintained. They want this choice land still to be and to remain the "land of the free and the home of the brave." 

I have presented briefly and inadequately only one aspect of the gravely threatening situation. I hasten to say that the "closed shop" did not arise from nothing. It is seemingly the natural end result of many contributing factors. Capital and management are far from blameless in their treatment of labor and the public. Iniquitous ambition, unrestrained selfishness, rank injustice, severe oppression and cruel wrong have characterized both sides of the relations of capital and labor. "The pot cannot call the kettle black." But many laws have been passed to control capital and management. None has yet been passed to control labor, strange to say. What then is needed if liberty and right are to be preserved? Action, and still more action. The Lord helps those engaged in a good cause. 

THE RIGHTS OF CAPITAL AND LABOR CALL FOR UNITY 

Obviously both capital and labor should be controlled in the interest of the public welfare and human freedom, which certainly includes the "right to work." To secure this right why not let every one opposed to the tyranny and evils of the "closed shop" join a right-to-work league which shall secure through suitable legislative action an opening of the gates of opportunity to every one who is able and willing to work, independent of membership in any labor union or other organization. In other words, let us unite without delay to secure the laws and regulations necessary to insure to every worker the "right to work" without which the noble declaration that each of us has the inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness becomes an idle mockery. 

But a far better, much quicker, more desirable and vastly simpler plan is, under existing conditions, apparently in the realm of the ideal and therefore it must await the coming of better days. I refer to the Golden Rule plan. 

There is a disagreement between employer and employee. In the light of Christ's teachings what is the right thing to do ? Obviously these two parties should sit down and talk things over, each strongly motivated to treat the other as he would like to be treated, if all the circumstances were reversed. Let each one try hard to put himself in the other's shoes. To do this each one would have to recognize the other as a brother, and both should keep in mind their obligations to the public. Love and right, not hate and force must be the means employed to determine what is fair, honest, just and humane. Neither will ask for nor expect anything the Golden Rule could not award. 

ECONOMIC PEACE THROUGH APPLICATION OF THE GOLDEN RULE 

If a full sense of brotherhood, actuated by the real spirit of the Golden Rule, were in the mind and heart of every employer and of every employe in America, and of every one else who has any kind of 135  with his fellow men, then industrial, social, and economic peace in America would be born in a day. But alas this ideal condition is not in the offing. Instead we are faced with reality and a condition so pregnant with evil that we can save ourselves only by immediate, unceasing, wise, and powerful efforts. The preservation of our inherited liberties and of our God-given free agencies is worth every thing necessary for us to give in order that we might re-possess and maintain them. Otherwise, will not the America of the future be devoid of the essentials that have made the America we inherited, a land of glorious promise? 

Latter-day Saints, is not our beautiful doctrine of eternal progression absolutely opposed to that of the "closed shop"? Force is the weapon used to bring about the "closed shop." But force when used as a weapon is Satan's club and therefore destructive of human rights. 

Let us act before it is too late. May love, diligence and divine wisdom characterize all our efforts to preserve our liberties and faithfully aerve the Lord I pray in the Master's name. Amen. 

ELDER MARVIN O. ASHTON 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I do not think I ever appreciated the Gospel of Jesus Christ more in my life than I do at this time and have done during the past few days. There is a story told of a great king who built a big castle and stretched the wires from tower to tower. The only time the wires from tower to tower played a tune was when the tempest came up. I believe if there ever is a time when we appreciate the Gospel it is in time of storm, it is in time of tempest. That is when the Gospel plays its best tunes — when the storms rage the worst. May we always hear the music. 

GRATITUDE EXPRESSED FOR KINDNESS 

I would think myself and ourselves most thoughtless if we did not take this opportunity to thank the people of the Church for their kindness towards us. It is strange that Brother Merrill and I should be called upon, one right after the other. I certainly sympathize with him in the trial he is going through. From Hawaii, Canada, and Mexico, and every point of this Church has come kindness. Whatever has been our lot in the way of grief, if you folks had your way, from President Grant and his splendid Counselors down, you would take up this flood of sympathy to drive this trouble from our hands. We do feel to express thanks to you today. 

LITTLE CHANGE IN HUMAN NATURE 

I think it is just good sense that I should say very little on this occasion. I have been impressed with one thing particularly in this Conference and it is that we are emphasizing fundamentals. In a sense, I would not like to- be considered old-fashioned, but remember there is nothing quite so important, quite so full of gold as real fundamentals. Your Ford has changed its model; your airplane has decidedly changed; steam 



136 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

engines change, but this human anatomy has not changed very much- — it is pretty much the same model. I agree that for looks some of our models should be changed, but we are pretty much the same. Once in a while we ought to take a look on the compass and see where the storm is taking us. We must get back on the old track. 

The other day a good society lady — I say that respectfully — called in a doctor. The baby had a terrible cold on its lungs. She, of course, expected him to give her some hifiluting brand new 1942 prescription. But he didn't. He said. 

"My dear, if I were you, I would put a mustard plaster on that child just as quickly as you possibly can." 

"But," she said, "doctor, isn't that old-fashioned?" 

The sound answer came. "Yes, madam, and so is your baby." 

RESTRAINT NECESSARY IN BUILDING OF CHARACTER 

Just one story I want to leave with you folks today. Some good Bishop in Ogden told it to the Lesser Priesthood group a year ago, and I pass it on to you. This is something that President Clark and some of the other brethren continually hammer on — restraint. Some men who go on transgressing think they are the only men who have human appetites — I am using the words of President Clark to me the other day when a pitiful case came before us. He said : "That is the trouble with these men, they think they, are the only ones in the world that have appetites." I am telling you that in my judgment, if something does not curb the appetites of America and American people, the Lord knows where we are going. 

Here is the story: In Arabia to breed a thoroughbred horse they have him go through some particular definite education. They start him out when he is a few months old or a few weeks old, (we had better stay with months I think to be safe). They teach that colt that when he hears the bell ring he is to run to his master's tent and be ready for service. When the horse is about a year and a half old he is put through the "acid" test. They let him go without water for three or four days. Then he is so thirsty he will actually eat mud. They then put him in a corrall next to a running brook. When they are all ready, they turn him loose. He makes a bee-line for the flowing water charging as hard as his fleet feet will take him. Then they ring the bell. If he stops and runs back to his master's tent he is a thoroughbred. If he runs for water he is a cull, and they don't use him for breeding purposes. 

That is a good story. It applies to human beings. There is no civilization without restraint, and we do not want to forget it. Since I heard that story I have been reading about horses. I read about Napoleon's horse, Washington's horse, and some of those thoroughbreds that the army has picked out — horses that have gone down in history. There is no horse that has interested me more than the horse whose hide is stuffed this minute in Washington D. C. in one of the museums. Do not forget, with all your blooded horses in America, that really when put to the test, those that amount to something come from 137  Arabian blood. This horse I am talking about had a wonderful master. The cannon booms! He and his steed are twenty miles away. The rider leaps into the saddle. Thomas Buchanan Read made heroes of these two brave fellows in that famous poem. And So and So "was fifteen miles away"; the next verse ends "ten miles way"; the next verse and "he is five miles away." Then we come up to the battle front. The men are retreating in a riot. Here comes that valiant horse with that valiant man — Phil Sheridan; with his sword pointing toward heaven he thundered out. "Boys we are going back." I saw that play. I saw the horse come on the stage. He was lathered from head to foot, his grand old nostrils steaming out "fire." He was ready for game after going the twenty miles. He was a thoroughbred. The defeat was turned into victory because of that horse that day. Why did he have it in him? Because of a breed that came from Arabia, a breed that learned restraint, a breed that learned to take it on the chin. We have got to be the same. God bless you. Amen. ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The question has frequently been mooted whether the ideals embodied in the teachings of Jesus can ever be reduced to practice in this stubborn world. He glorified the peacemaker and the pure in heart and him that hungers after righteousness and He said that the meek shall inherit the earth. In that brief summing up is embodied all the essentials for the perfect society. Stated in the skeptical, calculating language of the day, the question is, will these notions work, or must they forever remain beautifully conceived, fanciful abstractions isolated by an impassable interval from the realm of reality. Certainly the gap is wide between the beauties of association they envision and the ugliness of what actually is. 

NEED FOR BETTER CONDITIONS AMONG MANKIND 

In this arrogant, self-seeking, strife-ridden age there seems to be no place for the meek except in submission to indignity and in cringing servility. Humility is a virtue known by little else than its name. Hunger after righteousness is displaced by lust for power and greed for gain while the voice of the peacemaker is drowned out by the din of war. But these conditions do not bring mankind satisfaction, hence cannot be the permanent order of a desirable world. Rather they bring violent dissatisfactions. They rest upon force, cruelty, chicanery, and fraud; they result in resentment, contention, turmoil, anxiety, fear and unrest. The very turbulence of the unrest and the dissatisfaction is convincing evidence of men's feeling that they are entitled to a more serene and peaceful way of life than they are now experiencing. There can be no question about the desirability of the ideal. The issue raised is whether mankind can achieve it. 

138 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Dbij 

THE TEACHINGS OF JESUS INTENDED FOR ALL MANKIND 

We can perhaps approach our question with a better understanding if we remember that Jesus was not primarily concerned with any temporary or localized condition. His outlook compassed the whole race, and its possible destiny; His vision swept over the whole range of time and existence. The practicability of His teachings must be tested from this long-range view. He came to a race proud of its heritage, vivid in its memory of a long independence and cherished greatness, galled by and resentful of its political eclipse as a subject province of the empire, and unyielding in its hope of return to national independence and former glory. To all this Jesus paid no attention at all. He and His followers had no voice in the existing political government. They exercised no influence in shaping its course. Apparently He never sought to influence it or to reform or correct it. Instead of trying to reform the State He was trying to reform men. 

Many men in this world have worked out patterns for what they conceived to be the ideal State, but when they had finished they found they had no people fitted to live in such state. Jesus saw with unerring clearness that society can be nothing better than a reflection of the men and women who comprise it. The ideal state can come only when created and peopled by men and women who embody its ideals in their lives. His first business, therefore, was with individuals, to teach them how to live, individually and in relation to their f ellowmen. Advancement in that purpose would assure a parallel betterment of the collective body. 

The prescription for the kind of living He enjoined involves the control of self within, self-discipline, the supremacy of individual virtues over baser instincts, self-government which raises the individual to a plane where his conduct is above the compulsions of an overhanging law. This is only to say that there is involved the bringing of the finer spiritual qualities of human nature into mastery over its more carnal animal instincts. The fruition comes with a complete spiritual supremacy. 

PERFECTION GAINED BY DEGREES 

But this does not mean that the way to it is divorced from the daily routine of mortal life. It does not mean that the principles of living laid down by Jesus are inapplicable to the world in which mortal man lives. It signifies rather that in that degree in which men and women spiritualize their lives they may enjoy the kingdom of heaven on earth. Life as it is lived in this earth among men with their divergent interests, their conflicting purposes and their crusading antagonisms is the training ground for the cultivation and the development of the desired virtues. Wherever and in whatever degree any of His teachings are observed, to that extent they bear fruit in betterment of conditions of living, both individual and collective living. Politically viewed they state the conditions basic to a well ordered free government. 

The whole perfected pattern, of course, cannot be realized at once. The imperfect will be mixed in with the perfect till the perfect win supremacy . In all human things progress is a process of growth; ad139  is by degrees. It is accomplished by teaching and acceptance and conformance. 

So in considering the practical workability of the ideals we must keep our attention fixed on end results and must not be confused or disconcerted by passing episodes or the deeds of immaturity which seem so entirely irreconcilable with the possibility of ever in this world bringing the ideal and the real into unison. Look, for instance, upon the state of the peacemaker and the meek. If all men were pure in heart and were disposed to peace and in humility of spirit desired only righteousness, the problem of life would be simple. But a distressing perplexity is introduced when one man wants to be at peace and his immediate associate wants strife, when one man wants to do the right while another desires unjust advantage, when one man in meekness of spirit desires to adjust with his contending neighbor, and that neighbor arrogantly demands unconditional surrender to his own unbending will. The unyielding offender must, until he learns better, be restrained. Compulsions must be invoked. But artificially imposed restraints, outward coercions can never be anything but temporary expedients. They afford no cure for the evil they are designed to repress. So long as wrong is held in suppression by force, the force will still have to be maintained. 

THE WAY OF PEACE IS THROUGH RIGHTEOUSNESg 

That is all basic in the teachings of Jesus. His ideal of government is self-government. His concern was for purging out of the human heart the ignoble desire supplanting it with worthy purpose. To this end He taught the principle of overcoming evil with good, of supplanting fear with confidence, of substituting love for hatred, of doing to others what we should like them to do to us, of being generous and unselfish and gentle and kind, instead of cruel and selfish and vengeful and insolent. We may withstand the invader of our homes, but so long as he has the will to invade we can know no contentment. A nation may repel the onslaught of a devastating foe but so long as the foe stands ready to strike, the nation may never lay down its arms. To maintain itself as a perpetual armed camp would be intolerable as well as impossible. Security and lasting peace of mind, the inescapable conditions of national peace and prosperity, can come only when the enemy has ceased to want to invade. This comes through teaching the better way, through soulconversion that threat and force and compulsion bring no enduring rewards. In the end the way of the peace-maker and the meek must prevail. 

In that respect the history of the world teaches but one lesson. No world conqueror has ever been able to perpetuate his empire. When the force that created it was no longer adequate to its maintenance, it has crumbled before the onslaught of the subject peoples who have nursed their grievances awaiting the day of retribution. The present attempt at swollen dominion is foredoomed to failure. It has within itself the seeds of its own destruction. It rests upon force and will be broken by force and in the end nothing but suffering will have resulted 

140 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Day 

From there the world will have to pick up again and begin piecing together its shattered fragments of faith and belief and start building anew on the spiritual principles inherent in the teachings of Christ. 

In a vague generalized way men have been sensing the impossibility of preserving a free way of life unless it is kept on a spiritual foundation. Nearly a year before the outbreak of the present war a group of eminent and observant British leaders warned that the nation must make its choice between spiritual restoration and annihilation. 

THE NEED FOR SPIRITUALITY FELT 

A little more than a year ago now forty men of prominence in religious, scientific and philosophic circles called upon the American people to rouse themselves to the danger that lies in the undermining of religious belief and practice. Recognizing that so long as armed aggression is rampant in the world, peaceably inclined peoples must prepare themselves to repel it, they nevertheless issued the solemn caution that unless a spiritual and moral resuscitation is worked and respect for religious values built up, we shall arm in vain. 

These are but illustrations of the cry that is going up from many quarters indicating an uneasiness of feeling that something basic upon which our security rested has been slipping away. But I have not found any of them telling us very clearly what these spiritual elements are, nor how to bring them back into our national life. Our original question recurs: Can the idealisms of Jesus be made to work? 

CHRISTIAN IDEALS THE BASIC PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNMENT 

Perhaps the best answer to that question is that despite imperfection discouraging failures and retrogressions they are, to a degree, already working in the world and for nearly two thousand years have been modifying and tempering and shaping the very thought processes of men and reflecting themselves in the best conceived principles of civil governments themselves. 

Our own government is the leading example of this undeniable fact. It is the product of Christ's teachings. These have bedded themselves in its very framework. Its central doctrine assumes the Fatherhood of God, and the worth and dignity of man as a child of God. The declaration that all men are created equal and that they are God-endowed with certain rights which are inalienable and inviolable — the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness — derives out of 1800 years of persistent teaching about the reality of God and the immortality of the human soul. 

The ideas that form our standards of behavior, by which our conduct is evaluated as being good or bad, by which our laws are shaped which control in our best concepts of good taste and neighborly proprieties come out of our long tradition in the precepts of the Man of Galilee. 

When the politician or the orator condemns evils and promises cures and the institution of better ways, even though insincerely and for selfish 141 , he rests his case, though perhaps unconsciously, upon the basis of Christian ideals, all of which demonstrates how deeply these have penetrated into the thought habits of our people. 

THE TREND TOWARDS RELIGIOUS DISBELIEF 

But today it seems fairly apparent that even among the most enlightened nations these ideas have been losing ground as guiding principles. Our own nation has strayed far. At the outset they were accepted as part of a firm religious belief. Christ taught a religion, not merely a code of ethics. It centered — as all religion must — in God, whom Jesus described as the Father whose will He had come to do, and whose Son He was, and whose promises formed the basis of our future hopes. We have been surrendering these convictions. The last century is generally characterized as an irreligious one. The discoveries of science were startling Men grew in their assumption of self-sufficiency. They thought they would be able to explain everything upon the theory "of pure mechanism with mind, body and soul the result of chemical and physical actions." Jesus ceased to be the Son of God, the Savior of men and became only one, perhaps the greatest, in a succession of great moralists. His teachings became not the Gospel of salvation of divine origin but a code of ethics, with religion flouted as mere formalism and the church the exponent of an archaic superstition. This is striking faith at its source. With its underpinning gone it has no anchorage. It was His claim to divinity that gave to the teachings of Jesus their authoritative sanction. Robbed of that sanction they had no binding force upon men. As mere ethical precepts they have proved themselves wholly insufficient as the present unhappy state of the world attests. 

LOSS OF FAITH IN GOD SETS MANKIND ADRIFT 

Robert Gordon Sproul, president of the University of California recently said: 

There is a great need for some directive force to rally the recuperative powers of mankind and win the race with catastrophe. Education cannot provide such a force, important as it is, because it is not the minds but the souls of men that must be regenerated if catastrophe is not surely to come. Men must listeen to God and obej', but they listen to Hitler and Stalin, and grovel. Our American heritage cannot long endure without a firmly grounded religious faith." 

With God denied there is none to whom man owes reverence. With reverence gone man is adrift. Each one's notions have equal status with every other one's notions, and no one knows what he ought to believe; respect for authority dies out because there is nothing authoritative left; veneration for parental authority breaks down and reverence for law ceases to command allegiance. 

All these consequences are clearly revealed in the course of events, even in our own land. We of this generation received this great government of ours from the generations which had gone before sound in its principles, Its Constitution was everywhere held in reverence; Its laws 

142 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

were obeyed. No one doubted its. superiority over every other form of government on earth. Every one had unshaken faith in its perpetuity. We pass it on with that faith terribly shaken. Its people are torn by dissension. They do not trust each other. They are not sure that after all our system of government is better than any other. They have grown cynical and doubt if good is to be found anywhere. 

INTERNAL THREATS MENACE FREEDOM 

Unbelief is the menacing evil of the world. Among professedly Christian peoples relatively few could be found, in all probability, who would not agree that the ideal of living depicted by the Master is highly to be desired. But they do not really believe His message. If Christians actually believed they would trust and if they trusted, envy and jealousy and greed and hatred would be subdued. Saying nothing about a foreign war, leaving that to one side, our internal disorders threaten the perpetuation of the principles on which the nation was founded. This manifests itself in the dividing of people up into classes, kept apart by mutual mistrust, with its consequent train of suspicions, envies, abuses and retaliations which blind them to their undeniable interdependence among themselves, their reciprocity of interests and their identity of goals. We set them off as the rich and the poor; the worker and the employer; the laborer and the capitalist, giving each its opposite as if their welfares were inherently antagonistic. 

There is inescapable interdependence among all. Whether men ponder in the night the mysteries of the universe and seek to learn its secrets, whether they dig the metals out of the bowels of the earth, whether they spin them into steel or build that into the sky-scraper or the factory or the cottage, whether they have the white and supple fingers of the violinist or the grimed hands of the mechanic, whether their days are spent in the counting house or sitting beside the bed of the sick and dying, whether they tend to flocks and herds, or till the land, all have had to labor together to build the mighty giant which is America. 

POWER IN PERSUASION 

How stupid, then, that they should be separated into warring classes in hostile camps! How silly to suppose that one can be permanently bettered by the crippling of the other! How futile to hope that unity of purpose and cooperative endeavor can be legislated into being or compelled by punitive statutes administered with undefensible injustice and stupidity. It is placing a low estimate on the intelligence of all the groups to assume that the great majority of them under just and impartial guidance could not be led into peaceful and mutually beneficial understandings. The few recalcitrants could soon be effectively disciplined. The ways of persuasion and voluntary self-disciplining, of humility of spirit, of appealing to the instincts of righteousness, the ways of peace, are so infinitely more fruitful of enduring results. THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CHURCH 

In the spread and perpetuation of the Christian principles that found expression in this cherished government of ours, the Church played the principal role. It has a great stake in freedom. It must be equally zealous to preserve and maintain it. It is its duty whenever that is threatened, either by direct assault or the insidious undermining of the principles on which it rests, to raise its voice in warning and in protest and to throw its whole influence into the scales to preserve that freedom under which men may live and grow toward the ideals taught by the Master. 

May God speed the day of this happy consummation, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Several months ago I stood at President Grant's bedside when he lay in the hospital in Los Angeles. When I think how far he has come since that time on the road to recovery, I am deeply grateful at this moment to be able to announce that he is here, and will give us instructions and blessings at the conclusion of this great Conference. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I would like to talk about forty minutes — I see there are only ten. 

I am very grateful indeed to my Heavenly Father that instead of not being able to move a finger or an arm or my left leg, and being unable to see straight out of my left eye, that instead of my mouth being all puckered up in a corner, I am looking natural and feeling natural, and I expect that I feel a whole lot better than I really am. 

I was requested to speak only twenty minutes at the opening session of this Conference, and I spoke forty; and then last night I spoke fortyseven minutes — so that I have been overdoing what was considered to be wise. 

ENDORSEMENT OF PRECEDING SPEAKERS 

I have thoroughly enjoyed the Conference. I listened to some of it at home, of course, over the radio. I endorse with all my heart everything said by the second counselor to the Presiding Bishop, and I endorse what Brother Merrill has said here today, and what our last speaker, Brother Bowen, has said. I noticed that Brother Bowen laid down several sheets of paper and did not read what was on them. I hope that when he turns in his manuscript for publication he will put it all in, because I endorse everything that he said and I endorse what he was going to say, without knowing what it was. (Laughter) 

DECRIES CONDITIONS IN AMERICA 

I am sure we all love America. I am sure there are no more patriotic people on the face of the earth than the Latter-day Saints; in fact, 

144 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

our belief is that the men who established this country were blessed of God, that they were inspired of God, and as we depart from those things we are not doing that which is pleasing to our Heavenly Father. I think that without doubt we are getting just about as far away as we can at the present time — shall I say, politically. I do not care how you put it. We are starting on the broad path that leads to destruction, and had we stayed in the straight and narrow path we would not need to be arranging to be in a war. The Lord points out the way, and if we walk in it all will be well. 

Many of the Latter-day Saints have surrendered their independence; they have surrendered their free thought, politically, and we have got to get back to where we are not surrendering the right. We must stay with the right and if we do so God will bless us. 

ADVICE TO LATTER-DAY SAINT BOYS IN THE ARMY 

I understand there are a lot of our boys here today that are in the army. I hope and pray and plead that every boy will feel in his heart : "I want to know what is right and clean and pure and holy, and I want God to help me." I want every Latter-day Saint soldier to get down on his knees and pray God to help him to lead a clean life, and to preach the Gospel while he is in the army. The army, as a rule, is a demoralizer of the morals of men, to a very great extent. They think : "Oh, well; we are going to be killed anyway — let's have a h — 1 of a good time." Do not wish for any such good time; there is no good time anywhere for any human being except by doing good and doing right. There is a peace, a joy, and a happiness that come from doing the right that nothing else can compare with. There are no people in all the world that are as happy and as contented as the true Latter-day Saints, and there are no people that are much more miserable than those that finally apostatize. I have met them and I have not forgotten when one man laughed at me because I believed firmly in the Church, and its principles and doctrines. He said that anyone who believed in such things lacked intelligence. This man was an apostate. I was able even as a boy to say to him : 

The life of the apostate is a greater testimony to me than anything else of the divinity of the work in which I am engaged, except the teaching of my beloved mother. I have seen good men change and become bad men and then apostatize, but I have never known a good man, a tithepayer, an observer of the Word of Wisdom, to ever apostatize. I have found men lying against the Church after they apostatized. 

AN UNFRIENDLY NEWSPAPER 

The gentleman said: 

Do you mean to call me a liar? 

I said : 

No, I do not want to call you a liar; that would not be gentlemanly. But what is the difference between lying yourself and hiring somebody else to lie? 145 

None. I said : 

There is a newspaper today, in this town, that was foreordained figuratively before it was born, to lie about the Mormons and it is fulfilling its foreordination. I am working in a bank and I see the list of patriotic apostates and anti-Mormons who put up the money to keep it alive, and your name was among them. 

He said: 

The paper does not lie. 

I said: 

My friend, I will make you acknowledge it lies, if you dare to challenge me. 

I challenge you. 

All right, I said, I went to a meeting in what is called the Liberal Institute. It ought to have been called Headquarters for lying about the Mormons, instead of Liberal Institute. You sat on the stand within ten feet of the speaker, and I sat on the front row within ten feet of the speaker. Now, I will tell you everything that happened in that meeting, which you heard and I heard, now I will tell you what was published, and now I will tell you that every word of it was a lie, and if you say it was not a lie you are a liar. 

He said : 

The paper lied that time. 

I am going to take as long as I want, you know, and if anybody gets tired and wants to go out he or she has my permission. Being an insurance agent I am not easily offended. {Laughter) 

The fact remains, my brethren and sisters, that we have had a glorious Conference, and I wish that I could have been here at all of the meetings, but wisdom suggested that I do not come. I think that probably I spoke too much last night, but everything I said I meant, and I do not take back a word that I said. 

THE GOOD OF THE PEOPLE UPPERMOST DESIRE 

People have come into my office and complained about editorials that were in the Church newspaper, and I have endorsed those editorials with all my heart, and I do not give the snap of my finger for the opinion of those who did not endorse them. I simply feel that they were for the best good of the people. I have no other desire, I have never had, and I never will, other than to try to find out what is for their best good. 

I heard that one of the men sitting on this stand today was twitted  — it may not be true — that he had surrendered his manhood and voted the way the Presidency of the Church wanted him to vote. He had voted the opposite ticket from what he was expected to vote. I heard that this good brother who sits here said, "The Presidency did not tell me how to vote." I heard that he got down on his knees and prayed to the Lord to help him to know how to vote, and he voted contrary to the way he had originally intended to vote, I wish more people would get down on Third Day  knees, and perhaps they would vote differently — that is my belief. He said to this man : 

Don't go away with any idea that if the Presidency ever did ask me to vote a certain way that that is not the way I would vote. It is the way I will vote. , 

Now, brethren, I have said it here, and I will say again, that as a youngster I never wanted anything more than I wanted to be the first Governor of the State of Utah. I received a telegram saying : 

Sixty per cent of the convention in Ogden has agreed to vote for you on the first ballot, you are sure to be nominated. We believe it will be unanimous before we get through voting. 

I read the telegram to Heber M. Wells, my brother-in-law, who had been nominated for the position on the Republican ticket. He said : 

Well, Heber, all that I have I owe to you. You took my note for an interest in your business, and the dividends paid the note; and I sold my interest and got a home to start with. When I was defeated the first time I ever ran for office you went around with a list headed by this statement: We subscribe for stock in the State Bank, Heber J. Grant to be President, and Heber M. Wells, Cashier, and as a result you gave me twice as good a job as I had in the City Hall. If you want to be the Governor I will resign although it will almost damn me with my party, and I will campaign for you. 

I thanked him. I said : 

I will let you know in an hour — maybe less. 

I walked to the office of the President of the Church, Wilford Woodruff, a man nearly ninety years of age, and I handed him the telegram and I said : 

President Woodruff, please tell me how to answer it. 

Those of you that knew Brother Woodruff know that he was a terror to nearly all shorthand clerks — he talked so fast. And he talked just as fast as I ever heard him when he said to me : 

What are you coming to me for? Why don't you answer your own telegrams? Haven't you, an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, sufficient wisdom to answer a telegram without bothering me? 

Thank you, Brother Woodruff; thank you. Had you thought that I could do any good as the Governor of the State — that young man as I am I could do any good for the people, you would have said, Heber, the Lord bless you. I hope you will be elected. I shall send a telegram that it will be a personal favor to me if my name never comes before the convention. 

Ah, that is good, that is good, that is good. 

And that is the telegram I sent; and today I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart that I did not become the Governor, because I I said: 147  never studied along that line; I was not qualified for the job, and I would not have made one-half as good a Governor as Governor Wells did, because he had a patriot, he had a diplomat, he had a great statesman as a father, one of the greatest. I understand that Brigham Young said : 

Daniel Wells is my statesman, Heber Kimball is my prophet, and I am a business man looking after the best interests of the people. 

Jesse N. Smith, according to Joseph F. Smith one of the best read and the best informed man in the Church, said to me that in his judgment there were two great, wonderful, outstanding men, politically, in the United States, and they were Daniel H. Wells and Abraham Lincoln, and in his judgment Daniel was the greater of the two. 

So, I say, Heber was educated along the proper lines for that work, and he was a very good Governor. I had made money, and plenty of it, and Heber had not, and I would not have made as good a Governor and it would have been a mistake for me to have been elected. But I wanted it all right to start with. 

I know as I know that I live that this Gospel is true, and I know that what Joseph F. Smith said to me — the last words that he uttered — is true : "The Lord makes no mistake. The Lord bless you, my boy!" The Lord has made no mistake, although I say it myself, because I have given my life, the best of it, to this Church, and shall do so as long as I live. 

god's guidance given to those who seek it 

Now, brethren, get down on your knees and pray to God to guide you in all you do. Do you think that there are a lot of people holding the highest offices in the Government of the United States that are praying for guidance, men who voted for the repeal of the liquor law ? Do you mean that the men who drink their cocktails right along — and we are spending billions of dollars for whiskey — and some of them are now in high places — that those are the men whom God is directing? If you do, I do not. I tell you that no greater crime was ever committed than the repealing of the Prohibition law. Billions of dollars squandered, and poverty, and heartaches, and death and damnation to many men, have come because of liquor. 

Now, I pray the Lord to bless our boys. I give them my blessing, and I have the right to bless them, and I promise them that if they will be prayerful God will give them joy even in the army, if they will live sweet and clean lives. I do hope and pray that they will be like the Lamanites who were converted and who when they went into war none of them lost their lives. A marvelous story that you will find in the Book of Mormon. 

I pray the Lord to sanctify all that has been said here, from the start of this Conference to the close. I thank Him for the ease, the perfect ease, that I had in talking last night for forty-seven minutes. I want to say that I love the Latter-day Saints, and I love the word of God; and I want you to know that I thank God that the Gospel is one of forgiveness. 

148 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Day 

A STORY REGARDING FORGIVENESS 

I shall tell you one incident in my life. 

A man was cut off the Church for adultery, and asked to be restored. President John Taylor wrote a letter to the brethren that had taken action against the man, in which he said : "I want every man to vote his own convictions, and not to vote to make it unanimous unless it is unanimous." 

When the matter was presented and voted upon, the vote stood half for and half against restoration. 

Later he came up again, and a majority were in favor of his being baptized. 

Finally, all of the men that were at the trial, except one, voted to let him be baptized. President John Taylor sent for me and told me I was the only man that stood in the way of this man's being baptized, and he said: 

How will you feel when you meet the Lord, if this man is permitted to come up and say he repented although his sins were as scarlet, and you refused to let him be baptized? 

HEEDS SACRED BOOK 

I said: 

I will look the Lord squarely in the eye, and I will tell Him that any man that can destroy the virtue of a girl and then lie and claim that she was maligning him and blackmailing him, will never get back into this Church with my vote. You said in your letter to vote our convictions, and I will vote them and stay with them unless you want me to change. 

He said : 

Stay with your convictions, my boy. 

I walked to my home, only one block away. I picked up the Doctrine and Covenants. I was reading it prayerfully and humbly, and marking passages. Instead of its opening at the bookmark, it opened at the passage : 

Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his; trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. 

I the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men. 

I shut up the book and rushed back to the President, and I said, "I give my consent." 

Brother Taylor had a habit, when something pleased him, of shaking himself and laughing. He shook himself and laughed, and said: "My gracious, Heber, this is remarkable; what has happened?" And I told him. He said : "Heber, when you left here a few minutes ago did you not think : what if he had defiled my wife or daughter? And when you thought that did you not feel as if you would like to just knock the life out of that man ?" 149 

I said, "I certainly did." "How do you feel now?" 

"Well, really and truly Brother Taylor, I hope the poor old sinner can be forgiven." 

"You feel a whole lot better, don't you?" I said, "I certainly do." 

He added : "I put that clause in that letter for you and my son. You have learned a lesson as a young man. You have learned a good lesson, that this Gospel is one of forgiveness of sin, of awful sin, if there is true repentance, and it brings peace into your heart when you forgive the sinner. It brings peace when you love the man that you hated, provided the man turns to doing right. You have learned a lesson in your youth. Never forget it." And I never have. 

A CLOSING BLESSING 

But there is one thing that is necessary — and I warn you all — and that is this: "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins — behold, he will confess them and forsake them." If he has not truly repented President Taylor said his being baptized will do him no good. 

Now, I pray the Lord to bless the Latter-day Saints. I pray the Lord to bless the people of the world. I pray with all my heart and soul that any man — I do not care who he is or how high his position, — that is doing anything to get us into war, that he may be confounded; and I pray that we will all pray for guidance with all our hearts and souls. I feel as though it might be well for the Latter-day Saints to set aside a day to pray and to fast and to ask the Lord to preserve us as a nation from getting into a war. 

God bless you, one and all, and every honest soul — and every wicked soul that repents — I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Daily the Latter-day Saints pray that the Lord will bless and inspire and preserve the President of the Church. In the future when we thus pray let us also ask Him for power to follow President Grant's righteous life, for I testify to you that he is a righteous man and sets a worthy example to all Israel. Let us ask also that we might have power and ability to do what he has asked us to perform as officers and members of the Church. We will associate with our prayer that God will bless him, these two petitions — first, that we may be righteous as he in our daily lives, in our dealings with our f ellowmen; secondly, that we might have increased power to perform our duties in the Church. Then I am sure that the spirit of this great Conference will be carried to our homes and will abide in our hearts and the prayer we offer for President Grant's preservation will be answered in blessings upon our own heads. 

I am sure you would have me express at this time appreciation of 

150 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 5 Third Dag 

the inspiring songs given by the Tabernacle Choir, also those rendered by combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers, and the quartet of High Priests from Pasadena Stake. 

I think it highly fitting for us to express appreciation for the silent messages of appreciation and love that have come during this Conference from these beautiful flowers placed here by thoughtful hearts. We want the donors to know that we appreciate these gorgeous bouquets, "nature's jewels," depicting God's goodness and glory. 

President Edward J. Wood of the Alberta Temple : 

I believe that it would be with the consent of all here if we should stand and offer a silent prayer for thirty seconds to show President Grant our faith. 

President David 0. McKay : 

President Grant suggests that we join with the one who offers the benediction whom we will have express the prayer that you now suggest. We will continue to pray vocally and silently in our homes. A silent prayer, a prayer of the heart, even that of a little child, will be heard of God. 

The Tabernacle Choir will sing, "Worthy is the Lamb," from the "Messiah" by Handel, and after the benediction this Conference will stand adjourned for six months. 

President Samuel G. Dye of the Ogden Stake will offer the benediction and will express our prayerful wishes for President Grant's health and restoration. 

The Choir sang, "Worthy is the Lamb"' — Handel (the "Messiah"). Elder Samuel G. Dye, President of the Ogden Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 