1
Morning
06 10 1899
President Lorenzo Snow.
40
1-2

OPENING ADDRESS.

None

I wish to say a few words at the opening of our conference this morning. I feel myself, and I hope every Latter-day Saint does, very grateful for this beautiful morning and the prospect of good weather while we are convened. I trust that every Latter-day Saint will exercise faith that this beautiful weather may continue during conference. Many people that are here this morning and who will be here during our whole proceedings, have come from a long distance, and some have perhaps made what may be called sacrifices in order to come. I want to say to everyone that it is our privilege to be blessed to such an extent that we will feel perfectly repaid for all the inconvenience that may have resulted to us in coming to this gathering. As Latter-day Saints the Lord has placed us in relation with himself, and in order to carry out the condition that we are in we need His blessing above any other class of people.  
  
Our prospects are sufficiently grand and glorious to cause us to put forth every exertion that we possibly can, in order to secure the blessings that are before us. Nothing should deter us from the exercise of every power that God has bestowed upon us, to make our salvation and exaltation sure. All men and women who are worthy to be called Latter-day Saints should live hour by hour in such a way that if they should be called suddenly from this life into the next they would be prepared. The preparation should be such that we should not fear to be called away suddenly into the spirit life. It is our privilege to so live as to have the spirit of light and intelligence to that extent that we shall feel satisfied that all will be well if we should be called away at any hour.  
  
If we look back at our experience since we received the Gospel, we can see and know that the Lord has blessed us abundantly. If we have been faithful, as we should have been, or if we have not been so faithful as we should have been, but now feel to do right, we have assurances, from our past experience, that everything will be well with us in the future as we tread the path of exaltation and glory, walking in the light of the truth and carefully observing everything that is required of us. If there should be any Latter-day Saints within the sound of my voice that have not reached this assurance in regard to their future, they should not rest satisfied until they have secured it, so that they may know that everything is right with them.  
  
What I want of the Latter-day Saints is that during this conference, as the Elders shall arise to address us, our faith and our prayers may be exercised for each one who speaks, that he may say such things, and that we may have the spirit to receive such things as shall be beneficial to all. This is our privilege and our duty. We have not come here accidentally; we have come in this conference expecting to receive something that will be advantageous to us. The Latter-day Saints most assuredly need to receive good things. Of ourselves we can do nothing. As Jesus said: "Verily, verily I say unto you, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do; for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise." He came into this life to do the will of his Father, and not his own will. Our desire and determination should be the same. When things come up that require an exertion on our part, we should bring our wills into subjection to the will of the Father, and feel to say, what is the will of our Father, whom we are here in the world to serve? Then every act that we perform will be a success. We may not see its success today or tomorrow, nevertheless it will result in success.  
  
We have received principles of truth, but not in blindness. We do not walk in blindness, but we walk in the light of truth. We know what we are about and what will be the result of our faithfulness. But we should be wise and prudent; we should learn to govern ourselves, to control our passions, and to bring all our faculties and powers into perfect obedience to the mind and will of God, so that these bodies, which God has given to us, may be governed and controlled in all respects as He would wish. The Latter-day Saints, by being wise and prudent, can make this life a tolerably happy one. We need not live in misery; we need not feel that we are sacrificing all the time, but that what we call sacrifices prove a blessing to us, which we would not receive were it not for this experience. Everything that transpires affecting us individually may be made a blessing, and will be a blessing to us if we act wisely and prudently.  
  
We are not here to fight anybody; we are not here to contend with anybody. We are here to move slowly along, perform the duties that are required at our hands, mind our own business, and let others mind their business or not as they see proper. In this way we shall progress and gain an experience that will be useful to us, not only in this life, but in the life to come.  
  
God bless you, brethren and sisters. May we walk in obedience to the commandments of God continually, and if we do I will assure you that we will receive blessings far greater than we ever anticipated. God bless you, Amen.  