Afternoon
04 10 1897


ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Necessity of a strict observance of the Sabbath. — Permissable enjoyment and recreatien on week days. — Effects of Sabbath-breaking upon our children. 

I am happy in the opportunity of listening, as I did this forenoon, to the remarks that were made by our brethren who spoke to us; and I was especially pleased that President Woodruff was enabled to be here and open this Conference by speaking for a short period of time. I trust that during the time I may occupy, I may be permitted to enjoy the same spirit that was enjoyed by our brethren in their conversations this morning. I have no subject upon my mind at this moment, but I trust that the suggestions of the Spirit .may point out the direction in which I should go, that I may be enabled to touch upon some subject or other that shall be of interest to you. 

During the past few months, in visiting the stake conferences and also in attending meetings in various wards, I have been very strongly impressed with the necessity for a much more strict observance of the Sabbath day than the Saints have been giving to it, and in talking to the people I have been more impressed to speak upon that matter than upon any other. 

No people in the world have been dealt more generously with in the line of enjoyment — proper enjoyment — than the Latter-day Saints. Other religious peoples take little of those lighter enjoyments, and seem to regard them as sinful. But to us the Lord has been generous, in that we have been permitted to enjoy ourselves in witnessing representations upon the "mimic stage," to also have some pleasure in parties, and to enjoy ourselves in dancing. A great many religious people re these representations upon the stage, also dancing, as improper and wrong; but I myself am most happy in the thought that our Heavenly Father, in the introducing of His work and in seeking to establish among His children a correct understanding of the obligations and requirements of life, has permitted us the opportunity of lightening our minds, changing our currents of thought, and devoting ourselves to reasonable and proper amusements, that the mind might be freed from its constant load or strain occasioned by its so continuously pursuing the directions of those weightier conditions and obligations, and the continuance of thought upon them, by which the mind becomes overcharged and, as a result, produces sickness and feebleness, without there is some way in which it can be relieved. To my mind, the spirit and feeling and sentiment engendered in legitimate and proper amusements produces a most pleasing and satisfactory effect and result upon the mind that is thus permitted to throw off its weightier thoughts and enter upon legitimate and proper amusements, freeing it and enabling it to carry its weightier burdens more easily and more fully and mdre thoroughly. 

But I notice that while this spirit of amusement is legitimate and proper in the sphere of our every-day life, the tendency seems to be growing among many to disregard the Sabbath day and to change it from the day of worship, the day of rest, the day upon which we may be enabled to commune with our own thoughts and to reach out after the inspiration of the Spirit of God— that tendency, I say, is a growing one, to change that day into a day of pleasure; and to my mind, as I look around and note that tendency, I am sanguine that it is not for the best, but, upon the contrary, that, unless proper means shall be adopted to change this tendency, the sacred character of that day and the obligation that rests upon us as the children of our Heavenly Father to worship Him, is going to result badly; and it looks to me that an earnest effort should be made by the Elders of the Church to more deeply impress upon the minds of those of middle age and upon the younger and growing generations, the sacredness of that day. There is no reason that can be assigned among the Latter-day Saints why it should be turned into a day of pleasure-seeking, a day of recreation. 

The opportunities given in which we can enjoy ourselves with propriety in our social gatherings during the week should be appreciated by us; and while we may be required to labor, our time being largely utilized in the various employments upon which we enter in order to obtain our livelihood, these opportunities for recreation present themselves continuously before us. I feel in connection with this matter that we need — and we need it very badly too, taken as a whole — to have the entire time that comes as the Sabbath day to devote our minds and our hearts to communion with that Spirit that comes from on high. Laboring and struggling daily and hourly to meet the physical needs of man, or to gratify some desire in the line of amusement, our minds are taken away from that regard and respect to the Sabbath day, and that regard and reverence and respect to the requirements of our Heavenly Father in connection with the softening of our minds and putting our spirits in touch with Him, that the tendency to simply go to Sabbath school or to attend one service upon the Sabbath day, either in the Tabernacle or in the ward meeting houses, or other buildings, and then to hitch up our teams and drive about the city, or into the canyons, or to be found following up the streams and fishing, and indulging in these species of recreation, to my mind is not in keeping with the spirit and nature of the work the Lord has set us to do. I believe that so far as may be practicable, our animals should have the same opportunites for rest upon the Sabbath day that we have. It is true that there may be circumstances arising, in order to discharge the legitimate and proper duties that rest upon us, that we may be compelled to drive our teams, or that we may be compelled, through sickness or otherwise, to be found not performing in its strictness the duties attendant upon us as members of the body of Christ; but with the generous opportunities that have been given to us for amusement, the chance  is ours to change our current of thought, and the requirement laid upon our Father's children, not alone in the ages that have gone by, but in these days that they should remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy, we can avoid these evils. 

Again in this dispensation, the Lord has renewed His covenant with His children, and pointed out to them the course they should pursue in regard to His work. Yet day by day or Sabbath by Sabbath, in mingling among the people, in noting the conditions that arise, as the tendency to the violation of the Sabbath and to disregard the sacredness of that holy day increases, I see that infidelity will increase, because to indulge upon that day in the same species of labor or careless amusement common upon other days, and to neglect and disregard the obligations we owe to that day rendered sacred by our Father in Heaven, upon which we should approach Him, will increase the spirit of disregard for our Heavenly Father in the breasts of those who indulge in it. I do not wish, in any sense, to become cranky, as we sometimes say of our brethren who strike upon a hobby and seem to work at it continuously, but, to my mind, there has grown to be a reckless disregard of that sacred requirement of holding holy and sacred the Sabbath day, in the minds of a great body of people who profess to be Latter-day Saints. It is not confined to the boys and girls who drift away from the restraints that should exist in the home, but it is manifest among those of more mature years. It is seen in many places and under many conditions, and it is repeated Sabbath after Sabbath, from month's end to month's end, and from year's end to year's end, and I trust that the faith and respect and reverence that should be shown in connection with the sacred observance of that day, devoted by our Heavenly Father to the enlightenment and uplifting of His children in the knowledge of Himself, shall not be held so lightly as it seems to be growing to be in the minds of many people who profess to believe upon His name, but that, wherever it may be possible, they will obey His wish, and hold sacred His day, that with themselves and their households, they will attend the ser of the Church, and, if unable so to do, within the sacred folds of their own home circle will study the scriotures and seek to impress upon their minds a knowledge of His purposes, as shown in the sacred things which have come to us. 

I feel that in connection with this matter, a change should take place with us; and while we may not be enabled to avoid some seeming violations of that sacred day, I believe that the spirit of every member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Later-day Saints should be directed to a more careful and thoughtful and prudent observance of the obligations which attach to us in connection with that day; that those teams and our vehicles, that those that are dependent upon us, shall be made to feel and sense the saeredness of that day and their duty to their Maker; that their minds may be eased of the strain of their week-day labor, and have communion with the Holy Spirit, that spirit that brings joy and gladness, that awakens hope, that puts us in sacred touch with our Heavenly Father, and renders us obedient to His holy wish, — that that spirit may be with them and direct and guide them into its strict observance. I believe that carriage riding and buggy riding in this city and in these larger cities among the Saints, has grown to be a crime, and that our Heavenly Father is not pleased with it. That is my spirit and feeling in regard to that matter. President Cannon asks, "What about bicycles?" Well, I say this, my brethren and sisters, in regard to this question of riding of horses and bicycles, the driving of teams, and such like upon the Sabbath day: I recognize that many are so situated, being miles away from places of worship, that they must of necessity drive their teams in order to take their families to their legitimate and proper places of worship, — I have nothing to say with reference to this matter, but when Our teams are hitched up every Sabbath afternoon and driven for hours and hotirs for pleasure, I think we trench upon ground upon which we should not enter. I think, brethren and Sisters. remembering the goodness Of our Father to us, that while the rest of the religious world feel  it is a crime upon their part to have social enjoyments, our Father has permitted us to have these, going upon the basis that reasonable pleasure is legitimate and right, and drawing our minds from the weighty loads that come to men and women in their struggle of life; but O, let us hold sacred that day that our Father has named as the day upon which we, as His children, taught in the principles of righteousness, should show our love for Him, and our love for the principles involved in good government, in the balancing and shaping of the mind in its currents of thought along religious channels, and not be in a condition that our minds shall be given wholly to the enjoyment or pursuit of pleasure alone, or to the weighty obligations of life, to the business affairs of life, that drift us away from the sacred communion of the Holy Spirit. 

My brethren and sisters, I ask that you who are under the sound of my voice this day will bear in remembrance that God has decreed that the Sabbath day should be held sacred and holy in His sight, and He expects us, His sons and His daughters, to so regard it in our ministrations and labors, to only discharge such duties as rest upon us, that are impossible for us to avoid but which come legitimately and cannot be avoided. My witness to you is that they who remember the Sabbath day, who shall take the rest proposed in the change of thought, who shall do it in attendance upon the sacred service, where the worship of God is present, will live longer lives, will be made more acceptable in every respect to our Heavenly Father; and in their children and their children's children will the impress of that spirit to hold sacred the day of rest and worship be manifest in their lives, which will bring joy and satisfaction to the fathers and mothers because of the course that they pursue. 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may indeed be in our midst, that the determination shall be a fixed and established one that in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, wherever they may be situated.shall be found a people who revere and respect the sacred day which God has designated as a day of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  j, that that day shall not become a day of pleasure but, upon the contrary, a day of worship, of reverence, and love for the Supreme Being, and that each one will seek to do his Father's bidding in this respect, and keep His commandments. Amen. 

ELDER FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Sacred ground. — Maintaining Kepentance. — Tenderness of heart.— Moslah's teachings. — God never fails. 

Twenty-five minutes will not be a very long practice at the mark straight ahead of us, but I will endeavor to talk straight, with the help of the Lord and with the help of your faith and prayers, my brethren and sisters, and trust that something may be said that will be profitable to us. 

While listening to the brethren today, I have thought of this sacred spot, this building, this sacred ground where the Latter-day Saints are wont to assembl? twice a year from all over the Church, coming here to listen to the living oracles, the men who have been chosen by the Lord, upon whose shoulders rests the responsibility of this Church and this work which the Lord has established, and O, what a sacred spot this is destined to be! When I think of the great designer of this building, President Young, and his brethren who have occupied the stand, the pulpit here, and how freely the word of the Lord has come to the people by the inspiration of the Almighty, words of wisdom, words of intelligence, words fraught with the power of God, I think what wonderful occasions have been in this building! How we have rejoiced together, and how we have been fed and stimulated to go forth from this central spot to our various fields of labor, to serve the Lord anew, to renew our energies, our covenants and obligations to the Lord and to more faithfully keep His commandments, that we may make good our great undertaking; to repent of our sins and to obtain forgiveness; to make a repentance genuine and eternal; for I am brought to believe that it is possible for men to repent and then to unrepent, and to fail to keep their repent good; and I believe that the victory is in retaining our repentance and making it good, so that the Spirit of the Lord may dwell richly with us. I believe that it has been a fault with the Latter-day Saints, with us all, perhaps, without exception, that we have not properly maintained oar repentance a?id kept it good; that we have, after we have embraced the Gospel and have received baptism properly, slackened our course; that we have become careless; that we have not maintained the broken heart and the contrite spirit, for be it known, it is necessary that men should havo the broken heart, the tender and soft heart, and the contrite spirit, or they are not worthy of that great ordinance of baptism of water and of fire and of the Holy Ghost. And when we have reached this point, that we have complied with the revelation which is so clear and pointed, so definite that no one can mistake, I believe that that same condition must be maintained. I believe that my heart should be as tender today as it ever was. I cannot afford to be hard-hearted, I cannot afford to be stubborn, I cannot afford to be haughty and high-minded; but T must be contrite in spirit and my heart broken and tender, for the Lord has prescribed that all those who humble themselves before God and desire to be baptized should come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of their sins and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve Him to the end. He says: 'All who truly manifest by their works that thej T have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins shall be received by baptism into this Church." I take it that this re t uirement is necessary to entitle us to baptism into this Church, and no person is entitled to baptism who comes not to that condition. And if it be necessary that that condition is reached, or shall be reached, by those who would be baptized into this Church and have their sins washed away.to entitle them to receive the Holy Ghost, I bolieve that it is necessary also that that repentance and that broken heart and  contrite spirit and those good works before the Church, shou!d be continued, and manifested to the end of life, if we would have the blessing of eternal life. King Benjamin, in talking to his people, in the fourth chapter of Mosiah (Book of Mormon), says : 

"And again I say unto you, as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God, or if ye have known of His goodness, and have tasted of His love, and have received a remission of your sins, which causeth you exceeding great;ioy in your souls, even so I would that ye should remember.and always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your own nothingness, and His goodness and longsuffering toward you, unworthy creatures, and humble yourselves, even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily and standing steadfastly in the faith of that which is to come, which was spoken by the mouth of the angel; and behold, I say unto you, that if ye do this, ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins; and ye shall grow in the knowledge of the glory of Him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which is just and true. And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to every man according to that which is his due," 

Further, King Benjamin says, in this same chapter: 

'And now, for the sake of these things which I have spoken unto you; that is, for the sake of retaining a remission of your sins from day to Jay, that ye may walk guiltless before God, I would that ye should impart cf your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick, and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants And see that all these things are done in wisdom and order, for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength. And again: it is expedient that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore all things must be done in order. And I would that ye should remember, that whosoever among you that borroweth from his neighbor, should return the thing that he borroweth, according as he doth agree, or else thou shalt sin, and perhaps thou shalt cause thy neigh! or to commit sin also. And, finally, I cannot tell you all the things whereby ye may commit sin; fcr there are divers ways and means, even so many that 

I cannot number them. But this much I can tell you, that if ye do not watch yourselves, and your thoughts, and your words, and your deeds, and observe the commandments of God, and continue in the faith of what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto the end of your lives, ye must perish. And now, O man, remember and perish not." 

What great favor we enjoy, my brethren and sisters, that we have come to the plan of life, that we have come to know the way that leads to life and salvation, to know the Lord, to become acquainted with Him, having learned of Him through the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, to know that Jesus is the Christ, to know that He is the Son of God and the Savior, and that we have been taught the principles of repentance, and that we have been brought to understand it and appreciate it! How important it is, then, that we should remain faithful, that we should persevere, that we should maintain the conditions upon which we entered into this Church. It is not that a certain condition is necessary for us to come through the door and then that we may unbend and do as we choose; but it is important that we should keep the faith. It is important that we should keep our hearts broken and tender, and our spirits contrite, and meek, and lowly of heart, that we should remember the Lord day by day, and that we should honor Him and keep His commandments and work righteousness, for we have the power. The power is in us. The Lord has given it to us, and the Lord has given to all men the power to do good and to honor Him and to keep His commandments. Naturally all men are endowed with this power from on high. There is planted in the hearts of all men that spark of intelligence and of righteousness from God, and that perception of the truth known as the conscience of man. It is a monitor established in the heart of every man and every woman, by the inspiration of the Almighty. And that conscience should be kept unsullied. It should be kept free, uncontaminated, and it should improve, for, under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, to which those are entitled who humGENERAL CONFERENCE.  themselves before God, the consciences of men should become so tender and so susceptible of impressions that they would rebel against the insinuation of evil, however small it might be. For the conscience, instead of being "seared with a hot iron," should be improved, should be intensified and made stronger and better in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, for we are entitled to a superior power and intelligence. 

The Holy Ghost, that brings us in communion with the Father, and that establishes us as the living oraclesnot alone the Presidency of the Church, not alone the Apostles, not alone the officials of the Church generaly,— but I say that the Holy Ghost in the hearts of the Elders of Israel makes them the living oracles of God, and they are entitled to speak by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost; they are entitled to know the truth, and not to be deceived. They are entitled to be led and counseled as they cannot be led by the written word, as we heard this morning, and yet no people of the world prize more the revelations of the Lord that are written than do the Latter-day Saints. But it has been the living oracles of God that produced the written word, and that always must produce the written word — not the written word that produces the living oracles. But the living oracles are those men whom God has chosen and has inspired and given responsibility to. Those are the living oracles of God, and they are the men that the Lord sustains and strengthens and preserves, and to whom He reveals His mind and will. And they labor among the people, they live among the people, and they go to the world and preach the Gospel, advertising the principles of life and salvation abroad to the world, calling men to repentance and to reformation. These are the living oracles, and we should be the living oracles, and we should keep good the obligations that we are under to the Lord, and the promises we have made to Him, for He never fails. Our Heavenly Father has never failed. He cannot fail. His promises are all good to us. The failures are upon our part. It  no failure — it has never been a failure on the part of the Lord, in the choice of brethren to serve Him and to bear His responsibility, to bear His Priesthood and authority among lien. The failures have been the failAres of men, on account of the weaknesses of men, of human nature. But where men lean upon the Lord and trust Him, and are humble and faithful, as all men can be, God always sustains and never deserts them. He cannot desert them. It is not possible that a man can fail if he does the will of God. No man ever did fail in this work and kingdom if he maintained his repentance and reformation — if these are kept good from the beginning to the finish, no man can fail. Where men do fail, it is because of their own faults and of their own weaknesses, and not the fault of the Father. And there is no fault or mistake of the Father in the choice that is made, and every man who is called to position in this Church is called by the Father, by revelation, and not otherwise. The mind and will of God is known on every occasion, and we need have no fear when the purposes of the Lord are announced. "When the design, the rule and the order of the Church are announced by the Prophet of God, know all Israel that God hath said it; and we know He hath spoken. We know when we hear his voice. We know His spirit, and we know the voice of the true shepherd. And this is my testimony to yon, my brethren and sisters, today, in regard to this great work. 

And I say these sacred precincts where the Prophets of God have dwelt and labored among us all these years, and where the inspiration of the Almighty comes as a flood, and where the will of God is announced to all Israel, should be most dear to us. What a blessed privilege! O, if we appreciated it as we ought to do, this house would never hold the congregation on any occasion. We would be crowding the very grounds about it, as well as the galleries, and every spot would be filled, if we only appreciated that God is here, that the Holy Ghost is here and is with His servants. How great has been the opportunity and privilege that is granted to us, and how we ought to appreciate it, and how we ought to be humble, how we ought to repent and leave off every wickedness and evil and iniquity, and how straight we should walk to the line, keeping the commandments of God, shunning not only evil but the appearance of evil! 

I quite endorse the remarks of Brother Smith in regard to the sacredness of the Sabbath day. That should always be observed. We cannot be too careful in regard to all these things, and everything, in fact, in life; and we want to be prepared, my brethren and sisters, for the coming of the Son of Man, for His coming is near; it approaches, and it will be upon us before we know it, and before we are prepared. Let us then, I say, repent and make our repentance good from this time henceforth, and say nothing that would mortify us, or that would grieve the Spirit of the Lo»xL, or make us ashamed. 

I pray that the Lord will sustain us. I pray for President Woodruff, our great leader, the man whom God has honored with long life. How his life has been preserved! And we pray that he may continue to be preserved and stand at our head, and be filled with the power of God. And I pray for my brethren, the Presidency, the Twelve, and for the Elders of Israel, and for all who are in official positions among the people, at home and abroad. I pray for those who are laboring, who have responsibility upon their shoulders, all the brethren and all the sisters, that God will bless us, and enable us to do His will, accomplish His purposes, and be worthy of the trust that He has committed to us, that when we have finished, we shall be selected as His jewels, and that it may be said of us 'Well done, good and faithful servants, enter into the joy of thy Lord." Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNGGod's work in other Worlds. What a Christian is — Sabbath observance— Preparation to meet the Savior. 

I am gratified to be here in this assembly today. The last Conference, in April, I was unable to attend, and I believe that I am a living monument of the mercy of God, for on two occasions in the month of April — last April 

— I thought my time had come. But the brethren who administered to me, under the influence and power of God, raised me up and through His mercies I have this privilege of meeting with the Saints in Conference today. Thank God for it. 

I am pleased and edified in the remarks that have been made. I rejoice in the Gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to them that believe, and I see a vast congregation before me, the majority of whom have believed and have identified themselves with the work of the latter days, which God has instituted to save His sons and daughters who have dwelt upon the earth, who do dwell upon the earth, and all who shall come upon the earth. This great work has to do with all the creations of God, and this movement is in harmony with other labors, that are going on in other planets, and we will find that instead of being isolated and strangers to them as we are now, we will mingle with people who are not of us today, people, possibly, of other planets. And while we now consider that it is a great thing to become acquaint-' ed with the nations that dwell upon the earth, then it will be the prerogative of the saved to visit other creations and other organizations —planets that have come into existence and are peopled by the Almighty— that^ we may visit them and become acquainted with them as we now become acquainted with foreign people.This work extends to all the people. This work extends to all the creations of God. It partakes of God, and therefore the attributes that are planted in man are like unto His attributes, and we shall become acquainted and see as we are seen and know as we are known. 

I am thankful that the brethren have touched upon our weaknesses. We claim to be Christians. What is a Christian? It is one who does the will of the Father, that lives in obedience to the commandments of Christ. If I do not these things, I am not a Christian. Men have asked me by what power does a certain individual heal the sick? Is it in the name of Jesus? "O, no." Question the individual who is operating, and he may tell you, "I know not by what power I do this." Then I don't want anything to do with that power. When one who is endowed with the Priesthood and the Spirit of God pronounces a blessing in the name of Jesus Christ, that man is acting as a Christian, in that respect at least. When there is any religious denomination that labor, that worship in any other name, they are not Christians; and I leave it to you and to the world to define who are Christians in this generation. I do not want to malign airy one, but, my brethren and sisters, I take this as a key, and no man nor woman need stumble when the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are taught and they are lived up to, — that man or that woman who so lives is a Christian in the true sense of the word. If a religious denomination claim to have revelation and institute a doctrine and eschew Christ and put Him away, they are simply grafting on to this enlightened age a system of heathenism, and it will not be long befor they will erect their heathen gods, as has been done in other ages of the world. However they may look upon it, it is true. If these people are Christians, if these men and these women are Christians, then they will do that which Christ has commanded. 

I am a witness that He has commanded us to observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy; and I will say this, that there is not, in some respects, observed in this city anything like the order that I found in Carthage on a visit to that place some years ago; that is the spot where the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum were murdered in cold blood. You could not buy a drop of liquor in that town. You saw no ragged loafers, nor fences down, nor men wandering about the streets, but everybody was busy, everybody seemed to have something to do. I was astonished, because I had always looked upon that town as the worst in the United States. But it was ahead of this city in Zion, in the order that was maintained there. There is nothing in a name. It is said by one of the poets, "What's in a name?" I may bear the name of a Latter-day Saint, but I will tell you that I have not the  nor the odor of a Saint when I do not the will of the Father. It is said that "a rose by any other name would smell as sweet." But when I do not live the religion of Jesus Christ, I have not the confidence to present to the people, nor the Spirit of God in me to be witnessed by the congregations of the Latter-day Saints, and I cannot deceive them, it is impossible. No man can deceive this people. He cannot do it, because they are so strongly entrenched, every man and woman that is living his or her religion. First, we have the Presidency of the Church to give us revelation, to instruct us, and if God our Father has anything for us to do particularly outside of the instructions already given, it comes through that channel. It comes through His mouthpiece, and it is passed from one grade to another in the Priesthood. And it comes to us, "Thus saith the Lord," if need be. Then we have within ourselves that living light and intelligence, that when the word of the Lord comes, it seems like waters coming together, pure and undented, waters that blend together and are undistinguishable when they meet and are mingled. That spirit is absorbed by us, and we feel that what is given unto us is for the consolation of our souls. 

Now, I ought to receive whatever God sends me. It is a very hard job sometimes. If it doesn't agree with me, it is because I am crossgrained. But we should learn this lesson, that God will hold us responsible, because the means, as has been said, are in our power by which we can walk a straight line without deviation. Although we have weaknesses, yet we can walk the straight line back into the presence of our Father. He has given us this power, and He holds us responsible for its use, just as the ten talents were given, and those who had them were held responsible for their use. God holds you and me responsible for the talents he gives us, or has given us, and if these talents are allowed to lie in the ground unproductive, we may pray to Him but it will be in vain, comparatively, for there will be nothing for us by way  reward. But when they are improved, we develop until we become like God, for the attributes which He has implanted within us are godlike in every particular. If we do these things, Latter-day Saints, God will approve of us. 

Now, why not go to from this time forth and say in our hearts, and put it into active life, that we, as far as we are individually concerned, will observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy, and so far as we have influence over our families, that we will see that this is the case also with them. Why not do this? If this one thing were done it would be a great relief to the Latter-day Saints. We complain of hard times. Why? Because, as it was said this morning by the first speaker, so many of us are laboring for money, not for Christ and his Church. If we had labored and considered "first the kingdom of God and His righteousness," all things would be added. This is true, or else we have been misled. I believe it to be true, to be the revelation of God. Are all things added to us? Well, there are a great many things that I wish had never been added; but I believe "all things" meant all good things, and we have seemed to have a great many very bad things added to us in this community and throughout the State. Then that is positive evidence that we have not obeyed the injunction laid upon us to seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all things would be added to us. I do not believe this day that there would be one soul wanting labor, wanting employment, not one soul needing food, shelter or clothing, if we had sought first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. All would have been provided for. I believe that these things have come upon us through our weaknesses. That is my belief. I believe I suffer today through debt, suffer in my feelings today in not being able to meet my obligations promptly, because I have not sought the kingdom of God and His righteousness, first and foremost. Now I believe that the Lord will help us out if we will from this time forth begin to observe the Sab day, and if we will go to our sacrament meetings and partake of that sacrament worthily; if we will attend to our prayers; if we will know where our children are after dark, and where they are in daylight, our sons and our daughters; if we do not allow them to form into clubs, and go riding horseback, in carriages, wagons and buggies, on bicycles or on foot, wandering up the canyon, wandering into the hills, or off somewhere playing cards, or doing something of this kind. If we will watch them, God wil watch us and give us power; if we do not watch them, He will not take much notice of any of us, I am afraid. He has given us these things as duties. It is our place to attend to them. I do not blame the children so much aa I blame the older ones, because the child may be led. 

We have influences to contend with here that are inimical to the Church of Christ. A lady stopped me on the street the other day, that is she looked like a lady and I think she was. She said, "O, I can't stand your endowments." "Why, what do you know about our endowments?" I said. "O, the wickedness! I see you have been industrious, but O how wicked! O, that endowment house, what a terror it has been to me! I am not very old, but I have heard of it all my life!" She was a lady from the East. Well, I talked with her a little while. She asked me if I was a Mormon. I told her, just as Brother Joseph P. said on one occasion when a boy and a stranger interrogated him, "Yes, I am a Mormon and died in the wool." 

Well, now, brethren and sisters, here are our duties. O, I wish I could bring them home to you and to me. I want to be preached to just as much as anybody. I am one with you, as you can see, so far as debt is concerned. O, I am bound to go right along with you. I wish I could tell you how I view my own actions. I haven't language to do it. I would like to tell you how I view those who break the Sabbath day, how I look upon those who go out to pleasure resorts upon the Sabbath day. I do not care how much people ride in a carriage if they are doing the will of the Father, if they are going to their meetings, if they are going to perform some duty; but when we start out on Sunday and slash and race, I think we are breaking the Sabbath day. 

Brethren and sisters, God has commanded us to listen to the voice of inspiration from our brethren that we have heard this day, especially to the voice of our leader. Listen to him. His words are to me like "apples of gold in pictures of silver." Every word that falls from his mouth, the simplest word that he utters, is to me a revelation, although his words may not be quick and powerful; but every word that he utters in conversation is revelation to me, fori look upon him as the vicegerent of God upon the earth. Listen to him. Listen to his counsels and to the counsels of his brethren, and let this Conference mark the epoch of a reformation, mark the beginning of a reformation in the midst of this people. Let us go from this Conference when it is ended with a determination in our hearts that as for us we will serve God with our households as near as possible. This is the resolution that is wanted. This is what is needed in the hearts of the people. And let us be diligent day and night,diligent in keeping the commandments of God, for what was said here 7. know to be true, that the coming of our Lord and Master is not far away from us. It will surprise us very much, when the cry goes forth, "Lo, the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him." I for one want to live so that when that cry is sounded it will be the most joyous message that ever saluted the ears of a human being. That is the way I want to live, and I would like the people of the whole world — not only the Latter-day Saints, but the people of the whole earth, to live so that when that cry goes forth we may go out to meet Him with our countenances elevated to our Savior, beaming with joy and gladness, to meet the Redeemer, the rewarder of the acts that we have performed. God help us in this; God give us strength, for we are weak, and enable us to lift ourselves above our surroundings, above the world, and to set an example worthy of imitation by all men; which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRE ST. WILFORD kWOODRUFF 

The Written Word— Joseph and Brlgham In Klrtland — Present Inspiration. 

There are a few moments I would like to spend in talking upon one particular point that has been spoken about today. Brother Brigham has referred to it, and our brethren this forenoon alluded to it. It is in regard to the written word of God and the living oracles. Perhaps you may think that Brother Woodruff is hardly a suitable man to speak upon this subject, seeing he is President of the Church, but I think you will find I am when I get through. I will refer to a certain meeting I attended in the town of Kirtland in my early days. At that meeting some remarks were made that have been made here today, with regard to the living oracles and with regard to the written word of God. The same principle was presented, although not as extensively as it has been here, when a leading man in the Church got up and talked upon the subject, and said: "You have got the word of God before you here in the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants; you have the written word of God, and you who give revelations should give revelations according to those books, as what is written in those books is the word of God. "We should confine ourselves to them." When he concluded, Brother Joseph turned to Brother Brigham Young and said, "Brother Brigham I want you to take the stand and tell us your views with regard to the written oracles and the written word of God." Brother Brigham took the stand, and he took the Bible, and laid it down; he took the Book of Mormon, and laid it down; and he took the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and laid it down before him, and he said: "There is the written word of God to us, concerning the work of God from the beginning of the world, almost, to our day." "And now," said he, "when compared with the living oracles those books are nothing to me; those books do not convey the word of God direct to us now, as do the words of a Prophet or a man bearing the Holy Priesthood in our day and generation. I would rather have the living oracles than all the  in the books." That was the course he pursued. When he was through, Brother Joseph said to the congregation: "Brother Brigham has told you the word of the Lord, and he has told you the truth." 

And now, I wanted to speak a word Apostle or leading man of the Church upon this subject. Whenever the Lord requires any Prophet, Seer, Revelator, to speak, the Spirit of the Lord is with him to give counsel to the people from time to time as he is moved upon, and such as the people ought to hear. But I want you to understand this one thing; the Holy Priesthood and power of God do not stop there; it does not stop with the Presidency, it does not stop with the Twelve Apostles, it does not stop with our leading men of Israel; — there is not a man on God's footstool that is sent forth into the world to preach the Gospel but ought to have the Spirit of the Lord upon him and the revelation of God to him. And by that power these valleys of the mountains have been filled with the inhabitants of the world today; by that power this Tabernacle has been built; by that power have the; Elders, from the organization of this Church until today, performed their work. There is no end to the Holy Ghost and the power of God and the revelations of God to man. This is our position today before the world. Every man should have the Holy Priesthood with him, of some kind or other, when he goes to preach the Gospel; he should occupy some position of that kind. The Holy Ghost should be with that man. The Holy Ghost is with that man, revelation is with that man, if he lives his religion and does his duty before God. 

I have before me the Twelve 

Apostles who were boys — who were young men when they were thrust into the vineyard — in their boyhood, as it were, when they went forth to the islands of the sea and the nations of the earth, and they have done that work in their young days by the inspiration and the power of God, and He will be with them until the end. We should all understand this. The Bible is all right, the Book of Mormon is all right, the Doctrine and Covenants is all right, and they proclaim the work of God and the word of God in> the earth in this day and generation: until the coming of the Son of Man; but the Holy Priesthood is not con« fined particularly to those books, that is, it did not cease when those books were made. It belongs to every man that goes forth into the world, and these are our principles, and these are our rights, and these are our duties, and these are our gifts. The Holy Ghost is not confined to any one man, but every one should have it. As the Lord said to Orson Hyde and the brethren with him, that were going to preach the Gospel; "Go forth and speak as you are moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and when you speak as you are moved upon by the Holy Ghost, that is the word of the Lord, that is the mind of the Lord, that is His Spirit, that is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believes." 

Well, I felt I wanted to name this in this connection. This subject has been brought up so strongly here today, I felt I wanted to bear my testimony of these things. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, 

"We give thanks to Thee, O Lord of the harvest." 

Benediction by Elder B. H. Roberts. 