Morning
06 10 1897


ELDER C. D. FJELSTED. 

The Lord has led His people— Christ's promise has been fulfilled. 

I do not know if I shall be able to speak loud enough for such a large congregation. My voice is not very strong.but I feel thankful to our Heavenly Father that we have this great opportunity of meeting together in a Conference, to have the privilege to sit and listen to inspired men that are full of wisdom and good counsel to us. We can certainly say we have had quite a feast during this Conference, and I for my part feel to thank God, the Eternal Father, that we have a living Priesthood amongst us, to direct and to guide us and to bless us; and there are no people that I know of on the whole earth that ought to be as grateful to our Heavenly Father for His blessings as we ought to be. The doctrines that we have listened to are of an excellent character, and we know they are from God, and I wish that we all carried them out that it might please the Lord to bless us still more. His hand has been over this people. He has led us unto this day, and we have confidence that He will continue to lead this people and that we will be able to help to build up the work of God. We can say surely the testimony that was promised to us and to everybody by the Savior when He was here has been realized. He said anyone and everyone that will do the will of my Father shall know if this is the work of God or not. We  testify by receiving this Gospel that we have received that testimony, that this is the work of God and not of man, and therefore I say we ought to be the best people on the whole earth; that we are called upon to be Saints; and that the Lord has given us the testimony that this is His work; and I say, Lord bless all Thy servants, Lord bless all who take an active part in building up the work of God, that they may be prospered in the land, and that the plans of the Wicked One to overthrow this work may fall to the ground, and that the kingdom of God may be built up and that His blessings may follow the people. This is my prayer and desire in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

Endorsement of the Conference proceedings — Testimony of the Truth. 

My brethren and sisters, I have been exceedingly happy during this Conference, and, with you, have enjoyed the blessings thereof, and my heart is filled with gratitude for this great privilege of being numbered with the Church of Christ, with having a name and a standing in the Church. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the outpourings of the Spirit of the Lord upon His servants, and their words and utterances and their actions have had a response in my heart, and the Spirit of the Lord has testified to my spirit that all that hath been done is of the Lord, and with my whole soul I accept the counsels and instructions that have been imparted to us. 

I desire to bear my testimony not only to those truths that we have received during this Conference, but to the truth of the work of the Lord. I rejoice that through His grace the truth of this work hath been made known unto me. I have said to some of my intimate friends that I think it is a good thing that the Lord has made it known to me, for if He had not made it known beyond all doubt, it is very questionable with me if I could believe it. But I have received that testimony  am pleased with the opportunity of saying- so once more to you, and I desire to live in harmony with it, and be saved in the kingdom of God. I know of no greater reward to strive for than this, and with all my soul, I desire to overcome the weaknesses and imperfections of humanity and at the last be received into the kingdom of our God. I hope that I may have strength to do so, and that the same strength may be given to the Saints of God and that the kingdom of God may come on the earth and His will be done here as it is done in heaven; all of which I pray for in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

The wonders wrought by the Saints through the power of God— Completeness of the keys and authority of the Priesthood. 

It affords me great pleasure this morning, my brethren and sisters, to be present with you in this vast congregation, to worship the Lord our God, to learn of His ways that we may walk in His paths; and it gives me still greater, consolation to know that His people are still led by the Spirit of divine revelation, that notwithstanding our weaknesses, our shortcomings, our lack of faith, God is still with us. He is still guiding His people, and with me there is not the slightest shadow of a doubt but what all His holy purposes will be accomplished. I know that this is the work of God, I know that He is guiding His people. Of this I am more satisfied than of any other fact with which I am acquainted. I have no fears on this point, for the Holy Spirit has witnessed from the beginning, that God is with us, that this is not the work of man. Had it not been so, it would have failed long ago. It would never have brought to pass the wonderful, the miraculous results, I might say, that we see have been accomplished by the revelation of God to Joseph Smith and to His people. No earthly power could have accomplished what has been done by the people who belong to the Church of Jesus Christ. The results are marvelous, not only in the building up of this commonwealth in these valleys of the mountains, not only in the preaching of the Gospel to so many of the nations of the earth, but also in the  results that have followed the ministry of the servants of God, the results that have followed materially, spiritually, intellectually, and in every way that I can think of. 

Our influence in the history of the world in this century is marked, and will be still more marked as the centuries roll round; and from a distance men will be able to perceive what has been really accomplished by those who for so long were despised, of whom so little was thought, and to whose message such a deaf ear was turned by the greater portion of the peoples of the world. And I can say, while I feel my littleness, while I acknowledge my insufficiency, yet I do greatly rejoice that God has accounted me worthy to be one of His people, to be one of the workers with Him in the great work of the regeneration of the world, in the fulfillment of His purposes, and in the bringing about of that reign of righteousness upon the earth, when all shall know Him, and when every man in every place shall meet a brother and a friend; for I desire to see righteousness brought about, I desire to see peace established upon the earth, I desire to see love abound amongst all the sons and daughters of Adam. I have no pleasure in iniquity, no pleasure in turmoil, in rioting; no pleasure in contention; but I desire to live to see the name of God glorified, to see the principles of eternal truth vindicated, to see Israel become God's first born upon the earth, and occupy the positon God has intended for His people; and I desire to see this earth prepared for the coming and reign of the Prince of Peace, of Jesus, our Redeemer, the Son of God. 

And these things I know will be brought about, will be accomplished by the labors and ministry of the servants of God, under the direction of those who hold the keys of power in the midst of His people, to whom He reveals His mind and will. And I am doubly thankful to know that there is not one key of the Holy Priesthood, not one power belonging to God's kingdom, not one key of authority, not one principle pertaining to the building up of righteousness upon the earth, that God has withheld from His people, in these the latter days . I realize that all these things have been given unto us. There is nothing lacking, but all that is necessary, if we will obey, to give us power to return into the presence of God, and to enjoy the blessings of the celestial kingdom throughout the eternities to come, are ours, are with this Church, have been revealed of God. We have been made partakers of all these things. There is nothing wanting. Not one link is left out. They are all ours if we will be faithful to God and to His cause; and this is my testimony, my brethren and sisters. I know it is true, and I bear it in the name of the Lord Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JONATHAN G. KIMBALL 

Labors in the SoutL— The Mutual Improvement cause— Necessity of study and reflection— The great sin of uDchastity. 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters. I have discovered in my short career that I don't amount to very much; that all that I have tried to do within myself I have failed in. The only blessing of real comfort that I have received is in laboring in the ministry. Some men are more easily tired than others, and as far as I am concerned. I desire to be free in what I say, and I hope that I may be moved upon by the Holy Ghost, for I can testify to the children of men that I know what the Holy Ghost is, that is, I know what its influence is. I know that I have felt that joy, that peace, that satisfaction, that burning within me that comes from the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. 

I have labored for the past six weeks in company with Apostle Lyman through the southern part of the State, largely in the interests of the Young " Men's Mutual Improvement Association, and I discover in associating among the people that there is a great missionary work to be performed here at home. There are something over twenty-five thousand young men, from fourteen up to my age, and only a very small percentage of that number are laboring earnestly and ardently to gain information and knowl, edge pertaining to this great work. Talk about your missionary fields of , talk about the nations of the earth; I comprehend that the angel came with its message that the Gospel might be preached to every nation, to every kindred, to every tongue and people; but I want to testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the rising generation at home are being neglected. They are not being reached by the Priesthood of God; and if there is any place on the great earth where there needs an awakening and an uplifting, it is right here in Zion, and, I want to say to you, the fathers and the mothers are helpless, and they know not what to do. I know the cause, too, and the sin will rest upon the parents. They have not followed this counsel, to instruct their children when they are young. President George Q. Cannon said we were in bondage, to a certain extent, because we had not followed counsel, and I want to testify that it is true, and I want to say that there is a great sin resting upon some of the fathers and mothers, because they have not taught their children faith, repentance, baptism, and the reception of the Holy Ghost when they were eight years old, and they are now reaping the sorrow of their neglect. We neea missionaries. I take the position that we need one hundred to start out with, to commence this mission here at home; and I don't know, before they get through with it, but they will have to preach on the street corners like the Elders do in the states and in Europe. 

A part of our labors in the southern part of the State were in the interest of a new magazine; for the general board of the Young Men's Associations have discovered that it is absolutely impossible to reach the four hundred and ninety-one associations in the Church without a magazine. But in that number of associations, we have 16,580 young men that are enrolled, with an attendance, perhaps, of eight thousand. There is something like ten thousand that are not enrolled, and this missionary work must be begun. 

In our associating among the people, we discovered, and I want to testify to what one of the brethren spoke in reference to that matter, that our people are not a reading peo, they do not diligently read the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. I want to say to you that I was so surprised that I have not language to express it, when we discovered how few of our people, with the numerous hosts of children, there are that are taking the Juvenile Instructor. Why, we found places where a few years ago they took thirty or forty Juveniles, in some instances they are only taking three or four now. If that is not proof enough that they are not reading, why, I don't know what other proof you want. We have, however been sustained by the people of the south, and in the Stakes of St. George, and Kanab, and Panguitch, and Parowan we have met with a very kindly reception; and I believe there has been a reawakening. 

But I want to say to the people, if you will permit me, something I have on my mind here. I would like to read to you a little from the Doctrine, and Covenants, to show you the condition that we are in, some of us. It is a revelation given to Oliver Cowdery. It seems that he had the gift of translation, and he was somewhat impatient; and the Lord spoke to him in this manner — and I want to apply this to the rising generation, I want to apply it to the Latter-day Saints, from the age of fourteen to ninety — we expect all of them to join the Young Men's Association between those ages, and as Apostle Lyman said, there is not anybody permitted to join the association who is older than President Woodruff. We believe that men who are aged should study just as much as young men. I want to ask the Latter-day Saints if that is a true doctrine, that when a man gets old he should quit learning and stop studying, and cease to progress. I want to read you what the Lord has said in this line, speaking to Oliver Cowdery: "Behold, you have not understood. You have supposed that I would give it unto you when you took no thought save it was to ask." Have you misunderstood, my brethren and sisters? Have you fancied that all you have to do is to ask and you shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you, and if you lack wisdom, ask of God who giveth  all men liberally and upbraideth not, and that you can sit down and make no other effort? As one of the brethren expressed it: "I fancy that the minds of some of us are chloroformed," and we have imagined that we would be saved in our ignorance, when the Lord has said, "Whatever intelligence you attain unto in this life will rise with you in the resurrection." Now He taught this lesson to Oliver Cowdery: "But, behold I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind. Then you must ask me if it be right; and if it is right, I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore you shall feel that it is right." Now these are the last days-, spoken of by the prophets; these are the "perilous times." And I want to* say to you that mountains of obstructions will be placed before this people,, and if you have not been tried, you: will be; if you have not been tested,, you will be, before you gain eternal life. And before we pass our opinion unwisely, as we do, it is well for us to "study it out in our minds." 

I am fearful that some of the Latterday Saints simply come to the leaders and listen to the servants of God, and they never study it out in their minds; they never go to the written word, and compare it with the servants of God in their doctrines and teachings, and consequently they are unable to judge righteously, and they are losing confidence. Their confidence is being shaken, and they are unable to judge, because they have not first studied it out in their minds, because, as a people, we are mentally lazy. I will say that, because I do not expect to preach here again for a long time. If any of us have got a bad taste in our mouth for anything that has transpired, why, let us repent, let us study it out in our minds, and then go to our Father, in humility, and ask Him if it is right, and if it is right He will cause a burning within our bosoms, and we shall know that it is right; but if it be not right, we shall have no such feelings, but we shall have a stupor of thought. And how greatly blessed are we in that direction! We are all blessed, more or less, with a stupor of thought. 

But I pray the Lord to bless this people. Why, you are a wonderful peopie. The Lord has blessed you as He has blessed no other people. He has given you the Holy Ghost. Remember how particular He was with His Apostles, with His servants that He sent out to preach the Gospel. He promised them the Holy Ghost, "whom the world cannot receive," and we are in a different situation to what the world is. As Paul says: 'What! know ye not that ye are the temples of the Holy Ghost, and that ye are not your own; and if any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are." Now I want to say to you people, in soberness, and with consideration — I don't want to be an alarmist, I don't want to be a revivalist; but I want to say to you, the great sin that is creeping in among this people, together with other worldly sins, is the sin of adultery. This is creeping in amongst us, and in some instances our dau-hters are running the streets as common harlots, and we, seemingly, cannot help ourselves. But I want to say to you, there needs be an awakening. I want to tell you there needs to be a fear planted in the hearts of the youn~ people. Take the Book of Mormon. Go to the 316th page, and read what Alma said to his son Corianton, who had left the ministry, and had followed after the harlot Isabel. He told him what a terrible crime adultery was, that it was next to the shedding of innocent blood. O, I am fearful that our young people do not compreherM that great sin that is creeping in amongst us; and, as the Prophet Joseph said, a man that commits adultery cannot enter into the celestial kingdom of God. If he enters any kingdom, it will not be the celestial kingdom of God. I pray that our people may be moved upon to be a virtuous, to be an honest, to be a faithful people; this is the prayer of my heart, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

MATTHIAS F. COWLEYBeneficial character of Mutual Improvement associations — Operation of the Holy Spirit — Reception of blessings predicated upon Obedience — Secular education does not prevent crime. 

My brethren and sisters, in standing before you a short time, I humbly solicit your faith and prayers, that some appropriate may be suggested to our minds. I have rejoiced, and do rejoice, in the instructions of this Conference; and our joy may be said to consist, through the Holy Spirit, in the propriety and the practical value of the teachings imparted unto us through the servants of the Lord. 

I have been highly edified in the remarks directed to the youth. I feel especially interested in the cause of Mutual Improvement, because I recognize in it an institution established by the wisdom of the Lord through His servant, President Young, affording the young men and young women of Zion an opportunity to exercise the talents with which the Lord has endowed them. And it is a work of great magnitude. It is necessary, as stated by President Cannon and Brother Kimball, that we should study the Scriptures and become conversant with the principles of the Gospel, with the predictions of the Prophets, and the purposes of theAlmighty concerning us and mankind at large, and, not only in the direction of these particulars which are designated as strictly religious, but to become acquainted with all good principles. I think it is in section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants where the injunction is placed upon us by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph, and it is always binding, that we should seek for wisdom by study, out of the best books, by prayer and also by faith; that we should become acquainted with the laws of the kingdoms and nations of the earth, and with the law of the kingdom of God; should become acquainted with things which are above the earth and which are in the earth; we might say, become informed regarding all things as the Lord, through various agencies, gives us opportunities for acquiring knowledge. 

What a broad field of study for the youth of Zion! "Would any man with intelligence and honesty dare to attribute narrow-mindedness to the Latter-day Saints? I think not. The Latter-day Saints are not afraid to come in contact with the world in every form. They are not so narrow but what they are willing to receive truth wherever it can be found. We recognize the fact that there are fragments of truth scattered abroad in the earth,  they have been handed down among the chldren of men on the pages of history and by tradition from generation to generation. Many of the oriental religionists that are designated by the more enlightened as heathen have ideas which are not at variance with some of the principles of the Gospel. In reading the history of Mexico, we find statements there regarding traditions of the ancient inhabitants of that land in reference to the Deity and in regard to the coming of a God to this earth; and we can see that it has reference to the mission of the Son of God among the children of men. And so in regard to the people of Asia and other countries of the globe. The youth of Zion should be conversant with these things. 

There is one grand and glorious principle, that should be understood by the young people to guide them in their studies and investigation in regard to all things, and that is, the possession of the Holy Spirit. No man, says the Apostle Paul — and it has been repeated in every Gospel dispensation — "can understand the things of God but by the Spirit of God." He may understand the things of man by the spirit of man; but the Spirit of God has a mission, as stated by the Savior in the 16th chapter of St. John, where he says, "Howbeit, when the spirit of truth is come, he shall guide you into all truth, for," he says, "he shall not speak of himself" — here is another lesson in that passage: even the Holy Spirit does not assume authority to speak — "for he shall not speak of himself, but that which he heareth, that shall he also speak. He shall take of the things of the Father and shall show them unto you," showing that the Spirit of the Lord associates with the Father and the Son, and communicates the mind and will of the Lord to the people, who are so happy and so blessed as to enjoy that great gift. If we can understand the things of man by the spirit of man, we can also understand the things of man by the Spirit of God, for it "searcheth all things." How essential it is that the young men and the young women of Zion should enjoy the companionship of the Holy Spirit, the importance of which cannot be spoken, it cannot be fully realized. And to  that spirit, we should understand another principle, and that is that to possess it we must harmonize our lives, our daily walk and conversation with certain requirements that the Lord has made of us. It is one thing to receive the Holy Spirit; it is another thing to keep it constantly with us. We received it on condition of faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, and the condition of repentance from all sin— a genuine repentance, a laying aside of the things which are obnoxious to God. We received it on condition of accepting the simple ordinance of baptism in water for the remission of sin. We received it on condition of the imposition of hands by men authorized of the Almighty to perform that sacred ordinance for the gift of the Holy Ghost. We never can isolate the principles of the Gospel, and expect by the mere outward acceptance of that ^ principle, to enjoy the blessing which is attached to it. No man has received a remission of sins by baptism alone. No man has received the Holy Ghost by the imposition of hands alone. There must be associated with it the fulfillment of the conditions that belong to these fundamental steps which introduce us into the Church of Christ. Simon the sorcerer was baptized by Philip. He went through the ordinance in form, but the Apostles Peter and John came down from Jerusalem and laid their hands upon and baptized the Samaritans; and those that were penitent only, who had pure faith in God, pure conviction that Jesus was the Christ, received the Holy Ghost and enjoyed some of the gifts thereof; and when Simon the sorcerer saw that they enjoyed this gift, he offered the apostles money, and he said unto them, "Give unto me also this gift that on whomsoever I lay my hands they may receive it also." And the Apostle Peter.by the authority and power of God which rested upon him, said unto him: "Thy money perish with thee, seeing thou hast thought to buy the gift of God with money. I perceive that thy soul is in the gall of bitterness and sin." 

So it may be said of all the Latter-day Saints. Men have embraced the Gospel, that is, in form. Some have been introduced into the Church formally, but they have dropped by the wayside. We found hundreds of backsliders in the states of Missouri and Illinois, who had embraced the Gospel, many of them in the days of Joseph Smith. Some had received a testimony and sinned against it and became embittered, while others had not received it in sincerity of heart, and they were easily led aside. I want to impress upon the youth that to enjoy this Spirit, we must not only receive it by the ordinances of the Gospel, but we must take a course in life that we can keep it coristantly with us. The Spirit of the Lord will not associate with evil in any form. As quoted by Brother Kimball, the Spirit of the Lord will not dwell in unclean temples; and the Apostle Paul felt so Impressed with this that on one occasion he said to the Corinthian Saints: "Evil communications corrupt good manners," and he cautioned them to avoid evil association, to avoid coming in contact with the influences that were of the world. The Savior gave this caution to his disciples, when He said unto them, "Beware of the leaven of the Gentiles." The young people should understand that the foundation, the stepping stone to Mutual Improvement is the reformation of life. If there is a young man that is guilty of any habit that is contrary to the injunctions of the Gospel, the first step necessary is to lay that aside. Lay aside the habit of smoking cigarettes, lay aside the habit of chewing tobacco, lay aside the habit of swearing and profanity, and Sabbath breaking, and seek unto God in humble prayer for the enjoyment and the impressions of the Holy Spirit. 

If we will do that, the Lord will preserve us from scepticism and infidelity. One of the brethren in his remarks spoke about neglecting to read the Scriptures and thereby becoming an easier prey to infidelity. I thought of my own testimony regarding this work, that no matter what might be the skill of the sceptic or the infidel in his efforts to tear down and destroy the standards of Christianity that every young man might feel as I felt myself, that no matter what may be their theory, however plausible may appear  reasoning, I know that this is the work of God, regardless of these things. I know that there is a spirit and a power associated with what they denominate Mormonism that is beyond and above the power and the natural intelligence of man. I have received this testimony. But, in addition to that, my young brethren, we should become so conversant with the principles of truth, and also with the theories, if necessary, that are advanced by the world against the true doctrines of Christ, that we may be able, when under the influence of the Spirit of God, to refute them and show their inconsistency by the light of truth. 

I have often been impressed with a few statistics that were published by President John Morgan, several years before his decease. He wrote, I think to the wardens of the penitentiaries at Detroit, and Joliet, 111., and Sing Sing, New York, and he asked the question of the keepers of those government houses of correction to give him a clear and truthful statement as to what percentage of the convicts in their respective prisons could read and write; he also wanted to know what percentage of them had an understanding of grammar and rhetoric. "When the answers came back, if I remember correctly, they showed that there were fully ninety per cent of all the criminals in those houses of correction that could read and write; and there were some — I think seventy-five per cent of them — that were quite grammatical in their conversation; a still smaller per cent that had a very good understanding of arithmetic and other branches, and some of them were highly educated. I remember the statement by President Morgan that there was a greater percentage of well educated people in the penitentiary, compared with the whole of the inmates, than there was outside of the prisons as compared with the entire population of the United States. To me this was a great les^son. It was a lesson that impressed me that the mere education of the intellect is not sufficient. Men may understand astronomy, they may understand mathematics, they may be efficient in the beautiful art of music, they may be conversant with law and the  of civil government as it obtains in the nations of the earth, and at the same time they may be corrupt, they may be dishonest men, their motives may be impure in the sight of God. 

No man, no matter what may be his natural attainments, if he does not enjoy the Spirit of the living God, if his life is not circumspect, squared by the principles and doctrines .of the Son of God, is a well educated Latter-day Saint, he does not enjoy the true light, he is not a safe man to follow. Another striking thing in the history of this work is that when men — no matter how prominent they have become — have ceased to follow in the counsels of the Prophets of God, or have violated their covenants in any respect, especially if it has been in a serious manner, they have ceased to enjoy the light that comes from the Father. There is one man spoken of in the Book of Mormon in connection with the Prophet Joseph Smith. You know that Nephi prophesied that of the seed of Joseph that was sold into Egypt in the last days, the Lord would raise up a Prophet whose name should be Joseph, and his father's name should be Joseph; and he said that this Prophet Joseph in the last days should not be mighty in speaking, but he should be mighty in writing the words of the Lord, like unto Moses. And he says, "God will raise up unto him a mouthpiece like unto Aaron." Now by reading the Doctrine and Covenants, we know who that mouth-piece was. We know the name of that man that enjoyed so much of the Spirit, during his faithfulness, that his tongue was eloquent and powerful; but when he ceased to follow the line of his duty, when he despised the day of small things, when he became lifted up in the pride of his heart, became jealous of his associate, the Prophet, and began step by step to turn aside from the course of rectitude whch the Gospel enjoined upon him, that man lost his power, lost his influence; he lost his tongue of eloquence, and went down into oblivion. I heard, many years ago, President George Q. Cannon say that when he was a boy he was present in Nauvoo when that man stood up before a congregation and sought to lay  claims before the people to be the guardian of this Church, and I remember distinctly that President Cannon said, he spoke as he had never heard him speak before, that is, his remarks were characterized by weakness, a lack of power and a loss of what he had previously enjoyed. 

These are lessons that ought to be stamped upon the hearts of the young men. Such way-marks are scattered along the path of the history of the Church from the days of the Prophet Joseph until the present time. 

It is a testimony of the divine authenticity of this work, that no man has a monopoly on the mercy of God. He may be ever so great in the eyes of the people, he may be ever so prominent in his position in the Holy Priesthood, but he must comply with the conditions, as every man and woman in this Church must do, in order to retain the blessing and the favor of God. No man has a monopoly on the work of God. No man can sin with impunity. No man can turn aside from the path of rectitude, without meeting the consequences which are specified in the Gospel of our Lord and Savior. So, my young brethren, remember this, that while men may become educated in the world, they may become powerful physically, they may become powerful mentally, but until they are educated spiritually and the moral properties of their natures are reached and touched and cultivated, the soul is not educated, for "the spirit and the body is the soul of man." It is not complete without, and God has provided that in this Church, and in the glorious plan of salvation, the entire soul shall be educated in the ways of truth, and in the knowledge of things that are good and elevating in the sight of God. Remember, therefore, that we should cultivate the Spirit of the Lord in our hearts, and keep it ever as our constant guide. Lay aside everything that would grieve that Spirit, listen to the counsel of the servants of God, heed the warning voice which they have given unto us; and then I testify unto you, that the doctrines of this Church as stated by the Lord to Joseph, the Prophet, will be distilled upon your minds as the dews from heaven, and you will be proof against scepticism and infidelity; and the day will come when the sons and daughters of Zion shall grow up without sin unto salvation. God bless you. Amen. 

ABRAHAM OWEN WOODRUFFThe young who have experience should take an interest in wilful backsliders — Force of example — Potency of prayer— Truth in God. 

My brethren and sisters and friends, I have been highly edified this morning and interested in the remarks of the brethren, and I trust that the words which I may be led to utter will not detract any from the interest, from the good feeling and the good things which we have already received. 

I believe that there are not a great many young men who have sought for a testimony of Je"sus Christ who would not, if called upon, leave all which they have and dedicate their time to the preaching of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ abroad; but how many of us, after returning home from our missions, still take that active interest in the spreading of the truth and the preaching of the Gospel that we did in the missionary field? How many of us will pass by companions and young brethren who, perhaps, have drifted from the way of truth and will never heed them, never seek to bring them back to the path upon which they should walk, and show them an example. We are negligent, I think, my brethren and sisters, in this regard. We will travel hundreds of thousands of miles, perhaps, to preach the Gospel in foreign lands, but, as Brother Kimball has already intimated, we neglect this duty at home. We do not seek as we should do to set examples to our young brethren and sisters and get them to take an active interest in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no doubt as to the undesirable condition existing among some of the young people with whom we are associated in this Church. Still, at the same time, we are more prone to censure them for the evils which are done than we are to show them a way whereby they may escape them. 

In preaching the Gospel here at home, I have met with circumstances which taught me that there are parents in this Church who teach  children to keep the Word of Wisdom, and they will go right ahead drinking their tea and coffee; or the father will go on chewing tobacco, or smoking his pipe. At the same time they will, perhaps, tell their children that they should be exemplary, setting a good example to others. We can preach the Gospel— especially fathers and mothers — more through example than by precept. If we teach our children while they are young to pray, and if all through their lives they are called upon morning and evening to surround the family altar, they will not depart from that custom of prayer, and they will not lose that faith in God which was instilled into their minds at their mother's knee and around the family altar, although they may, perhaps, for a time forget these things. They may, perhaps, be mixed with the different elements that are foreign to the Spirit of God. and become neglectful of their duties. Still, sometime in their lives, the better part of man will crop out, and the teachings they have received by the fireside will come to them as a blessing and a support. We are all here to gain experience, as I understand this life. At the same time, how much evil, and how much suffering could be prevented if greater care were taken in preaching the principles of the Gospel at the fireside, and not depending on mere Sunday religion as much as we do. We should, I believe, make the Gospel of Christ a part of our every day life. How many times I have seen the example where children had been taught to pray, that they would grow up and be men and women of prayer, they would have faith in God. Once, while upon my mission, I had a little experience which pleased me very much, in receiving a letter from a sister of mine who resides in this city. She said that during the time that she was writing the letter, her son, then a little over two years old, came to her knee and asked where hl» uncle was. She replied, "upon a mission." He said, "a mission is a long time, isn't it?" She replied, "It will be two or three years." He says, "well, write uncle in the letter that I pray for him." This knowledge that I had ot the prayer of this little child, and ol  prayers of my relatives and dear friends at home, in my behalf, was a greater support to me than almost anything, any knowledge that I had except the knowledge that Jesus was the Christ. I knew that the prayers of those innocent children would be heard. And so it is, the prayers of our relatives and our loved ones, sustain us in any position. But when we return from abroad, perhaps we become negligent, and perhaps those who have been praying for us while abroad forget about us, and think it is not as important to pray for us at home as when we were away. But it is just as important. There are many temptations here in Zion with which we have to battle as well as when we are in the world, because evil will come unto us, but we do not need to give it a resting place in .our lives. 

I think if the Word of Wisdom were more strictly taught among our people, there would be a good deal less sin; but how can we teach the Word of Wisdom among the people without first teaching them faith in God. You may teach a young man not to smoke tobacco or use stimulants in any way, but if he has not faith in God, you might as well talk to a post as to that young man. He must first have faith in God, and have a hope of a blessing and a reward through obedience to His laws. These are principles which I think at least the young Latter-day Saints should lay to heart. I think we should seek to keep those commandments which have been given to us. We should seek to keep the Word of Wisdom, because it has been revealed of God, and if we do we are made great promises. We are promised that we shall run and not be weary, and that we shall have health and strength given unto us. I believe if this commandment, the Word of Wisdom, were more strictly observed among the people, there would be less use for the physician or surgeon, that there would be less need for calling in a doctor for every trivial affair than there is today. We are willing to trust to God for the minor matters, but when something confronts us, which appears to be impossible with us, then we will call in human aid, and thereby we show  lack of faith. It is true that all the assistance and all the skill that we can produce is necessary, perhaps, at times to remove the obstacles which lie in the way of nature, and I believe that it is the will of God that we should do all we can for ourselves, and then He will add His blessing. But many times we want to do it all ourselves, and do not want God to do anything at all. In other words, we trust in man more than we do in God. We have seen the example, many times, of people who have put their trust in certain men. We find that if those men fall, that if those men get into darkness, that their followers go with them. But God will never Pall. God is as eternal as the heavens. All who put their trust in God will never fall, if they continue. And we should trust this power, in great things as well as in minor affairs. So I think we should practice more the exercise of faith. I recollect reading in the closing part of the "Voice of Warning" comparisons which Apostle Parley P. Pratt has made between the doctrine taught by the Church of Christ and those held and practiced by the so-called Christian world. I think today that he could line up a great many of those passages on one side, instead of putting them opposite each other. I think we fail in many ways in following the things of God; and things which we have been in the habit of laying to the Christian world, socalled, I think we are practicing them ourselves; and we all know that there is need to perform in our own lives these things in which we believe. We cannot attempt to reform a body of people, or to promote their welfare, without taking an interest in them, and applying the principles to the individual. We can assist each other in doing right. Two men who pledge themselves to their God and seek unitedly to do right are stronger, I believe, in carrying out such a resolve, and they have less difficulty in overcoming wrong. I have often thought that this, perhaps, was the reason why our Bord and Savior commanded His Apostles and Seventies to go out two by two. We find in the case of the Elders in traveling that way, that where at least one of them has implicit faith in God, he is enabled to do a good missionary work in the interest of his companion, at least. 

May the blessings of God attend us. May we be zealous in defending that which we know to be good, and in defending the Zion of God. I testify to you, in the name of Jesus, that I have a testimony that what is called Mormonism is the power of God unto salvation unto all who believe and obey. May God bless you, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

ELDER J. D. T. McAL LISTER. 

I have heard with pleasure the remarks of our brethren who have ministered unto us in this Conference. 1 have been mellowed in my feelings, and the Spirit of the Lord has been made manifest. I have been especially interested and edified this morning in hearing our young brethren who have been called to the Apostleship. Their words to me were like living fire, to the young and rising generation, and they are true before the Lord, and should be listened to, not only by our young people but by those also who are furthen advanced in life. We are here to do the Father's will. We are here to promote His cause. We are here to help mankind, and get them above the groveling ways that they have fallen into, and cause their minds and all that is within them to soar aloft and to receive more of that life that reaches into immortality, eternal life, and to enjoy the full blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the ordinances of the house of God, for therein we have blessings for this life and the life to come. Therein we learn of His ways, we learn to walk in His paths. We receive that power and blessing, and the keys that are necessary to enable us to understand and comprehend His will, His mind, and His word. To do this, we listen to the sweet whisperings of His Spirit, to the counsels of His servants who are ministering in the authority of the holy Priesthood. I honor these men, because they honor God, and He honors them, because of their faithfulness and their diligence, untiring in their work and labor, ministering day and night for the good of this people. I feel to cherish them and hold them up before God,  Eternal Father, that His choice blessings may be upon them continually. It warms and cheers my heart to see our venerable President here with us, and so well; and I have seen him so sick, and almost near to death, raised up by the power of God and the good acts of his brethren. I am getting along a little bit in years. I have seen the travails of these men and their sacrifices for the good of this people, and I feel to bless them. I feel that within me which says, God bless these men, and if you so desire, say amen. (General response by the audience of Amen). That is the way I feel about it. Peace be unto you and to all Israel, to all who love the truth, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

CHURCH SCHOOLS AND RELIGION CLASSES. 

President George Q. Cannon made the following presentation in relation to the Church schools and religion 

classes: 

During the school year 1896-7, there  open 

Colleges 3 

High schools 3 

Academies 6 

Seminaries 1 

Total.., 13 

Of these there were located 

In Utah 8 

In Idaho 4 

In Mexico 1 



The teachers therein numbered 105, teaching 2,938 pupils in 702 classes. 

Of these pupils 117 were not members of the Church, while 84 had not yet been baptized. Of those in the Church 168 held the Melchizedek and 1,012 the Aaronic Priesthood. 

RELIGION CLASS REPORT. Reports have been received from classes in 86 wards in 11 different Stakes. These reports show: 

Classes 208 

Instructors 399 

Pupils 8,447 

Brother Maeser has visited 21 Stakes in the interest of the religion classes. 

The choir sang the anthem. From afar, gracious Lord, Thou hast gathered Thy flock. 

Benediction by Elder Brigham Young. 
