Afternoon
02 10 1936


The second session of the Conference convened at 2 o'clock p.m. The congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." Elder Albert L. Larsen, President of the San Bernardino Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The hymn, "O Ye Mountains High," was sung by the congregation. 

BISHOP DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this conference and to be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, which is the Church of God. 

Soon after the social security plan was announced there appeared at the office of the Presiding Bishopric some who requested to join the Church. The questions put to them brought forth the statement that they liked the program and wanted to belong to a church which took care of its poor. Nothing else seemed to matter, the main objective was to be fed and cared for. This has not been unusual during the last six months. It is an almost daily occurrence at the Presiding Bishop's Office. People generally, it seems, have very little conception of what it means to belong to this Church. Generally, they will say: "What difference does it make to what church you belong, they all lead to the same end." 

I am not surprised at this coming from those who are not members and who are not familiar with the obligations placed upon members, but I am shocked to find so many who claim membership who apparently have similar ideas. We forget sometimes that the Church of our Lord is founded upon principles with a promise, and to obtain exaltation in his kingdom we must be obedient in all things. The Lord has made it clear to us that it is the responsibility of those who have plenty, to care for those who are in need, but he modifies that to the extent that those who are worthy may have claim upon the Church. We find in going over our records that a large portion of those who are in need are not worthy so far as obedience to the Gospel plan is concerned, for they are not obedient to, nor do they have respect for the laws of God. Just how far our responsibility should go towards those who find themselves in this condition is a question that must be answered through the spirit of love and fellowship. 

First, it is our responsibility, if they have been baptized and have been accepted into the Church, to labor with them diligently in the spirit of love; teach them the Gospel principles, take them by the hand, so to speak, (for many of them are as the blind) and lead them into the truth and the light, where they may gain an understanding of the Church, the principles thereof, and their duty regarding these principles. While the Church is responsible for its poor, it is clearly set forth that it is the duty of the rich to give of their substance for the support of the poor. The Lord has said, "I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one, ye are not mine." 

We must be impressed with the thought that those who are poor are not entitled to help unless it is earned. "The soul of the sluggard desireth and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat." And, again, "The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest." (Prov. 20 :4) . 

"Fear not to do good, my sons, for whatsoever ye sow, that shall ye also reap; therefore, if ye sow good ye shall also reap good for your reward." (D. and C. 6-33). 

In the early history of the Church it was impressed upon the leaders of the Church to urge the people to be united, to have all things in common, that there should be no poor and none who were rich. As they moved from place to place they were given allotments, which were called their inheritance, and when they came to the valleys of the mountains, again allotments were given to Church members as their inheritance. Men did not quarrel over the choice of places; they took that which was assigned to them. They were called to settle the valleys of the mountains and establish homes. They could have taken up in some places whole valleys, but their call was a mission, and the land was secured for them and those who should follow. This has been a Gospel principle, one of the principles upon which the Church has been established, a principle which obligates us in this day, which means that we are not only required to become familiar with the principles of the Gospel, but we are required to apply those principles in our daily walks of life; to walk uprightly before the Lord, to put aside selfishness and those things which come into the lives of men and make them selfish and lacking in consideration one for another, having no desire to be helpful to one another. 

In this day the world is troubled because many have not learned to know this principle, or have no respect for it, and therefore seek to take by force that which rightfully belongs to someone else. The world seems to be full of strife and turmoil because of selfishness, lacking in consideration for one another. 

The plan of the Gospel as revealed to us in this day permits us through our own efforts, our own faith, our own obedience, to become equal, equal in all things. How many will receive that blessing? How many will be worthy to stand in that group, we cannot say. 

In the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants the prophet tells us of his vision in which he saw the Father and the Son; he saw the glory of the Celestial kingdom and those who may obtain it; the glory of the Terrestrial kingdom, and the glory of the Telestial kingdom, and those who should occupy them, showing that even in the time to come there will be a division of equality. This condition will be brought about only through the failure of the children of God to be obedient to his laws which he has established, that his purposes should be brought about and his children receive exaltation wherein is the free agency of man, which makes them equal in all things, at least the opportunity to be equal is embodied in the Lord's plan of salvation. 

It seems to me that we should keep these things in mind when we speak of charity, of relief, the priesthood, and the Church, for it takes each individual member to make up the Church, and where one is neglected, where one is left to flounder alone without guidance, someone is responsible, and someone will be called to account. Therefore, it seems to me the way to bring about this condition is not altogether through a division of property to make men equal, but through living in harmony with the Gospel, in teaching the Gospel in that energetic manner that will carry us into the homes of the wayward ones, those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Many of them may not know the cause of their hunger, not having known, or, through disobedience, having lost the taste for spiritual food; they may not discover the cause of their ailment unless someone who understands and appreciates the blessing thereof carries this spiritual food to them, feeds them, and helps them to understand. 

So I say, my brethren and sisters, it takes more than food to prepare us to be equal; it takes more than Gospel principles to develop the Church. It requires the untiring effort of those who have received the priesthood, and thus taken upon them obligations which require that we serve our Father faithfully in the great work entrusted to our care, this obligation having come to us through acceptance of the holy priesthood. 

May we be worthy of the Lord's help, may we become more united. With turmoil all about us, it is incumbent upon us that we draw near together in spiritual and temporal matters, that we become more obedient to the commandments of God. May we remember to pay our tithes and offerings, and meet together often, that we may partake of his Spirit and be edified, strengthened and become equal in his sight. May he bless us to this end, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Tzvelve Apostles 

I shall attempt to enumerate briefly the unique and distinctive contributions of Joseph Smith. I shall not try to appraise their relative importance or set them forth in logical or chronological sequence. Most of these contributions are in the field of theological doctrine. Some, however, are of a more temporal nature. 

CERTAINTY CAME WITH FIRST VISION 

I name first a new conception of God and the Godhead. There can be no doubt that in the religious world of the Prophet's boyhood there prevailed a very nebulous and uncertain doctrine with reference to the personality of God and the personages of the trinity. The creedal statements of the day appear to us now as being most difficult of interpretation and understanding if not wholly unintelligible. To this situation the First Vision brought clarity, definiteness and certainty, not as the product of reasoning, argument and sophistication but with the sureness of experience. When Joseph came out of the grove he had no need to argue for a theory, — he knew the facts. God is in form like a man. He has a voice. He speaks. He is considerate and kind. He answers prayer. His Son is a like but distinct person. He is obedient to the Father and the mediator between God and man. The presumption of God as a mere essence or principle of power and force in the universe was for all time exploded. 

The testimony is direct and positive and irrefutable. Many have not believed but no one has ever had the knowledge to disprove it. The character of the Holy Ghost as a member of the Godhead came to the Prophet later through revelation with a clarity and definiteness exceeding other scriptural pronouncements on the subject. He set forth, "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us." The identity and functions of the Holy Ghost are by him also differentiated from those of the Holy Spirit. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S CONCEPTION OF PRIESTHOOD 

Second, I point out a new conception of the nature of the priesthood. I pass by the restoration of the priesthood on which there is testimony of a character entitling it to admissibility in any tribunal, because the restoration postulates a withdrawal of the priesthood from men, which is a controversial subject. On the nature, duties and offices of the priesthood, however, I look in vain for any definitions comparable to those given by the Prophet. 

First there is the wide distribution of the powers and offices of the priesthood among men and boys of the Church. This was a complete innovation so far as modern Christian practice is concerned. None but a selected few had ever claimed or held the right before, although there is respectable historical evidence, not known to the Prophet, to warrant the belief that the same practice was extant in the early church. 

But even more important in its novelty do I regard the new constitution of the priesthood as revealed through Joseph Smith. To my thinking there is nothing more beautiful or truly Christ-like in all scripture than this lovely exposition of the divine commission to men to act in the name of God. Listen : 

Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. — Doctrine and Covenants 121 :34-37 Incl. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile— Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. — Doctrine and Covenants 121 :41-46 Incl. 

Here is the genius of the government of Christ. No compulsion, — just persuasion; no unrighteousness or autocracy, — only goodness and love. Here is the answer to the religious intolerance and crimes of the centuries; the complete refutation of the alleged injustice of God. 

NEW CONCEPTS THROUGH LATTER-DAY REVELATION 

I mention next the matter of new revelation, by which is meant divine communication from God to men in these latter days. While this subject is highly important, I need not elaborate it, — first, because it is well understood both within and without the Church; and second, because its novelty has never been denied. I do not mean that the validity of the revelations to Joseph Smith have not been denied. They have, — but all concede the principle and practice to be an innovation. All logical persons will likewise concede that this doctrine once established is the end of all controversy as to authoritative religion. 

Then comes the new concept of man, his past, present and future state. I do not maintain that ideas had not been advanced, prior to the Prophet's time, that were in some respects comparable to his. Undoubtedly the pre-existent state of man was in the belief of many. It could not be otherwise with students of the Bible, but no such comprehensive, coherent, and definite understanding as that set forth by the Prophet had ever appeared before. The continuity of intelligence and intelligencies; the fatherhood, — and motherhood too, of our individual spirits; the free agency and choice which were ours in the pre-earth lif e; spiritual creation preceding mortal creation; the relationship of body to spirit in this life and in the hereafter, the transcendent scheme of eternal progression, — all these and many related items constitute a unified, logical, authoritative exposition without counterpart in Christian literature. 

Of special interest is the concept of the body as tabernacle of the spirit. A philosophy of temporal living has been built around this idea. In it a man's body is a sacred thing. It is not his own to be violated with impunity. God provided it in the form of and as t # he house of his spirit. Any conscious, wilful impairment of the body is an affront to God. And so it follows that the care of the body has real spiritual significance. It is doubtful if any religious body at any time ever received a more unique and novel doctrine than the Word of Wisdom, the inhibitions  which are known to many but the underlying philosophy of which is understood by few. 

Closely related to the state of man is the concept of the whole human family as the children of God. On this subject many entirely new contributions were made by Joseph Smith. He established the universal justice and love of God for all His children as no one else has ever done. His theology denies the resurrection to none. All shall come forth from the grave; all bodies shall be reunited with spirits to constitute eternal souls, through the universal redemption of the Savior. There will be general salvation for all in the sense in which the term is generally used, but salvation, meaning resurrection, is not exaltation. In the hereafter, as in this life, there are degrees of glory, preferential places and conditions. Goodness and obedience will bring their rewards, the highest of which is to dwell in the presence of God and His Son. The prescribed requirements of the Gospel, such as baptism, confirmation, and other ordinances are not prerequisites for the resurrection as many suppose. They are necessary only for exaltation, — the highest station. 

Exaltation is not planned merely for a few select ones. It is designed for all who will prepare to enter the Kingdom. Everyone is given the opportunity to prepare, not only those living but they who have died, as well. Such is the justice of the Father. 

THE PURPOSE OF TEMPLE WORK 

That brings me to another inestimable contribution, wholly distinctive and novel. Strange it is that with the rather frequent mention in the Hebrew scriptures of temples and with the pointed and oft quoted reference to baptism for the dead that Joseph Smith should have been the first of all Christians to conceive the purpose of temples and institute vicarious work for the dead. This great project of the latter days deserves an extended treatise of itself. It must suffice for my present purpose merely to call attention to it. In its ramifications and comprehensiveness it embraces substantially the entire scope of the Gospel. The story of life is simplified for the understanding of men. Through the eternal powers of the restored priesthood, ordinances and ceremonies are administered in preparation for entrance into the Celestial Kingdom of our God, and the dead who have lived without opportunity to enjoy these high privileges are accorded, through the service of their kinspeople, the same rights as those who live. 

One of the features of temple work should for emphasis be specially mentioned. It is the sealing of husband and wife in the eternal covenant of marriage. Joseph Smith taught that the family circle is the foundation of exaltation and that its projection into eternity is heaven itself. He sanctified the association of loved ones. He made the father a priest and the mother a priestess in the temple of the home. If his glorious interpretation of this divine institution could have general application, the ills of society would be cured and the brotherhood of mankind established. This contribution alone entitles him to a place on the very summit of distinction among the world's philosophers and benefactors. 

WISDOM SHOWN IN CHURCH ORGANIZATION 

The limitations of this opportunity prevent any further elaboration of additional items within the scope of my theme. I must pass them with bare mention. The organization of the Church; its phenomenal growth; its quorums, divisions, agencies, authorities, officers; its incomparable missionary system were all the product of the inspiration, the wisdom and vision of the Prophet. He was also a builder of cities, a statesman of great foresight and such a leader of men that even after death his influence has grown with the years. 

THE WRITINGS OF JOSEPH SMITH 

His literary labors must not be forgotten. He produced more scripture, that is, the revealed word of God, than any other man of whom we have record. Indeed, his total scriptural productions would almost equal those of all others put together. Within the pages of the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, which came to the world through him, are to be found such truth gems as, "The glory of God is intelligence"; "Men are that they might have joy"; "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man"; a clear statement of the purpose of good and evil in the world, a philosophical problem which has baffled the scholars of all times, and many others of inestimable value. There also came from him such memorable sayings as, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance"; "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge"; "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life it will rise with us in the resurrection." He wrote history and dissertations on many subjects and was an orator of magnetism and convincing force. 

The world's enlightenment of the century following his life has not disclosed a single error in his theological and philosophical pronouncements, and the society which he established is without question the peer, and many students not belonging to it maintain it is the superior, of all social systems on the earth. 

What is the explanation? How may we account for these remarkable accomplishments, these transcendent contributions to the learning, the knowledge and wisdom of this age? 

JOSEPH SMITH CHOSEN OF GOD 

The critics of Joseph Smith have ridiculed him. They have emphasized the crudity of his youth, his lack of education and deprecated his intelligence. In so doing, have they helped find the explanation? Perhaps they have, without intent on their part, for the more inadequate  native endowment and training they make the Prophet, the more certainly do they lead the way to the inevitable conclusion that the explanation he makes of himself and his work is the only explanation. If he had been proved to be a person of unusual brilliance and education there might have been some warrant for the presumption that out of his own mind he had conceived and executed all, but those who have sought to destroy him have robbed the argument of that premise. Perhaps God willed it so. Even the inimical and abusive typesetter who printed the Book of Mormon unwittingly laid a stone in the foundation of evidence establishing the truth of the Prophet's account of the translation when he ridiculed the punctuation and composition of the manuscript, the sentences and words being run together as they naturally would be in the manner of dictation to the scribe described by the Prophet. 

There is only one explanation which is tenable. God chose this man. He spoke through him. The virgin, unsophisticated mind of the youth was a fertile field for the planting of spiritual seeds. They grew and matured into a perfect faith that brought Joseph into partnership with God. When that came to be, there was nothing unattainable, for as we are told of old, one man and God are a majority. 

Today we proclaim him Prophet and sing his praise as sincerely, as devoutly, as reverently as they did one hundred years ago when they sat in his presence and felt the inspiration of his influence and heard the word of God from his lips. 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that 'Prophet and Seer' — Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

A CHARGE TO BE TRUE 

It would seem scarcely necessary to point out the obvious conclusion and purpose of this recital. If any man has received in his heart the witness of the divine truth embraced in the contributions of the Prophet Joseph, I charge him to be true, — true to his testimony, true to the Prophet, the founder, true to the cause and its duly commissioned leaders, true to the covenants he has made in holy places, and true to the brotherhood of man in the service that he renders. If any man has not received this witness, I appeal for his thoughtful, prayerful, sympathetic consideration. I offer to him, out of the experiences of my life, a humble but certain assurance that if he will receive and apply the teachings of Joseph Smith he will be made happy. Doubt and uncertainty will leave him. Glorious purpose will come into life. Family ties will be sweeter. Friendships will be dearer. Service will be nobler, and the peace of Christ will be his portion. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A vocal solo, "The Lord's Prayer," (Malotte) was sung by Rampton Barlow. 

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH My brethren and sisters, it is a glorious thing to have the opportunity of coming home once every six months to meet with you in conference assembled and to hear the instructions that come to us from the brethren. The organization of this Church is marvelous, the opportunity it gives its membership to do good work is remarkable, and no one could be a worthy member of it except he or she do good work. 

I bring greetings from California. We have 8,558 members in that great mission field, and 106 missionaries every one of whom is enjoying good health. The Lord has indeed been good to us and we are grateful for his blessings. 

I was thrilled when President Grant said to us this morning that eighty-three of the stakes of Zion have reported that the)'' are able to take care of their worthy poor. I want to say that the California Mission will take care of its worthy poor. The spirit of the membership of the mission is wonderful. The little branch of Douglas, Arizona, with 264 members, remitted only a few weeks ago a check for five hundred dollars, representing fast offerings which they desired to turn into the mission office that we might have means to help some other branch that is not so favored as are they. Reports from every branch indicate that they are able to provide for their own needs, and I was somewhat chagrined at the report from one branch president in answer to the questions that I sent out : "When the government withholds relief, will you be able to provide for those in your branch?" He replied, "Yes, for when our relief stops we will go back on our farms and earn our own livelihood." 

This morning when President Grant spoke of the banker I thought of that instance. I wondered, how could it be possible that Latter-day Saints would sit idly by and eat the bread of the worker? Truly we have led the way. What marvelous editorials have appeared in the papers along the coast, commending the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for its stand! It has been thrilling to read them. The San Francisco Chronicle said: "If all churches would but follow the lead of the Mormons, there would be no want in the world." 

When those who have shall give to those who have not; when the spirit of greed is overcome; when selfishness is done away, truly then are we a brotherhood. That of course is what we are as a Church, and faithful members of this Church shall never want. The Lord himself will open the way to provide for all. I am grateful for this move that has been made, I am grateful for the response that has come back to the brethren, that we stand behind them one hundred per cent. I am sure that the various nations of the earth must take notice of what love is accomplishing among the people in Western America. 

About eight months ago a gentleman came from Salt Lake City to Los Angeles. He came to talk on "The New Day in Mormonism." I received a telephone invitation to appear at this meeting. When I arrived , to my surprise it was composed entirely of Presbyterian ministers, and this good man proceeded to tell them what the Mormons believed, and of all the absurd things I ever heard he uttered them there. I was astonished that in this day such accusations could be made. He talked of blood atonement. He told of a man who worked for Z. C. M. I. and disappeared over night, the supposition being, of course, that the Danites had taken him and his life had been sacrificed. I wondered how it was possible that such a thing could be, but there were many other things that were just as ridiculous uttered by this man. 

Within the past week, in fact last Sunday, I was pleased to encounter a different spirit. Again I was invited to go to a meeting where a minister was going to talk on the Book of Mormon, "What the other man thinks." Imagine my astonishment when that good man stood up to begin his address, and began reading from the Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon, and declaring that this scripture was written a hundred years ago, and that the man who wrote it must have been inspired from Almighty God or he could not have said such things. Then he stopped and said: "I am a Presbyterian minister, I am not a member of the Mormon Church," and two or three times during his sermon he stopped to let us know that he was not a Latter-day Saint. 

This man was Dr. Carl S. Knopf, dean of the School of Religion of the University of Southern California, where they have some eleven thousand students. He had touched "the hem of the garment" of one of the Apostles of the living God; he had come under the influence of John A. Widtsoe and so had been changed, for tolerance had crept into his heart and a spirit of f raternalism and a desire to clasp hands with the Latterday Saints. All who were there were thrilled, and at the close of his sermon, as we went forward to shake hands with him, I told him it was the finest sermon I had heard on Mormonism for a long time. 

A woman from Wyoming said : "I came to tell you that what you have said about this people is true. I was opposed to them, I hated the very word 'Mormon', but I was astonished when I went to Utah to live to find that they would come and help me to live and give me sustenance. I have been amazed at what I have seen there, and what you have said here is the absolute truth. They are the kindest people in the world." 

At the conclusion of his sermon he uttered a prayer, and one of the missionaries wrote it down. He quoted from Moroni 8th chapter, 9th to 22nd verses, and explained it. He quoted from the Articles of Faith and pointed out in how many instances he could shake hands with us. He quoted from Moroni 9th chapter and 4th verse, and Alma 11th chapter 43rd and 45th verses. This was his prayer : 

Our Father, it is just a little difficult to understand why thou hast so made us that we can have these radical differences of opinion and yet at many points have such wonderful ideals and all of us try in our way to follow in the footsteps of the Master, but, our Father, we do pray this, that if that is to be an exercise of good will and faith, if thou hast made us different just so we can exercise charity and love and learn how to love, even without having identical thought .... we would pray that thou give us the spirit of understanding, that we may clasp hands with our fellow men and even clasping hands with disagreement in some of our fundamental thoughts, yet clasping hands with agreement on some of the great issues. May we stand shoulder to shoulder for those issues and make the world better because we believe mightily in the things of the Spirit. So we pray that those who are Methodists may be good Methodists, and those who are Presbyterians be good Presbyterians, and those who are Mormons be good Mormons. O Father, we realize that in every one of these divisions of thy church there stands the central figure of Jesus Christ, that in every one of these divisions there are many good things. Help us to join together in the exaltation of the good. And now we pray for mercy and peace, the love of good, the faith, the fellowship of the Holy Spirit to be and abide now and always. 

Dr. Knopf said : 

I am reading from a book, not a cold book from cold library shelves, but I am reading from a book, (holding up the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price) that has been the inspiration of a young man who has now come to the University to teach courses there. When one of the professors came to teach religion he said that only one or two students would not suffice for his attention, that he might just as well close the whole thing up. This young Mormon man said he would be delighted to give all his time if he could save but one, and he would be happy to carry on his class. 

The doctor was thrilled at the attitude of this young Mormon, Brother Byron Done, who is taking the place of Dr. Widtsoe. 

God bless this Church and its leadership. I know that he is blessing it. I am grateful for the opportunity that has been given to serve in it, and hope that I shall always be worthy of the confidence that has been reposed in me. That God's blessings may be in each and every one of your homes, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I am indeed happy for the privilege I have in standing before you this afternoon and reporting briefly the Northwestern States Mission. We have been highly blessed in having President Grant speak to us in five of the largest cities of the northwest to record crowds. His inspiring sermons were received with gratitude and thanksgiving. It is beyond my power to express the gratitude we feel in having President Grant with us in these various parts of the country. We have also been honored and blessed with a recent visit of Apostle Stephen L. Richards who toured a part of the mission with us. He left valuable instructions and inspired the many people who gathered together to hear him. His advice to our missionaries was inspirational and very helpful to them. We were also highly favored with the presence of Apostle George Albert Smith and others of the general authorities of the Church. Naturally we feel very grateful for these leaders of the Church. 

We have at the present time laboring in our mission, seventy-eight very fine missionaries. These young men and women are striving with  their might to deliver the message that has been vouchsafed to them into the homes of many people, upon the streets, in halls, and in our various meeting places. 

We have had some sickness among our missionaries, but I am very thankful to say that at the present time, they are all well. We appreciate beyond measure the help they are receiving from their homes. The faith and the prayers that are being exercised in their behalf are a sustaining power in the great responsibilities that have been placed upon them. These young men and women need the encouraging support of all. 

I think one of the delightful things of missionary life is to see the development and growth that takes place in the hearts and in the minds of these young men and women. They of necessity learn the value of prayer. They appreciate that in their communion with God comes a strengthening of their faith. They have a deeper understanding of the Gospel, a finer respect for the authorities of the Church, indeed they develop an assurance that the work in which they are engaged is of God. 

I believe in prayer. It brings you and me in closer touch with God, our Eternal Father. To my mind, there is no thought equal to a thought of God. It becomes the most precious and holiest thought we can hold. Prayer is the agency through which we obtain a firmer testimony concerning the divinity of this great and marvelous work that has been brought to us through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Prayer is the mellowing power that gives us a love for our fellow man. 

I shall never forget as long as I live the prescription that I received from President E. J. Wood, who was my mission president on the Samoan Islands. He said, "What you really need is three ounces of evening and morning prayer, three ounces of determination, three ounces of diligence; place them in a bottle of adaptability, shake with the hand of strength, administer with the power of faith, and I believe you will get along all right" — a good prescription for anyone. It needs daily application to understand its power and effectiveness. 

I believe that prayer causes us or enables us to overcome our weaknesses. Just recently I picked up a Millennial Star and I read a fine article written by Elder Stephen L. Richards, a part of which I quote : "Youth should know that obedience is not bondage, but liberty — liberty under law; that the only real freedom is the freedom from our weaknesses, from the vices, the remorse of conscience, and the infraction of law. When youth understands that the bending of the will in obedience tends to liberty and joy, then lawlessness, disrespect, and irreverence will wane. I wish that youth could realize that the only death to be feared is the death that is the wages of sin, and that the Gospel program of living is insurance against that dreadful calamity; that the commandments of God, both the "shalts" and the "shalt nots," and the warnings, reproofs, and admonitions of God's servants are all kindly calculated to hedge around the precious age of youth with safeguards which shall protect its course until the age of wisdom and judgment shall be reached." These truths that are so beautifully expressed seem to me to carry a deep and abiding truth. When anyone succumbs to evil thoughts or evil doings, he loses a certain amount of power and light; and because of this, he brings himself under bondage to sin. After all, freedom comes to one in overcoming evil tendencies. Prayer will enable us to overcome these weaknesses, and at the same time provide for us a faith that will assure us that God lives and that through the light and power of his Holy Spirit will lead us along the paths of righteousness. I believe that we should not only have a believing faith, but we should have a knowing faith. By a knowing faith, I mean the assurance that God lives and he does answer prayers. I think that one of the most satisfying things is that assurance that comes through the administration on the part of the Elders when they lay their hands upon the sick, that they will recover from their afflictions. This gift of faith is developed through the agency of prayer especially when that prayer is answered upon the heads of those who may be stricken with sickness and disease. 

The assurance that we have when we read these sublime words in the Doctrine and Covenants fills one with joy and happiness: "That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day." This is a perfect scripture — so full of faith and assurance. Again I quote: "Faith comes by hearing the word of God through the testimony of the servants of God, and that testimony is always attended by the spirit of prophecy and revelation." May I say to you, my brothers and sisters, that if there is any joy in the world it is that joy which accompanies one in lifting his voice in the defense of this great and mighty work which has been revealed to us in this day and time. When we are in possession of the light of truth, we are in possession of testimony; and when we are in the light of testimony, we develop a love for our fellow man, and without a love for our fellow man it would indeed be hard to impress him with the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. It is through a love for our fellow man that we are able to place an interpretation upon the saving graces of the Gospel. 

In closing, I desire to leave with you my testimony that I know that God lives, that he answers prayer, that he is a re warder of them who diligently seek him, that the light of truth comes to us through humble and sincere prayer. I bear testimony that I know that Joseph Smith was indeed a Prophet of Almighty God, raised up in this day and time to restore the everlasting Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. I sincerely pray that God will bless this testimony to our good and to his service, in his name, Amen. 

ELDER WILFORD W. RICHARDS 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, representing that great contribution of this Church, the missionary system, I have joy in speaking for the North Central States Mission. This is a fairly new mission in point of time. There is pioneering yet to be done, but growth and development are manifest. 

ELDER WILFORD W. RICHARDS 39 

We find unusual joy in our association with the young men and women who come to us as missionaries. Seventy-three of them are there at the present time, laboring in love and harmony and in loyalty. I think it would be impossible to find a sweeter spirit of service than that manifest by these young people. Pushed as they are to the limit of service, and ofttimes feeling their personal weaknesses, they come to rely upon the Spirit of our Father in heaven, which is their safety. There isn't anything that they will not attempt when invited to do so. They are teachable, they are desirous of using sacredly the help which comes from their homes. As I talk to some of the missionaries about the use of their money, and the effort expended by their parents at home to secure it, I am reminded of that experience recounted in the life of King David of Israel. 

King David and his men were being pursued by the Philistines and were seriously in need of water to drink. Some of his loyal soldiers took their lives in their hands and slowly worked past the lines of the enemy to secure water from the well in Bethlehem, where as a boy David had refreshed himself. When the water was brought to him, he was overcome by the sacrifice and could not drink it. He poured it out unto the Lord. 

The money that comes into the missionary field is being used, we think, wisely. We hope that you parents at home will feel that our best wisdom will be used in instructing missionaries in its use. It is a sacred thing, this giving up a part of our lives and our money, to take the message to the world, and these your sons and daughters are dong it with dignity and power in the North Central States Mission. 

We have many fine members in that mission, something less than three thousand, scattered through the States and some of the Provinces of Canada. These members are showing remarkable faith, they are diligent in their effort to understand and live the Gospel. They are sending their sons and daughters into the world as missionaries. We have ten in other missions giving regular and full time service. This greatly stimulates and strengthens the families and branches from which they came. It brings a number of our members to Salt Lake City with the missionaries as they depart. It encourages them to make an effort to go to the temple, and partake of those many other active spiritual influences which are here. 

We want to thank you brethren and sisters here at home who have received so hospitably the members from the mission as they come to visit among you. They return to us greatly encouraged. They find the principles of the Gospel practiced here and rejoice in it. These members come back to us with increased spirit and testimony. It is an effective means of creating strength in our mission. 

A number of things emanating from the headquarters of the Church are helping us in our work. For some time, of course, we have felt the power of the Bureau of Information work on this block. We find that those who have visited here are always ready to receive the missionaries and to learn more of the Church which they represent. In our territory many families listen regularly to the Tabernacle choir and organ recitals, dedicating that Sunday morning period to worship with us. The Security Program offered by the Church has opened an avenue of discussion in the homes and the lives of many upon whom our missionaries call. Not only has it opened an intense interest, but it has also created a very definite responsibility. The eyes of the world are upon us and we are expecting to carry the program forward with complete success. 

The travels of President Grant and the publicity given him have done much to give us audience. The radio talks and especially the Church of the Air programs are very effective for good. 

All of these activities from the headquarters of the Church are opening up very definite opportunities for missionary service. It isn't often that we receive visitors from the headquarters of the Church. We have been recently favored with visitors from the Mutual Improvement Board — Brother Oscar A. Kirkham and Sister Clarissa A. Beesley — they left in our mission a message of Mutual Improvement work which shall inspire us for a considerable time. We appreciate their visit. 

The outstanding experience of the year was the visit of Elder Charles A. Callis of the Council of the Twelve who spent three weeks with us. He went into some places where General Authorities of the Church have not been able to visit before. He attracted the attention of many people to our meetings who are not members of the Church. Some fifty per cent or more of all those who attended these twenty- four public meetings were non-members. He bore his testimony in power and explained the Gospel with clearness. Meetings were held with the missionaries in all our districts, he inspired them in their work and left them his blessing. We are grateful for his visit and the power of his message and testimony. We always greatly appreciate the visits of those who preside over us. 

My brethren and sisters, this missionary work is making headway and is attracting attention — the lump is gradually being leavened. We feel that prejudice is being broken down in many places. We are able to contact people now where two years ago it would have been impossible. Many invitations are coming which heretofore never would have been received. 

We are grateful for the kindness of the Lord unto us, for the trust and confidence of our brethren in presiding positions of the Church to sustain and support us in our work of responsibility. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, here at home. We are proud of your efforts and those of your missionary sons and daughters. We are trying to use those efforts to the glory of God in the North Central States Mission. May peace and harmony attend the members of this Church everywhere, to the end that we may all walk hand in hand with God and his purposes in the accomplishment of this great and important work, which I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ABEL S. RICH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

It is a pleasure to meet you again in conference and partake of the fine spirit that is here. The friendly mountains surrounding these valleys are a welcome sight to those who have been away for a few months. 

It has been in the mountains that God's people have always grown to strength. I rather think it was the sight of these towering peaks that caused Orson Pratt to select, as his subject the first Sabbath in the valley, Isaiah 2:2: 

And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

At least, those of us who have once partaken of the spirit of these mountains always welcome the opportunity to return. 

It is a pleasure to bring you greetings from the missionaries and saints in the Canadian Mission. Especially to those parents to whom I may not get to speak personally, I am happy to say that all the missionaries are well. I have just completed a tour of the mission and found the missionaries happy indeed in the great work they are doing. 

The fraternal spirit among the missionaries is wonderful. The love the Gospel gives them for God's children seems to be intensified for their fellow workers until their attitude toward each other is wonderful, and the effect on their lives so wholesome that they are envied by the people of the world. 

A bishop of the Church of the Christian Brotherhood told me that he had never met finer men than our Elders with whom he was acquainted. 

The missionaries are a hard working group, meeting many obstacles as well as many happy situations. I know of no work that calls for greater versatility, better judgment and more sustained effort than to be a successful missionary, neither do I know any work that better prepares one for a happy, successful life. 

Last June we were greatly blessed by a visit from Elder Charles A. Callis. We toured the mission by automobile covering 3,500 miles. The farther we drove and the more meetings we held the better Brother Callis seemed to like it. He inspired us all with his energy and zeal for the work, his appreciation for the beautiful and historic spots so numerous in the Canadian Mission, and above all with his knowledge and testimony of the Gospel. 

Sister Beesley of the Mutual General Board came to Toronto and held a Mutual convention. Her visit was a delight to the large crowd that gathered from many parts. It is the first time, as far as I know, that a General Board member has visited the Canadian Mission. The people are still talking of Sister Beesley's splendid discussions and fine spirit. I am sure that the fruits of this visit will be seen in Mutual work throughout the year. The auxiliary associations of the Church, especially the Relief Society, M. I. A., and Primary, are so different from anything found in the churches of the world and so admirably fill a felt need that they are popular with the people. M Men and Vanguard, Gleaner and Beehive classes are usually largely non-members of the Church and occasionally the entire class is non-members. 

A mother in the City of Ottumwa came to the lady missionaries and asked them to try to interest her daughter in M. I. A, for she said it had had such a wholesome effect on the girl's older sister. 

It has been but a short time since we established missionaries in the city of Orillia and although we have but very few members, the missionaries there established a Primary, and after the Primary work had been going for about three weeks mothers came to these young men and said: "We thank you for the fine wholesome influence which this work is having upon our children in their home life." 

The genealogical work, also, is very attractive to the people. It appeals to everyone who hears it. A newspaper reporter came to our home a week or two ago to get a report of a conference we were holding in Toronto. We told her something of the genealogical work of the Church and then she said : 

"That is the most interesting thing I have ever heard in all my life." 

Thus the Gospel of Jesus Christ is filling a felt need in the world today. 

Dr. George H. Betts, a noted psychologist, said that every thinking man is asking himself these questions : 

1. Is there a God? Who? What kind? Whence? 

2. Whence came and whither goeth man? 

3. What has God to do with the running of our lives and the universe? 

The answer of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ to all these questions is so definite and clear that all may understand. 

The same author says that religion should do the following three things for the individual : 

1. Religion serves the individual by adding to his serenity of mind, giving him hope, sense of security, and happiness. 

2. Religion defines a way of life, outlines a system of ethics, provides certain norms for conduct, sets up ideals. 

3. Religion motivates certain lines of conduct, supplies the drive for the pursuit of ideals, gives fortitude to withstand hardships. 

From this point of view it seems that religion was never so needed as in the present condition of the world. 

But for religion to set up ideals and define life's goals and motivate conduct and supply the drive for carrying out the ideals it must be a reli gion from which one gets a personal testimony of God and his relation to God in this life and in the future. 

So many people fail to find these fine things in religion because their religion has been a thing apart from their daily life and they have never received that touch of divine inspiration that gives newness of life. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ calls one to action, and through accomplishment we find the joy that passeth understanding. 

From a clipping from a recent paper we get the following interesting item from Joseph Fort Newton: 

NO PARKING 

Einstein tells us that nowhere in the universe is there such a thing as a hitching-post. No doubt he is right; but why should he put the truth in the language of horse and buggy days ? 

To bring his idea up to date he should have said that no matter how far we go in the universe, we see the same sign which faces us on our city streets — "No Parking on Either Side at Any Time." 

There it is, staring us in the face, whether we like it or not. If we try to pull up to the curb and stop, a blunt voice tells us brusquely to "Move on" even when we do not want to go on. 

Otherwise we get in the way, hold up the traffic, and halt the human procession. Life is activity, growth, movement. It will not stand hitched. If we stop we are left behind, outdated, outmoded. 

Life is effort, struggle, the putting forth of energy. It is by going that we arrive, by doing that we learn. We live on a slippery slope. If we do not go forward, we slip back and lose our footing. 

It is so on all the roads of the world. In any walk of life, if a man stops thinking, stops studying and parks his mind, he loses the truth. He ceases to be a leader and becomes just a relic. 

"The truth goes marching on," sings a thrilling hymn. "Time makes ancient good uncouth," a great poet tells us. Unless we keep step with the truth, keep our minds alert and active, we lose it. 

There is always truth ahead, more truth, new truth, new light to break forth, new roads to travel, new goals to win, The Gospel of life is "The Gospel of going on and still to be," rejoicing. 

Even at the end of life there is the same sign, "No parking." Death is only another beginning — the greatest of all adventures; and heaven is the place where lost things are found! 

Thus from this man of the world we get a graphic picture of the principle of eternal progression so distinctly a doctrine of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Because of these outstanding things that the Gospel has for the world, that are so distinctly a part of the doctrine of our Gospel, we are happy in our work in the Canadian Mission. The missionaries are a loyal, faithful group. Together we are striving to carry out the work as outlined by the authorities of the Church. We feel keenly our responsibility and the trust placed in us and are thoughtfully and prayerfully endeavoring to discharge this responsibility to the benefit of the people among whom we are working and we are receiving a joy and happiness that gives our testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ and of the divine mission of Joseph Smith increased strength day by day. 

I humbly pray that God will bless and strengthen this great work, and so guide and bless each of us that we can carry well our part of the great responsibility that our Heavenly Father has intrusted to us. BISHOP JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I am impressed to speak to you on the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. It was instituted near the close of the Master's life. His earthly ministry was over, his public service was ended. He was staying at Bethany when he said to his apostles, "We will keep the Passover." He sent Peter and John to prepare for this great annual event and said unto them : 

Go ye into the city, and there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water : follow him. 

And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the good man of the house, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? 

And he will show you a large upper room furnished and prepared : there make ready for us. 

And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found as he had said unto them : and they made ready the passover. 

No doubt his disciples went to the temple, purchased a lamb without blemish and prepared it in the room they had rented. And when the time was come he sat down with the Twelve. They partook of unleavened bread and bitter herbs which reminded them of their sufferings in Egypt, and of the roasted lamb procured at the temple, and no doubt performed the usual rites prescribed by the strict Jewish ritual. 

When the Passover ceremony was completed and while they were still at the table in the room, the Master took some of the unleavened bread, blessed it and gave to each of his disciples, saying, "Take, eat; this is my body which is given for you : this do in remembrance of me." 

He then took the cup of wine, which on the Passover day was usually three-fourths wine and one-fourth water, gave thanks and blessed it, and gave it to them with the command : "Drink ye all of it; for this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom." 

The simple ceremony of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper was inaugurated so that his disciples would perpetually remember his death, his atonement, and his teachings. 

The Apostle Paul had raised up a branch of the church at Corinth. Learning that there were some abuses growing in this large branch, he wrote them a letter and in this letter he said : 

For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread : 

And when he had given thanks he brake it and said, Take eat, this is my body, which is broken for you : this do in remembrance of me. 

After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood : this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me. 

For as often as ye eat bread, and drink this cnp, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. 

Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. 

But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup. 

For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. 

For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. 

The Apostles were no doubt strongly impressed with the solemn words he expressed on the night before his crucifixion. The unleavened bread and the lamb of the Passover were looked upon as memorials of their deliverance from Egypt. The Passover had already been instituted to remind the Jews of the coming of Christ, his great atoning sacrifice which he should make. Now the old Passover symbol had been fulfilled. Jesus was about to leave them. His public ministry was ended. He would no longer be with them and they needed some common bond which would link them to each other and to their Master, and in this simple but impressive manner was instituted the spiritual bond or covenant, the ordinance known to us as the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. The bread and wine, duly consecrated by prayer, became emblems of the Lord's body and blood, to be eaten and drunk reverently in remembrance of him. This ceremony is full of deep spiritual significance. 

When the Master established his church on this western continent, he did not leave the Nephites in doubt as to his identity, nor as to his wishes concerning the Lord's supper. After the great destruction and cataclysm, many of the people who were left gathered around the Land Bountiful. A voice was heard among all the inhabitants of the land : 

Beheld, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I created the Heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning. I am in the Father and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name. 

I came unto my own and my own received me not. And the scriptures concerning me are fulfilled. 

And as many as have received me, to them have I given to become the sons of God; and even so will I to as many as shall believe on my name, for behold, by me redemption cometh, and in me is the law of Moses fulfilled. 

I am the light and the life of the world. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. 

And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt offerings. 

And ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit. And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost 

Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemption unto the world, to save the world from sin. 

The Savior ministered to the Nephites and taught them the Gospel. Many marvelous things happened among this chosen people. But now he was about to leave and in order that they might be kept mindful of his coming and of his mission, he instituted among them the same sacrament of the Lord's supper, as he had among the disciples on the eastern continent. He asked his disciples to bring bread and wine, and while they were absent he had the people sit down on the grass, and when the disciples brought this bread and wine he blessed it and broke the bread, gave it to his disciples, who afterwards gave it to the multitude. He said it should be given unto the people of his church and to all those who should believe and be baptized in his name. His final words were as follows : 

And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done, even as I have broken bread and blessed it and given it unto you. 

And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have shown unto you. And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that ye do always remember me. And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my spirit to be with you. 

He emphasized the thought that in partaking of the bread they do it in remembrance of his body, and in partaking of the wine they should do it in remembrance of his blood, and witness unto the Father that they would always remember him. 

On the 6th day of April, 1830, when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and after the usual preliminaries preparatory to organizing the Church under the laws of the State of New York, the Prophet and his friend, Oliver Cowdery, were sustained as the first and second elders of the Church, and then the sacrament of the Lord's supper was administered and partaken of by the baptized members of the Church present on that occasion. At that meeting the Saints were advised that it was expedient that the Church should meet together often, and partake of bread and wine in remembrance of the Lord Jesus. The prayers to be used in this sacred ordinance were also given. Later, while the Prophet was in quest of wine to administer the sacrament, he was told by the Lord : 

For, behold, I say unto you, that it mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glcry — remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins. 

The question might be asked, "How often should we partake of these emblems ?" The Lord has not left us in doubt about this matter, for in a revelation given August 7, 1831, known as Section 59, the Lord stated : 

Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day. 

For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotion unto the Most High. 

The records of the Church show that many members absent themselves from this important meeting. Does this mean that we do not fully understand or appreciate the importance of the sacrament and the 

BISHOP JOHN WELLS 47 

blessings that come from partaking of it? Every individual who has complied with the ordinances of the Gospel and has become a member of the Church is expected and required to attend the sacramental service on the Lord's day and there partake of this holy ordinance. It is a privilege to be counted worthy to partake of this sacrament. 

We have considered the institution of the sacrament by the Master himself, with its impressive purpose of being an abiding memorial of the life, teachings and Gospel of the Master. Now let us consider its benefits and blessings to us as members of the Church. 

The efficacy of partaking of the sacrament is contingent on our worthiness. We must partake of it in faith, must be sincerely repentant and desire forgiveness for ourselves and be ready to forgive others. If we partake of it worthily, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, in meekness, reverence, humility, and in the spirit of worship, it will bring to us a chastening and purifying spirit. 

What an inspiration and strength it gives to know there is someone who is so interested in us that if we will take upon us his name and keep his commandments, he, in turn, promises that his spirit shall abide with us. In the many trials and temptations of life, what a source of comfort this promise gives. When partaken of often and in the proper spirit, it is a safeguard against evil, and we shall develop an intimate fellowship with God and with one another. It will give us a richness of spirit, and it will uplift, ennoble and develop an active, living faith within us. 

It is my sincere prayer for the Latter-day Saints that we may attend to our sacramental meetings and reap the rich blessings in store for us. May the Lord bless us in our endeavors to do so, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "How Firm a Foundation," after which the closing prayer was offered by Elder Elmer E. Hinckley, President of the Nevada Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 10:00 Saturday morning, October 3. 


