Afternoon
04 10 1936


The concluding session of the Conference convened in the Tabernacle at 2 o'clock p. m., Sunday, October 4. Again the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were crowded with people, and again thousands of people gathered in the Assembly Hall and on the Tabernacle Square, where they listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle by radio. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session, and sang as an opening number "How Beautiful Are The Feet of Him Who Bringeth Glad Tidings" (Handel's Messiah). 

Elder Horace A. Hess, President of the Yellowstone Stake offered the invocation. 

The Choir sang "The Music of Life" (Noble Cain). 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brothers and sisters : The Church as a whole, and we who are assembled particularly, rejoice that today we have among us again Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley. We thank the Lord for preserving his life, and he has our constant and daily prayers that the Lord will soon restore him completely to health and strength. 

FAITHFULNESS OF CHOIR COMMENDED 

Again, I would like to pay my homage to the Tabernacle Choir mission. I am sure that from one conference to another we can see a decided improvement. Brother David A. Smith informs me that this organization has an average attendance, counting its Thursday night rehearsals, its Sunday morning broadcast, and Sunday afternoon service, of better than 82 per cent. That is a record which is probably not excelled by any other organization in the Church. 

I want also to extend my congratulations and appreciation to the Singing Mothers (they delighted us, as always) and also to the Tabernacle Choir Male Chorus. I told Brother Cornwall the other day that we should expect to hear from this chorus more frequently in the future. And, lastly, we are grateful for those who have sung for us here in solos. Sometimes I feel that we get nearer to the Lord through music than perhaps through any other thing except prayer. 

I am grateful to the Lord, more than I can tell, for the cultural life which is among this people. Those who are not familiar with us and our achievements sometimes speak as if we had no culture, but I am sure there is no group of an equal size in the whole world that has a GENERAL CONFERENCE  cultural rating than has this people, in music, in art, in literature, in science. 

PURPOSE OF THE SECURITY PLAN 

We have heard much during this conference regarding the Security Plan which the Church is putting into operation. That plan has behind it two essential things, first, that we shall see that nobody shall starve or really need for the things necessary for life; and, secondly, and just as importantly, that every one who can work shall have some work given to him or to her to do. I wish it were within my power, as I know it is not, to express what is in my heart regarding this great plan, and to say how I feel about the dignity and the honor of work. 

WORK THE LAW OF THIS EARTH 

I endorse everything that was said this morning by Brother Callis. Work is a great thing. It is the law of this earth. When Adam was cast out, upon him was passed the glorious sentence, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." Man as he is would not and could not have existed except for the promulgation of this law. Work is a wonderful thing, no matter what that work may be. 

The great Milton, in that wonderful poem, "Paradise Lost," pays this tribute to work, which he expresses, after he opens to us the vision of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden: 

God hath set labor and rest, as day and night, To men successive . . . Other creatures all day long Rove idle, unemployed, and less need rest; Man hath his daily work of body and mind Appointed, which declares his dignity, And the regard of Heaven on all his ways; While other animals unactive range And of their doings God takes no account. 

My brothers and sisters, if we can just get into our minds the dignity and the honor of work, no matter what that work may be, most of the ills from which we suffer will be solved. During the whole range of man's existence there has never yet been any plan by which men may live righteously in idleness, and no such plan, it is my faith, will ever be devised. 

RELIEF SOCIETY AND PRIESTHOOD PRAISED 

I want to thank the sisters of the Relief Society for the wonderful work which they have done in this Security Plan. We hear that many of them have worked and worked until they are worn out. This of course must not be. But how glorious is a tired body when in it there beats a heart filled with the light of righteousness. The exaltation and the exultation of having done one's duty! 113 

How infinitely better to have a tired body from work and service for our fellow men than to have a nerve-torn body coming from the bridge gambling table, cocktails, and whiskey and sodas, with the moral decay which goes with them. 

I want to thank the Priesthood who have been untiring in their efforts. Brothers and sisters, I marvel, sincerely and truly marvel, at the work which this people can do when it sets its hands to do it; and I repeat what I said last night, that there is nothing that can stop this people in any movement which it sets up for the advancement of humanity if all will work together. No power on the earth or under the earth can defeat our purpose along these lines. And so I thank all the brethren from the bottom of my heart for all that they have done — including the general committee that is getting this Security Plan started. There is still work to do, brethren and sisters, if we are to carry on. 

TRUE HEROES 

As I observed last night, the distribution of this fund is going to be more difficult, in one sense, than its accumulation. The Bishops will have to supervise the distribution and it must be done in the spirit of love, in the spirit of fatherhood, without fear, without favor, without partiality. In no other way shall we succeed. 

Then I want to thank, and devoutly thank, that great group of Latter-day Saints who under this terrible depression, deprived of their jobs and livelihood, have lived on, struggling, using up the accumulation of the years that they might keep off the "dole," holding fast to the truths of the Gospel, cheerful, courageous, even to their last cent. They are true heroes, my brethren and sisters, and we whom the Lord has not so disciplined have been deprived of the blessings which that discipline has brought to them. To live on as they have lived, courageously, straightforward, honest, requires far more will and far more character than for us to live who have been blessed with a little more. Never forget them, my brothers and sisters. I repeat, they are the heroes of this terrible time. 

GOSPEL AN INDIVIDUAL PLAN 

We have proclaimed to the world, and we have proclaimed what we knew, that we have the Gospel plan, and that the Gospel plan not only takes care of our spiritual needs, but our temporal needs as well. Under this plan there comes to us a double responsibility, for the plan provides how we shall guide and direct our work individually. It is an individual plan; it provides how I shall live and you shall live day by day, day in and day out, week in and week out, and throughout a long lifetime. For the individual, it leaves nothing to be desired; it leaves nothing still necessary. But this plan does more than that, it teaches us how to live in a group under an organization and principles which enable us to live together as brothers and sisters, equal in all things insofar as we live for that equality. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

That places upon us a responsibility because this plan which has been given to us is a plan by which Christian rule can come and will come to the nations of the earth. We are in charge of that plan. No other people have had it given to them. We alone in all the world are possessed of this wonderful thing, this Christian plan, this Christian rule and the responsibility not to be escaped, is upon us, to make this rule known, to propagate it among the nations of the earth, in order that they may also know how to live as a truly Christian unit. We may talk and talk about Christian rule in the world but that rule will not come by talk. But we can bring Christian rule immeasurably forward if we shall ourselves adopt it. This Security Plan, which goes back to the principles which were given to the Church over a hundred years ago, puts us once more on the road leading to the establishment of a Christian rule. 

My brethren and sisters, such is our responsibility; and our destiny is that if we shall live ourselves the Christian rule the Lord intends to use us by reason of our experience and our discipline, to extend this Christian rule throughout the world. We shall do it, by love, by mercy, by charity, by righteousness, by living the Gospel. 

LIGHT GROWS WITH RIGHTEOUS LIVING 

Every human being is born with the light of faith kindled in his heart as on an altar, and that light burns and the Lord sees that it burns, during the period before we are accountable. When accountability comes then each of us determines how we shall feed and care for that light. If we shall live righteously that light will glow until it suffuses the whole body, giving to it health and strength and spiritual light as well as bodily health. If we shall live unrighteously that light will dwindle and finally almost flicker out. Yet it is my hope and my belief that the Lord never permits the light of faith wholly to be extinguished in any human heart, however faint the light may glow. The Lord has provided that there shall still be there a spark which, with teaching, with the spirit of righteousness, with love, with tenderness, with example, with living the Gospel, shall brighten and glow again, however darkened the mind may have been. And if we shall fail so to reach those among us of our own whose faith has dwindled low, we shall fail in one of the main things which the Lord expects at our hands. 

My brethren and sisters, may the Lord bless us. May he give us faith, and hope, and charity; may he give us the vision to see the wisdom of the immediate task in which we are engaged. 

WIDESPREAD INTEREST 

I repeat what I have said several times since this conference began : The eyes of the world are upon us, newspapers from all over the United States are sending to us for information about this Plan of ours, and they want the details, how it is working, and why it is working. We are the city set upon a hill. If we should fail in this, and the Lord will not let us fail, great would be our condemnation. We should have 115  the opportunity that has again come to the Church now after its early coming at the beginning of our Church life. 

I say, may the Lord bless us, bring us the vision of what we have undertaken and what we should do, give us the faith and the courage to carry on, as we know we should carry on; give us unity, take from our minds and our hearts all bickerings and jealousies, and build us up into one great united people, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brothers and sisters, I have been thrilled with the spirit of this conference. I was thrilled in the first session of the conference and with the sessions that have followed. I was greatly thrilled with the broadcast this morning, with the singing of the choir which has never in my judgment been better. I was deeply impressed and thrilled with the singing of the "Singing Mothers." I was thrilled when I looked upon these flowers, these beautiful flowers — a bouquet of Dahlias — because they are the expression of God's creative power, and I am deeply thrilled beyond expression standing here looking into the faces of this great congregation. 

There is a power here, my brethren and sisters, and an influence that is overwhelming. 

I was deeply thrilled with the Priesthood meeting last evening in this building. Think of it! — this great Tabernacle filled to overflowing with men of the priesthood, men representing divine authority. What power can stand against the influence of such a representation as we had here last night. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS A BLESSED PEOPLE 

I would like to say a few words this afternoon on a great and important subject that is intimately related to a situation in the spirit world affecting the future welfare of a multitude of spirits who once dwelt in the flesh upon the earth. 

The great majority of them lived and died without hearing or receiving the Gospel message. The reason is obvious. The true Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness and power was not to be found in their day upon the earth. 

The Latter-day Saints are a blessed people. Fortunately for them they were permitted to come forth in the flesh in a Gospel dispensation, which Gospel is described by Paul, the apostle, as "the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth." 

They have the priesthood among them as I have already said, which is divine authority in men. They have a temple (in fact, they have a number of temples) of the Lord, the sanctuary of great and mighty blessings conferred upon the faithful without money and without price. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

CLOTHED UPON WITH DIVINE AUTHORITY 

They have a living prophet in their midst, a man who is clothed upon with divine authority, a man who holds the keys of the kingdom of heaven upon earth. And where in the world will we go to find a man of this kind ? How did that authority come to this man ? It came to him very much as it came to Peter. On one certain occasion Jesus said to Peter: "And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven : and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." 

What great and almighty authority was this? But it constituted Peter a living prophet of God in his day, clothed upon as he was with divine authority. 

Very much the same language was used by the Lord in conferring upon Joseph Smith, the prophet, like authority. You will find the words recorded in Section 132, most impressive words, most wonderful words! The Lord said to Joseph Smith, the prophet : 

For I have conferred upon you the keys and power of the priesthood, wherein I restore all things, and make known unto you all things in due time. 

And verily, verily, I say unto you, that whatsoever you seal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever you bind on earth, in my name and by my word, saith the Lord, it shall be eternally bound in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you remit on earth shall be remitted eternally in the heavens. 

It is such a blessing, my brethren and sisters, that constitutes a man a prophet of God. Surely it must be so. And the blessings of the holy temple of God were restored to the earth. These blessings are dispensed to those who are faithful but cannot be purchased by money. Gold and silver instantly lose their value when compared with these mighty blessings. 

ORDINANCES OF LIFE AND SALVATION 

Strangers come and look upon the temple here and marvel at its appearance of strength and beauty. They are eager to go into the temple, to walk through it, to see what is there. If they were permitted to go through it, they would simply see that which constitutes the furniture and furnishings of the temple. It is not the building or furnishings that give it value but it is the ordinances of life and salvation that are performed therein. 

Now, brethren and sisters, in the providences of the Lord the splendid blessings of the temple have been given to us while that great group of spirits beyond the veil heretofore mentioned through untoward circumstances are deprived of them. Thus you see their situation is very different from ours. They lived and died at a period when the true Gospel in its fulness and power was not upon the earth and they therefore could not receive it or secure the blessings thereof. 117 

OUR OBLIGATION TO THE DEAD 

Are we not under obligation to do what we can for them since the blessings of salvation both for the living and the dead can only be had through the temple ordinances aclminsitered on the earth? 

Surely some plan was needed whereby these blessings could be given to the dead. Happily, a plan was instituted by our Heavenly Father to meet the situation. 

The Savior emphasized the vital importance of baptism in the plan of salvation when he said to Nicodemus, (John 3:5) "Except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 

When Jesus said "a man," he meant every man (and every woman of course) whether they be living or dead. 

THE COMING OF ELIJAH 

Further light is thrown upon this important subject in the last chapter of the Book of Malachi, as follows: 

Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: 

And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. (Malachi 4:5, 6) 

Joseph Smith, the prophet, and Oliver Cowdery testify that Elijah, the prophet, appeared in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836, in direct fulfilment of Malachi's prediction, stood before them, and said : 

► Behold the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi — testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come — 

To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse — 

Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors. (D. and C. 110:14, 15, 16) 

Since that day the hearts of the fathers in the spirit world have been turned to us their earthly children; surely our hearts have been turned to them. 

THE GATHERING OF GENEALOGY 

The spirit of gathering genealogy is abroad among the nations. Many people are influenced by it. They know not why, but we understand it perfectly. 

If we would do the work of our fathers who have gone hence, we must have their genealogy that a proper record can be made of it and laid up in the archives of the Temple. Bear in mind, brethren and sisters and friends, that we are told in holy writ that "for this cause was the 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." (I Peter, 4:6) 

It should also be remembered that when Christ was crucified, his body was laid in the tomb but his pure spirit went into the spirit world. He was not idle there. The record tells us that he preached the Gospel to the spirits in prison. Many of those spirits were doubtless ancestors of people now living. 

ORDINANCES PERFORMED IN TEMPLES 

If it is possible for us to bring salvation to them by proxy through the temple ordinances, and it is, ought we not to be up and doing? Well, the Latter-day Saints are working at the problem and something definite has been accomplished. 

There are nine temples in the Church, the Kirtland temple, the Nauvoo temple, St. George, Manti, Logan, Salt Lake, the Hawaiian, the Alberta and the Arizona temples. You will be interested to know what has been done in these temples covering the period from Nauvoo days until the present time, or until the end of 1935. The statement follows: Dead 37,062 Endowments 7,104,659 3,439 Sealings — couples 1,305,612 116,272 Adoptions 13,923 14,777 or a total of ordinances for the living of 585,764 and for the dead 23,349,280, and a grand total of 23,935,044 ordinations and ordinances for the living and the dead in these temples. 

SPIRITS DEPENDING UPON US 

That appears to be a pretty good start. When, however, you think of the great multitude of spirits that depend on their earthly children for help, it is evident that we have hardly touched the problem. 

Let me plead with the Latter-day Saints not to forget their temple work. Your ancestors are waiting upon you and have been waiting hundreds of years, anxiously, no doubt, for this work to be done for them. It devolves upon you. What you have received it is up to you to give to others. 

God bless you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation and Choir sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 119 

ELDER DANIEL J. LANG 

Former President of the French Mission 

It was over three years ago that, in company with my wife, I left home to fill my third mission among the French-speaking people. This missionary part of my life, aggregating over seven years, has been a rich experience. I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for the privilege of having performed this service, — for the protection that he has given us in our extensive travels, and for his inspiration that we have felt in our ministry. 

It has been a joy to see the fruits of our labors, as made manifest by the increased number of baptisms performed. As fast as branches grew sufficiently in membership and in understanding, the local brethren have been given the priesthood and organized on a self-government basis. The auxiliaries are functioning in the French Mission. We now have all the auxiliary organizations represented, thanks, largely, to the efficient and devoted efforts of our lady missionaries who came into that mission recently. The recreational entertainments given under the auspices of the Sunday School, the M. L A., the Relief Society, Primary, etc., compare very favorably with the entertainments here at home — of course with our numbers very much smaller. 

It is interesting to see Zion being built and established in Europe, and to see the Latter-day Saint ideals permeating the homes of the faithful members of the Church. We feel the wholesome influence in these homes, just as fine and sweet as the influences we find existing in well regulated homes here. The Lord is blessing these people by inculcating into their hearts firm testimonies of the truthfulness of the Gospel. They are thereby given the strength to overcome many obstacles that beset the pathways of life in which worldly influences are very strong and sometimes tend to almost overwhelm them. 

We are building churches in Europe, and these are fine edifices. They are outstanding landmarks that make for stability among the nations in which we labor. It is gratifying to note the change of sentiment in favor of the Church. In traveling, especially on the steamers, we have many occasions to engage in conversation. We find people very much more interested in our work. In consequence of this, it was our joy in recent years to find that we have placed literature into the hands of many people who have studied and appreciated it. People coming from Algiers, from Morocco, Egypt, Palestine, India, Siam, China and Japan have accepted eagerly our literature. The newspapers are publishing items that are very much more favorable to the Mormon people than formerly. When they publish things that are untrue, we usually are able to get favorable responses in these newspapers. 

We are courteously received by the officials, and as a consequence we are introduced into some of the very best circles. Our greatest obstacle, of course, is the indifference among the people. I feel, however, that this indifference as to religious matters is not greater in France 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

than it is in any other country. The French people may be considered a religious people. They are a thrifty people and they are very moderate in their habits. We have learned to appreciate this condition very much. I don't think that the French people are very much different from others; and, everything considered, I think the results will be just as great among them if we are able to put the effort in the missionary work there. 

I desire to say that those in charge of the Mission Home here and especially those in charge of our seminaries are very much to be congratulated for the fine work they are doing. The morale of our French missionaries is splendid, and especially is this true of the Elders coming into the field recently. I attribute this condition very much to the fine work that is being done in these institutions. 

I would urge also that our young men be taught the functions of our auxiliary organizations and especially the Relief Society for these are very valuable helps in proselyting in the world. We are pleased to report the excellent morale among our people and especially among our Elders. I believe that the spiritual development of our Elders in the French Mission is just as great as in any other mission because the opportunities are good. Our young men get to love the people, love the country and reluctantly leave the mission field. I wish to emphasize this. I find, also, that in the mission field we view with better retrospect the great work that is being done here. Certainly nowhere do ministers of the Gospel speak with greater strength, fervor, knowledge, and authority, and convey greater conviction to the human heart than the instruction that is given here by our brethren in this sanctuary and its dependences. Nowhere else do men proclaim with such certainty and with such a firm conviction that God is our Father, that Jesus is the Christ. They affirm that by keeping God's commandments, as he has revealed them in the latter days to the Prophet Joseph Smith, it will produce the happiness and heart righteousness so much needed to heal the wounds of this woe-stricken world today. 

This message of salvation is broadcast by word of mouth and sung into the souls of the human beings encircling the whole globe. It is like a pebble being thrown into a pool of clear water. The waves go afar, and we in the mission field feel those waves. The brethren here are giving instructions that are valuable and they are permeating the whole world, and we feel the force of this in the mission field. I hope that we fully appreciate the blessings that we enjoy. I am thankful to be home and to associate with my brethren. I am thankful for the opportunity that has come to me. 

The other day a man who is more or less faithful said, "I don't know whether it is worth while for you men to go out and proclaim the Gospel." He was not living as he should live, and if he is under the sound of my voice I wish to tell him this : That no material advantage can compare with righteous impulse and the joy that is given us in going out into the world to do missionary work. I believe that we are building better than we know, that this great truth is permeating the world, and the time is not far distant when there shall be a spontaneous 121  for the principles of righteousness as taught by the Gospel of Jesus Christ revealed in these latter days. I believe that is the only way that peace and joy can come to this world. 

May we appreciate our blessings. May we go forward with fervor. May we endeavor to do right in the material things of life. I rejoice in the practical way in which we apply the Gospel. The world is beginning to sit up and take notice. I hope that everyone will do his duty fully and that God will give us strength to carry on, and I ask this in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER CASTLE H. MURPHY 

Former President of the Hawaiian Mission 

Since my childhood it has afforded me great joy to attend the general conferences of this Church, and because of the thrills which have come it has been my pleasure, on various occasions, to invite my children and other people's children to attend the conferences with me. This afternoon it was my pleasure to bring two small girls into the balcony that they might see the General Authorities of this Church, know something of their background, and appreciate the more their testimonies which they give to us on these great occasions. 

For six years I have been absent from these conferences, and I, therefore, am thrilled today in the privilege which is mine to attend and sit in conference with you, my brothers and sisters, and be lifted up and built up in my faith because of the testimonies which are borne by the leaders of this great Church. 

It is my desire to report for a moment the physical, spiritual, and moral progress in the great mission which I had the pleasure of serving in, even that of Hawaii. I was called six years ago, with my wife, to go to Hawaii to preside over that mission, and to preside, also, in the Temple. 

The thrills which have come have caused me to rejoice more than I ever felt I might rejoice in the testimony which has been mine from childhood — that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and that his authority is here in the earth to guide the people of these latter days. 

The Hawaiian Mission has progressed physically. We have built in six years eleven chapels, four mission homes, renovated and changed and improved eighteen buildings, secured eight pieces of fine land, to be used for chapel sites, from the Governor of the territory and from the managers of the various plantations. 

Spiritually we have progressed. The people of Hawaii have manifested their appreciation for the organizations of this Church, for the organizations which we have been privileged to establish among them and for the inspiration of Almighty God in the various districts of the mission. On each island there was organized, some five years ago, district councils, composed of ten or more men who, under the direction of the missionaries, labor perhaps in a way similar to that of a stake presidency in Zion, GENERAL CONFERENCE  these councils, and they have succeeded in increasing the faith of their people to the extent that already the Authorities of the Church have found it wise to go to Hawaii and organize a stake there. 

I rejoice as I read and hear of the progress of that mission and of that stake — that the movement is ever forward. We rejoiced in Hawaii to have a visit from the General Authorities of the Church. President Grant, President Clark, their wives and their party came to Hawaii and visited each of the districts there. Many tears fell. The courage of the people was greatly increased because of the fact that they had the privilege of touching the "hem of the garment" of these fine men of God. Later on, President David O. McKay and his wife came and inspired us. 

We rejoiced in their testimonies and I shall never forget the thrill that came to me as these brethren went through our mission, leaving their testimonies, singing the songs of Zion to the people and permitting them to look into the faces and feel the spirit of the Authorities of the Church, even the mouthpieces of the living God. As I contemplated the work which they performed there and the work which they are performing here, I could not but thank God for the spirit of the present day and the spirit of times gone by. 

If you will look into the scriptures, you will find that nearly 2,400 years elapsed from the time of that prophecy of Daniel, the 2nd chapter, the 44th verse, to the effect that in the days of these kings, the God of heaven shall set up a kingdom. 2,400 years, I say, elapsed from the time of that prophecy until its fulfillment. 

Then again we often quote from the 14th Chapter of Revelations, the 6th verse : that John saw an angel, flying in the midst of heaven. Seventeen hundred years elapsed from the time of that prediction until the angel came to visit the earth again and visited Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God. 

If you will read in I Kings (8:41), you will find that at the time of the dedication of Solomon's temple, Solomon, in his prayer, asked God, our Eternal Father, that he would remember a stranger who should come there and ask God that he would hear the words of his prayer and answer those words in behalf of that people. 2,845 years elapsed from the time of that statement until Orson Hyde went to the Holy Land and dedicated it for the return of the Jews. We do not think today that the prophecy of one of those who stand at the head of the Church should carry on for many years. 

The Prophet Joseph stated thirty years before the war between the North and South broke out — the Civil War — that it would come. A very short time after that he stated that the Saints would be driven to the tops of the Rocky Mountains. That was fulfilled. Later he said, "I go like a lamb to the slaughter." That was fulfilled almost immediately. 

In this day I have listened to the mouthpiece of God. I have heard President Grant make statements and promises to me, and I say to you that within a very short time those promises, those prophecies have been fulfilled. I thank God for the fact that I know that at the head of this Church there are prophets and that this is the Church of the living God. 123 

I bear testimony to you that it has been a joy to serve in Hawaii among those loving and lovable people. I bear testimony to you that they are receiving the truth and rejoicing in it and that their movement is ever forward. 

May God bless us that we may support those who stand at our head and that we may rejoice in life because of rendering that support, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER MILTON H. KNUDSON 

Former President of the Norwegian Mission 

My dear brothers and sisters: I bring greetings to you from the land of the midnight sun where we have descendants of Ephraim, a branch of Joseph. I feel in this land we have, to a very great degree, the blood of that noble son of Joseph. As we sang this afternoon, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," I felt the same spirit as when I heard it sung in the far north. I want to bear testimony to you that those people of the north, when they sing that same grand and glorious song, they sing it from the depths of their hearts, just as we do here. What would you think if you had an assembly of several hundred people, every one of them being non-Mormons, with the exception of the mission mother and father and the two Elders, singing that song and singing it with a fervor such as we hear it sung in the assemblies of the Saints? That has been our experience. Thanks to those noble Elders who teach those people to sing these song of Zion. 

Norway is ready for the Gospel. Thousands have come out of that country. There are thousands of others that will come. God is working with that people. Those people are seeking for the Gospel, but they are blinded by the craftiness of men. But the Father in his kindness is going to move that veil, for those people are noble sons and daughters of God. 

I bring a message to you parents from those fine sons of yours. They are doing splendid work. They are being well received by the people. I want to bear testimony to you that the work that President Widtsoe commenced, of having the auxiliaries organized thoroughly, being manned by the local brothers and sisters, is a very effective program. Some of the most effective work that we have at the present time is being done by our auxiliaries. What would you think of a Primary organization, hundreds of miles north of the Arctic circle consisting of ninety boys and girls, five nationalities being represented, and only one of that ninety a "Mormon" girl, with an average weekly attendance of over eighty, meeting all through the winter period? That is what the Primary work was doing in one of our branches in Norway, in the hands of our Elders last winter. The M. I. A. work with its wonderful program is bringing converts to us, and as a result of all these various activities the mission work in that foreign land is growing. Zion is being built there. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I wish to bring a testimony to you concerning the faith of that people, particularly of those sons and daughters of the far north who have accepted the Gospel. They believe, and they show their belief and their faith by their acts, in paying their tithes and their offerings; and every man and woman of that mission who is paying tithing honestly has good employment. I would like to bring the testimony to you of one of our prominent brethren who is president of one of our districts, a local brother, a very prominent merchant, internationally known, who said, "When I established myself in this community, Trondheim, I was not worth very much, financially. Shortly after that I joined the Church." 

He showed me a written statement of the banking institutions of that city, showing that he was the best recognized financial man of that entire community. He said, "It has been because I have paid my tithing." 

I want to bear my testimony to you of the power of healing among that people; that is, they have faith, and through that faith, which is promised to us all, the deaf hear, evil spirits are driven out, the blind receive their sight, and those that may be broken down in health are marvelously healed. 

Brothers and sisters, it does one good to know that the God of heaven recognizes his children. When you hear the testimonies of our fine Elders, those sons of yours, in our mission meetings, and in the meetings of Saints and strangers — bearing testimony that when they make promises, the God of heaven recognizes those promises and they are fulfilled, it fills one's soul to overflowing. 

I would like to say a word about the land of Norway. Many people think that if you go to Norway you go to a land of bleakness and have to live with polar bears. It may surprise you to know that during the three years that we were there, we never once saw zero (Fahrenheit) weather. The marvelous Gulf Stream really has its source in the tops of these Rocky Mountains; the waters that fall in the Rockies flow down to the Gulf of Mexico, are warmed there by the sun that God has created to give light, flow up to the north in that mightiest of all rivers on the earth, the gulf stream, and warm those shores; and those people live there in happiness, thousands of miles north of us. 

It is a goodly land. It is a beautiful land. If you receive a call to go to that mission, accept it gladly. I want to bear my personal testimony to you that you will not suffer from the cold and you will have the happiest surprise of your life coming to you, to see how moderate the climate is and to see how profusely nature produces flowers, fruits and all kinds of vegetables. 

I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. May we each and every one resolve to follow the example of that great man of God, Joshua — let us this day choose whom we will serve; let us say that we will serve the Lord God of Israel, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 125 

ELDER HUGO D. E. PETERSON 

Former President of the Swedish Mission 

My brothers and sisters, it is a pleasure to me and a great honor to be called on to report the Swedish Mission. I have walked, as it were, in the air since a few days ago, when I arrived back home. On the afternoon when my wife and I left for Sweden two years ago last spring, we were surrounded by our children and grandchildren who bade us farewell at the station. The emotions we had to fight back as we left them, we two aged, grey-haired people going out into the cold world to teach the Gospel, were quite different from those that we had when we returned. 

God's anointed servant had called us on this mission, and who were we that we should not be willing to accept? 

We are glad to be home again among God's people, to be among our loved ones and to see the faces of our file-leaders and to hear their voices. Some of my brethren have spoken and complimented themselves on having the opportunity to come back every six months to be encouraged by our leaders and to enjoy this beautiful sight of thousands of people in the congregation. It is quite different from being away for two and a half years and not having one of our leaders visit us and encourage us, but we have had the Lord to whom we could go, and he has been very kind to us. 

I also want to bring greetings from our missionaries to their parents. When I left Sweden we had forty-eight missionaries in that mission, besides the president and his wife. Two are on the way there now and there are some more, I understand, ready to go. They are doing a fine labor. Some of them are learning the language very quickly. They are determined to do their duty and they are a fine lot of young men, most of them at the age between nineteen and twenty-three years. 

Paul wrote once to his young friend Timothy, "Rebuke not an Elder but entreat him as a father." My wife and I have followed that advice. Our missionaries have been like a family to us, and we love them and have found them willing to do anything that we asked them to do. 

The Swedish people are a good people to labor among, but, as Elder Gaeth said regarding the people in Czechoslovakia, they do not like religion very much. They like pleasure, and yet there are tens of thousands of people there looking for the truth. 

"I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not; if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive." That is pretty much the condition in Sweden today, and for their sake — those who come in their own name and introduce teachings of men — I want to continue, shall the truth be spoken evil of, and it is, although many are seeking after it. 

I am a great believer in prayer, which I learned at my mother's knee. When I arrived in Sweden in 1934, there were nineteen missionGENERAL CONFERENCE  in that mission, and a number of them were ready to be released to return home. I wrote the president, Joseph F. Merrill, and asked him to present our case to the First Presidency that we might have some more help and assistance. Shortly thereafter I received word from him that the depression was still on and it was hard to get missionaries to go out from home. He said, "It is most likely that you will not have as many missionaries this year as you had last year in the Swedish Mission." 

I turned to the mission secretary and asked, "How many missionaries did we get last year?" 

He said, "We received three." 

I said, "Nothing doing. The Lord has sent me here to do his work and I cannot do it without help." 

I went before God on my knees and asked him for assistance. I told him I was willing to do my part but he must assist me. When the year was ended I counted up and found that we had received fourteen Elders. We have now about fifty or a few more in that long stretched-out country of six million people. 

I feel sometimes that it is a day of gleaning, and yet if we had say ten native Elders to work with the American Elders who are there we would do much better. However, we have had more baptisms so far this year than we had last year at the same time. 

Among our missionaries we haven't so many of the Andersons, Petersons, Johnsons, Carlsons, and so on, nowadays as we have others whose names are sometimes hard for the natives to pronounce. We have Atkinson, Young, dinger, Choates, Boyd, Coles, Barnes, Wasden, Crowther, Burke, Cahoon, Shurtliff, Newey and Cook; and the reason for this is that their mothers were born in Sweden or of Swedish parentage, and they are trying to redeem some of their relatives. 

I wish to mention that I believe in the Word of Wisdom. We were visited by Dr. E. G. Peterson of Logan, the president of the Utah State Agricultural College, this summer. He is a member of one of the national clubs. He told me one day, "I wish you would go with me to visit the Rotary Club tomorrow." 

And we went. I shall not endeavor to tell you in one minute what I said in seven on that occasion. There were present five foreigners — four Americans and one Canadian. I did not enjoy my meal for once, because I did not know what to say and how to say it, but Dr. Peterson gave me the key, and I was happy. He had been introduced as Peterson No. I, and I was introduced as Peterson No. 2. I was the last speaker. 

He said, "I am a Mormon and so is my friend, Mr. Peterson," and he explained our belief. He told them that he was not there as a representative of the Church on that occasion but that I was, and there was no escaping — I had to represent the Church. 

When the time came for me to speak, I said, 

"Gentlemen, you were no doubt very much surprised to have two Mormons in your midst today." 127 

There were present about fifty or sixty of the most prominent men of Stockholm. 

"You have heard some stories about our people that are not very nice to repeat. Isn't that true?" 

They nodded their heads and smiled. 

"Now let me tell you something about the good side of the Mormons. They must not use tobacco in any form and they cannot use liquor and be good Latter-day Saints." 

These gentlemen were smoking all around us and they were drinking their coffee and they had a good time. They laughed at what I said. 

I said, "The Lord did not mean you, particularly, when he spoke about it. We all have our free will, but he advises us not to use it." 

Dr. Peterson introduced me as a seventy-five year young man and I said, 

"I have never used these things and that is perhaps one reason why I have all my faculties and all my strength." I referred them to the scripture which says : 

"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the spirit of God dwelleth in you; if any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are" — a mighty good lesson to some of our own people. 

While I was talking I was surprised at being applauded several times. After I sat down the chairman stood up and said, 

"I know that the Mormons live these principles. One of my relatives is a Mormon and she repeated these things to us often when we were in her company, and I will say this : If that is true — and I have no reason to doubt it — then we have something to learn from the Mormons." 

You may imagine how happy I felt when he said this, and how thankful I was that the Lord had put words in my mouth to speak. 

Brothers and sisters, let us be honest and true to ourselves. (The clock before me runs too fast, but it reminds me that I am talking on somebody else's time.) Let us be true and honest to our leaders who. night and day, are planning for our welfare. Let us be honest and true to our God, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We are very grateful to Brother and Sister J. P. Fugal of Pleasant Grove for these very beautiful flowers. They were sent to my wife, who is a Pleasant Grove woman. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, all of whom were unanimously sustained as follows : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L. Richards Alonzo A. Hinckley 

The counselors in the First Presidency, and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Antoine R. Ivins 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Rufus K. Hardy Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 129 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Richard R. Lyman 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. John A. Widtsoe 

David O. McKay Adam S. Bennion 

Rudger Clawson Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin S. Harris 

Stephen L. Richards Charles A. Callis 

Franklin L. West Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams John F. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; D. Sterling Wheelwright, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Frank W. Asper 

Alexander Schreiner Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We are very grateful to Brother and Sister J. P. Fugal of Pleasant Grove for these very beautiful flowers. They were sent to my wife who is a Pleasant Grove woman. 

EXPRESSES APPRECIATION AND GRATITUDE 

I want to endorse all of the very splendid compliments that have been paid to the Choir, the organist and the soloists, and I am very grateful for the remarkable attendance at this conference. 

I am particularly grateful for the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord in our Priesthood meeting last night. It was a marvelous sight to see this entire building filled with men who were here because of their love of God and their desire to serve him. 

ASKS GOD'S BLESSINGS UPON THE PEOPLE 

So far as it is within my province, I pray God to bless this people with whom I am faced at the present time, and to bless the Latter-day Saints at home and abroad, to prosper those that are in the mission field proclaiming the Gospel, and to bless the soil that it mav yield abundantly. 

I pray that the Lord may forgive each and all who have made GENERAL CONFERENCE . We find recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men." 

JOY COMES FROM KEEPING COMMANDMENTS 

I have nothing but love in my heart for the Latter-day Saints; I have nothing but a desire for their welfare here and hereafter, and one of the principal reasons that I have pleaded and continued to plead with the people to serve God is because it is the duty of every human being, young or old. The Lord blesses us with the spirit of joy when we keep his commandments. "Man is that he might have joy," and obedience to the laws of God brings supreme joy. 

IN BEHALF OF ELDER HINCKLEY 

I desire to express my particular joy and gratitude that Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley was able to be with us for a short time this afternoon, and I ask for a continuation of the faith and prayers of the people in behalf of Brother Hinckley. May we continue to supplicate the Lord to give him back that vigor of body and of mind and that wonderful force of character and integrity and devotion that he has manifested all the days of his life. 

May the blessings of the Lord attend us one and all until we meet here again is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang the "Hallelujah Chorus," from the "Messiah" (Handel). 

Elder Henry C. Jacobs, President of the North Sevier Stake offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months 

The music of the Conference was under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor of the Tabernacle Choir, assisted by D. Sterling Wheelwright, Assistant Tabernacle Choir Conductor. The singing at the Saturday sessions by the Relief Society Singing Mothers was conducted by Sister Charlotte O. Sackett. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank W. Asper, assisted by Wade N. Stephens. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference. 

INDEX 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 128 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 99 

A Testimony, 99 — Christ's visit to the Nephites, 100 — A Latter-dayVisitation, 101 — Gives Testimony, 102. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 92 

Callis, Elder Charles A 106 

Service the price of contentment, 106 — An illustration of unselfishness, 107. 

Cannon, Bishop Sylvester Q 80 

The President an ambassador of good-will, 80 — Ways and means of removing prejudice, 80 — Bureau of Information, Temple Square, 80 — Tabernacle Broadcasts, 81 — Church Historical Monuments, 

81 — Scientific developments in communication, 81 — Greater progress in Prospect, 82 — Messages to be conveyed to the ends of the earth, 82 — Growth of the Church, 82 — Improvement in tithepaying, 83 — Observance of Fasting and Fast offerings, 83 — What fast offering represents, 83 — Extent of relief, 84 — Splendid efforts of Relief Society, 84 — Self-sacrifice of Stake and Ward officers, 85 — Spiritual welfare of our children, 85 — Training in the priesthood, 85. 

Changes in Church Officers 16 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr Ill 

Faithfulness of Choir commended, 111 — Purpose of the Security Plan, 112 — Work the law of this earth, 112 — Relief Society and Priesthood praised, 112 — True heroes, 113 — Gospel an individual plan, 113 — Light grows with righteous living, 114 — Widespread interest, 114. 

Clawson, President Rudger 115 

The Latter-day Saints a blessed people, 115 — Clothed with Divine authority, 116 — Ordinances of Life and Salvation, 116 — Our obligation to the dead, 117 — The coming of Elijah, 117 — Gathering of Genealogy, 117 — Ordinances performed in the temple, 118 — 

Spirits depending on us, 118. 

Colton, Elder Don B 19 

Daynes, Elder Joseph J 56 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 25 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

First Presidency, Message of 2 

Gaeth, Elder Arthur . 109 

General Authorities o£ the Church 128 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Officers of the Church 128 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Message of the First Presidency, 2 — Honest labor, 6 — Quotes Brigham Young, 6 — The Constitution inspired, 6 — Commends increase in tithes and offerings, 7 — Gratitude for change in sentiment, 7 — Experience with London editor, 7 — Honored at convention, 9 — Experiences in Japan, 10 — Meets minister, 11 — Writes reply, 11 — Visit to Canada, 11 — Dedication of Pioneer Monument, 12 — Growth of Church, 12 — The Townsend Plan, 13 — Hymns worth memorizing, 14 — Work a benefit, 14 — Makes an appeal, 15 — A 

Testimony, 15. 

Grant, President Heber J 19 

Mission Presidents to speak, 19. 

Grant, President Heber J 53 

Grant, President Heber J 86 

Grant, President Heber J 94 

Grant, President Heber J 102 

Grant, President Heber J 110 

Grant, President Heber J 127 

Grant, President Heber J 129 

Expresses appreciation and gratitude, 129 — Asks God's blessings upon the people, 129 — Joy comes from keeping commandments, 130 — Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley mentioned, 130. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 68 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 21 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 90 

Kirkham, Elder James M 53 

Knudsen, Elder Milton H 123 

Lang, Elder Daniel J 119 

McKay, President David 16 

Reads changes in Church officers. 16. 

INDEX 133 

McKay, President David 102 

The Church Security Plan, 103 — Spirituality in adversity, 103 — Contemplation of plan gives spiritual uplift, 104 — Spirituality expressed in giving, 104. 

Murphy, Elder Castle H 121 

Peterson, Elder Hugo D. E 125 

Peterson, Elder James M 62 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 36 

^ich, Elder Abel S 41 

Richards, Elder George F 48 

Appreciation for blessings, 48 — Certainty came with visit of Father and Son, 48 — Gospel not always accepted, 48 — Belief in God as a personal being, 49 — Need for new revelation, 49 — Fulness of Gospel revealed, 50 — First principles of Gospel, 50— Going on to perfection, 52. 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 22 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 28 

Certainty came with first vision, 28 — Joseph Smith's conception of Priesthood, 29 — New concepts through Latter-day Saint revelation, 30 — The purpose of temple work, 31 — Wisdom shown in Church organization, 32 — The Writings of Joseph Smith, 32 — Joseph Smith chosen of God, 32 — A charge to be true, 33. 

Richards, Elder Wilford W 38 

Second Day, Afternoon meeting 70 

Second Day, Morning meeting 47 

Smith, Bishop David A 26 

Smith, Elder George Albert 71 

Eternal happiness through obedience and service, 71 — Destroyed because of wickedness, 71 — Experience of Jacob and his sons, 72 — Princes of Israel — disobedience and destruction, 72 — At the time of the Savior, 72 — The descendants of Lehi, 73 — Modern prophets and experiences, 73 — No safety except in righteousness, 75— The Lord intends we shall work, 75— What of the future? 76 — Happiness in proportion to righteousness, 77. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 

Endorses Church Security Plan, 59— An Anthropomorphic God, 60 — Bound by law, 61 — Every man's privilege, 61 — Only through compliance with fundamental truths, 61. 

Smith, Elder Nicholas G GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Smoot, Elder Reed 

Importance of service, 94 — The burden of debt, 95 — The humble home of a President, 96 — A prayer for blessing, 96. 

Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast 

Third Day, Morning meeting 

Wells, Bishop John 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 

Man a child of God, 97 — Were man's origin and destiny understood, 98 — Individual Responsibility, 98. 

Williams, Elder Orlando C 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 

Taylor, Elder John H 

Third Day, Afternoon meeting 





A Few off the Books that will Help You to Understand "Mormonism'' 

The Book of Mormon 

The latest edition comes to you in four different bindings. Of course the text remains the same but there are added features which make the edition more complete. 

Missionary Edition g 5q 

Cloth binding, embossed 1 jq 

Full Morocco _ 3 00 

The Cospel and Man's Relationship to 

Deity 

BY B. H. ROBERTS 

"It is to place within their reach a brief and simple exposition of the first principles of the Gospel that this work has been prepared, and is now presented to the youth of Zion; and it is the earnest hope of the author that by a patient perusal of these pages those who now believe the Gospel will find their faith strengthened and confirmed; and those who do not believe it will be convinced of its truth." 

Price $1.25 

The Story and Philosophy of "Mormonism" 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Comprising "The Story" as told in addresses at Cornell and Michigan Universities and elsewhere, followed by an address delivered at the Panama-Pacific Exposition, entitled "The Philosophical Basis of 'Mormonism.' " 

Cloth $ .75 

In Search of Truth 

BY ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE OF THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE 

Bound in Art Cloth $1.00 

This new book answers the questions, "What is Science" and "How does the Church view Science." A practical book for our THINKING, young people. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







