Morning
03 10 1936


The Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 3, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers (Sister Charlotte O. Sackett, director) provided the music for this session of the Conference, and sang as an opening number "Holy Art Thou," (Largo). 

Elder Marvin O. Ashton, President of the Highland Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An alto solo, "List! The Cherubic Host," (Gaul), was sung by Mrs. Emery Epperson. ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Tivelve Apostles 

APPRECIATION FOR BLESSINGS 

I desire to express to the Lord in your presence, my brethren and sisters, the gratitude I feel this morning for the blessings of the everlasting Gospel. I am thankful that my grandparents heard and received the Gospel in their native land, England — that they forsook the traditions and the religion of their fathers and joined with the Saints in Nauvoo and later came to these valleys of the mountains, and that I had the privilege of being born of goodly parents under the Celestial law of marriage and have had the environment of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and of faithful men and women, and that my heart has been inclined to love and obey the truth. 

I desire to show to the Lord my appreciation of his blessings in the ordinances, the gifts and all the blessings of the Gospel by living an orthodox life, being orthodox in thought and in my living and in my teaching. A true Christian — that is what I would like to be. 

CERTAINTY CAME WITH VISION OF FATHER AND SON 

Expressive of the principles of the Gospel, I desire to say that as I view it, the most important event in many centuries affecting mankind occurred in Manchester, New York, in the Spring of 1820 when the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, revealed themselves anew to the world, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom the Lord raised up for this and other important purposes pertaining to the welfare of mankind. 

Mankind may now know of a certainty that the God of this world is a personage having a body of flesh and bones as tangible as the body of mortal man; and that he is an immortal being, glorified and exalted, in whose image and likeness man is created and made; and that the Son is in the express image of the Father. This revelation and the restoration of the Gospel which followed are what the people of this world needed more than anything and everything else. 

THE GOSPEL NOT ALWAYS ACCEPTED 

For more than a century we have, as a Church, been preaching the Gospel to the world; but as a rule people have not received it. They are not, however, unlike the people of other Gospel dispensations in this respect. The Prophet Isaiah preached the Gospel to the people of his day, yet we find him saying, "Who hath believed our report?" (Isaiah 53:1) 

The Apostle Paul was a great preacher of the Gospel in his day, and yet we find him saying to the Romans, "But they have not all obeyed the Gospel, for Esaias sayeth: Lord, who have believed our report?" (Rom. 10:16) 

Even the Savior's forceful teachings, accompanied by mighty miracles, did not convert all the people. It is our responsibility as a people to continue the preaching of the Gospel in all the world regardless of who may or may not accept it. To them that hear and understand the Gospel, it becomes as a savor of life or death, according as they accept or reject it. 

We came to earth for the express purpose of working out our salvation according to the plan of the Gospel, which was instituted in the councils of heaven before the world was; and which has been restored to earth in these last days. One of the conditions of salvation is a belief in God the Eternal Father and in his Son Jesus Christ as they are, also a belief in the efficacy of the atoning blood of Jesus Christ. 

BELIEF IN GOD AS A PERSONAL BEING 

The first article of our faith reads, "We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." The Holy Ghost, unlike the Father and the Son, is a personage of Spirit, without flesh and bones. The faith of all intelligent beings is centered in God; and it is necessary that they have a correct understanding of his personality and attributes and the relationship they sustain to him. The scriptures of the Bible support the doctrine of a personal God; but religionists generally do not accept the teachings of the Scriptures on that point of doctrine. 

There are, however, some independent thinkers who do. Henry Ward Beecher was one of them. In lecturing to a class of students who were preparing for the ministry he said : 

I am compelled to say that I must form an ideal of God, through his Son, Jesus Christ. Christ is indispensable to me. My nature needs to fashion the thought of God, though I know him to be a spirit, into something that will nearly or remotely represent that which I know. I hold before my eyes a glorious form, therefore; but after all the glory, whatever may be the nimbus and the effluence around about it, it is to me a glorified form of a glorified man. And I therefore fashion to myself, out of the Spirit, that which has to me, as it were, a divine presence and a divine being, namely a divine man.— Lecture on Preaching, p. 129. 

NEED FOR NEW REVELATION 

As an evidence of the need for a new revelation of God, such as was given through Joseph Smith, I quote from a sermon by the Bishop of Liverpool, England, as reported in the Lancashire Post, of March 21, 1912, as follows: 

One of the great needs of the Christian Church is power. We are living in an age of great material power. We have covered the land with new and restored churches; we have spent great sums of money on Colleges and ecclesiastical buildings; we have improved and enriched their services. We have planted new missions in foreign lands, and their settlements m all the great towns. Religion today is wearing silver slippers, and moving in high places, and vet I venture to think there is a strange want of power about the Church of God, not only in our Church, but about every other branch. The Church at present seems almost overmatched by the power of darkness. Sometimes it seems as if the darkness is gaining on the light. What is the cause of the strange paralysis that has befallen the Church? 

He "believed that the Church needed today a new discovery of God; the Church was weak today because God was so distant, so unreal, so dimly seen." The Bishop evidently had not learned of the new discovery of God through Joseph Smith; but to him the need for such a discovery was very apparent. 

Naturally, one will desire to know what are the teachings of that great Angelican Church concerning God, that he should be to them so distant, so unreal, so dimly seen. It is explained in the first article of their religion as follows: 

There is one living and true God, everlasting, without body, parts, or passions, of infinite wisdom, power, and goodness; the maker and preserver of all things visible and invisible, and in the unity of this Godhead there are three personages of one substance, power and eternity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. 

Note : three persons of one substance, having no body. 

We have considered the need the world had for the re-discovery of God by Joseph Smith. At that time, the Gospel was about to be restored in fulfilment of the Scriptures. Joseph Smith was raised up to be the instrument in the hands of the Lord in its accomplishment; and it was necessary that he have a correct understanding as to the personality of God, that he might be orthodox in his teachings pertaining to the Godhead, and that his faith and knowledge might sustain him in meeting the false ideas and teachings so prevalent at that time, and that he might be able to endure the trials and persecutions he would have to meet, for the Gospel's sake. 

FULNESS OF GOSPEL REVEALED 

This wonderful revelation of the Father and the Son was followed by the visitation of other heavenly beings — delivering to Joseph messages pertaining to the Gospel and the Church, and the keys of former dispensations, necessary in the accomplishment of his divinely appointed mission, with priesthood and authority from God to administer all the ordinances pertaining to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Many revelations were given to Joseph for his guidance in the restoration of the Gospel and the establishment of the Church and kingdom of God on the earth and for the guidance of the members of the Church. 

FIRST PRINCIPLES OF THE GOSPEL 

The fourth Article of our Faith reads as follows : 

We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are : first, Faith in the Lord, Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

There are other principles and ordinances of the Gospel the acceptance of which is necessary to man's salvation. In the preaching of the Gospel we undertake to make plain all the conditions on which salvation is predicated, and to prove our position from the Scriptures. We have given some time to the consideration of the subject of faith as the first article of our religion. The subject of repentance follows faith in logical sequence, and is one of the most comforting of all the principles of the Gospel. By repentance our sins, though they may have been as scarlet, may be washed white as wool, through the blood of the Lamb of God. 

Such are the teachings of the Scripture. 

The third Article of our Faith reads as follows : 

We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

All the principles, laws and ordinances of the Gospel are made effective for man's salvation through the atonement of Jesus Christ. Repentance means a forsaking of all evil and the doing of good. 

Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 

Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find rest unto your souls. 

For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. — Matt. 11 :28-30. 

This is a beautiful call to repentance. The burden of sin is hard to bear. 

Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more. — Doc. and Cov. 58:42. 

For, behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent; 

But if they would not repent, they must suffer even as I, 

which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit— and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink. 

Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men. 

Wherefore, I command you again to repent, lest I humble you with my almighty power; and that you confess your sins, lest you suffer these punishments of which I have spoken. — Doc. and Cov. 19:16-20. 

Baptism naturally follows repentance, for baptism by immersion by one having authority is for the fulfilment of the law, for entrance into the Church and kingdom of God, and for the remission of sins, which have been repented of. 

On the occasion of the Pentecost at Jerusalem, under the influence of the Holy Spirit, those of many nationalities were convinced that Jesus Christ, who had been crucified, was what he claimed to be, the Son of God and the Savior of the world. Faith had found place in their souls, and they said unto Peter, and to the rest of the Apostles, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" (Acts 2:37) 

"Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." (Acts 2 :38) 

In this declaration of Peter's, we have taught us in logical sequence, the principles of Faith, Repentance, Baptism and the bestowal of the Holy Ghost. 

The Holy Ghost is conferred by the laying on of hands of those having authority, and upon those who have met the prescribed conditions, and are worthy. The Holy Ghost will not dwell in unholy tabernacles. But when a man has repented of his sins and has had them washed away in baptism, he is without sin and worthy to receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. It is the mission of the Holy Ghost to bear record of the Father and the Son, and of the truth of all things. By the Holy Ghost we may know the Father and the Son, whom to know is life eternal. 

The Apostle Paul mentions these principles and ordinances in his epistles to the Hebrews, as follows : 

Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith towards God, of the doctrine of baptisms and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. — Heb. 6:1, 2. 

The Bible Commentary by Matthew Henry has this to say with respect to the above quotation : 

These are the greatest foundation principles, which ministers should clearly and convincingly unfold and clearly apply. In these the people should be well instructed and established, and from thes_e they must never depart; without these, the other parts of religion have no foundation to support them. 

GOING ON TO PERFECTION 

The Apostle Paul says, "Let us go on to perfection." We read from Peter: 

Giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; and to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity.— II Peter 1 :5-7. 

The thirteenth Article of our Faith reads : 

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul — 'We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. 

I bear you my testimony that I do know that the work in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the plan and power of God unto salvation, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We always have more speakers than we have time in which to hear them. A request was made yesterday, and I renew it, that when our good brethren from the mission fields speak to us they occupy not to exceed ten minutes. 

ELDER JAMES M. KIRKHAM 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I appreciate the opportunity given me to report to you in representing the East Central States Mission. My heart is filled with gratitude for the honor and the privilege that have been given me to labor in that field in preaching the Gospel. 

One of the recent outstanding events happening in our mission was the visit of Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve. He came just at a time when our missionaries were going into the country for their summer work, as we call it. His instructions and helpful suggestions were an inspiration to them. He promised them that if they would do certain righteous things, they would be blessed in many ways. I want to bear testimony in evidence to you that the promises that were made by him, a servant of God, to those young men and women, have been absolutely fulfilled. 

While listening to about fifteen of them bear their testimonies just previous to coming to this gathering I was thrilled with the testimonies which they had, how the Lord had blessed them, and how he had been near to them. It came about, brethren and sisters, because those young people had humbled themselves before our Heavenly Father through prayer and humility. The suggestion was made that they go into the country without purse or scrip, and they did it. A greater part of our missionaries labored that way this summer, some of them going for a month, not spending five cents; they left their money at home, and the result was that they depended upon the Lord. That experience was rich to them because of the blessings which they received. They found the Lord and he blessed and never failed them at any time. 

We are having an unusual experience in our mission, by being asked to preach the funeral services of a great many people, several of them non-members of the Church. Two hundred, four hundred, five hundred, and as many as a thousand people have attended these meetings. The sentiment towards the Latter-day Saints is changing wonderfully in that mission. You realize that years ago prejudice was very strong against us at times, but that sentiment has greatly changed. To illustrate : In the city of Goldsboro, North Carolina, where a few years ago we were not able to rent a hall, the great auditorium in the court house in that city was turned over to us when Brother Ballard was there, with an attendance of four or five hundred people. The change is so wonderful that we could use, I am conservative in saying, double the number of missionaries we have in that field today, because of the opportunities we have. Not only are we finding places, but many people are writing and asking us, "Can't you send missionaries into this locality; we would like to help you?" That request is not confined to members alone, but non-members are offering suggestions such as this. 

I have learned, and it has been emphasized to me this summer, possibly more than any time else in my life, that if I want the blessings of my Heavenly Father I must live for them. I must get near to him, and I believe I can express to you this morning the sentiment of the young men and women who are laboring in the field, that when they get close to our Heavenly Father and have his Spirit with them it is most remarkable what they can accomplish. We have been able to touch the heart of stone, so to speak. Those who have been against us have in turn blessed and helped us in our work. 

The work of the Lord in our mission field is progressing. We are happy. Young men and women are enjoying good health at this time, and the Lord is blessing us abundantly. I plead with you in all earnestness to send your boys and girls on missions, that they might have the joy and the blessings which come from this service. 

A mission is two fold, it works both at home and in the mission field. If you have the faith, as President Grant told us at our last conference, nothing is impossible. What we need is greater faith, and if you have that I promise you that the Lord will bless you and open up the way so that you can send your sons and daughters on missions. My experience has proven it to me. May I be personal enough to say to you that our eighth child is now on a mission in the Eastern states. Recently I said to my wife, "We must send another one of our children on a mission, so that the Lord will bless us." My testimony to you is that when you have the proper faith the Lord will bless you. May we have sufficient faith to help us promulgate the Gospel. 

In closing, I would like to say this : During my lifetime in the field of publicity, numbering some forty years, I do not know of any time when the world has watched and given us so much publicity as they have regarding this Relief Program, and every day they are checking our progress. If we do not make good we shall have — well, we are not going to fail — there is no such thing as failure with the Latter-day Saints. We cannot fail when the Lord is with us. The Church Security Program is going to be one of the outstanding testimonies and evidences of this work. I am glad to belong to an organization where the leadership has the inspiration of God to direct and help them, and to help us in all our problems that we have to meet. I pray that the Lord will be with the leaders of the Church and inspire them in the future as he has in the past. 

It is my prayer that we may fulfil our part in this great work, because as sure as I stand here God's work is going forward, man cannot stop it. May you and I be able to do our part in this great service, I humbly pray in his name, Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Central States M ission 

I echo the sentiments of President George F. Richards in his opening remarks when he said he was grateful to the Lord for membership in the Church and the experience which came as a result of it. I am grateful to the Lord that his blessings are everywhere. 

When we leave this inspirational center and go to our fields of labor we do not feel alone. I find his blessings wherever I go; we are not alone in the great cities nor in the country places where our people gather. We feel that we are in his presence and that his power is over us. 

In the twenty-five branches of the Central States Mission, the fifty-two Sunday Schools and more than a hundred correspondent Sunday Schools where our people gather, the inspiration and blessing of that Spirit is present. It is the light that shines in darkness, as expressed in modern revelation, but the darkness comprehendeth it not, and even those who sit in the light only partially comprehend the blessings which the Gospel brings to us and what it means. 

We have two responsibilities in every mission; to look after the organized branches and the converted saints on one hand, and to direct the missionaries on the other. So far as we possibly can we try to keep the two separate; that is to say, allowing the saints and the local people to look after their own local organizations, get their own experiences and make their own development, and not lean on the missionaries. On the other hand to have the missionaries as free as possible to spend their time seeking out the honest in heart. It is not always possible to do this, because the missionaries at times must help the organizations. We try however to take the attitude that when a man presides over a branch he presides over the branch, and the Elders who go into the branch go to him and say, ''President, if we can assist you in any way we are glad to do so." In a district where there are no organizations the Elders have the responsibility of taking charge. 

To find the honest in heart we pray and ask the Lord to guide us and prepare their hearts to receive us, and yet when the Elders start out in the morning in the great cities or even in the country they hardly know which way to go. But it does seem that the Lord leads us many times to the very homes where he wants us to go. I frequently wonder how many homes there are that the Lord has prepared for us that we do not find, or how near we live to him so that we may obtain the revelations of the Holy Ghost to guide us to these homes. I have no idea how far we fail in that respect. 

I am happy to say that the mission progresses and the branches grow in efficiency, particularly in the past year have I been able to note a vast increase in the interest in the genealogical department of the Church and temple work. Many people are now beginning to think about the genealogy of their fathers and we have organized junior genealogical societies with a degree of success that has been very satisfactory. One young Elder travels through the mission promoting genealogy work. He usually stays about two weeks in a branch and shows them as nearly as he can how they should proceed to improve their work. He also spends the rest of the time in regular missionary work. 

Another delightful thing is the development of the missionary. A man came to me yesterday who could hardly speak for the emotion which swelled in his heart. He said: "My boy is home again. I want to thank you for what you have done for him. He is not the same boy that went away at all." 

I said to him: "My dear sir, it was the Lord and himself who did it. He submitted himself to the will of God and lived in the presence and power of His Holy Spirit, and he comes back sanctified, strengthened and made a strong character." 

We are just trying to do our duty, brethren and sisters, in the Central States Mission. We use our efforts to the best of our ability and we find that the Lord blesses us and opens the way for us. Radio programs are open for us as far as we can fill them. Newspapers give us notices, people listen to our testimony wherever we go. We try to sing the Gospel and preach the Gospel, and put literature in the hands of the people. Your sons and daughters who are with us are performing splendidly. You can be very happy about them. At the present time we have only one case of serious sickness in the mission. We hope the Lord will preserve us from further serious sickness. 

May he bless his servants who preside over this Church, that we may continue to enjoy their inspired leadership and your faith and prayers, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH J. DAYNES 

President of the Western States M ission 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to bring you a report from the Western States Mission. We have there 82 Elders and lady missionaries at the present time, all of whom are very well. We have had some very unusual things transpire, unusual healings, unusual conversions, and particularly have I been impressed with the fine quality of good people who have recently come into the Church. We have had several conversions of friends from the Reorganized Church, and they are becoming a great power in our branches. 

The Security project has met with great approval, and our people have been very desirous of doing their full duty. When the Church conceived the idea of asking each of the members to contribute as a Fast offering one dollar per capita, many of our Saints, some of them in remote places, desirous of doing their part have done it wonderfully. One man sent a check for forty-eight dollars to us, asking that we credit him and his family four years in advance with Fast offerings. 

Our tithes show a very good increase, likewise our Fast offerings. We have had a number of wonderful missionaries go out into the field  our mission. We have nine out now, and three others who will soon be in the field, making twelve from our mission who are spending their time in other missions of the Church. 

The meeting to which President Grant referred, which was held in Estes Park, August 8th, being the convention of the Institute of Human Relations, was a privilege of unusual importance given this Church. I have heard President Grant give many marvelous addresses, but I think the one given there, in which he gave historical and doctrinal phases of Mormonism, is perhaps his outstanding address. He covered almost everything historical and likewise doctrinal that the Church presents to the world. Many wonderful reactions in the nature of complimentary praise regarding his address have come from those who were present. 

Perhaps the outstanding thing that has occurred within our mission was the dedication of the Winter Quarters monument, which took place on the 20th of September, a week ago last Sunday. There were three thousand people at the dedication services proper, and there were fifteen thousand people who came onto the hill during the day, and there have been literally hundreds of people there every day since. In a letter received from one of our lady missionaries, she said: (she had been appointed to be there that day) "There were 150 people came on the hill to ask questions concerning the monument and what it stands for." 

We have had a wonderful response from the officials of the city administration in their endeavor to give us that which we needed. I want to quote you just a few words from the remarks of Mayor Butler, given at the time of the dedication : 

In meeting here to dedicate this memorial we are but acknowledging the debt we owe to the devoted men and women who gave their lives to the uplifting of this great western country. 

We are all inclined, except at moments such as this, to forget how deeply we are indebted to the men and women who crossed the plains in the days when it required sublime faith and undaunted courage to face the dangers and the privations of the long journey. 

$ * $! # * 

We are here, however, to do honor to those who did not reach the goal, to those that sacrificed their lives that others might go forward. 

We would be ingrates indeed were we not to commemorate the heroism of these men and women in some lasting memorial such as this. 

As the mayor of the city of Omaha I am happy to add my word of recognition of the sacrifices made by these pioneers and to express on behalf of the people of Omaha their appreciation of this monument which is to be unveiled here today. 

Governor R. L. Cochran, governor of the State of Nebraska, paid a very beautiful tribute, and I quote a few words from his remarks : 

No other events of human history are more soul-stirring than the chronicles of the struggles for the freedom of conscience. No battles ever fought have shown a higher courage than that manifested by a determined people in a peaceful exodus from the scenes and conditions of religious persecution. America was colonized by the refugees from religious intolerance in other lands, by men and women of conviction 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

who preferred self exile rather than suffer regimentation in the manner of their worship of God. 

A century ago there was gathering on a peaceful, fertile Illinois prairie the nucleus of a colony of God-fearing people who sought to rear their children in their own particular faith. 

After a few pathetic years of resistance, during which time the leader, Joseph Smith, was killed, the colony decided to move far westward to establish new homes beycnd the Rocky Mountains. 

s|e $ $' -fc* ♦ : afc $ 

This ceremony today is in proper keeping with the respect due to those purposeful pioneers who were first to leave their impress on the Christian civilization of the great plains. 

s£ $ ♦ ' .ft sfe * * " £fa 

And so, down through the mist of the passing years the Mormon migration has become epochal, significant as an institution having an influence on the social standards of succeeding generations. Subsequent events would seem to have justified the losses suffered, the rigors met and survived. I am humbly disposed to pay reverent homage to the high purpose that inspired the heroic enterprise, and to look upon this field of unmarked mounds as symbolic of the sacrifice that life in every scheme of human endeavor, demands as the price for ultimate success. 

I received a letter from the secretary of the Chamber of Commerce of Omaha the day before I left, and I quote a few words from him : 

We of Omaha feel that this is one of the most inspirational meetings that has been held here for a long time, and I am sure that all of those who gathered on the hill above Florence left the place better for having been there. 

You may be sure that we were more than willing to cooperate with your people in this ceremony, for the leaders of your Church approached this dedication with a dignity that was truly inspiring. The Church of the Latter-day Saints erected their own memorial to their own dead but were happy to have others join in the service. It is a great contribution to the memory of those who pioneered the middle west. 

I quote from an editorial in one of the Omaha newspapers the Monday morning after the dedication : 

Omaha listened yesterday while Heber J. Grant, president of the Mormon Church, and other eloquent speakers told of the struggles and triumphs of their faith, of its tragedies and blessings, its past and its present, and its hope for the future. 

It is a tale that bears telling. Suppose its origin does appear fantastic to Gentile unbelievers. It is not more so than that of other religions that number adherents by hundreds of millions. It is worth while for its relation to humanity's search through the ages for truth. 

Starting in New York, taking form in Ohio, coming to growth in Missouri, reaching strength in Illinois, until in Utah it mounted heights of power and influence, the story of the Mormon Church is fascinating as a human document. 

Hardships endured at "Winter Quarters" tried their souls and tested their faith, but were borne with resignation. When Brigham Young organized the march to the region he had located beyond the mountains, with songs on their lips and prayers in their hearts, thousands followed on to Utah. 

They made the desert bloom, they established cities, with all the  of civilization, schools, churches, factories, to utilize their products, everything connoted by greatness. 

Holding fast to their faith, they bore the shock of adversity, of ostracism, patiently striving for the goal they visioned. One need not be a Mormon, nor subscribe to any tenets of the Church, to admire the courage, the fortitude, the industry of this powerful sect. 

It is marvelous the response we have had, my brethren and sisters. My testimony has grown day by day as I have studied the reaction of the people as they have contemplated the purposes of our mission. Our Elders and our lady missionaries are reaching many honest, God-fearing people who are receiving the message of truth. And I testify to you that I know that this Church is true, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are one and the same, inseparable and indivisible. As I learn of it and study it I am more convinced from day to day of its comprehensiveness, its beauty and its glory, and in my work I am happy that I am one who is undertaking to promote its glorious truths. 

May the Lord bless us all, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The "Singing Mothers" and the congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man Who Communed with Jehovah." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel to express gratitude for my membership in the Church. I know that Joseph Smith communed with Jehovah; that the Lord spoke to him and gave him commandment to organize the Church and to establish his truth once again in its fulness in the earth. I am grateful for all that has come through that restoration, the knowledge, the faith and the understanding which I have of the Gospel — and I say knowledge, because I have that knowledge. 

ENDORSES CHURCH SECURITY PLAN 

Just a word I desire to say in endorsement of the Plan which has been spoken of at other sessions of this conference, looking after the interests of the members of the Church. Some have said that this is new. I look upon it as a return to that which is old, which is always new when it is true, for that which is true never becomes old, but it is a return to first principles. I hope that it will lead us in love, in the spirit of sympathy, fellowship and brotherly love, to have the interest in our feliowmen that we ought to have, and increase in our hearts a desire to keep the commandments of the Lord and walk in the light as we understand that light, that we may be constantly guided by his Spirit. OBSERVATIONS REGARDING TOLERANCE AND BROADMINDEDNESS 

I would like for a few minutes to offer a few observations in regard to the question of tolerance and broadmindedness. We hear so much in these days about being tolerant and broadminded. I suppose the world will never know how many crimes have been committed through a misinterpretation and misunderstanding of these terms. Satan is very "broadminded," extremely so as long as he can get people to do evil and avoid the truth. He will teach any kind of theory, or principle, or doctrine, if it doesn't conform to the fundamental things of life — the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He is even willing to teach some truth if he can join that truth with error, and by teaching the error with the truth lead men astray. This is how broadminded he is, and that is how the apostasy came about in the primitive church. The Lord has given to man his agency. That is a divine principle — it is inherent, born with us. We have it because the Lord gave it to us in the spirit world. It is the only principle upon which exaltation can come. It is the only principle upon which rewards can be given in righteousness. Satan's plan in the beginning was to compel. He said he would save all men and not one soul should be lost. Surely he would do it if the Father would give him the honor and the glory. But who wants salvation when it comes through compulsion, if we haven't the power within ourselves to choose and to act according to the dictates of conscience? What would salvation mean to you if you were compelled? And so, that great gift of agency has been given to men. By it we may climb to the heights, we may enter the kingdom of God to sit on the throne and be exalted as sons and daughters of God, but we must be obedient. 

Tolerance is not indulgence. I think sometimes the terms have been confused. We must not get so broadminded that we would throw over the fundamental things of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I heard of one man — and I think he filled a mission — who made the statement, as the report comes to me, that in this enlightened age the Church of Jesus Christ should get away from the narrow idea that baptism for the remission of sins in water is essential to salvation; that we should be broader than that. 

AN ANTHROPOMORPHIC GOD 

Another man, with similar views, made the statement, so the report comes to me, that we shall have to cease believing in the anthropomorphic God; we must quit thinking of God as being in the form in which man is made. He ridiculed the idea by saying, "Can we worship a God who has to eat, who has to sleep, who has to take a bath?" Of course, in thinking of God as a person, in whose image we are created, we do not necessarily have to think of him as having to conform to all the conditions of mortal existence to which we, under present conditions, are forced to subscribe. But is there anything wrong in thinking of a God who eats ? He did eat and has promised to eat again. What is wrong in it ? He bathes, at least in fire, so he tells us. We are his ofT-spring, and he  given us commandments to serve him in the name of his only Begotten Son as sons and daughters unto God. 

BOUND BY LAW 

Moreover, we know, because it has been revealed, that all kingdoms have a law given, and that includes the kingdom of God. It is not something that stands apart from all other kingdoms in this regard, and he himself has said: "Unto every kingdom is given a law; and unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions. All beings who abide not in those conditions are not justified." 

The Lord is very tolerant, yet he declares that we are bound by law, and if we violate the law we are not justified, and must remain filthy still. You might just as well try to destroy the law of gravity, or say it is useless, that it has filled its purpose and is worn out, as to say that baptism is not essential to salvation. I believe in being tolerant, but I believe that that tolerance will teach me to observe and keep the law and constantly abide in it, and not to make excuses for my wrong doing by saying I am broadminded. 

EVERY MAN'S PRIVILEGE 

"We claim the privilege of worshipping Almighty God according to the dictates of our conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may." 

I am willing to defend any man in the privilege which is his by his agency. If he wants to worship a cat, or a dog, the sun, or the moon, a crocodile, or a bull — and men have done all these things — that is his privilege. But it is also my privilege and right to try to teach him to do better and to accept a better worship. I will defend him in his rights, and at the same time endeavor to teach him that he may see more clearly and walk in the light of truth. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith once said: "The Saints can testify whether I am willing to lay down my life for my brethren. If it has been demonstrated that I have been willing to die for a Mormon, I am able to declare before Heaven that I am just as ready to die in defense of the rights of a Presbyterian, a Baptist, or a good man in any other denomination, for the same principle that would trample upon the rights of the Latter-day Saints would trample upon the rights of the Roman Catholics or upon any other denominations that may be unpopular and too weak to defend themselves." 

ONLY THROUGH COMPLIANCE WITH FUNDAMENTAL TRUTHS 

I believe in that doctrine. At the same time I am satisfied and I know that the kingdom of God is governed by a definite, fixed law, that cannot be controverted. We cannot change it because we perhaps become modern and say we are broadminded, as some people understand broadmindedness and tolerance to be. It doesn't change the fact in the 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

least that if we would receive the kingdom of God and enter into its exaltation, we must comply with the fundamental truths, the laws upon which that kingdom is established. We have them, we are the advocates of these principles, they are in our keeping. Why, bless your soul, the whole world ought to come to us with songs of everlasting joy, singing their hosannas to embrace the truth; but I wonder sometimes if we do not stress a little too much the fact that they today are receiving us in kindness. Let us not pat ourselves upon the back too much because we have little opposition. I see a danger in it; but let us go on keeping the commandments of the Lord in humility and truth, and teaching the people the correct principles, drawing them to us by our lives as well as by our precepts. And so I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JAMES M. PETERSON 

President of the Texas Mission 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the new opportunity which has come to me to go into the mission field once more. I am happy to report our work in the Texas Mission I bring to you the greetings of our saints in Texas and Louisiana, as well as from the missionaries laboring there. 

To the parents of the missionaries I am happy to report that they are well. During the past year we have enjoyed splendid health, and the blessings of the Lord have been with us. We have an exceptionally fine group of missionaries. The parents of these fine young people can well be proud of them. I am sure that they will bring honor to you and to the Church, and to the community when they return to their homes. 

Much of the old prejudice and antagonism has disappeared, but there are still many things to dishearten and discourage the missionaries. They need your support. When you write to them write only encouraging things, and avoid anything that may tend to discourage them in their work. 

This year Texas is celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of her freedom. At Dallas a fine exposition has been built. Millions of dollars have been spent in the erecting of buildings and places of amusement. We are fortunate in having a booth in the Exposition, manned by our Elders who labor there. Thousands of people stop to see the pictures of our various temples and to hear the discourses of these fine young men. The Gospel message, my brethren and sisters, is finding its way into the homes of both the great and the small. The advancement and growth of the Church, and the publicity which has recently come to it through our relief program and the addresses of President Grant abroad, as well as other favorable publicity, have opened many a door to our missionaries. 

Due credit must be given to our Tabernacle Choir and the Organ for the splendid broadcasts coming from this famous old building. 

I think I am safe in saying that our most direct contacts come from these broadcasts and the favorable expressions which we hear with reference to them. 

We are happy in bearing testimony of the revealed Gospel, knowing that as we are instrumental in bringing people to a knowledge of the truth we are more firmly establishing ourselves in the kingdom of God. 

Some years ago there came to our house quite frequently a dear little old lady. She often stayed with us four or five days at a time. At the dinner table we would discuss the topics of the day, the disasters, the storms, the drouth, the difficulties of the business world, and invariably when we had finished she would place her hand on my arm and say: "Never mind. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." 

It is strange — possibly it is not strange — how our experiences affect our view-point. For instance, I was looking casually through a magazine and came upon a couple of verses which told of early pleasant experiences and the failure that followed an attempt to find the old pleasures in the doing of those same things. It was beautifully written and touched me. I read it to my wife and she shared my appreciation of it. Then at the dinner table with a group of young people I proffered to read it. I put into it all the pathos of which I was capable. When I finished some of them laughed, and others, more respectful, smiled and wondered why my eyes were filled with tears. So it was when this dear little old lady continued to repeat those beautiful words : "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." I only smiled and thought of it as another Bible quotation. 

With the passing of the years there has come possibly some slight degree of wisdom, and with it the experiences that enable one to see more clearly. But not until I had seen the world turned upside down, so to speak; not until I had seen gigantic financial institutions topple as a house of cards; not until I had seen the fruits of a lifetime of labor and sacrifice and hardship swept away as with a puff of wind; not until I had seen men go down to work in the morning hopeful and full of enthusiasm, and then saw them standing at night, heartbroken and penniless, did I come to realize, in a degree, the meaning of those precious words. 

My brethren and sisters, are we seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness? Are we giving ourselves freely and willingly to his service? A missionary told me this story of his sister who had written him from home for advice. A young man had come to pay his attentions. He was tall and handsome as young lovers go; she was young, vivacious and liked him. Came the end of the week, and he proposed a trip into the mountains for the Sabbath. She hesitated and then quickly remembered that she was a Sunday School teacher, and that her class of little ones would be waiting for her on the morrow. So he went with others into the mountains and left her with her Sunday School. Came the end of another week, and the renewal of the proposal that they spend Sunday in the mountains. Now she had had time to think it over and was ready with an answer. She told him that the Sabbath was a very sacred day to her; that she had been taught from childhood to remember to keep it holy, and that she could not be induced to break it however tempting the invitation. The next morning as she was leaving her home for Sunday School a large automobile drove up to the house and in it were the aforesaid young man and a group of young people. With all the enthusiasm of which young people are capable they urged her to accompany them and all but lifted her into the car. I do not know the workings of her mind; I do not know the vision that held her to the right. I am inclined to the belief that she knew nothing of these sacred words of the Master, but somewhere in her mind was the essence of that commandment: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." 

True to the teachings of a fine Latter-day Saint home she has found the way to the kingdom of God. And so may we and all who seek him and strive to keep his commandments. But let us not suppose that we may find it by a mediocre or haphazard living of the Gospel; but rather let us dedicate ourselves, brethren and sisters, to the service of the Master, and in remembrance of his suffering and sacrifice for us devote ourselves to the keeping of the commandments which he has given us, that we may come to know the beauties of his kingdom and the joy of his eternal progress, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I pray that what I say this morning may be dictated by the Spirit of the Lord. 

An ancient American prophet whose name was Moroni once wrote : 

And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth — that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief. 

£ ' , + ) if' '  $ , £ 

Awake, and arise from the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and put on thy beautiful garments, O daughter of Zion; and strengthen thy stakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee, O house of Israel, may be fulfilled. 

James, a disciple of our Lord, says : 

If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to ail men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. 

There is something calamitous happening in the world today; it has slowly been destroying our spiritual lives. I refer to the fact that human life on the one hand and religion on the other have been drifting apart. They are drifting apart today, and this is one of the greatest  of all history. We realize that the world has made wonderful strides in science and invention during the past century. From a material standpoint no one doubts the greatness of the age in which we are living. Electricity and mechanical inventions have changed our economic and social lives. Magnificent have been the achievements of men; still more splendid will they be. The nations of the world have accumulated great wealth but the love of money has pushed aside their love of God. The conscience of Christian creeds has become blunt to the primary distinctions of right and wrong and the world is drifting to some ignominious end. 

When we look back to a century ago, we see here in America, a people strong in honesty and fortitude, subduing nature and building homes and cities. They traveled in small boats, ox-carts, and horse drawn wagons. The farmer was using the type of tools that resembled those that were used in the days of the ancient prophets. It took from May to early autumn to travel from the Atlantic to the Pacific ocean. There were no railroad trains; and steamboats were just beginning to ply the rivers of the West. Newspapers were printed by hand at the rate of two hundred copies an hour. Thought was transmitted only as fast as one could travel. Then came the age of machinery. Inventors gave us the telegraph and telephone; modern farming machinery, and ultimately the automobile and airplane. During the last years, the science of medicine has all but conquered disease. Space has been annihilated by the forces of travel, and the radio has brought the voices of men from the far-off quarters of the earth. The age has been one of marvelous thought and progress, tfielike of which the world has never seen before. 

As a result of this progress in the line of science, and the coming of foreigners to our shores, our civilization has become complex. Lawmaking bodies have created laws by the thousands, until we have come to believe that government is the source of righteousness; that government by external means is the spring of morality and spiritual life. The morale of America has drifted to a very low state; this is also true of all the civilized world. Our moral autonomy has gone, and men and nations have forgotten God. Satan is offering the kingdoms of the world to those who will fall down and worship him. The temptation of Jesus after his baptism has become today the temptation of men. Yet nations are crying for Peace. They have organized leagues of peace; they have made some determined efforts to do away with war; they have all failed for the reason that peace movements have not been founded on a proper comprehension of righteousness and truth. 

When our forefathers met in Carpenter's Hall in Philadelphia in 1774 to draft some system of government by which the colonies could carry on, an old minister, Dr. Jacob Duche, was called in to offer a prayer, and as he prayed, John Adams tells us that tears "gushed into the eyes of all present." It was a fervent prayer to the Lord and I quote it in full for it carries a message of faith to us : 

O Lord, our Heavenly Father, high and mighty King of Kings, Lord of Lords, who dost from Thy throne behold all the dwellers upon the earth, and reignest with power supreme and uncontrolled over all kingdoms, empires and governments, look down in mercy, we beseech Thee, upon these American States who have fled to Thee from the rod of the oppressor, and thrown themselves upon Thy gracious protection, desiring to be henceforth dependent cnly upon Thee. 

To Thee have they appealed for the righteousness of their cause. To Thee do they now look up for that countenance and support which Thou alone canst give. Take them, theretore, Heavenly father, under Thy nurturing care. Give them wisdom in council, and valor in the field. Defeat the malicious designs of our cruel adversaries. Convince them of the unrighteousness of their cause, and if they still persist in their sanguinary purposes, O let the voice of Thine own unerring justice, sounding in their hearts, constrain them to drop their weapons of war from their unnerved hands in the day of battle. 

Be Thou present, O Lord of Wisdom, and direct the Council of the honorable Assembly. Enable them to settle things upon the best and surest foundation, that the scene of blood may speedily be closed; that order, harmony and peace may effectually be restored, and truth and justice, religion and piety, prevail and flourish amongst Thy people. 

Preserve the health of their bodies, the vigor of their minds. Shower down upon them and the millions they here represent, such temporal blessings as Thou seest expedient for them in this world and crown them with everlasting glory in the world to ccme. All this we ask in the name and through the merits of Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Savior. Amen. 

When the government of the United States was finally organized under the God-inspired Constitution, it was the result of toil and blood; and faith in the providences of God. The age-long barriers of class were done away with, and those founders declared that here in this nation, there should be no slave; there should be no king; nor master; nor subject. The fathers of the republic said to us : "We are all children of God, free and equal." 

Are we going to abandon our heritage? Shall we "look unto the rock whence we were hewn?" It was a wise piece of advice when the ancient psalmist wrote : "Remove not the ancient land-mark which thy fathers have set." Have we come to the time when we shall have to guarantee payment in silver before our citizens will go to war to protect the ideals of our government ? If we have, then our citizenry have lost the ideals of the founders, and have forfeited their rights and the finer feelings of what we call patriotism. When the American Revolution and the Civil War were fought, men went to war because of their love of country. They believed it a divine duty to die for their country. They were reared in the belief that sacrifice for truth is a divine injunction of God. Many of us recall the words of Garibaldi, the Italian liberator, when he spoke to the youth of Italy. Said he : 

Fortune, who betrays us today, will smile on us tomorrow. I am going out from Rome. Let those who wish to continue the war against the stranger, come with me. I offer neither pay nor quarters, nor provision. I offer hunger, thirst, battles and death. Let him who loves his country with his heart and not with his lips only, follow me. 

Hunger, thirst, forced marches, battles, death. 

Such was the offer — nothing more — remarks the historian Tre. Today we are purchasing souls for war; we are offering idleness for work; we are dissipating the resources that God gave us; we are trying to solve our problems from without, and not from within. Jesus said on one occasion: "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly." This sentence was the basic thought of his religion. He gave us the meaning of rich and radiant living. He told us to live our lives from within; and in this should be our power, which is the "inner light," the light of God ever leading us on. The forces which are to make the world the world it ought to be, are now within it. These forces are the divine principles that were taught by Jesus Christ our Lord. By these principles knowledge will be higher, ambition nobler, and life more divine. 

My brethren and sisters, it is religion that must solve the problems of our civilization today, and if we do not go back to God and the religion of the Master, our western civilization is destined to be destroyed. Religion at its best has supplied, and it can now supply, "the motives, faiths, insights, hopes, convictions, by which men inwardly come to terms with themselves and with their fellow men." We must come to a new spiritual ascendency over our baser selves. To achieve peace in this world of ours, this will have to be done. We must come to religion by way of life, and a deeper desire within to live life well. As soon as we strike this road again, we will find the high way where the seers and prophets of the spirit are walking; and above all we will distinguish there the footsteps of the Son of God. We will bring our lives into the inner world of man's divine life and light. Once more we will bring God and his Son back to us through the inward and not the outward; through our faith and confidence in the Savior of the world. 

You and I and all people will have to do away with hatred in our hearts. The inner light is the light of God; it is the light of love and truth. As I walked to this meeting this morning a man handed me a vicious document of hatred for the Jews. I wish to say unhesitatingly that I love the history of the Jews. They gave us the greatest book of all time, the Holy Bible, and they played a large part in the American Revolution. A Jew raised his voice in the Continental Congress one time and said, "It is for God and hence for right." The Jews are, as a whole, a noble race. All people have their failings but we must come to love the peoples of the world and do away with hate. 

The German Lessing, who wrote "Nathan the Wise," put these words into the mouth of the Jew and the Christian who were conversing. The Jew said : "O Christian, I understand you now because of the spirit of your Christ that is in my soul." And the Christian replied : "O Jew, I understand you because of the spirit of your God and our God." 

The spirit of the American government must be restored. Man must earn his bread by the sweat of his brow, then the old time patriotism will again be in the hearts of men. 

The real test of the strength of civilization is in the moral capacity of the rank and file of the citizens to give up the pleasures of the present for greater rewards in the future. This quality is the foundation of both moral and spiritual character. The social security of a nation is based on the character of the citizens, not on the amount of material comforts the government may bestow upon them. Hard work and sacrifice make men strong. Ease and gifts from any source are destructive to efficiency, character, and citizenship. Social security is in the character of the citizens and hence must come from within. Social security can not be bestowed from without. 

The Abby Genty, a French savant during the French Revolution, declared before the students of Paris University that "the independence of the Americans is the event most likely to accelerate the revolution which is to renew the happiness of the world. In the bosom of this new nation are the treasures which are to renew the world." He named the relief to crowded Europe as one of the blessings to come to mankind. The Emancipation of Slaves, the End of Conquest, Universal Peace, the Conversion of the World to Christianity, are others. All these were to spring from the truth, honor, and the virtue of three millions of Americans who believed in God. America has given us an ideal. It is not gold, nor silver, nor brass, nor iron which makes success. It is truth, honor, and justice. It is faith, hope, and love. It is, as the learned Abby suggested, on the virtues of mankind and the freedom of mankind that the future of mankind is to be builded. 

When we have learned the Christian way of living and have gone back to God, then the words of another sage will come true : 

It will change everything. 

I can see the end of war in this, some day. 

I can see the joy of women and little children, some day. 

I can see cities and great spaces of land full of happiness. 

I can see love shining in every face. 

There shall be no more sin, no pain, no loss, no death — 

Only Life, only God — some day when 

The world shall have learned. 

I pray that we may sense keenly two things this day. I pray that the Spirit of our Lord and Savior may find lodgment in our souls as never before, and that we may hold sacred as a trust of God, the Constitution of the United States. God grant that we may always see the right, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am thrilled with the thought today that this body of men and women have enjoyed, since this conference convened, the true spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ, and, that from the very commencement of our exercises advice and admonition have been given to this people in a spirit of love and solicitiude, and also in a way and manner which , I feel sure, sink into the hearts of us to the end that we shall not be turned aside from the sacred duties which devolve upon us. 

I am reminded of the statement of one of the prophets of old when he said : "Oh Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself; it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps." 

And, so, as I cast my eyes over this great congregation and think of the things that have transpired, the things which today are transpiring, and the things which in the future will transpire, I feel sure that this prophecy was not directed to the individual, but rather to the collective horde of mankind upon the earth. Surely and truly this people should be a people filled with gratitude and praise unto God our Eternal Father for the mercies and the blessings which have come unto them. We have had evidence of God's handiwork in all we have been hearing, and even in these past two weeks I personally think, at least to me, has come another testimony of this Gospel, which in no other way could have come. 

I refer to the pilgrimage which will become history, which was taken back over the familiar pioneer trail to Florence, Nebraska. There, upon that sacred hill, made so by the bodies of hundreds — they say nearly 600 people — who laid down their lives, and at a time when it was virtually a wilderness, and under the most trying circumstances. There came from their ashes and their dust a spirit which blended into the lives of the men and women who fortunately attended this dedicatory service, a something which bore to them the truth and divinity of this great work in which we are now engaged. When we heard our leaders, the authorities of our Church, telling of this wonderful pilgrimage of our forebears, and then heard the governor of the state of Nebraska, the mayor of the city of Omaha, and Carl R. Gray, the president of the Union Pacific Railroad System, all uniting their voices with ours in testimony of that which had been done, surely, I said to myself, this is virtually a whispering spirit from the dead. And, at night, as we assembled in that great and wonderful Joslyn Memorial, that great temple of marble, erected in Omaha with its art gallery, and the seats upholstered in the last word of the art of the upholsterer, and saw our brethren who were there, the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles and others as they sat on the stand and spoke to that large audience, surely gratitude filled every heart of those who had gone to pay honor to their departed loved ones who were buried in the Florence cemetery. It was my privilge to sit next to two gentlemen who were inclined to talk a little, and they said as the service went on : "They are all spellbinders, aren't they?" 

Then, as Senator Smoot finished his address one said to the other : "You know a man of such national prominence as Reed Smoot, who will give attention and pay heed to that which he is saying certainly deserves attention; we ought to do something ourselves, because I am sure that what he says has in it all the ear marks of worthwhile endeavor for mankind to listen to and follow." These things, coupled with the things which today are going on in our very midst, the advice and counsel of the authorities of the Church, asking us to go forward and carry out this wonderful system of our relief program, and that system which has arrested the attention of the United States as a whole, and, I am sure, foreign countries as well, ought to speak to you and to me this word, that it is truly the inspiration of the Holy Ghost through God himself that these things come to this people who a few years ago were persecuted and driven from pillar to post, and yet today stand out shining lights before many people, exhibiting that which the Gospel has produced among the children of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Truly, in the world today, if we will stop and think of the prayer Orson Hyde uttered on that sacred hill in Jerusalem, it is being more fully realized and comprehended than we ourselves, I think, can understand. God has said to us that he would make us lie down in green pastures, and lead us beside the still waters; that he would guide us in paths of righteousness for his name's sake, and I am sure he is doing it. I know that the statement of Jeremiah is being fulfilled wherein he said : "Oh Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself; it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps." 

My prayer is for courage, faith, hope, and above all, thankful and grateful hearts to God for that which we have received, and that which we are receiving. May God grant us these things, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The "Singing Mothers" and the congregation joined in singing "The Star Spangled Banner." 

Elder Lorenzo H. Hatch, President of the Granite Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

SECOND DAY 


