Morning
04 10 1936

Sunday morning, October 3, 1936. 

Long before the time arrived for commencing the fifth session of the Conference every seat and available space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied, and thousands of people assembled on the Temple Block and in the large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle, where, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, they listened to the Conference proceedings. 

The meeting commenced promptly at 10 o'clock. 

President Grant announced that the congregation and the Tabernacle Choir would sing the hymn, "O Say, What Is Truth ?" 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered by Elder George E. Jorgensen, President of the Carbon Stake. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, the audience in this wonderful building is an inspiration, and it reminds me of the great faith and confidence of the members of the Church in its divine organization. 

IMPORTANCE OF SERVICE 

During the few moments that I shall occupy I desire to call your attention to what I think is of the greatest importance not only as affecting the Church and its growth, but in every worthy avocation of ; that is, service — service to our God, service to our country, service to the family, service to the Church. Without such service, it seems to me, my brethren and sisters, there would not be in the hearts of the people a full knowledge of their duty, not only to God and country, and family, and the Church, but to all the activities of life in which they become engaged or interested. 

Service to our God — I doubt whether there is a people living on the earth as near to God and who recognize the duty that they owe to our Heavenly Father as do the Latter-day Saints. I am proud to say that I doubt whether there is a people — in fact I am positive of it — whose loyalty and service to the country is greater than that of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

We believe that the Constitution of the United States was an inspired instrument from our Heavenly Father, and we believe in being loyal and true to that document and to every requirement made of us as citizens of the greatest country in the world. 

We believe in service to family, one of the great and important things of life. I sometimes think, my brethren and sisters, that men of affairs give less attention to their own loved ones than they do to public interests. I hope not, I pray not, but I am fearful that some of us are guilty of this. There is no question in my mind about our loyalty and service to the Church. This vast audience demonstrates beyond question of doubt your loyalty, and we know of your service. 

So, my brethren and sisters, I desire to call attention this morning to some of the fundamental principles that should be in the lives not only of the Latter-day Saints, but in the lives of honest, devoted, true men and women no matter what church they may belong to. 

THE BURDEN OF DEBT 

We are living in a day of extravagance, and I might say not only we as individuals of the nation, but I am fearful that extreme extravagance reaches into every organization — city, county, state, and nation. I know how hard it is to reduce an obligation, even that of the government of the United States. At the close of the World War our government was owing $26,187,000,000. For ten years succeeding that time every effort was made, and I assure you that everything that I could do as chairman of the Finance Committee and the ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, was done to raise the money and meet the obligations of our government. It took ten long years to reduce the government indebtedness to $16,000,000,000. Now we are about to enter into the thirty billions. I want to call attention to that fact, not by way of criticism, but to emphasize what I have already said, that in the family, I care not where that family may be, every member of it, should be acquainted with what the head of the family receives, and make a plan to live within that income; and I am going to add, if there is any possible way of saving a little each year do that. 

We do not know what is coming; we do not know, my brethren and sisters, altogether what obligations we will be called to meet, but I pray you to keep out of debt if it is possible for you to do so. I may say that the members of the home must be united in order to carry out this desirable condition. 

THE HUMBLE HOME OF A PRESIDENT 

I remember that upon one occasion I was asked by President Coolidge to attend a conference to consider the policy to be adopted by the United States respecting the indebtedness of foreign countries to the United States. The meeting was held at his father's home. I shall never forget the thoughts I had when I was called to the boyhood home of the President to consider the question of our national indebtedness. It was built scores of years before, and as I ride through the different settlements of our state and look at some of the humble homes built years and years ago I say : "There was a home of a President of the United States that was just as simple, no more pretentious." Inside the home the fixtures and furniture were what you would expect to see inside a home in any of our little towns or cities within our own state. It taught me a lesson, and I then understood why he as President of the United States watched and guarded personally every item of expense, and wherever in his judgment there should be a reduction he never hesitated to call it to the attention of the Appropriations Committee. 

So, my brethren and sisters, the few words that I have said in relation to the matter of being careful, prudent, and saving are said in the hope that you will be watchful that nothing is done by way of extravagance to bring a debt upon yourself and loved ones. 

A PRAYER FOR BLESSINGS 

Father in heaven, we jointly ask of thee at this time for wisdom and judgment to carry on thy work, and may we all be loyal and true to the great cause that we have espoused. How wonderful has been its growth, and what an influence for good it is to be in the future and in the affairs of the world we cannot know, but we do know that it is going to be a power for good. God grant his choicest blessings upon the Presidency of this Church. Lead and guide them by thy Holy Spirit, that they may have the love, and the honor, and the respect of men of the world who are honest in heart, and that they may be upheld by the prayers of the people of this Church, that they may be one united body, with one thought in mind, that is : God's great work upon this earth, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

From 10:30 to 11:00 the following program of choral and organ music was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ which program was broadcast by radio throughout the United States and Canada through the courtesy of the Columbia Broadcasting System, originating over Station KSL, Salt Lake City : 

"Glorious Things Are Sung of Zion" (Daynes) — Choir. 

"Prelude to the Deluge" (Saint Saens) — Organ. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 97 

"Listen to the Lambs" (Dett) — Choir. 

"Toccata" (Boellman) — Organ. 

"Music When Soft Voices Die" (Dickinson) — Choir. 

"In the Forest" (Durand) — Organ. 

"Worthy is the Lamb" (Handel) — Choir. 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

At the conclusion of the Tabernacle Choir and Organ broadcast, a thirty minute program was presented on the Columbia Broadcasting System's regularly scheduled Church of the Air series, this being a nation-wide broadcast. The radio announcer was Richard L. Evans. 

The program opened with the Tabernacle Choir and the congregation joining in the singing of the hymn "High On the Mountain Top." 

Elders John A. Widtsoe and Melvin J. Ballard were the speakers. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The second greatest question of life was asked by the ancient psalmist: "What is man, that thou art mindful of him?" In importance, this query is next only to that concerning the nature of God. 

Inability to answer this question has often defeated fervent faith. The correct answer has enabled men and nations to build their futures securely. Faith has been most effective when accompanied by an understanding of man's relationship to Deity. The way out of the world's tragic chaos — the terror of poverty, sickness and war — must be illuminated by a comprehension of man's nature and destiny. 

Man is one of the eternal, imperishable realities of the universe. His story begins in the infinite past, before the earth was made. His eternity reaches into the yesterdays as into the tomorrows. He belongs to the endless ages. 

MAN A CHILD OF GOD 

In the beginning, man was with God, a child of God, begotten by Him. He has a divine pedigree. In the pre-existent, spiritual domain, as a son or daughter of the divine Father, he increased in knowledge and power and grew in spiritual stature. At length he was prepared for the earth career and willing to accept its conditions. Man is not an accidental or transient invader of earth. Instead, he is a creature of plan and progress. 

As a child of God, man partakes of the divine nature of his Father. Within him lie germs of infinite development. Potentially he is a Godlike being. Therefore he may rise eternally toward the likeness of his Father in heaven. Upward, divine, unending, is man's high destiny. 

The long climb of man from the dim beginning to the noble present, came from self-effort guided and directed by the Lord. His future ascent into glorious realms beyond human understanding will likewise result from his own strivings and struggles. True, man "lives and moves and has his being" under the law of progression; but progress is ever an inward, not an outward process. His increasing progress is not imposed upon him; salvation is a cooperative enterprise between God and man. 

All men are the very children of God. They are brothers. Every man, however humble, of whatever race, has the same origin and possible destiny. The heavens and the earth were made and the plan of salvation was provided for each individual member of the human family. God is not a partial Father; each child is alike in his love. Since the plan of salvation is for all, it is fully consummated only when it has been accepted by all. Therefore it becomes a common concern to save every soul. Hence every man bears a direct responsibility for his brother. 

WERE MAN'S DIVINE ORIGIN AND DESTINY UNDERSTOOD 

Were this conception, which raises the individual man to immeasurable importance, more fully comprehended, there would come great modification of man's treatment of man. The inhumanity of man to man would soon vanish from the earth. The law of the beast would be replaced by the law of God. Love would triumph over hate. The record of history declares that nations which have recognized in part the true nature of man, have prospered most and survived the longest. 

Little men who seek to take advantage one of another; rulers who look upon their people as pawns in a game; nations who wantonly toss thousands into battle to be maimed or killed — these would falter in their evil designs before a knowledge of the divine origin and destiny of every human being, of his God-like nature. Righteousness would increase in the earth. We prattle about the brotherhood of man, but true fraternity can be realized only upon the acceptance of all men as our very brothers, possessing equal rights with us. There should be a comprehension of the innate greatness of every dweller on earth, of the possible attainment by the humblest man of an infinitely high goal. Such knowledge, wide-spread over the earth, would refine individual conduct, make men take thought before action, and would help bring about peace, the world's greatest need. 

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

A sense of individual responsibility grows out of an understanding of man's relationship to other men and to God. The world is in serious need of a compelling sense of personal, individual, responsibility. As men are, so is the social group. A righteous nation is but the assemblage of righteous men. National prosperity is but the sum of personal prosperity. When each man sets his own house in order, the whole world will be in order. There is much talk of governmental or other organized provision for our wants, material and spiritual, when in reality our greatest needs must be satisfied from within ourselves. To lean upon others for support enfeebles the soul. By self -effort man will attain his high . It cannot be placed as a cape upon his shoulders by others. Upon his own feet he must enter the kingdom of God, whether on earth or in heaven. By conquest of self he shall win his place in the everlasting glory of God's presence. 

"What is man that thou art mindful of him?" He is a very son of God, endowed with God-like power, who, if he respect his divine origin and high destiny, may bring to pass the long sought reign of righteousness on earth. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has a sacred mission to perform in the world. One of the most important features of that mission is to provide new witnesses to this doubtful and skeptical generation that Jesus is indeed the Christ, the very Son of the living God, who died for men and is still interested in them and presides under his Father over the destinies of this world. We proclaim with John that by him, as the Father's representative, was the world made. In the character of Jehovah before he dwelt among men in the flesh, he was the Spokesman of his Father, Elohim, delivering the commandments, inspiring the prophets and ultimately coming to dwell among men in the flesh, thereafter to be called Jesus Christ. He gave himself as a ransom to save the world and mankind; first, from the consequences of the fall which brought mortality and death. He brings us to immortal and eternal life. And through our obedience to his Gospel he redeems us from the consequences of our own sins. 

But his interest in this world did not end when he had performed his great sacrifice. He is the Savior of all men, no matter where or when they have lived upon the earth. To his disciples at Jerusalem he said, "And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold : them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." (John 10:16) It is generally agreed now that when he spoke those words there was a mighty multitude of people living in this western world. He was their Savior and knew of their existence. 

A TESTIMONY 

Prominent among the witnesses this Church produces to support the testimony of the disciples at Jerusalem concerning Christ and his ministry is the testimony of a nation living upon this western hemisphere which was visited by him after his resurrection. Unto them he said, "Ye are the other sheep of whom I spake." Great destructions had occurred in this land at the crucifixion of Christ. The multitude who survived were standing about one of the temples marveling at the great changes which had taken place. The following account of this visit is recorded in the Book of Mormon, the bible of America, Third Nephi, 11th chapter : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn. 

And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they understood it not. 

And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came. 

And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them : 

Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him. 

And it came to pass, as they understood they cast their eyes up again towards heaven; and behold, they saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them. 

And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying: 

Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world. 

And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning. 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words the whole multitude fell to the earth; for they remembered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself unto them after his ascension into heaven. 

And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying : 

Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world. 

And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets, that should come. 

And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying: 

Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus ,and did worship him. (3 Nephi 11 :3-17) 

SPENDS THREE DAYS 

Jesus Christ spent three glorious days with the peoples of America. He organized his Church and taught them the same doctrine he had delivered to his disciples in Jerusalem. As he left them he promised to come again. This historic visitation is supported by the traditions of 101  the Indians of America who have the same story, that their fathers were visited a long time ago by a fair God who taught his Gospel and blessed them, promising to return again. The conquest of Peru and Mexico by a handful of white men was possible because of this tradition of the promised return of the white God. 

And now another witness which this Church furnishes that Jesus Christ not only lives but that he is deeply interested in this generation as he was in them of old is the witness of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery that on the third day of April, 1836, one hundred years ago, in the Kirtland Temple, built by divine command to provide a place for the Lord's appearance, the following event occurred: 

A VISITATION 

We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. 

His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: 

I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. (Doctrine and Covenants 110:2-4) 

PURPOSE OF VISIT 

He further announced that the purpose of his visit and the sending of prophets of ancient times, who held keys of authority, was to inaugurate the dispensation of the fulness of times spoken of by the prophets, wherein all keys and authority of all former dispensations were to be reintroduced among men in the building and establishment of Christ's kingdom triumphant in the earth to which he would come to rule and reign as King of kings and Lord of lords for a thousand years, as the prophets had foretold. Jesus announced in this dispensation, therefore, that the hour had come when a great and marvelous work was about to commence among men, wherein everything would be shaken that could be shaken and only the truth would stand, and that the prophecies of old were about to be fulfilled, when the Spirit of God would be poured out upon all flesh and old men should dream dreams and young men should see visions (Joel 2:28), and that as a result of it men would see wonders in the heavens and upon the earth. 

What has happened in this world since that visitation a hundred years ago is in part at least a realization of the promise, for greater human progress has been made in the development of science in the last hundred years than in all the preceding ages combined. Surely the Spirit of God has been poured out upon all flesh, and men have caught visions of the secrets of God and the materialization of these visions has produced wonders in the heavens and upon the earth. The Lord's hand is in all that is now going forward. The conflict between good and evil will be fierce but out of every struggle will come the victory of the right and of the truth. Every man-made institution that stands GENERAL CONFERENCE  the way of God's purposes will be shaken and fall to the earth, and his kingdom shall come and his will be done upon earth as it is in heaven. 

GIVES TESTIMONY 

Let all believers in Christ doubt not, for he delayeth not his coming, neither has he gone afar and forgotten us. Let us all join in continuing the glorious warfare to win this world for Christ, its rightful Ruler. 

I bear witness that I know that he lives and that he is the Redeemer of the world. When that day shall come that I may stand in his presence and hear his voice, or like the doubting Thomas thrust my hand into his wounded side and hands, I shall not know any better then than I do today that he lives and that he has visited the earth in this age in the reintroduction of his glorious Gospel in its fulness and that it shall be triumphant in the earth. God speed the consummation of this happy event. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A selection, "Lo, My Shepherd is Divine," (Haydn), was sung by a mixed double quartet. 

A selection, "Blessed Be the Lord God" (Buck), was sung by a mixed double quartet, after which the Tabernacle Choir and the congregation joined in the singing of the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." 

(End of Church of the Air Broadcast) 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have with us seven brethren who have recently returned from presiding over missions in Europe and in the South Sea islands. On account of the two national broadcasts occupying so much time — a full hour — we have not been able to hear from them as yet. We are going to take an extra half hour this morning, and before the close of the meeting this afternoon we would like to hear from all these brethren as well as from the General Authorities who have not yet spoken. We will ask our brethren from foreign missions to occupy not more than ten minutes each. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

INTRODUCTION 

The Lord has said : "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." 

Your unison in song in the national broadcast this morning deeply impressed me — yours were truly songs of the heart. I pray that they will be visited with blessings upon your heads, and that this choir in rendering such a wonderful service to the Church, to the State, and to the Nation may receive added blessings. I would that the same oneness, unity and harmony manifested in that congregational singing might characterize 103  righteous endeavor of the Church. God bless those who have this music in hand, and bless him also who arranged the continuity and carried it out so successfully. 

THE CHURCH SECURITY PLAN 

Throughout this Conference frequent reference has been made, and appropriately so, to the plan inaugurated by the General Authorities of the Church for the relief of those who are unemployed. It is at present one of our greatest, and one of the most important concerns of the Church. During the few minutes allotted to me I desire to call attention to the spiritual value of this important and far-reaching undertaking. 

In the 29th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are told that "all things unto the Lord are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created. 

"Behold I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual." 

The development of our spiritual nature should concern us most. Spirituality is the highest acquisition of the soul, the divine in man; "the supreme, crowning gift that makes him king of all created things." It is the consciousness of victory over self and of communion with the infinite. It is spirituality alone which really gives one the best in life. 

It is something to supply clothing to the scantily clad, to furnish ample food to those whose table is thinly spread, to give activity to those who are fighting desperately the despair that comes from enforced idleness, but after all is said and done, the greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the physical : re-making of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstuffs, choosing of fertile fields for settlement — all seem strictly temporal, but permeating all these acts, inspiring and sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality. 

SPIRITUALITY EVEN IN ADVERSITY 

There are those who have met disaster, which almost seems defeat, who have become somewhat soured in their natures, but if they stop to think, even the adversity which has come to them may prove a means of spiritual uplift. Adversity itself may lead toward and not away from God and spiritual enlightenment; and privation may prove a source of strength if we can but keep the sweetness of mind and spirit. "Sweet are the uses of adversity," said Shakespeare, "which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his head." 

Job at one time possessed wealth in abundance. He numbered his sheep, camels, and oxen by the thousand. His sons and daughters were prosperous, and Job was happy and righteous in his prosperity. He was the greatest of all men in the East. Then came disaster. The Sabeans GENERAL CONFERENCE  his cattle and slew his servants; fire consumed his sheep and the men who tended them; Chaldeans drove away his camels; his sons and daughters perished in a cyclone. Then he himself was smitten with a loathsome skin disease. In the depths of his affliction his wife came to him and said: "Dost thou still retain thy integrity? Curse God and die." Yet from the depths of financial ruin, physical suffering and harrowing accusations of his would-be friends, Job rose to the very heights of spiritual exultation when he declared : 

I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth : 

And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. 

"To bear adversity with meek submission to the will of God, to appear cheerful amid surrounding gloom, hopeful amidst despondent circumstances, happy in God, when there is nothing else to make one happy; he who does this has indeed made great advance in the divine life." 

CONTEMPLATION OF PLAN GIVES SPIRITUAL UPLIFT 

There is spirituality even in the conception of the plan that is going to carry alleviation to the suffering and comfort to the down-trodden and poor. An intellectual glow, if not a spiritual blessing, comes even in the contemplation of such things. No one can consider, however superficially, its motives and objectives without comparing in his mind the strife and selfishness as exemplified in the law of nature, which is a law of the survival of the fittest, with the spiritual law expressed by Jesus when he said : "He that will lose his life for my sake shall find it." And associated with that thought this : "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

You see on every hand the struggle that goes on in nature. Birds are killing birds, animals are killing animals; men, too, in the highest scale of existence are struggling and taking advantage of one another. "Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like" manifestations of the "works of the flesh" are rampant; "and they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God;" they are not in accordance with the law of the Lord, nor in accordance with the law of happiness. 

Thank heaven, we can see also indications of tendencies to deny oneself for the good of others. Evidences are increasing daily of the fact that man is striving for higher things than the mere selfish and the sordid. "The race of mankind would perish," says Sir Walter Scott, "if they ceased to aid one another. We cannot exist without mutual help. All, therefore, that need aid should receive it from their fellowmen, and no one who has the power of granting can refuse it without guilt." 

SPIRITUALITY EXPRESSED IN GIVING 

There is more spirituality expressed in giving than in receiving. The greatest spiritual blessing comes from helping another. If you want to be miserable, just harbor hate for a brother, and if you want to hate, just 105  your brother some injury. But if you would be happy, render a kind service, make somebody else happy. The poet was right when he expressed the truth in these lines : 

If you sit down at set of sun 

And count the acts that you have done, 

And, counting, find 

One self-denying deed, one word 

That eased the heart of him who heard — 

One glance most kind, 

That fell like sunshine where it went — 

Then you may count that day well spent. 

But if, thru all the livelong day, You've cheered no heart, by yea or nay, If through it all, 

You've nothing done that you can trace That brought the sunshine to one face —  No act most small 

That helped some soul and nothing cost — Then count that day as worse than lost. 

There is another thought, however, which I think reflects this spirituality, and that is the realization, the consciousness that we are approaching, in desire at least, the two great commandments : "Love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength, and thy neighbor as thyself." All who have participated in the achievements reported October 1 by the stake presidencies have experienced this feeling. Tens of thousands of people who have cooperatively worked to make this plan a success have been motivated by a desire to have the Church a living activity for good. Christ's Church is his vineyard in which he invites everybody to work. The almost universal response seems to indicate that the Latter-day Saints throughout the land realize that a lazy church "tends towards unbelief; and that an earnest, busy church, in hand-to-hand conflict with sin and misery, grows stronger in faith." 

Associated with this thought is the realization that we are doing something to make the world better. The well-known statistician, Mr. Babson, says : 

People should understand that before prosperity can return there must be a renewed interest in the spiritual life by both individuals and nations. Nations should realize that the world has always possessed raw materials and labor, but has been prosperous only when the people have been actuated by a religious faith to use these resources for advancement in service. This is the law of life, and now is the time when it should be taught in churches, schools and colleges. 

The Church is a means of rendering in order and wisdom mutual service. Jesus Christ is its author and the divine head. He himself, while in mortality, was the personification and exemplification of brotherhood and spirituality, and it is he who says to you and to all the world, "Learn of me and listen to my words; walk in the meekness of my spirit and ye shall have peace in me." 

God help us to obtain that peace by mutual helpfulness I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The congregation and the Tabernacle Choir sang the hymn, "Come, Let Us Anew." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Listen to this glorious truth — It is found in the Book of Mormon : 

For it behooveth the great Creator that he suffereth himself to become subject unto man in the flesh, and die for all men, that all men might become subject unto him. (2 Nephi 9:5). 

SERVICE THE PRICE OF CONTENTMENT 

Consecrated service is the road to the hearts of men. The mother becomes subject to her family, so to speak, by sacred service and sacrifice, and therefore her high position as queen of the home is eternally assured. 

The sublime truth which I have quoted from the Book of Mormon foreshadows the condescension of God Almighty. Because of the Fall men were cut off from the presence of the Lord. Only an infinite atonement could save mankind from spiritual death and bring about the power of the resurrection to fallen men and make them incorruptible, immortal, living souls. 

To secure this priceless boon the Creator suffered "the pains of every living creature, both men, women, and children, who belong to the family of Adam." Mankind was delivered by the power of the Holy One of Israel by his atonement. We belong to him : we are not our own. He bought us with the price of his precious blood. 

The Savior said : "My Father worketh hitherto and I work." I believe that work is the weapon of honor. One of the evils that is oppressing this nation is the failure of a large number of men to work : many people unfortunately cannot find employment. Every able-bodied man should have "a mind to work." 

The locomotive that runs light is more likely to jump the track than the one that is pulling a load. If more of the young men and women in our country were married there would be fewer social and industrial disturbances. Long engagements, as a rule, are not good. There are too many men running light in this old world. More personal responsibility is needed. Henry Ward Beecher said that the darkest hour in a young man's life was when he sat down and planned and devised how to make a living without work. Without mental or physical labor an honest living cannot be made. 

When Erskine, the great British advocate was addressing a jury — the first time, by the way, that he had made an address in a court of law — he said that he must succeed for he felt that his wife and children were tugging at his coat tails. 

Jesus said : "And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be 107  servant; even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." To give his life for a ransom for many — that was the grandest service ever beheld in the universe of God. 

We read in the New Testament the profound truth that God permitted His Only Begotten Son, the Being who created the world, to work in a carpenter shop at the carpenter's bench. I think as I read the Savior's words "Take my yoke upon you and learn of me * * * for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light," that he, the divine Son of God, made yokes in that workshop for beasts of burden. The yokes were so well made that they made no sore places. The man who wears the yoke of Christ has no sore spots on him, for in the wearing of that yoke there is perfect liberty and joy. He that would be great let him be the servant of his fellow creatures and minister to their needs. 

AN ILLUSTRATION OF UNSELFISHNESS 

Once upon a time, as the story goes, two men owned a field jointly, and side by side they planted, they watered, and they shared the crops share and share alike. One of these men had seven sons. Zimri lived by himself. One night when the crops were harvested, Zimri said, "I am alone, and my brother has seven sons; it is not pleasing in the sight of God that I should have as much as he." So he stole forth from the field and took one-third of his sheaves and placed them with Abram's sheaves. Abram awoke and he thought of Zimri, and said he : "Here am I, surrounded by my sons, and Zimri is alone. At the end of the day's labor he goes to a cold, lonely home. I am going to give him one-third of my sheaves." He did so. The next morning both were astonished to find when they arose that they had not lost anything by giving to each other. _ 

The next night Zimri went into the field and took a third of his sheaves to Abram's pile and placed them there and then he hid. He saw Abram coming out. And now the words of the poet : 

Then Abram came down softly from his home And looking to the left and right, went on, Took from his ample store a generous third, And laid it on his brother Zimri's pile. Then Zimri rose, and caught him in his arms, And wept upon his neck, and kissed his cheek; And Abram saw the whole, and could not speak; Neither could Zimri, for their hearts were full. 

"He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the Lord," for "when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." May this heavenly duty shine in our hearts with a broad and glowing light, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

With the blessing of the Lord and your help I trust that I may give voice to a thought or two that may be helpful to us. 

On Friday when we heard the report of the Social Security Plan read I thought of the question asked by the Pharisees of the Christ. You will remember, a lawyer asked the Christ which was the greatest commandment. And the Savior replied : 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

You will notice that the two commandments which I have quoted commence with the affirmative, "Thou shalt." There are people who feel that the Lord is behind the times educationally when he uses the negative form "Thou shalt not" in some of the commandments, so to bring the Ten Commandments up to date they want to reword them, or at least feel obliged to apologize when they quote the ones that are stated in the negative. 

I can understand why some people outside the Church desire to change and make constant explanations about the negative form of some of the Ten Commandments but it is hard to understand why any of us belonging to the Church should want to modify or think it necessary to reword the Ten Commandments so that the phrase "Thou shalt not" will be eliminated. I hope that we shall have the good sense, the propriety, and the faith to retain the thought and the wording as it came from God. 

My thought in connection with the two great commandments is their practical application to the Social Security Plan. At the present time there is a great emergency in the Nation and in the Church, and it has existed for some time. Although we may have thought about it and done some good things, seemingly we were not able to get together and agree on a common plan. But as soon as the people of the Church under its splendid leadership unite and agree to handle this emergency the success of the undertaking is assured. We immediately unite together and get the feeling or power and ability to do great things in the Church not only as individuals but as members of wards or stakes. And so, we have at the present time a splendid demonstration of all of the Church being united in common thought with common desires, trying to follow the admonition of the Lord wherein he said : "If ye love me, keep my commandments." And the two great commandments are the love of God and the love of neighbor. 

Our tithes and our fast offerings have increased, because our faith and our love of God have increased. Our ability to do the righteous, consistent thing in the Church is dependent upon the love of God that we have in our hearts. We can do other things in the Church in the same 109  if we will unite ourselves together just as closely and just as splendidly, realizing that it is the' work of the Lord. 

The Social Security Plan is not the only thing in the Church that we all need to get behind and support. I remember that when we had Prohibition we used, to hear young and old people say that the reason they drank and the reason they smoked was the prohibition part of it — that part, like the Ten Commandments, which said you could not do a thing — and the argument was that if we would eliminate this commandment and this process of compulsion, the young and the older people would very willingly walk forward in righteousness so far as the Word of Wisdom was concerned. We are where we are today in that commandment because we lack unity of purpose and desire. We know that it is not the way a commandment is worded or even a knowledge that the thing is right which keeps us from smoking or drinking, or breaking any other commandment. The thing that keeps us straight, the thing that helps us to be obedient unto the law of God, is our love for God demonstrated in our lives. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to appreciate his commandments and to unite together spiritually and temporally in the keeping of all his commandments as we are now united in this great social program, that we may grow spiritually and progress in God's church, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR GAETH 

Former President of the Czechoslovak Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I appreciate the opportunity of being again assembled in conference with you after a long absence. 

I wish to bear testimony to you this morning in behalf of our eighteen missionaries laboring in Czechoslovakia among the fifteen million people of that country. Eighteen among fifteen million is rather a small number, but we feel that our efforts have been blessed and that we have made an impression upon the people of that nation. The Lord has opened up the way so that we have, on different occasions, been able to bear a message to multitudes, not only to small gatherings of people. The Lord has led us so that we have been able to touch the hearts of the officials of the country, and have been able to obtain the right to preach and teach the Gospel in a time when much of Europe is being regulated and regimented, and when it is difficult for the voice of God to find its way into the hearts of the people. We have been preaching the Gospel under disturbed conditions. The people are beginning to lose faith in religion, because religion has not been able to light the way, has not been able to appease the hearts of men and to make them see the truth and live according to the principles for which Christ laid down his life. Because people have lost faith and confidence in each other, they have lost faith in the government by the people, so many of the nations today GENERAL CONFERENCE  in the hands of a few who are not being directed by the Spirit of the Lord, but who are striving to gain in their selfish way more of that which belongs to their neighbors. But in spite of those difficulties we have found a few who have listened to our message, and who have accepted the Gospel. Europe needs the Gospel of Jesus Christ today as she never did before, and we need to send our young men and young women, and our old men among those people to preach the Gospel to them. 

I feel that in our mission we have needed older men, men of experience with burning testimonies of the Gospel, to move the hearts of those people, and I hope that as our economic program takes some of our older men and women from daily occupation that they will find the time and the courage to undertake a mission in a foreign country. I am of the opinion that any man who had the ability to learn a foreign language when he was 22 years of age still possesses that ability at 65 or 70. We have had experiments in our work with English Clubs, and have discovered that old men and women, after they had been pensioned, have been able to acquire French, English, Spanish and other languages if they had the desire. 

I bear you my testimony that we are not of the world; we are for the world, but as Christ said: "Ye are not of the world." And, therefore, it becomes necessary for us to be a light unto the world. I am thankful that the Lord has inspired our leaders in this Security Program, so that the people of this Church may be drawn closer together, that they may solve their own problems not according to the ways of the world, but according to the ways of the Lord and according to the inspiration which he vests in those who have been called to guide and direct this great work here upon the earth. And so I bear you my testimony that the Lord has spoken, and Joseph Smith was selected as an instrument to restore the Gospel of Jesus Christ in these the latter days. I am thankful for the privilege I have of mingling my voice with those who have borne testimony here, for I know that the Lord lives, and that he is in a position to answer our prayers if we will but bend our knees occasionally and ask for guidance and help. May the Lord bless us in our efforts, may he add to the number of those who are now engaged in missionary work among the peoples of this earth, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I never see an audience such as we have here today — all the seats taken, the aisles crowded, and people standing in the gallery — that my heart is not filled with gratitude for the wisdom and inspiration of Brigham Young in furnishing us with this magnificent auditorium. 

The Choir sang the "Hallelujah Chorus" (Handel). Elder George A. Bean, President of the Union Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 111 

THIRD DAY 


