10
Morning
06 04 1918
Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 
79
45-48

None

None

(President of the California Mission.) 

I solicit your prayers of faith in my behalf, my brethren and sisters, for if there is any one time in my life when I feel my weakness it is when addressing a congregation of the Saints of Israel, especially if this be in the presence of our leaders — men who have ripened in judgment and wisdom and rich experience. I am not fearful of the world. I know we have something new to present to them. But when I come to you, I feel that you know better than I the principles of life and salvation, and that I should sit at your feet and be taught, rather than assume the position of a teacher.  
  
I bring to you good greetings from the mission field and from your sons, your boys who are in the cantonments of the State of California. I know how your hearts go out to the boys and girls who are ambassadors of truth, how you pray for them, how you labor to maintain them, how your hopes are centered in them, and you are looking for their return ere long, laden with the sheaves of a golden harvest of the souls of men. I know, too, that your concern for these is not so great as it is for the boys who have gone as soldiers not only of the Cross but of our Country's flag. You fear the smile of the wanton, the allurements of the world, the enticement of vice and sin, more than you do the deadly missiles of the enemy. I am glad to say that so far as we have been able, with good men and true, to conserve the virtue and the belief of your boys in the camps, that we have done a good part. They have reciprocated it; they have attended our gatherings; they have partaken of the sacrament, renewing again their fealty to the Cross. They have borne witness of the virtue of their fathers and mothers, and their desire to keep unspotted of the world, and many times when they have had the conduct of our services there has never been a dry eye in the assembly.  
  
I want to read to you just a little from the scripture, for I believe that with me you can appreciate it more than you ever did before, you who have given your sons to the service of our country:  
  
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have eternal life, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life; for God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved.  
  
I know that it is written by John and Paul that Christ was offered as a propitiation for our sins. I take it, if we had the original text we would learn that it was not in the sense of appeasing the anger of God that he became a propitiatory gift. That the Lord may have been, and has been, grieved and sometimes angry with his stubborn people, I grant you, but I have never felt that God had to be "bought off," if you will allow the expression, through the death of his Son, from visiting upon us condign punishment. No. As I understand it, he gave us his best loved gift, the First Born among many brethren in the spirit world, the only begotten of God in the flesh, that we might know him and thus in knowing him that we might be made free, "for this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." He gave us the gift of his Son that we should be won to him, that we should love him, for we give gifts to those whom we would win, whom we would have love us, whom we would draw to us, whom we would bring close in our affections, that they might be with us and associate with us, and share with us our joys and good fortune. He gave the Christ unto men that they might live again, that they might be made free, for the truth should make them free in their worship, in their power of mind, and in their bodies, too, for that matter, and the redemption wrought out by the Christ makes us all alive again in eternity, clothed upon with immortality and eternal youth.  
  
Now, God gave his Son to bring men to him, his most precious gift, to know his mind and will, to believe his word. I know not whether the mothers of men count the cost of bearing sons into the world or not, but I do believe that all of you have counted the cost of sending your sons to the battle front. Whilst you know that the voice of God is heard in the battle shout as well as in the still, small voie, you would, if it were possible for you, that this cup should pass, and that the lives of your sons should be preserved. Yet you know that "greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends," and so many of us have given to the world our most precious gifts, our sons, that the principle of truth, which is the true principle of liberty, should be enjoyed by all peoples; that in knowing the truth they, too, might be made free; that the principles enunciated by our fathers, inspired of God and written in the Constitution of our land, shall go forth to govern the peoples of the earth, and thus shall "the law go forth from Zion," as we are told of old. Thus men shall be free to worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience; men shall be free to follow in the pursuit of happiness, so long as they shall not intrude upon the rights and privileges of others; and men shall be equal before the law; that priestcraft and kingcraft shall cease.  
  
For the purpose we have given to the world our best gift, our loved sons, and herein comes the testimony to me that we are in the service of our God, that we are following in his footsteps, and that we by this gift show our love for our fellow men. God, in order that the father of the faithful might appreciate his sacrifice and the love that he was showing to man, commanded him, Abraham, to take his son of promise and offer him a sacrifice, after the order of sacrifice instituted when Adam was cast out of the garden of Eden, and this brought home to Father Abraham, as nothing else perhaps would, the wonderful sacrifice that God would make when his beloved Son should be offered up, when he should be lifted up in order that men might be drawn to him. Happily in this instance there was a ram caught in the thicket, and an angel's hand stayed the arm that was about to strike, and the boy was delivered.  
  
I would that I could feel that that is a type and a promise to us; that there shall be a ram caught in the thicket, that our boys may be delivered, but I feel that many of them will be called upon not only to pass through Gethsemane but to make the last sacrifice in order that men shall be drawn to us. For when they do truly know that it is not for selfish aggrandizement, not for territorial expansion, not for selfishness that we wage the war, men will be drawn to us, and in the baptism of fire and blood that shall come to ourselves and them the world shall be born anew; freedom shall be established once for all, and the neck of the tyrant shall be had under the heels of free men, and the world shall be made free and Christ shall come and reign as King of kings and Lord of Lords. Then there shall be none to hurt nor make afraid in all his holy mountain; and the "knowledge of God shall cover the earth from the rivers to the sea," and men shall know him, and in knowing him shall love him and keep his commandments. This reconciles me to my offering of my son. This will reconcile you fathers and mothers to the offering of your sons; that through them we show our love for mankind, our love for the principles of truth, and that we would reclaim them from their madness and establish peace upon the earth, that the Son of man himself may come to rule and reign, which God grant shall be speedily, I ask in the name of Christ Jesus. Amen. 
