18
Afternoon
06 04 1918
President Heber J. Grant 
10
69-71

None

Presented the auditors' report which was unanimously approved; the names of the General Authorities of the Church which were unanimously voted upon and sustained as follows, including also the Trustees of the Brigham Young University:  
  
AUDITORS' REPORT  
  
President Heber J. Grant stated: "The auditors have made a very voluminous report. This is only a brief one. The entire report is on file With the Presidency of the Church."  
  
Salt Lake City, Utah. April 5, 1918.  
  
Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, C. W. Penrose, First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
 
Dear Brethren: We the undersigned Auditing Committee of the Church beg leave to report that, having examined the books and accounts of the Presiding Bishop's Office, as well as those of the Trustee-in-Trust, we have found them in excellent shape and the various items of receipts and expenditures clearly expressed and correctly entered in the books. And it is our pleasure to say that the methods of bookkeeping employed meet with our approval. We also desire to commend the voluminous, interesting, and useful collection of vital and other statistics of the Church by the Presiding Bishop's Office. The value of these statistics can scarcely be estimated.  
  
Very truly, your brethren, W. W. Riter, John C. Cutler, Henry H. Rolapp, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston.  
  
GENERAL AUTHORITIES  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Heber J. Grant, as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards and Richard R. Lyman.  
  
Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church.  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young.  
  
Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his First and Second Counselors.  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder.  
  
Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, Assistant Historians.  
  
As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Joseph F. Smith, Jr.  
  
Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education.  
  
Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools.  
  
Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen and Guy C. Wilson.  
  
Auditing Committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Peter G. Johnston.  
  
Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign and B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductors; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; and all the Members  
  
Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of the Conference.  
  
TRUSTEES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY  
  
The Articles of Incorporation of the Brigham Young University requires that the Trustees of said institution shall be presented to the General Conference of the Church triennially, and, in acordance with that requirement, we present the following named persons as Trustees of the Brigham Young University: Joseph F. Smith, Jesse Knight, Wilson H. Dusenberry, Susa Young Gates, Reed Smoot, Lafayette Holbrook, Stephen L. Chipman, Richard W. Young, Joseph R. Murdock, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Joseph Reece, Zina Y. Card.  
