20
Morning 
07 04 1918
Elder David O. McKay. 
18
77-81

None

The reality of Christ — Testimony of Peter and Paul and of Joseph Smith — What a change, if all the world would accept the teachings of Christ and his actual divine personality as the Son of God — The Latter-day Saints do so — Testimony of some of our boys who have gone to establish liberty in the world — An example — Individuals and nations must accept the truth that Jesus Christ is in reality the Son of God and be guided by his principles of everlasting truth and justice— The war a preparation for the spreading of the true plan of salvation.  
  
I sincerely hope and pray that I may be able to express whatever the Lord desires me to say this morning. If ever there was a time in my life when I needed his guidance and his support it is at this moment.  
  
I feel it an honor to be associated with men and women who believe in the reality of Christ, our Redeemer. I should like to express what I mean by that, and so shall call attention to two incidents in scripture — one, the experience of two of the ancient apostles, and the other the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The apostles one day after the death and resurrection of their Lord were preaching in the temple, and the Sadducees and officers came and arrested them, and put them in prison. The next day Peter and John were brought before the high priest, before Annas and before Caiphas, some of the very men who had been the means of crucifying the Lord. "And when they had set them in their midst they asked," (referring to the miracle which Peter and John had performed the day before by healing the impotent man at the gate,) "By what power or by what name have ye done this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them: Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day he examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he was made whole, be it known unto all and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner." And then, "neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved!"  
  
To Peter and to John on that occasion Christ, the Redeemer, was a reality. They had associated with him in the flesh, they had sat in his company, they had seen his miracles, they had listened to his divine teachings, they had stood by, John at least, when the Master was nailed to the cross. They had associated with him for approximately forty days after his resurrection from the tomb. And now clothed with the power which the Lord had given them they faced the very men who had crucified their Redeemer and said: "By him whom thou didst crucify is this man made whole." To them, Jesus was not an imaginary being; his life was not an idealism nor a mere mental conception. Christ, I repeat, was a reality. He was indeed the very Son of God, the divine Redeemer of the world.  
  
Now listen to another testimony and this within the age of few of the men — I wish there were many — who are here assembled today: "When the light rested upon me I saw two personages whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air, one of them speaking unto me, called me by name and said, pointing to the other: 'This is my beloved Son, hear him!' " The Prophet Joseph's object in going to the Lord on that occasion was to inquire of him which of all the sects professing to be followers of the Redeemer was right. This then was his answer: "I was answered that I must join none of them for they were all wrong. And the personage who addressed me said: that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight, that those professors were all corrupt, that they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They teach for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof."  
  
To him who accepts Jesus of Nazareth as the very Son of God, to him who believes with all his soul that Jesus lives today, that he can influence and that he does influence the world, to him, I say, who accepts that truth, Christ's teachings as well as his personality, become a reality. You can not profess to be truly a Christian and refuse to live up to the principles that Christ taught and obeyed.  
  
Now, why do we honor him today? Why does the world profess to honor him? First because he is the Son of God; and second because he was an ideal man. They accept him as one who was sinless before God, an exemplar to all the world. Then those who follow him should possess, at least strive every day of their lives to possess, those same characteristics, and approach, at least as near as weakness of mortality will permit, some of those qualities manifest by their Lord. Regarding the universality of the acceptance of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer, I read recently, in an excellent work in many respects, this statement: "The printing presses on both sides of the sea are flooding the world with books about the life and times of Jesus, and the result is he looms colossal before the eye's of the world. It is not simply the church that sees him. All men can see him now. He has broken out of ecclesiastical circles; he walks through all the cities and lands."  
  
O, if only that were true! If only that were true! What a different world we should have today from what it is! Do you think that if men everywhere saw Christ as the Prophet Joseph saw him — I do not mean physically now as he alone saw him, but if they will accept him as the Prophet Joseph has revealed him, having seen him, if they will accept him as John saw him and accepted him when he hurled into the face of Annas and Caiphas, the truth that "By his power whom thou didst crucify is this man made whole" — do you think that you would find in Christian communities the brothel ? Do you think that you would find other allurements that entrap the feet of the young and lead them from Christ? I ask you if the Christian who professed to be a Christian in reality believed in the doctrines and the teaching of the Redeemer as he gave them, should we have today the carnage, the bloodshed, the infamy that is now depopulating the Christian nations? I do not, I do not.  
  
I will tell you what I am inclined to think: That many who profess Christianity are accepting Christ as an ethereal being, and are inclined to look upon his teachings as impractical. They do not fully realize that before the world can be saved they must accept his teachings, they must walk in his paths as individuals and as nations, they must accept as a veritable truth his saying: "I am the light of the world."  
  
As individuals we should emulate him, then, because of his divine character. The professing Christians do not honor him, even with the honor they give him, because he was a great poet, because he was a great scientist, because he was a great discoverer, a great inventor or great statesmen or a great general. They honor him because he was a great man. In the realm of character he was supreme. In addition to all that. Latter-day Saints revere him because he was in reality the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. In thus accepting him we, as inviduals, must emulate his divine character, approach it as nearly as we can by keeping ourselves celan and unspotted from the sins of the world.  
  
I said I rejoice in associating with men and women who thus accept him; and it matters not where they go, they feel that they have a realization and a testimony of that truth which they would like all the world to accept and know.  
  
I rejoice in the knowledge that many of our boys who have gone out to establish liberty in the land possess that same testimony, and I am glad to get a glimpse, once in a while, of their efforts to bear that testimony to their soldier companions. I love these boys. I love the cause for which they are going to fight. I love the Nation they are called upon to defend and the principles of everlasting truth, so far as the liberty and freedom of mankind is concerned, for which it stands; and when I see these boys impressed with the testimony that Jesus Christ is their Savior and that he has appeared in this dispensation with the gospel which is the power of God unto, salvation, which is the science of life, the philosophy of true living, I thank God that they have a desire to influence their associates, and at least attempt to exert that influence to lead them to the same truth. Illustrative of this, and by way of commendation of a mother who has that same testimony, I wish to quote from a boy who met one of our boys in one of the cantonments. This boy from another state, Kentucky, I think, is writing to the "Mormon" boy's mother. The circumstances calling it forth may be inferred as I read. This young "Mormon" soldier is from Idaho. I chanced to meet him in Camp Morrison, Virginia, a few weeks ago, but he knows nothing about my having this letter:  
  
"I can not tell you how glad I was when I met Burgess for it seemed to me that I was alone as far as friends were concerned, for there was not any in this squadron that I could trust as a friend until he came. The first time I saw him I knew he was living for something higher, and as we were of the same type, of course, we became fast friends. I certainly felt bad when the time came for him to leave the field. He did so much for me that it was hard to part. I have been striving for a long time to make myself right with God, as I had fallen from grace and I felt that he could help me and he truly did. Of course it was hard for me to see just exactly as he did, but we just forgot for the time that we were of different faiths, and studied together and talked of and dug into spiritual things which I was so much in need of. He certainly showed his colors. And I wish that I was the young man that he is. I have been reading and studying the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants which he gave me, and I see things different than I ever did before, and I only wish that he was here with me for he would be such a help to me. I don't know how I can ever return what he has done for me, and also your kind words and advice which means more to me than I can tell. I need help so badly, as it seems to me that something is in the way, for I do not feel spiritually as I should. I would be so happy if I could be as full of the spirit as Burgess is and as I once was. I try to get hold of all the good reading that I can and try to get just as far from bad company as I can get. I heartily thank you for the little book Key to Theology. You are doing so much for me that I almost feel ashamed that I can not return it some way, but I hope that some day I can in some way."  
  
There is a mother in Idaho, her boy in Camp Morrison, or in France, the other boy in Kelly Field, and distances separating them, but that mother has the testimony that Jesus Christ is her Savior, she evidently knows that God has spoken in this age, and she desires to lead others to know the same truth. So she is teaching the soldier boys by letter, trying to cultivate the good seed sown by her young boy, who, though scarcely out of his teens, ''showed his colors" by testifying to his companions that Jesus Christ is in reality the Son of God, the Savior of the world.  
  
I will tell you, brethren, the time has come when not only individuals but nations must accept this truth. They must be guided in their national and international dealings by the principles of everlasting truth and justice. The nation that started the terrible war now raging, started it because it ignored the principles of Christ. The Savior's life was guided principally by two things; viz., Individual Purity and Service. He kept himself wholly unspotted from the sins of the world, and devoted his life to the consideration of others, to salvation for the human family. He was always looking out for the oppressed, comforting the sick, healing the maimed and disabled, giving his life for the world. So when a so-called Christian nation, or at least when a coterie of men, will meet together and decide months before the war breaks out, that a neighboring nation must be crushed in order that territory may be gained, I want to tell you that group of men, though professing, with their lips, at least, in Christ, do not believe in the principles he taught.  
  
I thank God that the United States upon entering the great conflict started out with the declaration, "we go to fight for the ultimate peace of the world and for the liberation of its peoples, including the German people. We are seeking no selfish purposes of our own, we desire no conquests, we seek no aggrandisement, we ask for no material compensation for the sacrifices we shall freely make; all we ask is that nations, great and small, shall enjoy the liberty and the freedom which God has given to the people of America." In that respect, at least, we are emulating the teachings of the Savior; and I see in it a preparation, as has been said time and again at this conference, for the spreading of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the true plan of salvation, the perfect law of liberty.  
  
May I say in conclusion, brethren, to you who hold the priesthood after the order of the Son of God, that a mighty responsibility is resting upon you; a great responsibility is resting upon the elders of Christ's Church, wherever they may be, to bear this testimony to the world that all who are honest in heart, and there are millions and millions of them. I think, who should have the privilege of hearing this gospel, may be brought to a knowledge of the truth.  
  
God hasten the day when "every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ." Amen. 
