26
Overflow
07 04 1918
Elder Joseph R. Murdock. 
84
100-103

None

None

(President of the Wasatch Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel with all my heart that the prayer which was offered at the opening of these services has been literally fulfilled, wherein Brother Pratt expressed the thought that we had met here to have our spiritual faith renewed, and to be strengthened in the gospel of Christ, I feel that that has been a condition that has existed on this occasion, and I believe it exists because those who are assembled here have asked of our Father in their hearts that it should be, and he has promised us from the earliest existence of this Church that those who ask shall receive, those who knock, it shall be opened unto them. He that lacketh wisdom, we learn from the testimony and the experience of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the words of James, Let him ask of God, who giveth liberally to all men, and it shall be given. And God has poured out his Spirit upon us in testimony and in prophecy upon this occasion, which must be truly gratifying to the heart of every Latter-day Saint who has listened to it. It has caused, no doubt, in many instances, our hearts to go out in sympathy for the sufferings of those throughout the world who have not, and whose parents have not, accepted the gospel, and for the tribulations and sorrow that come to them. It makes it even grievous for us to bear and consider. It reminds me of one of the sayings of the Savior, wherein he said: "How oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens, but ye would not." Is that not the testimony that could be borne by our elders who have gone into the south country (Mexico), as Brother Pratt has explained, and into the foreign countries across the sea, and preached to them the humble doctrine of Jesus Christ, of faith, repentance, humility, and of serving God and keeping his commandments? But through the pride of their hearts they have rejected the counsel of God against themselves, and now they suffer the consequences. Our hearts freely go out in sympathy for them, and if we could, we would do all that lies in our power to help them, and there is yet a chance to help them.  
  
The Savior, when he was asked by his disciples at Jerusalem, when he was speaking of the destruction of the temple and of his second coming, or what I think is termed the end of the world, said that such tribulations, speaking of his coming, shall be as never was before or never shall be. And do we not find that the testimony of all writers and historians, acquainted with the history of the world, is that such tribulations never did exist before as are existing at the present time? And where is the renedy ? The Lord has said that if it were not for the elect, no flesh would be saved, and if the Latter-day Saints are not the elect the doctrine which they preach is not the doctrine of Christ. They are nowhere else to be found upon the whole face of the earth; and if we are the elect, and for our sake, they may be saved of their sufferings. Is it not our duty in great faith and prayer to call upon God the eternal Father, that he will overrule the destinies of nations to the end that the righteous may be saved, that the sins of the fathers may not be extended many generations upon their children, and that their children may be saved from these terrible conditions existing almost throughout the whole world?  
  
And here is a mission for us, my brethren and sisters. It is for us to importune the Almighty in faith and in prayer for their sakes and for our own sake, that we may be the elect, that we may have power to approach our heavenly Father in great faith and humility.  
  
I am wondering, when I think of that, how can we approach the Almighty in faith, if we are disregarding his commandments, if we are still using a little tea and a little coffee, and a little alcoholic drinks, and other things which God has forbidden us to use? How can we approach him in behalf of suffering humanity, if we have not put ourselves aright before our Father in heaven? It seems to me that this duty devolves upon us, — the duty of charity and love,which should not begin in "Russia nor in Europe, nor in Mexico, but in our own hearts, in our own homes, with our brethren and sisters, with our wives and children. It seems to me that as Latter-day Saints, as the elect in these mountains, we are to put our hearts truly in shape. What would be the result if this whole Nation were to observe the commandments which the Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph? And thanks be to the Lord we have been trained as a people for nearly a hundred years, in all that our great and good government would ask us to do, trained in doing the great things which our great government has now discovered are the proper things that we should observe and do, even to the contributing of our means for the purchase of thrift stamps, Liberty bonds and for every other purpose.  
  
The Lord has trained us to contribute one-tenth of all we receive for humanity's sake, and if we have observed that doctrine well, and it has been truly implanted in our hearts, we will have very little trouble in adding on a little more along the same line, in addition to the payment of our tithes and our offerings.  
  
I am wondering, my brethren and sisters, if we are keeping our covenants with our Father in heaven, if we are mindful of the responsibilities which we took upon ourselves in the waters of baptism, to be true to God and to keep his commandments! I am wondering if we take the time upon the Sabbath day to attend to our sacrament meetings, and testify to our Father in heaven through partaking of the emblems of the flesh and blood of his Only Begotten Son at the communion table, or if we prefer to stay at home. Have we the desire to take upon us the name of Christ, and keep his commands, that his Spirit might be with us, that we might have faith when we call upon him in prayer that our prayers shall be answered?  
  
Brethren and sisters, we are the elect, we who are gathered as the people of the Lord. We heard yesterday where the voice of God would be heard; that it would be among his elect, and not in Germany. What a fallacy in the ideas expressed by the German emperor that he is the vicegerent of God! God is not so radically inconsistent! There is no comparison between God's work here upon the earth, and the life of the Savior, and that of the Kaiser. Christ gave his whole time while he dwelt among men for saving humanity, even the weak, the sick, the afflicted, the old and the young. He said "Suffer little children to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." That was the testimony of our Savior, in whose footsteps we are striving to follow. What a vast difference between that and the statement of the monster to his armies, to the effect: "Leave your mark when you go through the great cities, that you may strike terror to the inhabitants of the world, even to the extent of killing, crucifying women and children, soldiers, prisoners or any one, that terror may come into the hearts of the people! That the fear of the sword and of the aim of the Kaiser, (who falsely represents that he is a representative of the Almighty) might strike terror to the hearts of the people. Oh, what a difference from the spirit of the Savior, from the spirit of the Latter-day Saints, who have gone into the world and gathered out the humble, the poor, the meek and those who are seeking after God. What a difference! Even those who have not received a testimony of the gospel as we have, it seems to me must see and believe. When this great work is finished which God is permitting to level down the nations and to bring them into a condition that the gospel truths will find lodgment in their hearts, even those who have not yet had faith to understand the divinity of the Prophet Joseph's mission ought to be able to see, from the conditions which surround them, where God is.  
  
We are in the hands of the Almighty. It remains for you and for me to decide whether we will serve God or whether we will continue to satisfy the lusts of the flesh, our appetites and passions, disregarding the rights and the feelings of our brethren with whom we are associated; or whether we, like Joshua, will say in our hearts, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." We will go home in a few days from this conference. We will remember what we have heard, no doubt, but will we put it into practice? If we do, we may be counted the most loyal citizens in this great government, a fact that is being witnessed and testified to by almost every requirement that is made at our hands. We believe the truth, which is as old as the everlasting hills, as old as the stars in heaven, that it is the right of the people to have equal rights one with another. These are principles for which the battles in heaven were fought, that men might enjoy their own agency, and come back to our heavenly Father on account of the desires in their hearts to do so, and not because of the fear of the sword or the flame.  
  
May God's blessings abound with us, and may we teach these principles to our children, and to those who are among us that have not received the truth; that charity and love and peace may prevail, and the love of God may extend from ocean to ocean, and from one end of the earth to the other; that the time may speedily come which the Savior taught us to pray for, when he said, thy will may be done on the earth as it is done in heaven, is my prayed in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
