28
Outdoor
07 04 1918
Elder Charles A. Callis. 
3
105-107

None

None

(President of the Southern States Mission.) 

Brethren and Sisters: I am pleased that I am privileged to join with you in the worship of the Lord on these historic grounds. Many years ago, when members of the Church emigrated from England to Utah in quite large numbers, Charles Dickens went to see a ship-load of the emigrants. He admitted that he went to bear testimony against them, but when he observed the good order, discipline, religious fervor, the excellent manner in which they were organized as a company for the voyage, the great English author, in a published account of his visit said, "Some remarkable influence had produced a remarkable result which other organizations have not been able to accomplish." Like the man who went to meeting to scoff, but remained to pray, Dickens went to criticise, but remained to praise.  
  
When President Joseph F. Smith and his party visited the South, in November, 1914, the Mayor of Atlanta had a pleasant interview with them. The latter related to the President the favorable impressions he (the Mayor) received when he visited Utah. As he surveyed the great work done in the west by the "Mormon" people in reclaiming the desert, establishing communities devoted to industry, orderly and law-abiding, as he viewed the comfortable homes, the fine school buildings and churches, the Atlanta executive said that he could not help but feel that surely a power higher and greater than human power was with the "Mormon" people.  
  
You and I know what that "remarkable influence"is, brethren and sisters. It is the influence, the power of the gospel and the priesthood operating in our lives. "Now," said Jesus, "ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you." The resurrection does not cleanse the soul: it does not wash away sin: for the wicked shall come forth unto the resurrection of damnation. "But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light," said John, "we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin" (John 1:7). The precious, atoning blood of Jesus Christ is applied to our sins by and through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel. "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are: First, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third. Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost."  
  
God has given unto us the Holy Priesthood, but the power of the priesthood is not exercised in the spirit of compulsion or coercion: it is exercised in brotherly kindness and charity, persuasion, service. In answer to an inquiry concerning his great and good influence with his people, the Prophet Joseph is said to have replied: "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves."  
  
The Savior impressed upon his apostles the spirit of service. "Whosoever," he said, "will be great among you, let him be your minister; and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant; even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many" (Mathew 20:26-28). King Benjamin taught his people wisdom when he said: "Learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow-beings ye are only in the service of your God" ( Mosiah 2:17). Your sons, husbands and brothers on the bloody battlefields in France are in the service of their fellow-beings, and therefore in the service of their God. "The cause of human liberty," said the Prophet Joseph Smith, "is the cause of God." What a noble and sublime thought! We hold that Joseph Smith was one of the foremost exponents and champions of human liberty. Our soldier boys are fighting for the cause of human liberty. They are battling for a cause which God looks upon and approves.  
  
We gather strength and comfort, my brethren and sisters, in contemplating the life of our Savior and the spirit in which he worked. He was "touched with the feeling of our infirmities," said Paul. The same apostle said that our Lord"was sent into the world that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man." He is the captain of our salvation "made perfect through suffering." "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." We are perfected through suffering and fitted for entrance into eternal life. The man who has not suffered and sacrificed for the right has not accomplished much for the uplift of humanity.  
  
Jesus "was in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin." Not to yield to temptation, but to resist and overcome it is a glorious victory. We are prone to think that we have temptations and struggles which others have not, but Paul says: "There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will riot suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but with the temptations also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it" (I. Cor. 10: 13).  
  
We grow great in giving. It is not what we receive which makes us great, but it is that which we give that secures greatness. The Latter-day Saints are a great people because they have sacrificed and given for the benefit of their fellow-beings. They send their sons and daughters to preach the restored gospel in the world; they pay their tithing to build temples and meeting-houses, seeking always to build up the kingdom of God. The mission of the Church is to preach the gospel as a witness unto all nations, to prepare a people for the glorious second coming of the Lord. This is our message, "Forget me, if you choose, but I plead with you not to forget the message we bring unto you." I invite you, my fellow-beings, who are not in the Church "to come and be baptized unto repentance, that ye also may be partakers of the fruit of the tree of life."  
  
Before this Nation entered the world war, it was regarded by many across the water chiefly as a big, rich, commercial nation. But today this mighty Republic is great in the hearts of the people of the nations of the earth. America is filling her Godgiven mission by carrying (to mankind the gospel of freedom, the pearl of human liberty. The heart of the President of the Church beats true and in sympathy with the hopes and aspirations of his fellow-men to enjoy the rights and principles which God has given them for their heritage and for their happiness and protection. Every one of us is called upon to make sacrifices. The Lord loveth a cheerful giver. Let us give comfort and strength to our country by purchasing Liberty Bonds, thrift stamps, and we will be blessed of the Lord for doing this. I bear my testimony to the truth of the gospel, the power of God unto salvation, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 