32
Outdoor
07 04 1918
Elder Rulon S. Wells.
44
114-115

None

None 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

By brethren and sisters: You have had the privilege of hearing fron men whom God has chosen in this dispensation to represent a number of the stakes of Zion, and also a voice from the mission field. I think that you must have been impressed as I have been impressed, that all is well with Zion when such men with such testimonies are in the lead and guiding and directing the affairs of this Church. I rejoice this morning in the testimonies which we have heard, in the work that is being done, for I know that it is indeed the work of God. I know, too, that the work of God is one that harmonizes with the spirit of human liberty, as was stated by the first speaker here.  
  
What are the things that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ stands for? It is to make men free, not free only by having possession of their civil rights, but to make them free indeed, free from that terrible bondage which is the bondage of sin — for we know that the whole world lieth in sin and under the bondage of sin. And the truth that has been revealed from heaven will make men free. And it is that truth that is being promulgated and proclaimed to all the world through the agency of the priesthood to which also reference has been made. The men whom you have heard form a part of that, and are the instruments in the hands of God of carrying this message to the world, that our Father's children may be made free from the sins of the world. And the gospel is the power of God unto salvation, because it wages war on sin and undertakes to relieve our Father's children of the consequences of that sin.  
  
This government of which we form a part has been established for the same purpose, that men and women might be free, and that is the reason we say that the Constitution of this land was inspired of God for the same purpose, that we might have meted out to us a measure of civil liberty. That is what we are enjoying in this country, and we are willing to extend it to all of our Father's children, wherever they dwell. We read in the Declaration of Independence that all men are created equal, and that they are possessed with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This is what the gospel stands for. Right to live upon the earth is the boon from heaven, which emanates from God, the privilege of living upon the earth. That is life, but what is life without liberty? Our great patriot, Patrick Henry, said, "Give me liberty, or give me death." That is what we feel in regard to this system of human liberty and freedom. These things may not be valued by those who understand them not, they think it is a trifling thing, but to us these are precious gifts worthy of offering our lives and sending our boys out into the mission field for. Then let our hearts go out with them and let us be willing to do our part to sustain them, to provide them with the necessaries, and let us contribute of our means.  
  
We are called upon to contribute to the Third Liberty Loan, and there are some with plenty of means who are loath to lend to the Government. Let me tell you, my brethren and sisters, every one of us, the time will come when we must give all that we are able to get (or at least loan it). Which would you sooner do? Lend it to the United States Government, that has been established by the inspiration of God that men might be free, or pay it in tribute to the German government without getting any interest on it, that you might be brought into servitude? Which would you do? One or the other will come to us, you may be sure. Let us then be loyal American citizens, and contribute freely to this Liberty Loan by subscribing to the bonds of this government that holds up the banner of liberty to all the world, the precious thing that the gospel stands for. May the Lord help us to appreciate it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 