36
Second Overflow
07 04 1918
Elder Edward C. Rich.
193
124-126

None

None

(President of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion who was introduced by President J. G. Kimball as a son of Joseph C. Rich, and a grandson of the late Elder Charles C. Rich, of the Council of Twelve.) 

I trust that the Lord will bless me while I stand before you. I rejoiced in listening to the opening song, "America." It made me feel proud that I am an American, the citizen of a country which stands for all that is good in a governmental way, — for right, justice, and liberty, and these principles will extend from this government to all the world.  
  
I am also proud that I am a member of this Church, the Church of Christ, and partaker of the obligations that have been placed upon this Church by the Lord. To know the way in which these obligations have been carried out makes me feel proud of my calling and of my Church and people. Jesus said, this gospel shall be preached as a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. From the very beginning the Church has sensed the obligations resting upon it. They have sent missionaries to every land and clime, both in their poverty and in their prosperity. They have faithfully observed this admonition of the Lord.  
  
I am thankful to have had the opportunity of raising my voice in defense of the principles of the gospel, both upon the streets and in the assemblies of this land, and also in foreign lands. I feel that the Lord has blessed us, and if we are faithful he will continue to bless us. But if we neglect to observe what has been commanded us to do, we shall suffer for that. It means that each one of us is given responsibilities. Certain thing's we must perform. We must preach this gospel to the world, not only by precept but by example. There is something for those who are left at home to accomplish. We can preach the gospel by living up to its principles and its precepts. These will sanctify the earth. Jesus said, no man can see the kingdom of God unless he is born again, of the water and of the spirit. It matters not what we may think; we must abide by these teachings. We must receive a birth of the water and of the spirit in order to enter into the kingdom of heaven. And if it is necessary for us, it is necessary for every creature to comply with this statement of Jesus, and with the obligations which he placed upon his twelve apostles. After he had been crucified and risen from the dead, and associated with them for forty days, the last commission he gave them was to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature; he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned.  
  
These requirements rest upon this Church today, as it has ever rested upon the Church: to proclaim faith in God, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and confirmation into the Church and the reception of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. These are some of the observances and principles of the gospel necessary for each one of us to receive in order to be saved in the kingdom of God. As we hope for that salvation, it is necessary also that all other people must accept the same conditions. They must receive the same principles that we observe. Not only is it necessary that we comply with these principles, but it is also necessary that we follow Jesus even as he required of the rich man who came to him and asked him what it was necessary for him to do to be saved. He told him to go and sell all that he had, and give it to the poor, and come, follow him. We think sometimes we are absolved from serving the Lord. We think sometimes that we have accomplished all that is necessary for our salvation, but there will never be a time while we live upon the earth that we are not required to do something. We must add to our faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge, patience, and to patience godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness.  
  
We must add to our lives these saving principles of the gospel, and observe them, and then teach them to our fellows. These are a few obligations that rest upon us as members of the Church. The nations of the earth must hear them and receive them, or be condemned by them. When the disciples of Jesus asked him, Master, are there few that be saved? he said, Enter into the straight gate, for many shall try and not be able. I wonder why it is if they are desirous of entering the kingdom of God that they will not be able to do so. If in our hearts we feel that the blessings of the Lord shall come to us, and we desire them with all of our hearts, I feel that they will come to us. To my mind, the reason they will not enter in is because they will not live up to the requirements of the gospel.  
  
I don't believe that we can make any sacrifice for life eternal. Some of our seeming sacrifices are only privileges that come to us. The calls that come to us to perform missions, — are they not glorious privileges to us, and not sacrifices? And so in our work at home. And if we are faithful and true, the Lord will bless us because of our fidelity to the truth, because we love him by keeping his commandments. And that is the only way that we can show our love to our Creator. He says, if ye love me keep my commandments.  
  
I pray that the blessings of the Lord may attend the Latter-day Saints wherever they may be. Every part of my being testifies to me of the truth of this gospel. I am proud that my father and mother were members of this Church, and taught the gospel to me, and that my grandfather and grandmother were members of this Church, and that they were not afraid of the hardships incident to the settlement of this state. I am proud of these facts, and I want to maintain their good name in the earth. I don't know how it can be done better than by keeping the commandments of God, by serving him, and accepting the principles of the gospel that our fathers gave, and for which they suffered so much.  
  
I will conclude by quoting the sayings of our Savior: "Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock; and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was built upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand; and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall thereof."  
  
I pray that those of us who have received the gospel will maintain it all our lives, by our actions and by all that we have. I don't know of any Church in the world that demands so much from its members as does this Church, in time, means and talents. On the other hand, there is no Church in the world that gives so much in return as does this Church. It gives us joy and happiness here, and eternal life in the world to come.  
  
I pray that these blessings may be for each and every one of us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 