41
Second Overflow
07 04 1918
Elder J. Golden Kimball.
14
132-134

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.)  
  
This is the first time in twenty-five years of missionary service that I have been honored to preside at a public meeting connected with the Semi-annual Conference of the Church, and I would like to preside with a good deal of dignity, and have tried to do so.  
  
I am a little nervous when given an opportunity to speak, knowing that what I say will be taken down by a stenographer, and when my discourse is written in cold type, it doesn't read well or sound good to me, as it has but little spirit, and no feeling in it. I am now speaking of my discourses.  
  
My most fervent desire is to speak of what I know and how I feel, but it's a great fight to be able to express your real feelings. I am looking ahead, and worrying about some things that are useless and a waste of energy. At times I am exercised about death and the hereafter, but as Charles Frohman phrased it, under spiritual enthusiasm, "Why fear death? it is the most beautiful adventure of life." I would like to die, if I can, without fear, in fact, die like a Roman.  
  
My purpose is not to discourse on wonderful things, that I have achieved and experienced, but my wish and desire is to reach the hearts of men. I only wish I was better understood; but unless men are of my temperament and see things as I see them, with a moving picture mind, they can not comprehend things in the way I do.  
  
I may not stand blameless before God at the last day, but I am not afraid to meet my God and be judged by the Lord as to my desires, efforts and works. I understand the gospel of Jesus Christ well enough to know that God is perfect and deals out justice and mercy to his children; Jesus Christ is the door to the sheep-fold, and with all my many imperfections and weaknesses, if I am invited by the Master to come in at the door, all men who try to block my way will get run over and pushed aside.  
  
I do not trust in man, but I honor and respect men who hold the Priesthood of God. I haven't given my life for this work, but have shown forth a willingness to place the little I have on the altar. I haven't been called, nor asked to do anything, that I have not responded. No appointment has been given me that I have not filled, in my way, and to the best of my ability.  
  
I can do anything I am set apart to do, if I have the spirit of my appointment and am humble and prayerful.  
  
I know the sick are healed through the laying on of hands, as well as any man in all Israel, as I have witnessed the healing of the sick. I know we have the spirit of prophecy, for I have tried it out, and it works all right, if you get the spirit of prophecy. This work is true. This is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but when you so testify it ought to be done by the spirit of prophecy and revelation.  
  
As far as the Government of the United States is concerned, I feel somewhat like General Pershing did when he offered to the Allied nations the army of the United States. We parents give to our country our sons just as gladly and freely to enter into this great struggle for justice and liberty for humanity.  
  
If you can grasp my meaning you will know exactly how I feel towards the Church and the Priesthood. The Lord knows I love the Church, her people, and my Country, and. I have no fear that the Lord cannot overrule and overturn nations and people, until they shall repent and serve him. The Lord has taken care of me, and I have learned to trust him, as he is a good Master, and he is full of mercy, justice, kindness and love.  
  
I feel to say, "God save the people, not kings, but the people." If I had written that poetry, I would have said, "God save the people" — and to with the kings, but as I didn't write it, will refrain from saying it.  
  
Brethren and sisters, this work is true, for I have worked and labored in it until I know of its truth: I am now going to ask you a few questions: "Do you know of anything in all this beautiful world that is more important than human life?" You don't, do you? I will ask the same question in another way: "Do you know of anything in all this great universe that is dearer to the Father than a human soul?" You don't, do you? Of course, you don't, as the Lord said in the Doctrine and Covenants, "And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring save it be one soul unto me, how great will be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father."  
 
To be saved in the kingdom of God is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation. Then "soul hunting" is of far greater importance than spending one's life in money seeking, and the accumulation of wealth. I can see that the things of God must be made more interesting than the things of the world; that the things of God must be better advertised than the material things of the world.  
  
I almost forgot the one thing I desired to say, and that is: God bless the choir, the singers and musicians. I know as well as I know anything that the Lord will bless Brother Evan Stephens; and as a servant of the Lord, I promise him he shall have the Holy Spirit to comfort and console him, and he shall not be lonely or desolate among this people. God bless all these sweet singers he is training. Little do you people know what it costs in time, effort, and study, to acquire the art to sing; if we as a people put forth a tithe of the effort they do to sing, in studying the word of God, we would be the most intelligent people in all the world. The Lord bless you. Amen. 