44
Second Outdoor
07 04 1918
Elder Orvil S. Thompson. 
194
144-147

None

None

(President of Millard Stake of Zion.) 

My brethren and sisters: I am overwhelmed with the sense of the responsibility of this moment. I think I have never before been so thoroughly impressed with the responsibility that attaches to an elder of the Church in occupying this position, as I have been during the sessions of this conference. The thought has come to me that here are men and women who have traveled great distances, from Canada, Arizona, Mexico, Idaho, our surrounding states, and from the furthermost points in our own state,who have come up here to be instructed. And how brief and how precious is the time in which to recieve the many instructions given! So, I pray, my brethren and sisters, and ask your faith and support, that the time I have been allotted shall not be wasted, but that the Lord shall inspire that which I may be led to say.  
  
I wish to express my approval, my hearty approval, of the spirit and business action taken in this conference from the beginning until this moment. I want to express my approval of the selection; of the man who has been called to fill the vacancy in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, caused by the death of Elder Hyrum M. Smith. I have known Richard Lyman! for many years. I bear record of his virtues, of the uprightness of his life, and of his ability. I see in him a worthy son of an illustrious sire, worthy to carry on the splendid work left by his father. Since the death of Elder Smith, questions have come to me frequently, "Who do you suppo.se will be the new apostle?" It is a natural curiosity that comes into our minds on these occasions. But in answer to that, universally I have said, "It is not my business to choose, not my business to select, not my business to nominate — it is only my business to be in a position of faith and confidence in regard to the leaders of my Church, that shall lead me to sustain and support any one who shall be selected under the inspiration of the Lord, through his servants whose duty and privilege it is to nominate to these important positions.  
  
That faith and confidence and devotion which I desire to show to the authorities of the Church I extend also in a very large measure to the authorities of our Nation in this hour of our national crisis, that I shall not destroy their influence by destructive criticism, but rather that I may help them if possible, by my helpful work and sympathy.  
  
I rejoice in the testimonies of the conference, in the splendid instructions, at the opening session, by President Joseph F. Smith; and I have thought that if the Latter-day Saints had obeyed the instructions that were given in the early days of the Church, in the conservation of their resources and in the patronizing of home institutions inaugurated for the manufacture of the things necessary for the support and comfort of the people, that we would indeed be in a splendid condition at this day and time, and the necessity of teaching conservation and supporting home industry would hardly be necessary among this people.  
  
I thought of the splendid work in the past of the Relief Society, of the thousands and thousands of bushels of grain stored in the granaries of our people by the officers and members of that organization — of the instructions given by President Brigham Young and with what enthusiasm his counsel was taken up in the early days of the Church by the sisters. But we went along in a kind of a haphazard easy-going way, the necessity for that grain in the future seemed to grow more distant, we lost interest, the wheat was sold, the money invested in other things. The thought came to us that with the increased means of transportation, with our immense resources of land and water, there never could come a time again when men and women would suffer for the necessities of life, for the staff of life, the bread necessary for the support of the body.  
  
We took up with the idea of the world, as announced just previous to the outbreak of the great war by a great educator, even within the walls of our Tabernacle, that a great international war for the future was an impossibility, because men had become too intelligent, the financial magnates of the earth would not finance another great struggle, and we might never expect to be engaged in another great conflict. But the Lord had declared that the people would be chastened, and one of the means of chastening was through the effects of war. And it has come — and the benefits of those early teachings are now more apparent to us than they have ever been in the history of this people.  
  
I rejoice in the testimony of Elder Melvin J. Ballard in regard to the condition of our soldier boys located in the cantonments of our country. The United States Government issues daily an official bulletin, which contains a descriptions of the orders and activities of those located at the seat of the Government. One of the items which I usually read with interest each week, in this official bulletin, is the health conditions of our soldier boys in the cantonments in the United States; and the particular feature that I have paid attention and interest to is that which refers to the moral condition of our young men who are in training for the defense of our country. There is a list given of the various diseases and ailments which drive men into the hospitals each week — so many cases of pneumonia, so many cases of scarlet fever, so many cases of other diseases which affliict our boys — and among these, so many that enter the hospital on account of breaking of the laws of purity and virtue, an average perhaps of from 1200 to 1500 of the latter class within the cantonments of the United States each week. I have taken occasion to notice the comparison as between Camp Kearny and American Lake and other cantonments throughout the country, as they compare with the entrance into the hospital from these causes; and I rejoice to say that in these places where the men are assembled from these intermountain states and where the "Mormon" boys come from chiefly, that we find the lowest percentage of those who go into the hospitals from the breaking of the laws of virtue and personal morality. It is a testimony to me that the teachings of the parents have had effect in the lives of our young men, and that they have carried the principles of virtue and honesty and uprightness and honor into the service of their country. I rejoice that this is true.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I have confidence and faith in the young men of Zion. I think they will not be recreant to the responsibility and obligations that are upon them, they will not bring disgrace upon their parents many of whom have come from foreign lands and established themselves in the tops of these mountains, and have taught correct principles to their children. I would be a despicable character indeed were I recreant to the name of my honest old Scotch grandfather, the only one of a large family who was touched by the influence of the spirit of the gospel, who left his home and friends and family, all that he had, for the gospel's sake, and came to this country. I would indeed be a despicable character if I should be recreant to the memory of my grand-mother, who came from the highlands of Scotland, and whose body was left in one of the temporary abiding places of the Saints, in their journey to this land. I would be a despicable character indeed if I should be recreant to the sacrifice made by my grand-father and my grand-mother in laying the foundation so that I might live here in peace and plenty, enjoying the society of the servants of God. As President Smith delivered that splendid testimony that here within these mountain fastnesses is the power and authority to act in the name of God, my soul was thrilled with the truth of his testimony, and I repeat it, and bear it unto you at this time, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 