46
Second Outdoor
07 04 1918
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
149-151

None

None

(Of the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City) 

My brethren and sisters and friends; this ,of course, as has been remarked by the other speakers, is a very inspiring sight; and it occured to me while I was sitting here that if we could remember half we have heard, and put into practice even a tithe of the counsel and instruction given, that we had been amply paid for attending this conference. I rejoice in the good work. I rejoice with you, who are one with me in the same faith, in the instructions that we have recieved. And yet, it occurs to me that possibly in this vast audience there may be some who are strangers to our teachings, who understand not the doctrines as taught by us, who have not received into their hearts the testimonies borne by our elders.  
  
It is my province to be here daily, meeting strangers who are not of our faith. I often think, no matter how large the congregation, there are some of that class amongst us; and it may be there are some right here. We distribute our literature very freely to them. We hand out our tracts, sell them the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price. What effect it has upon them we little know. We are casting bread upon the waters, and we have the utmost faith in the truth that it will be seen after many days.  
  
A few days ago, however, I received a letter from the Northwest, which I refer to my friend, President Ballard, who goes back there. Some of our friends who have been here have scattered the literature abroad, and I am going to take the liberty, therefore of reading this letter to show the effect that it may have upon some. After saying that the letter is from so-and-so, and giving the address — giving the number and the street and the town — the letter commences, "We do not want any more of your tracts. The Holy Ghost dwells in this home, and we have no room for the doctrine of men and devils. We believe in a real communion with the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Praise the Lord!"  
  
Now, I suppose to the Latter-day Saints who are here, that that appears very foolish. I want to appeal, however, to Saint and sinner who have been here this afternoon :Have you heard the doctrine of men and devils in this meeting? I appeal to those who have had our literature, who have read our tracts, who have sought to understand why we believe in God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ and in the Holy Ghost, you who have known that the "Mormons" believe in faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, the priesthood that exists amongst us, men having recieved authority to minister in the things of God, holding the Aaronic or the Melchizedek priesthood, laying hands upon the sick that they may recover, sending their Sons and daughters into all parts of the world to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ — in all of this, have you detected any of the doctrines of men and devils ?  
  
But I appeal to you with regard to one statement in the letter that I have referred to: "We believe in the real communion with God the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost." I make the declaration here, and every Latter-day Saint can say amen to it, that nowhere upon the face of God's earth is there a people who have had more communing with the Father, with the Son, with the Holy Ghost than the Latter-day Saints. What does the man want? What does the world want more than it has already received? We declare in all soberness that in this day God has given to us a prophet,Joseph Smith. We declare that when but a boy he went out into the woods to pray, and that he recieved a revelation from God. The Father appeared unto him, Jesus Christ appeared unto him, they talked with him. Can any man have a more real communion with God than that? We believe that God has manifested himself to his prophet, that through that prophet he has given unto us the authority, and that through his labors we have recieved the Church of God.  
  
Now then, in this conference, from the begining, on Friday morning, up to the present time, have you received anything that is calculated to inspire you to go on with the work of God? I have felt the very blood in my veins tingling as I listened to the prophets of God. I have vowed more fervently before God that I would live nearer to him, that I would endeaver to keep his commandments, that my life should be a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. These are the feelings that we have had in our meetings, you have had them. Now, what are we going to do? This conference is nearly over. You are going to the various wards and stakes of Zion, and in going there, I exhort you, my brethren, sustain the brethren who have given you these instructions, let your hands be raised, let your hearts send forth prayers, that God will bless all Israel. I think we have a splendid example in Holy Writ. Let me refer to it.  
 
There was a time in the days of ancient Israel when they had struggles just as we are having now. The time was when all Israel had to go forth to battle. You are familiar, no doubt, with the travels of Israel toward the promised land. I draw your attention to Just one story. When in the midst of their affliction, when they were beset by enemies, when they were going out through the lands of the heathens, Moses, the leader of Israel, said to his commander in chief, who was going out to battle, "Joshua, choose out men, go out, fight with the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand." And Joshua went out to fight, and Moses went up onto the hill, and it came to pass that as the hands of Moses got weary and began to lower, on account of his age, and on account of the time, that the Amalekites prevailed over Israel; but Aaron and Hur came to his side. They placed a rock for him to sit upon, one on each side, they held up his arms, and as long as those arms were extended to heaven, Israel prevailed, the heathen were destroyed, and those hands were raised until the going down of the sun, and victory came to them.  
  
I have only one thought in this — when you go to your homes, when we all go to our homes, let us get upon our knees. "Not to your tents, O Israel: to your knees, O Israel!" With one voice raise your hands to heavens and pray that God will sustain the president of this Church, the apostles who are with him, all who are laboring to build up Zion, and let us feel, with one heart with one mind, that we are maintaining them in their position as prophets, seers, and revelators. Go to our homes, yes, and pray that God will bless the President of this Nation, the Cabinet, all who are endeavoring to maintain this struggle for freedom! To our homes, yes, and upon our knees pray that God will bless our boys, to guide them in their struggles, and send them home again! God bless you. Amen. 