48
Afternoon
07 04 1918
Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 
37
155-159

None

None

Blessings and advantages of the gospel — Tunning to God because of the war — Are the people observing his commandments? — Restrictions and conservation are means of teaching righteousness — Is this means being taken advantage of? — A warning voice to the Latter-day Saints — The office and calling of prophets and teachers.  
  
I have but one desire this afternoon and that is to add my testimony to the testimonies that have already been given at the sessions of this conference, to the truth of this great latter-day work, and to testify that I know, as my brethren who have spoken have testified, that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God who was called, raised up and filled with the Spirit of the Lord that he might establish in the world the truth of the everlasting- gospel which for so many hundreds of years had been absent from the earth, because of the transgressions of the people. It was the purpose of the Lord in calling Joseph Smith to warn the people, to call them unto repentance, and bring them into the fold, if they would come, where they could obtain all the necessary privileges, blessings and advantages belonging to the gospel before the great and dreadful day of the Lord should come. The Lord has always raised up prophets when prophets were needed, to teach the people, warn them of threatened dangers and give them the knowledge, through repentance, by which they might escape. It became necessary therefore in the dispensation of the fulness of time and before the coming of the Son of God, for the gospel to be restored, the nations of the earth to be warned, and every man to have the privilege of accepting the truth or rejecting it.  
  
Permit me to read a few passages of scripture from a revelation that was given over eighty-six years ago, a revelation that was given to the world for the benefit of all the, children of our Father in heaven. I read from the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants where the Lord says:  
  
Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say, hearken, ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together.  
  
For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape, and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated.  
  
And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed.  
  
And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.  
  
And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them.   
We learn from the very first verse which I have read that this warning is primarily to the members of the Church. The Church had only been organized a little more than a year and a half, for this revelation was given on the first day of November, in the year 1831. The Lord speaks first unto his people and says unto them, "Hearken, O ye people of my church." Then he goes on to tell what shall befall the nations of the earth, all peoples, every kinderd and tongue, provided they reject the testimony of his servants; and this warning is not only unto the Latter-day Saints, the members of the Church, but unto all the world, but I say first, unto the members of the Church, because we have come out of the world and have made covenant in the waters of baptism that we will ,serve the Lord and keep his commandments. I wonder after the passing of eighty-six years and upwards if there is not room even in Zion for repentance.  
  
I was very pleased to hear one of our mission presidents declare that from his observation he could report that the people within the borders of these United States, because of the troubles now coming upon the earth, were turning unto God. It was very pleasing to me to know that their hearts are being touched. While he spoke I wondered if our hearts are being touched as they should be, and if we are repenting of our transgressions, our follies, our imperfections, and if we are putting forth a greater effort to serve the Lord now than ever before? If not, then let me say to you who are here assembled, and I pray you to carry the word to those who are not here assembled who belong to the Church, that it is the will of the Lord that his people hearken unto this commandment from which I have read and from which I expect to read still more, and observe and obey all his commandments.  
  
Are we observing the Word of Wisdom? Are we abstaining from the use of those things forbidden of the Lord which are injurious to our health? Are we faithful in the discharge of our duties as members of the Church, in the attendance at meetings, both priesthood and sacramental, and all other meetings which it is our privilege and duty to attend? Are we true and faithful to the law of tithing as it has been given unto us, and which is, if you please, a preparatory doctrine, given as a schoolmaster to lead us unto the higher law, or are we neglectful of our opportunities in this regard? Are we faithful in remembering our prayers before the Lord day by day, not only our secret prayers, but our prayers in family organization, in the family circle? Are we in possession of the spirit of prayer? Have we made it a part of our very being? Are we in touch with our heavenly Father through the Holy Spirit, or are we not? And so I could go on and enumerate other principles of the gospel and other duties, if time would permit, but this will suffice. The thing I want to impress upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints is this: that perilous times have come. As we heard in the singing of the choir, the tares and the wheat are growing together and have been growing in the same field for all these years, but the day is near at hand when the wheat will be garnered, and the tares likewise will be gathered to be burned, and there will come a separation, the righteous from the wicked, and it behooves each one of us to keep the commandments of the Lord, to repent of our sins, to turn unto righteousness, if there is need of repentance in our hearts.  
  
Now, let me read again a verse which I have already read:  
  
And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed.  
  
And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.  
  
Now again:  
  
Wherefore, the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear:  
  
Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh;  
  
And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth;  
  
And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people.  
  
Now, that is the word of the Lord. This declaration is not mine, but I declare it unto you in words of soberness as being the truth which will prevail, and there is reason for us to seek the Lord and be more sober in our minds and in our actions than we have m the past.  
  
Again, I was thinking when our brother spoke of the condition in the world wherein the people are becoming more humble than they were before the breaking out of the war, and I wondered if they are turning from their Sabbath breaking — their excess of pleasure seeking on the Lord's day? I thought that this Government of ours is overlooking one of its most important duties in this hour of conservation, wherein they are restricting us, necessarily, perhaps, in what we shall eat, in what we shall wear; restricting the railroads in their transportation, the merchants in that which they shall buy and sell; and when they are taking charge of various other branches of industry. It struck me that they are overlooking one of the most important things that ought to be considered by the leaders of the Nation for the purpose of bringing to pass righteous peace and a successful ending of the war. That is they have forgotten or have overlooked their opportunity to restrict the people in their amusements and their Sabbath breaking, and teach them righteousness. Oh, what an opportunity there is, in all this restriction and conservation, to conserve faithfulness and humility before the Lord, if they would only require of the people to do so; but as we find, on the Sabbath day, which has been set apart by the Lord our God as a day on which we should worship him, the theatres, the places of amusement and recreation throughout this land from one end to the other, are filled and overflowing. The people are seeking pleasure, and there is still room for a great repentance. The Lord would be more inclined to hear the cries of the people of this land and aid them in the present awful struggle, if they would repent and worship him. But all this has been overlooked!  
  
I want to raise the warning voice to the Latter-day Saints and say to them that it is the will of the Lord, and I think I dare say so, that they should be more sober-minded as well as industrious, and should spend more time and give more attention to the things of the kingdom of God and less to the things of the world and the seeking of pleasure in this hour of trouble. Before we are through I fear we will be sobered.  
  
Now, I will read again:  
  
Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven;  
  
And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received, for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts.  
  
And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh,  
  
For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion;  
  
Remember this revelation was given over eighty-six years ago; again:  
  
And also the Lord, shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world.  
  
Search these commandments for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.  
  
What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself: and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same.  
  
Now, just another passage from this same section:  
  
Wherefore I, the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;  
  
And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets;  
  
The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man shall not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh,  
  
But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;  
  
That faith also might increase in the earth."  
  
The Lord called Joseph Smith, and gave unto him his mission, and those who were associated with him, to teach the world the principles of the gospel. The Lord has declared, as I have read it to you here, that if the people refuse to hear the voice of his servants, and the prophets, they shall be cut off from among the people.  
  
Well now, who is a prophet? The world has a very peculiar notion of what a prophet is. They think that the whole duty of a prophet is merely to foretell what is going to take place, that prophecy is the relating of future events, but that is only one of the duties of a prophet. I am reminded of a circumstance that took place in Israel in the days of Moses when he and seventy of the elders went unto the tabernacle to converse with the Lord and they prophesied. Two of the elders who were not with the others but remained in the camp, also received the spirit of prophecy, and uttered predictions and preached the truth without a doubt. Joshua — a man who himself was filled with wisdom, when the Lord through Moses called him to be the leader of the people — seeing that these men were prophesying, complained to Moses and demanded that he stop them. Moses' reply was: "Enviest thou for my sake?" Would God that all the Lord's people were prophets, and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them!" Then I read again in the nineteenth chapter of the book of Revelation, in that same passage of scripture that was referred to by Brother Ivins this morning, where the angel of the Lord declared to John that the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy; and the Prophet Joseph Smith has declared that every man who has come into this Church; and every woman, for that matter, who has received the testimony of the Spirit of the Lord, is a prophet or a prophetess; that every man should be a prophet, because every man in the Church should have the testimony of Jesus which is the spirit of prophecy; and he should declare the truth, teach the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, call upon the people to repent of their sins, and instruct them in the things of the kingdom. This is the duty of a prophet and constitutes the office and calling of a prophet just as much as the declaration of things which are yet to come. Now, these things are true.  
  
The Lord bless you and guide you, my brethren and sisters, in the truth. May we seek for the testimony of the Spirit of God and become filled with the testimony of Jesus, that we can declare to the world that he is the Son of God and the Redeemer of mankind; and when we can do that in words of soberness, we are prophets and we are prophetesses. Now, remember that. The Lord bless you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 