51
Afternoon
07 04 1918
Elder Richard R. Lyman. 
17
167-168

None

Vivid impression of the teachings of President Joseph F. Smith — Appreciation of the doctrines and principles of the Gospel as taught by a Latter-day Saint mother — Prayer the strongest factor for good that can come into the life of a boy — A desire that the speaker may merit the love and friendship in some degree the Latter-day Saints had for his father, the late President Francis M. Lyman.  
  
It is new and strange for me to occupy this place. I wish President Smith, in his eloquent and forceful way, had spoken during the few minutes left for me, and had given me six months in which to prepare a few remarks.  
  
While in Tooele recently I visited the same church building and saw the same seat in which I sat as a child many years ago and listened to the powerful and eloquent words of President Joseph F. Smith. Such was the impression he made that I remember what he said then as clearly as I remember what I have heard him say at this conference. From that time in my childhood to this hour I have heard no public utterance of his that was not thrillingly eloquent. Can you wonder then that, being new in this position, I wanted him to speak in my place?  
  
Who am I? Why should I be here? My life, my work, my attention have been directed almost exclusively to educational work. I have not done service as a regular missionary. I do not stand before you, therefore, as a preacher, but merely as a "Mormon" boy and all I can do is say a few blunt words in defense of my religion and my people, as I have done during my college life and at other times when separated from you — my people.  
  
I, too, am pleased to bear testimony to the truth and divinity of the remarks that have been made at this conference. The words of Brother Stephen L. Richards concerning the welfare of our sons and daughters — our most precious resource — made a marked impression on my mind. Seven years of my life have been spent in eastern colleges and during that time, separated as I was from my kindred and from the Church, I had nearly all the temptations to resist. The teachings of the Church and the training of my good "Mormon" mother gave me strength. I prayed as she taught me to pray, I believed in God and in his guidance, I began every day's labor with an earnest prayer for help, I closed each day with an expression of gratitude to my Heavenly Father for his guidance. Thus was I able, when surround with temptation, to make my life, conform with the teachings of the Church and to live in accordance with the wishes of my excellent parents.  
  
Prayer, as I see it, is the strongest factor for good that can come into the life of a boy. Unfortunate the youth who has to face the temptations of the world if in his childhood he has not learned to pray. If your soldier son learned this childhood lesson at your knee, rest assured his faith in God will keep him clean. If he returns he'll do so in the strength and majesty and power of his clean manhood. If he gives his life to the glorious cause of human liberty he, by so doing, adds undying luster to your family name.  
  
I have never been sufficiently conceited to think that I deserve to stand in this sacred place that was occupied so recently by my distinguished father. His heart is aglow with delight, if he knows with what intensity many of you have expressed your congratulations to me for his sake. My fondest hope is that as a member of the Council of the Twelve I may merit in some degree the precious love and friendship you had for him.  
  
May our heavenly Father make us better and happier from day to day, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 