Outdoor
09 04 1916 

A meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information, at 2 p. m.; Elder George iUbert Smith presided, and the male choir of the Salt Lake L. D. S. U. furnished choral selections, under the leadership of B. Cecil Gates. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "How firm a foundation." 

Prayer was offered by Bishop Moses H. Pond. 

The male choir sang the anthem, "O Death, where is thy sting?" 

ELDER JOHN R. YOUNG. 

(Of San Juan Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, and friends who may be present here today, I feel very weak' and humble  standing before you, and I do not know whether I will be able to control my feelings so as to speak to you or not; but there is a prayer in my heart, that God will bless me, and strengthen me, that I may be able, for the few minutes that I shall stand before you, to say some things that shall be comforting, and I trust, interesting to us as Latterday Saints. 

I feel very grateful in my heart that I was born of parents who had received a testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and I feel very thankful to my parents for the examples that they always placed before me. My father was a man who believed in prayer. My mother was a Christian woman, she always called her children about her and had them kneel in her presence, and thank God for His mercies to them, every day before they lay down to sleep. I thank my mother for these lessons. 

I have had the privilege of going out into the world, away from our people. I was called when I was a boy of sixteen, to go into the mission field to proclaim t-he Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to the children of men. I can recall how feeble and weak I was, and I thank the Christian world for the charity that they had toward me when I was but a child, trying to labor among them. I had them often ask me why I was a Latter-day Saint. I suppose that my replies to that seemed simple and childish to them, but my statements were honest and truthful. 

In the early years of my life I remember meeting the Prophet Joseph Smith. I was a sickly child; had suffered for two weeks, perhaps, with the chills and fever. I was a little skeleton, and peevish. 113  would annoy me. I remember that one morning my father had led me out to give me a little sunshine, and in that walk we met the Prophet Joseph Smith, his brother Hyrum, and Sidney Rigdon. When they met my father, they shook hands with him, and the Prophet asked father if I was the little boy that father had requested the Elders to pray for. Now, the Latter-day Saints were a praying people; they had faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and that faith was strengthened in their bosoms by the testimonies of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and on that occasion, when we met them, I knew the Prophet. I had seen him in the congregations of the Saints, and I knew that he was a man that our people honored and loved; and hence I felt a thrill of pleasure pass over my little frame when he paid some little attention to me. When my father had told him that I was the child he had requested the Elders to pray for, the Prophet stepped toward me, and took my little straw hat from my head. He ran his fingers through my curly hair, and for the moment it seemed to me that he was looking far away, and then he said to father, "Brother Young, don't you worry about this little man, he will live to grow up to manhood, and will help carry this gospel to the nations of the earth." That is one of my strongest and earliest recollections of things that came to me in this life, and hence I have answered to those who have met me out in the world, and asked me why 1 was a Latter-day Saint, that from my childhood, lessons came to me that gave me faith in the prophet of the last days, the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I also recall the martyrdom of the 

Prophets Joseph and Hyrum. My father was away from home, in the state of Ohio, doing missionary work at the time of the martyrdom. When he returned home, he said to the family, when they w^ere gathered around the table, "Just as long as Brother Brigham is faithful to the trust that is placed upon him, they will seek for his blood." I wondered, though a child, why that should be, but the experiences of my life have shown me that feelings of that kind are natural to the wicked. As I matured in years, so that I could read and begin to grasp what I read, I learned that persecution was the common heritage of every man that has been called of God and given a mission to the human family. 

As I have stated, I was called when a boy of sixteen, to go out and teach the gospel to the children of men. My mission was to the Pacific Islands, the Islands of Hawaii. When I reached there, I was assigned to labor on the island of Oahu. I will tell you a little of my personal experiences. I can hardly go beyond that in my talking to you. I was placed in a native family, a man by the name of Kyama, and his wife, no children in the family. They two promised to take care of me, and give me a home with them while I should study their language. About one week after my arrival there, a native woman, one of the neighbors, died. The natives indulged in considerable and extreme mourning over her. I was curious to see the manner of interment, and I went to the home. I saw them wrap the body in carpets and sew it up in mats, and carry it to the grave. At the graveyard, we met the minister of that parish, a venerable looking man, in appearance GENERAL CONFERENCE.  much like our Brother Orson Pratt. I admired the man when I first saw him, on account of his resemblance to Orson Pratt, whom I loved. I went straight up to that minister of the gospel and offered him my hand, and told him who I was. I feared no man on earth at that time. I had injured no one, and felt kindly toward everybody; I wanted to do men good, that was the desire of my heart. I saw the minister draw Kyama to one side, and talk sharp to him; and when I returned to the cottage that was to be my home there was no one there. For three days and nights I stayed there, without food. T felt indignant at the treatment that was given to me, I could not tell why it was, and I turned to leave. 

I took my little carpet sack, and started walking back to Honolulu, about forty miles. When I came to the creek that flows about a mile south of the village I stopped and asked myself, "What are you going to do?" ' 

Let me go a little further back, because there may be parents here of sons that are out in the mission field, or may be called into the mission field, and I want to bear my testimony that God never forsakes those who trust Him. Now, President Brigham Young had spoken to me, when I was called upon that mission, and I told him frankly and honestly that I did not know "Mormonism" to be true, "I know that you do not know it to be true. That is one reason we want you to go on this mission. And T will make you a promise, if you will go on this mission and live close to the Lord, and not commit sin, I promise you that when you come home you will take me by the hand and look me straight in the face, and tell me  you know 'Mormonism' is true. \ T ow, will you go ?" I accepted the mission. 

When I stood at the bridge, I questioned myself, ''What are you going to do ? Go back to Honolulu and tell the President of the mission that you have not sand in your crop so that you can stand a little hunger and a little unpleasantness? And when you tell him that, perhaps he will chide you for that. Then what? I will not be chicled, I have done no man wrong-, and I will not be chided, I will go home."' But I thought a little, and then felt ashamed of myself, and turned aside, and went up the creek until 1 found a grove .of timber, and I slipped into that grove and knelt down and prayed, and while I prayed, that cloud of ill feeling passed from me, and there was rather a gleam of joy that came to me, and I retraced my steps back to the bridge. As I came back to the bridge a native man came also, leading a little burro with a load of oranges on his back. The burro was overloaded, his little back bent ('own until the bundle of oranges almost touched the ground, it was almost all he could do to carry his burden. The native had a rope tied to a ring in the donkey's nose, leading him. Across the bridge going northward there was a sharp, rocky hill, and when he reached the foot of that hill the dunkey stopped there. The man held the rope in his left hand, and with his right he commenced stoning the little burro, and swearing in English at him. I set my little carpet bag down and went to the man and said, "Stop stoning that burro, that is cruel, you must not do it. And why do you swear at him?" And he said, "Don't all white men swear when things 115 't do what they want them to do?" I replied, "No, it is only bad white men that swear. I would like to see you get the burro up the hill without swearing at him and stoning him; give me the rope." He handed me the rope, and I went to the side of the road and pulled a little grass, and wiped the blood from the burro's head, where he had been struck with a stone, then patted him and talked to him kindly; and when I had done so, I started to walk up the hill. I did not pull the rope, I just held it in my hand, and that little burro, as if an inspiration had come to him, climbed up the hill with the load on his back. When 1 reached the top the man, who had followed, said, "What is your name?" I told him, and he then said, "Where is your home?" Then I broke down; that was a very tender word to me. The man then asked, "Don't you want to go and live with me?" That was just what 1 wanted, and 1 said 1 would be very pleased to go and live with him. He said. "Stay here until I come back, and you can go home with me." He went on down to the landing, sold his oranges, and came back, and I started to walk up the mountain with him. When he saw that I was weak, he picked me up, for he was a strong man, and set me in the saddle on the burro. I went into the orange grove where his home was, and stayed with him until I learned to talk the native language. 

Afterward, when 1 met Kvama, who had turned me out, I asked him why he had done that, and he said. "The minister holds a paper on my little home, so he can take it away from me, and he told me von were a viper, and that if T kept yon, yon would sting me to death;  so I neglected tending to you, because I was fearful of the minister. When I learned that, I walked straight for that minister's home. He had company when 1 came there, knocked on the door, and they bade me come in, and I told him what I came for. I asked him if it was true that he told that native man not to feed me, and to turn me from his home, he said it was perfectly correct. I said, "You a minister of the gospel? Where do you find in the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ anything that will justify you in treating me that way ? I had not wronged you, there is not a being on the face of the earth that can say that I have injured them; and yet you told that man to starve me, and you told him things that were not true — you told him that I was a viper, that I would sting him to death, that 1 was an imposter. You told him things that you imagined, for which you had no proof, and I ask you to recall what you did, and make acknowledgment of it." 

Those are some of the things that I met with when 1 first went out into the world. It taught me some things; it taught me that some at least, in the Christian world have lost the spirit of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That was the beginning of my coming against men that should be fathers to the people — bright, intelligent men who have lost the spirit that should accompany a man who is a professed servant of the living God. 

By and by, I undertook to preach. I remember my first text, it was the 16th verse of the 16th chapter of Mark. Tt was what Christ said to His apostles when He met with them after His crucifixion : "Go ye intn (-he world, and preach the gosGENERAL CONFERENCE.  to every creature, he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved." Now, to me that is very strong and authoritative language, "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved." Then I went on to tell of the signs that should follow those that believe. Now, I had lived among the Latter-day Saints from a child up, but I had not seen manifestations that brought conviction directly to me in regard to the fulfillment of those things, and I wondered a little myself in regard to them. But they are true, my brethren and sisters. God has restored them again to the earth. 1 will tell you the first one that I ever witnessed, when I was out in the world. It may be good for some of our young people at home to hear it. It was in the city of San Francisco. Apostle Parley P. Pratt was presiding there. Three of us, Elders Joseph F. Smith and William W. duff, and myself were given the task of tracting the citv of San Francisco. Brother Joseph F. Smith could not stand it — he came home in the evening and said to Brother Pratt. "I will work anv place that you will put me to work — I do not care what the nature of the work is, I will do it; but I will not walk the streets of San Francisco and receive the abuse that T receive when T offer to give them a tract, I cannot stand it." Brother Pratt consecmentlv released him from it, and Brother Cluff was released also, but he held me to the task. I guess it was a blessing to me that I was such a little boy, because men felt ashamed to be very rough with me : and T kept at the work. One day when T returned from tracting, I came to Sister Evans', the widow ladv who was giving me a home, and she said, 

"Brother Young, hurry up stairs, they are having trouble up there." T passed upstairs, and found the little room was nearly filled, there was scarcely room for any more. Not many of them were Latter-day Saints, and there was an excitement there. A woman was lying upon the bed, and when I came into the room, she sprang from that bed and tried to climb the walls of the room, but seA'eral of the sisters took hold of her. Elder William McBride, an Elder of experience, was in the room and he said to me, "Come here quick." I was frightened but hurried to his side, and endeavored to put my hand upon the woman's head, but she grasped my hand in one of hers, and it seemed to me like a bird's claw; and she barked at me furiously, as a dog will bark. But we succeeded in laying our hands upon her head, and Brother McBride rebuked the evil spirit; she then became quiet and calm. The excitement caused Brother McBride to feel sick, and he withdrew. I stayed there with my hands resting upon her forehead. After a while I thought she was asleep, and I drew my hands. Just then, Parley P. Pratt came into the room and she sprang from the bed again, and with difficulty they succeeded in controlling her. Brother Pratt spoke like one who had authority. In the name of Jesus Christ he rebuked the evil spirit, and commanded it to leave the room, and we then had peace. That lady was not a member of our Church. The sisters waited upon her, and gave her a little refreshment. She talked a little while with President Pratt, and then Elder McBride and myself walked with her to a convenient place and baptized her into the Church. 117 

I do not want to occupy more of your time. I thank my Heavenly Father that He has let me live to see this people grow as we have grown. I drove a pair of oxen hitched to a little cart, and helped haul the dirt from the foundation of this Temple, when I was a little boy. I feel to rejoice that I have lived to see this Temple completed, and to see the prosperity and the power that our Heavenly Father has given to His chosen people. 

May God help. you to be faithful and true to the covenants you have made. I testify to you that when I have had the privilege of going into holy places, I have only been taught lessons that have helped me be a virtuous, an honest, and a prayerful man. This is my testimony to you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The L. D. S. U. quartette sang, "The Land far away." 

ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. 

(President St. Joseph Stake.) 

[The copy of Elder Kimball's discourse has been lost in transmission by mail.] 

"Lift up your head," was sung by the male chorus. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Historian.) 

The remarks made in the morning session of the conference today by Elder Orson F. Whitney, in which he referred to the testimony of the late Anson Call, and the testimonies that we have listened to from Elder John R. Young, in this meeting, have suggested to me the following paragraph contained in the Book of Mormon, written at the  that Christ was manifesting Himself in person upon this continent: 

"And when Nephi had brought forth the records, and laid them before him, he cast his eyes upon them and said, 

"Verily I say unto you, I commanded my servant Samuel, the Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the day that the Father should glorify his name in me, that there were many saints who should arise from the dead, and should appear unto many, and should minister unto them. And he said unto them, were it not so? 

"And his disciples answered him and said, Yea, Lord, Samuel did prophesy according to thy words, and they were all fulfilled. 

"And Jesus said unto them, how be it that ye have not written this thing, that many saints did arise and appear unto many, and did minister unto them, 

"And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written. 

"And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." (3 Nephi 23:8-13.) 

I desire, in this connection, to give expression to a thought : Brother Young is one of a few in this vast assembly who was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. The time will come, say in fifty years from now, that Saints who were acquainted with President Joseph F. Smith and his contemporaries will be as scarce as the men who were acquainted with the original Prophet, Joseph Smith, are now. 

There are a great many events of modern times that have not been properly recorded. I want to draw atention to this fact, (as one of your historians), that a great number of our veterans have neglected, and are still neglecting to record such things as we have listened to G EN ERA L CON FE REN CE .  interest today. The testimony of Anson Call in regard to the Saints coming to these Rocky Mountains to become the mighty people they are today, is of great importance. 

We have had just a little said about this great prophecy. We have known for many years that on the 6th of August, 1842, Joseph the Prophet made remarks of this kind, and just a few lines have been written in Church history concerning it, but as we have indeed become a mighty people in the Rocky Mountains, we want to know more about this important prediction which has been so literally and accurately fulfilled. A few lines are not sufficient to record a prophecy concerning such an event, if we can get any more. We do not want Anson Call's testimony only; we would like a hundred other witnesses, if that many were present and heard the Prophet's words on that memorable occasion. We want the testimony of all who heard the Prophet utter this important prophecy. We want their testimonies recorded in the interest of the many millions of people who by and by will be interested in the early days of this Church as well as in our day, and in all the days and years that have elapsed since Joseph Smith first began to receive revelations from on high. 1 want to draw attention to this fact, brethren and sisters, and state here in your hearing that many things are not recorded that ought to be recorded concerning the history of the Latter-day Saints. 

At the Historian's Office, we have already compiled about four hundred volumes of Church history, each containing about six hundred closely typewritten pages, and we have made an estimate that if we  and put into proper shape the historical matter which we have in sight at present we will have at least one thousand volumes (containing six hundred pages each) of Church history for the Nineteenth century alone. This compilation then will represent six hundred thousand pages of records pertaining to the history of the Latter-day Saints for that period of time. Of course a great deal of this vast amount of material may be as to details more or less important and interesting, but as works of reference for the benefit of those who shall live after us it will have incalculable value. The books are being prepared in such a way that we can add pages here and there. ITence, we can easily incorporate the testimony of Elder John R. Young who has spoken to us here today, and we can add the testimony of as many others as desire to place themselves on record in regard to any important event which they may have witnessed in their experiences in life. 

1 am safe in stating that there are thousands of people in the midst of the Latter-day Saints who ought to make a record of what they have seen, heard and done. They should especially bear testimony of the many blessings which they have received from the hand of the Lord through having yielded obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ in these the last clays; and not .only that which happened in the days of the Prophet Joseph, or in the earlier days of the Church, should be faithfully recorded, but that which has taken place all along since we came to these mountain valleys and that which is taking place day by day. My advice to everybody would be this : Write something concerning 119  experiences in life and what you have seen and witnessed in connection with the Church of Christ — to bequeath to your posterity, so that it may be said of you like that which has been recorded of Abel of old, ''Though dead, he yet speaketh." 

This is the thought I would like to impress upon all who hear my voice on this occasion and upon all who may read the record made of this general conference of the Chrnch. I would like to explain further that my advice does not apply only to our brethren and sisters who have grown old in the service of the Lord, and who may soon expect to go to the great Beyond to receive, in due time, the reward which their deeds in mortality merit at the hands of a righteous judge and a merciful God, but it applies as well to you who are middle-aged, and even those who are young men and women in our midst at the present time. The time will surely come when your testimony will be of great importance, just as much as the testimony that we have heard today, because this Church will continue to grow, and out of it will finally come the kingdom of God. As yet we are scarcely a hand full compared to the many millions of people who inhabit our earth, but after our testimony, or the testimony of the elders of Israel, shall have been borne to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and after these people who listen to that testimony shall have been converted and gathered to the Stake of Zion, and after such stakes shall have been organized in all parts of this great land of promise, then the experiences of those who in an early <'ay helped to establish the Church in the midst of these Rocky Moun will, if recorded, be read with the greatest interest by millions and millions of God-fearing men and women, who shall rejoice in the success and triumph of Zion, and who shall be members of the- Church of Christ and citizens of the Kingdom of God at the time that Christ, our Redeemer, shall reign on the earth as the King of kings and Lord of lords. When that time comes, many of the events which to us now may seem commonplace will be things of vast importance, because many of the little deeds that we now do and to which we pay but very little attention at the present time are the seeds from which, using a figure "the sturdy oak" shall grow; they may be the little things that shall mark the beginning of great achievements hereafter. 

Even the eyes of unbelievers are upon us at the present time. Thinking men and women know what a community that is doing right, people who are living moral lives — means for the future, and the adversary of our souls, the great archenemy of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, is alarmed, together with his emissaries, because of the stand we are taking in the world, and the success that has attended us so far. They know what a God-fearing and a righteous community represented by superior men and women may mean to the rest of the world at no distant day. They know that, through transgressions of the law of God and the laws of nature, the human family are becoming weaker all the time, and that strong men and women, who comply with the laws of nature and the law of Go', are bound to obtain dominion, influence and power in the mr'st of the earth; and this indeed is the destiny of the Latter-day Saints. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

While I was filling a mission in Scandinavia, a few years ago, an old Luthern priest who had studied our religious system, and had become acquainted with our ways of living, exclaimed, "If the Mormons continue that way they will in due course of time not only control little Denmark, but their power will be felt throughout the entire world, for they live a different life to that lived by the majority of the people in the world." In making this statement that priest did not particularly refer to the Word of Wisdom, but to our moral life and practical religion in a general way. And the priest was right. If we Latterday Saints, if you, the sons and daughters of Zion, will take advantage of your birthright, if you will do what is right, serve God and keep His commandments, it is only a question of time when you will rule the world. It cannot be otherwise, unless mankind generally will turn from their evil ways and become saints of the most high God. 

My brethren and sisters, may God help us to fulfil our mission and our destiny on the earth. May we indeed become the redeemers of the world and saviors upon Mount Zion, and may we labor diligently, with our whole might and strength, to usher in the great millenium when peace and happiness shall abound on the earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(Late President of Mexican Mission.) 

In speaking of the signs that should precede the second coming of our Lord, He said, "And this Gospel of the Kingdom shall be  in all the world as a witness unto every nation, and then shall the end come." 

My labors, for the past ten years, have been as a missionary in carrying the Gospel of the Kingdom to the Mexican nation; and I feel that in this unhappy hour for Mexico I would not be true to the trust that is imposed upon me if I did not tell you some of the things concerning that people that make them what they are. I wish to associate the unhappy conditions that exist in Mexico with the promises of the Lord made to that people when Father Lehi and his little colony left Jerusalem. The Lord made very plain the history of the Mexican people before Lehi ever set foot on this great continent of ours. Lehi said the following, and it is recorded in the first chapter of the Second Book of Nephi : 

"Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep His commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this land unto themselves. And if it so be that they shall keep His commandments, they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely for ever. 

'But, behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the hand of the Lord; having a knowledge of the creation of the earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvelous works of the Lord from the creation of the world; having power given them to do all things by faith; having all the commandments from the beginning, and having been brought by His infinite goodness into this precious land of promise; behold, I say, if the day shall come that they will reject the Holy 121 

One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold the judgments of Him that is just shall rest upon them; 

"Yea, He will bring other nations unto them, and He will give unto them power, and He will take away from them the lands ot their possessions; and He will cause them to be scattered and smitten." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, as students of the Book of Mormon and history of that people who are descendants of Lehi, we know that they have not kept sacred the covenants that men make when they enter into covenant with God in the Gospel of His Son Jesus Christ, and we know that no sooner did that colony set foot on this land than there was a factional division, and they became two great peoples, the Nephites and the Lamanites, and that, at times, the Nephite faction was obedient to the commandments of the Lord and the Gospel as given to them, and, at rare intervals, so were the Lamanites. But there came a time when all apostatized, and when all came under the condemnation herein spoken of, and the Lord caused the Nephite faction to be utterly destroyed at the hands of their brethren, the Lamanites, and the Lamanites went forth upon the face of the land in scattered bands, warring among themselves, as they had overcome their hereditary enemy, the Nephites, and having in their blood the spirit of war and strife they satisfied it by fighting one with another. 

But the time came when the promises of the Lord were fulfilled in behalf of this people. In the year 1519, a little band of Spaniards, only a few, about 600, under the leadership of Hernan Cortez, set foot upon the shores of Mexico, and that man and his followers over a nation of 30,000,000 of people. It is a pitiful history to read, how they were "scattered and smitten," and how every inch of the land of their inheritance, that they had received of the Lord, was taken away from them. Now, brethren and sisters, we have in this the basic cause of all the strife that has existed in the land of Mexico for 400 years in that that stricken people have bowed their heads under the tyranical rule of the Spanish people who came in among them. From a nation of 30,000,000, they have been reduced until today they are scarce 15,000,000. And the best statistics given out on the matter, state that of the 15,000,000 of inhabitants in the land of Mexico, only 2,000,000 are property holders. The others have nothing but their poverty and degredation, and we have in that the cause for the present strife. 

Now, I wish to associate the strife in Mexico also with the promises of the Lord, for if we do not have the promises of the Lord to comfort us in these things, I fear, brothers and sisters, that my faith would not be sufficiently strong to enable me to go forth and continue to preach the Gospel unto that people, as I love to do and always shall, as long as the servant of the Lord asks me to continue my labors in their behalf. 

It seems that if their decrease should continue very long, as it has been going on, they would be utterly wiped off the continent; and the history of the Mexican people is only a counterpart of the history of the Indian races that inhabit North and South America, for they have indeed been reduced to a remnant, they have become scattered and smitten; and I defy anybody to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to me a tribe of the aborignes of this country that owns legitimately any of their own country in their tribal condition as they owned it primitively. It has been absolutely taken away from them by the nations that the Lord permitted to come in, and that in fulfillment of His words to them should they disobey the Gospel of His Son that should be given them. But thanks to the Lord, we know that they are His covenant people. We know that in their veins, flows the blood of Israel, and God has made promise not only of their bringing down, but of their coming up; and in that, we get faith and inspiration to go on and preach to them the Gospel, for their redemption; for the Lord said this to Nephi, when He had shown him the same things that He had shown to his father, Lehi : 

"Nevertheless thou beholdest that the Gentiles who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of God above all other nations upon the face of the land, which is choice above all other lands which is the land that the Lord God hath covenanted with thy father, that His seed should have for the land of their inheritance, wherefore thou seest that the Lord God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed which are among thy brethren. Neither will He suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the seed of thy brethren." (I Nephi 13, 30-31.) 

Now, brethren and sitsers. in this we see that the Lord has not destined that this people should be utterly destroyed from off the face of the land. And I wish to call the youth of Israel to prepare themselves for the mighty work that lies before us, for the Lord said, "This Gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached as a witness unto all na, and unto every people before the end shall come," and we have lying before us, the millions of Mexico who know nothing of the Gospel, we have the millions of Central America, and the millions of South America. They are absolutely ignorant of the great plan of salvation that has been restored for the redemption of all people in the age in which we live. 

The Prophet Nephi said, (II Nephi 30:3-6): 

"And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and the Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the remnant of our seed. 

"And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of the Jews. 

"And the Gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them; wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had among their fathers. 

"And then shall they rejoice; for they shall know that it is a blessing unto them from the hand of God: and their scales of darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many generations shall not pass away among them, save they shall be a white and delightsome people." 

Brethren and sisters, do we, as a people, believe in the words of the book that has been written? I testify unto you that the Book of Mormon came forth in the world by the power and inspiration of God Almighty, and we have it as a new witness for Him in the world; and in that book we find the testimony that we among the gentiles who should receive that book and beJ 23  in the words of it, should carry it back again to the remnant of those people — and they are the Mexicans, the Central Americans, the South Americans, and the Indian remnants, that cover our own clear land here. God is no respecter of persons, but of whatever nation, he that will serve Him and work righteousness is accepted of Him. What we want is to teach the Gospel in simplicity unto that people, as unto every other people, that they may find in the Gospel, in very deed, the power of God, that will lift them out of their degraded condition, that it may be unto them the power of God unto their salvation. 

We are opening up work among the Mexican people in the United States, and it may be a revelation to some of you to know that down in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, California, and Texas, there are hundreds of thousands of people of Mexican blood, that are citizens of the United States, and they are only waiting' for someone to open the doors of the Gospel to them. And the crying need today is for elders who are willing to sacrifice their own desires, and to humble themselves before the Lord and carry in humility the word of the Lord back to that people. 

I am thankful for the integrity of our missionary boys that go out, but I am sorry that there is a feeling among some few, when they enter the field, of disappointment, and they feel that there is nothing coming back to them, and they ask the question, "What good will this all be to me?" Brethren and sisters, that is a false conception of the spirit of missionary work : the spirit of our missionary work should be, What good can I be to my fellowmen, what good can I be  God's children, and to sacrifice our own desires, our own ambitions and wishes to the betterment of those who sit in darkness. 

May the Lord help us to perform well our missions in the world, and extend the light of the Gospel unto all men, for God Himself is no respecter of persons, and we should not be. I maintain that this Gospel of ours is destined sometime to wipe out racial feelings and to bring to us a universal brotherhood of man. 

God bless us to appreciate our blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEO. ALBERT SMITH. 

Similarity of missions of Parley P. Pratt and his grandson, Rey L. Pratt — Prayer for success of missionary work. 

I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that the eyes of many of this congregation have been moistened while listening to the pathetic discourse of President Rey L. Pratt with refernce to our Lamanite brethren and sisters. He comes naturally by his love for the Indian. His father and grandfather both were missionaries to the darkskinned natives of America. He is a grandson of Parley P. Pratt, who was called by revelation, and his was the first name called by the Lord in our day to take the Gospel to the Lamanites, as I will read to you from the 23rd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"And now concerning my servant, Parley P. Pratt, behold, I say unto him, that as I live I will that he shall declare my gospel and learn of me, and be meek and lowly of heart; 

"And that which I have appointed unto him is that he shall go with my servants Oliver Cowdery and GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Peter Whitmer, jun., into the wilderness among the Lamanites." 

I think it is a beautiful thing that today his grandson is permitted to stand in our midst and testify of the hope that he has of the fulfilment of the promise of our Father to our Indian brethren and sisters who are dear to him, who live in this and the adjacent nation. I am sure you have been glad to hear from Brother Pratt and that the mission still goes on notwithstanding the difficulty they are having in that unhappy land. 

Let us each pray to the Lord that His promises may be fulfilled in the interests of these our brethren and sisters, let each of us live so that if we should be called, that the Lord may be able to work through us for the amelioration of the condition of millions of His children who know not the Gospel of our Lord as we have received it. Let us go to our homes each with the determination that, the Lord helping us, we will serve Him and keep His commandments and fulfil the obligations resulting from receiving His word. 

May you, my brethren and sisters, carry the spirit of this great gathering to your homes. May you have the desire to disseminate the truth taught among your associates, that your experience here may thereby be more profitable. May this conference be treasured in your memories as a time of refreshing from the Lord. And that each of us may magnify our opportunities and be worthy of the blessings of our Father in heaven, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

Elder Benjamin Goddard offered the closing prayer. 


