Morning
07 04 1916

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "O ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky." Elder Thomas D. Rees, Jr., offered the opening prayer. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight." 

ELDER JOSEPH C. BENTLY. 

(President Juarez Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am very grateful this morning for the privilege that I have of attending this conference, and listening to the instructions that come to us from our Heavenly Father, through His servants who preside over us. I am thankful for the privilege of associating with my brethren and sisters, and enjoying the Spirit of the Lord which accompanies us upon our gathering together in our general conferences. I am sure it is a great strength to all of us to have this privilege of associating too-ether, and being encouraged of the Lord in this great latter-day work, in which we are all engaged. Our only desire is to serve the Lord and to accomplish His purposes; and while we desire to do or accomplish the purposes of our Heavenly Father, we ne'ed strength from time to time, and a renewal of the Spirit of the Lord in order to enable us to continue the struggle, and the effort that is necessary. 

I have anticipated for some time the pleasure of attending this conference, but a few weeks ago I con that I would not be enabled to come here, because of the unsettled condition in our part of the Mexican country. Our condition for the last two weeks has been unusually trying. I suppose all of you are aware that the Latter-day Saints in Mexico are located in the heart of the revolutionary section of that country, where revolutions are manufactured. Our condition for a number of years has not been as satisfactory as we should like to have had it, especially since the recognition of General Carranza by this government. It has produced an unusual disturbing and unsettled condition. Our people who reside in Mexico have endeavored to maintain a neutral position, so far as we are concerned. In the beginning of this trouble in Mexico, we were counseled by the brethren who preside over us, that our position should be absolutely neutral; that we should not engage in the conflict that was going on in that country. We have endeavored to maintain this position and to maintain friendly relationship with all the different contending parties that come into our community. While we have been regarded as foreigners, as American citizens or people belonging to the United States, yet there has always been more or less distinction in the minds of the people of Mexico concerning the Latterdav Saints and other Americans who come there for the purpose of gaining a livelihood, engaging in minincr and other industries that do not identify them especially with the country. 

A fter the recognition of General Carranza, General Villa returned, and in our locality he kept about  thousand of his followers for a period of six weeks, most of them located among our people in Colonia Dublan. They were surprised to find so many American people there, although there really were but a few, and they were surprised to find so much food and substance. They were a hungry lot; they had been whipped and chased over the hills, and when they reached our part of the country they were a famished crowd of people; it did their hearts good to see somebody that could give them something to eat. They paid for what they got in their own kind of money, but of course that was of no value to us, nor to anyone else for that matter, because it had so decreased in value that it was not worth any more than the counterfeit, nevertheless we sold them our produce. We kept that body of men, women, and children in our locality for about six weeks, and fed them corn and other products of the colony. After they had gone we reaped the greatest crops that we have ever harvested in Mexico. This surprised us, and we can not understand it yet. After feeding that great army for that length of time, we had the greatest harvest we have ever reaped, in proportion to the number of people and acreage, since we have been located in Mexico. Our granaries were full, and we had plenty to eat and to wear. 

After being defeated in Sonora, a portion of that army returned again to us. They were not in quite as friendly a mood on their return as they were when they went away, but still we managed to get along with them. We treated them kindly; we endeavored to impress upoh their minds that we were there for the good of the Mexican people. 

They destroyed some of our property, but were astonished at being treated kindly after they arrived, and did comparatively little damage, and they passed us by again. A few weeks ago, after the Americans were killed down at the mining camp, General Villa and his company of soldiers passed near our colony again, on his way to Columbus. Friendly Mexicans brought word that he said he was going to destroy Colony Juarez, and kill all the "Mormons;" but he passed us by, and afterward said it entirely slipped his mind, and he had gone so far past that he guessed he would not go back. We were very thankful that he did not, and greatly appreciated the fact that he had passed by without coming to see us. 

After the terrible attack on Columbus, and the destruction of property and lives of Americans, and many of their own people who came in contact with them, it caused great concern to those of us in the colonies, especially the natives and Carranza's Mexican soldiers. They were very much concerned because his return brought him again in the direction of the colonies. It is a good, rich, fertile country, and is a good place in which to recruit. It has been a favorite place for the revolutionists, ever since the beginnining of this trouble. They have been able to get more good horses, and good provisions, in that locality than in any other part of Mexico where they have been; consequently, on Villa's return a few weeks ago, after the attack on Columbus, there was considerable anxiety. I want to say this for the Carranza troops at Colonia Dublan, they are not well equipped, and they are not disciplined soldiers, but they had an interest in our people. They did not have a sufficient number to provide any defense for us, but they were careful to keep us posted. No doubt we received a great many reports that were not true, but they sent us all the information they received, and there was not any of it very comforting. The indications were that Villa, with his straggling army and the wounded, were coming back again to the colonies. We were instructed, by the general in charge of the Carranza troops, to move our families into their garrison, and they would take care of us : but, bless your heart, they could not take care of themselves, let alone us. They could not have provided for us and our families; and so we expressed to them our gratitude for their kind invitation, and said that if we should get frightened, and want to leave our homes, we would come. But, we called our brethren and sisters together and appointed a general fast day. We asked all our brethren and sisters to fast, and to pray unto the Lord that we might get an impression concerning what we should do. We were entirely helpless, so far as worldly defense was concerned; guns were very scarce in the colony. I was asked this morning ahout how many people we had in Colonia Juarez. We had about twenty-five men, and about two hundred fifty women and children. The same questioner wanted to know if we were well armed, and I said no, we did not have any arms; and were thankful to the Lord we did not. We met on the fast day. and while the reports that came to us were not very comforting, and we realized that our brethren and sisters in this country were very much exercised as to our safetv and welfare, and as to the  of our remaining in Mexico, yet the unanimous expression of our brethren and sisters in that fast meeting was that the Spirit of the Lord prompted we should remain at home, and serve the Lord and keep His commandments, and put our trust in Him, and He would take care of us whatever the conditions were. We felt that, if General Villa and his army should come to us, the Lord could soften his heart and that he would pass by and leave us with a better feeding of friendship than had existed before. At the conclusion of the meeting, the brethren and sisters returned to their homes, calm and happy, and the night that General Villa passed those colonies the people slept in peace. There was no one on guard, the Carranza soldiers had withdrawn, every man was put into the pits to defend themselves against the approach of General Villa. You may not understand, my brethren and sisters, how that Villa's name strikes terror to the hearts of those people. It is not only Americans that he does not like, when he takes it into his head to destroy life he seems to have no regard to race or color. The Mexicans were very much exercised when they heard that he was only three miles away from our colony, and that it would only be a matter of an hour's time till he could enter it. There was not a person in Colonia Dublan except Latter-day Saints, but we retired to our homes, slept peacefully, and during the night Villa and his guards came into Colony Dublan, within a half a mile of our homes, looked over the town and passed on; he never even disturbed us. 

I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, the people of those  feel that the Lord has preserved us. He has heard and answered our prayers. President Joseph F. Smith, in the beginning of our return to the colonies, told us that the key to our safety was the spirit of love, the spirit of kindness, the Spirit of the Lord, and the exercise of patience towards the people by whom we were surrounded. If we would manifest this Spirit, and put our trust in the Lord, He would take care of us. It has been a wonderful testimony to the Latter-day Saints and especially to our children, that when we serve the Lord and keep His commandments, and put our trust in Him, He will take care of us. We had no other defense, there was no other possible show for us, and we know that the Lord heard and answered the prayers of the Latterday Saints concerning His people in that dangerous position in Mexico. 

I feel very grateful for the privilege I have had of living in the land of Mexico. I love that people, notwithstanding their degradation. When I realize that they have lived under a curse for many hundreds of years, it is a marvel to me that there is as much good in Mexico and among her people as there is today. They are a child-like people; and if the spirit of kindness, of patience, and of love can be exercised by the American people, toward them, that will do more towards establishing peace in that country than all of the guns and ammunition that can be manufactured. It seems to me — it has always seemed to me — that the mission of the Latter-day Saints in Mexico, in fact, the mission of the Latter-day Saints in all the , is a mission of peace. We should live peacefully, speak peacefully, and breathe the spirit of peace among all mankind. We are living in a time when the spirit of war is being poured out upon all nations, and it seems to me that the great mission of the Latter-day Saints is to endeavor to establish peace. I know that by dealing with the Mexican people in the spirit of love and kindness, and showing to them true friendliness, you can win their hearts; they are a very approachable people. 

The Lord has a work to do in that country. It is not a battle of men; it is not a struggle between men especially, it is a struggle between the power of our Heavenly Father and the powers of darkness that have spread over that country. Darkness has been over the minds of the people, and they are in a degraded and distressing condition. My belief has been that whenever the time shall come that the Gospel of Jesus Christ shall be planted in that land it will be by the faith of men and women who are willing to put their trust in the Lord, men and women who can exhibit a spirit of kindness, a spirit of love and charity, even to those who would do them evil. The instructions of our Lord and Savior is the key-note to the success of the Latter-day Saints, not only in Mexico, but in every other part of the country where we shall go, that is to "do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despite fully use you," love our enemies and treat all mankind kindly. It is a mighty hard person who would continually fight against the spirit of kindnesss. 

While we have not been, perhaps, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  careful as we should have been, while we have not always lived as near to the Lord as we might have clone, yet I believe we stand among the Mexican people today nearer to their hearts than we have even been before. If they were to have their choice they would like to have us continue to remain in their midst. We have gained their friendship and their respect. There has not been a single party, (unless General Felix Diaz has succeeded in starting a new revolution), that has not been into our colonies, and every one of them has left us feeling better than when they came. To be sure, they have robbed us, to some extent, they have taken horses, and saddles, and merchandise, but thank the Lord they have not taken our lives. We have been preserved; the Lord has manifested His Spirit, and the men who have robbed us, who have taken our property, and destroyed much of that which the Lord has blessed us with, have acknowledge that they would rather have their families among the Latter-day Saints than any other place in Mexico. Notwithstanding they have robbed and persecuted us, they realize that their families are safe among the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the work of the Lord. Our living in Mexico is not so much the acquiring and maintaining homes and property, but it has always seemed to me that it was the will of the Lord. I desire to say that I know there is a mighty work to do among that people. If we can only maintain the spirit of kindness, of humanity, of charity, and of patience, the time will come when we will see the Gospel of the Lord 

Jesus Christ take hold of that people, when they will be brought into the fold of Christ, and a great and mighty work accomplished. 

May the Lord bless us, and help us to establish peace upon the earth, not only in that country but in all the world, including our own country, the United States. We need to live in accord with the spirit of peace, to assist in establishing it in all the world, that we may help our Father bring about the great plan of peace on earth, and prepare for the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. May we live worthy, my brethren and sisters to take part in this great latter-day work, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A poem entitled, "A Temple in Hawaii," written by Sister Ruth M. Fox, melody composed by Elder Orson Clark, was sung, as a quartette, by Ethelyn Walker, Hazel B. Neilson, James H. Neilson, and Almy C. Clayton. 

PREST. JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

After the announcement here, last conference, that we intended to build a temple upon one of the Hawaiian Islands, Sister Ruth May Fox was inspired to write a hymn which was sent over to the Islands, and one of our elders there, Brother Orson Clark, composed music to it, and on the recent visit of Bishop Nibley and myself, we found them singing this beautiful song. We brought a copy of the words and music home with us, and Brother Stephens has prepared it to be sung today. If you will indulge with me for a moment, I will read you the words : 

"Sound forth your strains of gladness, 

ye islands of the sea, And lift your hearts in praises, O 

Saints of Hawaii; The Lord hath heard your pleadings, 

your long sought day is here When to the great Jehovah a temple 

you shall rear. 

chorus : 

"A temple, a temple, in Hawaii! Foreshadowing the glories and splendors yet to be. 

"The spirit of Elijah shall permeate its 

halls, A choice beloved remnant, within its 

sacred walls Receive the promised blessings their 

father Lehi saw The Lord would shower upon them 

when they obey His law. 

"Samuel, the Lamanite, forecast this 

blessed day; Nephi and Moroni and the faithful 

passed away Who lived, believed, and perished on 

Joseph's glorious land Unite with you in praises for God's all 

guiding hand." 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Observance of Word of Wisdom would vastly increase community wealth — Man's efficiency destroyed by intoxicating liquors — Each dollar retained in circulation, in Utah, increases citizens' average wealth — Deadly character of the cigarette — The cigarette smoker always a failure. 

I rejoice, beyond the ability with which God has given me the power to express my feelings, in having a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I rejoice in being able to bear witness to you here today that the Lord has blessed me with a knowledge that He lives, that He hears, and that He answers our prayers. I rejoice in knowing that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, our elder , and that His name and His name alone, is the only one under heaven whereby we can gain salvation and come back and dwell with our Heavenly Father and our Savior, and our loved ones who have gone before. I rejoice in the knowledge that Joseph Smith was the prophet of the true and the living God, and the revelations that have come to us from him, which are recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, are in very deed the commandments of the Lord and of His Son our Redeemer, and that it is our duty and an obligation resting upon us to obey those commandments. Every word that I have heard, the testimonies and the expounding of the doctrines of Christ, since this conference has opened, have found an echo in my heart and I have thanked God for the testimonies which have been borne to us, thus far in this conference. 

I acknowledge the hand of God in the preservation of our people in Mexico. It is a miracle, and there should be a feeling of gratitude in our hearts to our Heavenly Father for the preservation of those of our brethren and sisters who have been located in that land. T confess that their faith has been superior to mine. I am afraid that if I had been located in Mexico, I would have left that country long ago. 

I was particularly impressed yesterday with the remarks made here by the President of the Council to which I have the honor to belong, and I desire during the time that I occupy, if the Lord will only bless me with His Spirit, to make some remarks along the same line upon which President Lyman spoke yesterday. 

I remember years ago, one of the most sarcastic and splendid letters that I ever read, being handed to me by Brother Junius F. Wells, writen by his father while presiding over the European mission, and it showed up the hypocrisy of those at that time who were pretending to stand for the purity of the American home. Brother Junius published the letter in the Contributor, not signing his father's name to it but signing "Forty-niner," and when the Contributor arrived in Liverpool, Brother Wells wrote back and wanted to know who that old man was that signed himself "Forty-niner." He said, "Darn his buttons, he is stealing my thunder." I had it in my heart yesterday, as I sat upon this stand, to talk upon the temporal salvation of this people, which is sure to come if we only obey the commandments of the Lord which He has given for our temporal salvation; and lo and behold, Brother Lyman stole nearly all of my thunder. He quoted the identical part of the Word of Wisdom that I had intended to quote, but, like the frequent singing of our songs — "O, ye mountains high," and "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," we can never repeat too often the commandments of the Lord to this people, and urge upon the Saints to live up to them. I have said from this stand time and time again, I believe that if we as a people had only obeyed the Word of Wisdom, temporal salvation would have come to us, and we would have become the wealthiest state west of the Mississippi River; that while we were driven from A T auvoo and came here to what was then considered a barren and worthless country; that, had we obeyed this one simple law of God, the wealth of this community would have been so great that no other  of the country between here and Illinois would have had anywhere near the wealth which we would have possessed. 

There is being consumed today in the United States twenty-one dollars per capita by the users of intoxicating liquors. I am sure the good people of Utah are not consuming their pro rata of this amount. If we were as progressive and as prosperous as the average of the United States, according to the ideas of some people who call themselves financiers we would be spending the same as others and thus be worse than wasting today, because we have about four hundred thousand people, eight million dollars a year, and all we would have to show for this prosperity ( ?) would be empty bottles and empty barrels. 

I believe in home manufacture. I believe in wearing home-made clothes. I believe in patronizing our different factories which are built here. And from my early childhood, in the days when I listened to President Brigham Young and others, it was burned into my very vitals that financial success would come to this community by building up our industries. But how under the heavens any man with the ordinary intelligence with which God has endowed him believes and can believe that empty barrels and empty bottles will bring wealth to this community, when the contents have first destroyed the manhood and the intellectuality and the efficiency of the people who have emptied the bottles and barrels, is one of the untold mysteries to me. Success in life comes with the efficiency of the individual; and what applies to the individual applies to the city, applies to the county, applies to the state. Anything under  heavens that destroys the individual efficiency of a man destroys the individual efficiency of all the community in proportion as they are destroyed as individuals. 

There is in the last Collier's Weekly an- article entitled, "The ruin prohibition brought to Kansas," and I would like to read just a little of the ruin that has come to Kansas from prohibition. 

"While the people of Kansas talk very little about this, being a reticent folk, it is generally realized that prohibition has killed in this state about every industry except the raising of wheat and corn and alfalfa and fruit and live stock; potatoes and peas and cabbages and 'garden sass'; chickens and ducks and geese and horses and mules. Almost immediately prohibition ruined our most prominent gamblers, blighted our beer gardens, and killed the bartenders' union. 

"Prohibition has left very little of Kansas except the growing crops in her field, the stock in her stock pens, the dreary round of work, work, work in her factories and stores and other industries. It has left us little to do in hours of leisure except just to fall in love, get married, send our children to school, go abroad occasionally, join the church when we feel like it, run into each other with expensive automobiles, and store our money away in dusty bank vaults instead of giving it to cheerful gentlemen with white aprons who used to stand in front of cut-glass bars and say occasionally, (And I might say mighty occasionally) : 'This one is on the house.' 

"Where once the thriving business of the saloon sent the clamorous odor of its prosperity out upon the sidewalk and clear across the street, (generally the product was kicked out upon the street, and not able to get a quarter way across), we find nothing but shoe stores, clothing stores, dry-goods stores, meat markets, grocery stores, and other sordid activities of an unhappy people.* * * * * 

"There hasn't even been a case of delirium tremens in the state since 1896, and at the time that was thought by inexperienced surgeons to be due  the free-silver campaign. * * * "Then, too, we have driven out of Kansas a class that was very useful to us, that relieved us entirely of the responsibility of local government. In the day before the state went dry no one ever worried about who was to be alderman or chief of police or mayor. We knew that the saloon men would look after that — it was part of their business. They wielded the balance of power and the political bickerings which sometimes now enter into the selection of our local officers in Kansas were wholly unnecessary in that old day. The saloon men got together and made up the ticket and got it elected. All we had to do was to pav the bills. 

"Now heaven alone knows when a campaign opens who is going to be elected, and wdien he is elected he spends so much of his time worrying about the recall provisions of the charter that it spoils much of the oleasure and all of the profit which his old-time predecessors used to get out of the job. 

"With the example of Kansas being constantly pointed out by the liquor men, why will state after state rise up and kick these benefactors in the face in the ungrateful way they are now doing?" 

Brother Edward H. Anderson has written to Collier's for permission to publish the whole article in the Era, so I shall not read any more of it. 

In the American Patriot we find an article on the worms that are destroying the harvest in the United States. It goes on to tell of the terrible ravages, but science has brought remedies whereby these can be obliterated and all this trouble of the worms has no effect. Tt tells that in one of the old readers there was an article that gave an account of a deadly worm that preyed upon men, which was found in every section of the country. The article in the old reader pointed out that this worm was one of the most destructive agencies to the life of man known in the history of the world, in a way that the young readers could understand, and gave a graphic picture of this strange worm, together with an unmistakable account of its fearful effects upon humanity. "By this means many young people learned of the most venomous thing in existence, and learned by this plain warning to avoid it. Many names had been given it, but, in this account, the real name of the creature was given. Tt was called the zvorm of the Still." "The worm of the still," when men use it destroys them so that they are not capable of having temporal salvation, because it destroys their intellect, it destroys their physical as well as their mental power. It is estimated, by students of finance, that every dollar of circulating medium goes over and over in a community and does in a year from twenty-five to one hundred dollars' worth of work. In the United States there is seven hundred and fifty million dollars a year expended in tobacco alone, and two billion and one hundred million dollars expended on liquor. Nearly every dollar which we spend on liquor and tobacco is sent away from the state — and say that we only spend a quarter of what othei people do — it would amount to at least two millions and a half dollars a year, which is drained from our fair state — thus adding to our prosperity according to the whisky men's arguments. Multiply these two millions and a half by twentyfive or one hundred and you will then see what a capacity the good people of Utah would have to support our industries because of the immense amount of circulating medium which the people would pos. Truly our capacity because of the possession of this vast sum added to our circulating medium annually would indeed be marvelous. The Lord knew exactly what He was saying when He told us that if we would obey His law — the Word of Wisdom — it would bring us temporal salvation. That is exactly what it will do for us from the day we obey it. It is not what a man makes that gives him strength and power financially in the community, but it is what he saves. This sure rule applies to all the people as well as the individual. If we had kept the money here which has been worse than wasted by sending it abroad for tobacco and liquor, we would have had power, as money is power, we would have secured temporal salvation. Men who have acquired the appetite will have tobocco and liquor, even if they have to sacrifice the ordinary wants of their families to secure these things. I hold in my hand a little pamphlet of which I have given away hundreds of copies. It is entitled, "The case against the little white slaver." It is a book against the cigarette published in pamphlet form, by Henry Ford, the manufacturer of the Ford automobile. Some years ago we had on our Mutual Improvement course of reading a book entitled, "The strength of being clean," by David Starr Jordan; and President Joseph F. Smith remarked that it was one of the finest vindications, by a great educator, of the inspiration of God to Joseph Smith in giving us the Word of Wisdom, that had ever been published by a non-"Mormon." David Starr Jordan is not only a national but an international character. I have written in the front of Mr. Ford's pamphlet a remark of Mr. 

Jordan's: "The boy who smokes cigarettes need not be anxious about his future. He has none." I would like that to "soak in." Just think it over : "The boy who smokes cigarettes need not be anxious about his future. He has none." Recently the Bureau of Information received a letter making some inquiry about certain doctrines of the Church. I have here one or two quotations from what was printed on the back of the letter and these I have also written in this pamphlet of Mr. Ford's. 

"A prominent banker - 'I have never yet employed a young man who said he used tobacco or liquor.' " 

Fathers and mothers, do you want bankers to employ your boys ? Remember the day is coming when they will not do it if they use tobacco or liquor. 

"Fidelity Insurance Company — 'We will not bond a man who uses cigarettes, for such men are not safe physically nor morally.' " 

Think of it! Cigarette users can't even pay money enough to get this company to insure their honesty. 

"Charles W. Murphy— 'All the 'Cub' baseball players must leave liquor alone at all times, must abstain from the use of cigarettes.' " 

No wonder they are one of the greatest clubs in the world. 

"Conclusion — 'My son, as long as thou hast in thy skull the sense ot a jay-bird, break away from the cigarette, for lo, it causeth thy breath to stink like a glue factory; it rendereth thy mind less intelligent than that of a cigar store dummy, yea thou art a cipher with the rim knocked off.' — Bob Rurdette." 

Thomas A. Edison — one of the  minds the world has ever produced — writes to Mr. Ford : 

"The injurious agent in cigarettes comes principally from the burning paper wrapper. The substance thereby formed is called 'acrolein.' It has a violent action on the nerve centers, producing degeneration of the cells of the brain, which is quite rapid among boys. Unlike most narcotics this degeneration is permanent and uncontrollable. I employ no person who smokes cigarettes." 

Think of it! Degeneration of the brains of our children comes from using cigarettes, and this degeneration becomes permanent and uncontrollable and yet people go on saying that we can drink and smoke and chew and we injure nobody but ourselves. It is false! If we degenerate our brain power we injure our posterity after us. 

John Wannamaker, Henry Ford, Marshall Field & Company, the Cadillac Motor Company, some of the great railroads with hundreds of millions of capital invested, refuse to employ cigarette smokers. 

"A new arithmetic. 'I am not much of a mathematician,' said the cigarette, 'but I can add nervous troubles to a boy, I can subtract from his physical energy, I can multiply his aches and pains, I can divide his mental powers, I can take interest from his work and discount his chances for success.' " 

I would like the last part of the sentence to soak in — "and discount his chances for success." 

The head of the tobacco trust writes a long letter to Mr. Ford and demands that he apologize for his attack on the cigarette, claiming it is not injurious, and tells of the wonderful increase in the use of cigarettes and says that this is an argument in favor of it. He says that in 1900 there were two billion, six hundred million cigarettes used. In 1913 there were fifteen billion, eight hundred million cigarettes used — (nails in the coffins of those that used them and a partial destruction of their intellectuality) — an increase of seven hundred per cent. Mr. Henry Ford's secretary answers and calls this tobacco man's attention to the fact that one of the magistrates in New York City announces that "ninety-nine per cent of all the boys between the ages of ten and seventeen who come before him charged with crime have their fingers disfigured with cigarette stains." Dr.T.D. Crothers says that, "In young persons who begin on cigarettes there are always pronounced symptoms of poisoning, such as pallor and dullness of activity," and the brain fails to act. We find that Dr. Fred J. Pack of our own University of Utah made an investigation which was published in one of the eastern magazines. The Temperance Journal. 

"Two hundred ten men held a contest for positions on the athletic team. Of the non-smokers, sixty-five per cent were successful; of the smokers only thirty-three per cent were successful. This was not only true in the six institutions which furnished the data about the try-outs when taken as a total, but in each of the six the nonsmokers far outstripped the smokers. In one institution not a single smoker obtained a place on the team." 

I called up Doctor Pack this morning and got some additional information. Dr. Pack is the head of the Geological Department in the University of Utah, and during the summer vacations he goes out with the boys and they climb mountains and they take hikes and they have long trials of endurance. They climb many a mountain which takes more than one day to get to the ; and Dr. Pack notifies the boys, puts them on their mettle, before they start announcing that ''No cigarette smokers will arrive at the top of the mountain with the boys that do not smoke;" and his promise of failure for the smokers has always been fulfilled. You can pick the smokers out down the hill by the number of the nails, figuratively speaking, that they have been putting in their coffins by using cigarettes. 

Speaking of the failure of men reminds me of an article that I borrowed this morning from Brother Joseph W. McMurrin. I see my time is running on and I must not attempt to read it. (President Smith: "Go on.") This article, published in August, 1914, in The Literary Digest, tells that in fifty long years no single solitary boy that used tobacco has graduated at the head of his class in Harvard University. How 1 do thank the Lord that all over the world the doctrines of the Lord Jesus Christ which have come to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith are being vindicated. Fifty long years and no smoker at the head of his class in Harvard! And yet there were five smokers out of every six students, so we are entitled to multiply the fifty years by five and announce that in two hundred and fifty years, man to man, the smoker has failed. What a wonderful record! what a marvelous vindication of the inspiration of Almighty God to that young man, Joseph Smith. It is not only in the Word of Wisdom, but it is in every doctrine that God has revealed to us that this vindication is coming, day after day and year after year. Dr. Kress says that the cigarette injures young men morally. Mike Donovan, the head of  great New York Athletic Club, 

says : 

"Any boy who smokes can never hope to succeed in any line of endeavor, as smoking weakens the heart and lungs and ruins the stomach and affects the entire nervous system. If a boy or young man expects to amount to anything in athletics, he must let smoking and all kinds of liquor alone. They are rank poison to his athleti'ambitions." 

Mrs. Paterson, president of the Georgia Woman's Christian Temperance Union, says : 

"Several years ago I stepped into a grocery store and asked to buy a package of cigarette papers, such as were given away at that time with Durham smoking tobacco. I took two small bottles, each holding about three tablespoonfuls of water. In one I placed fifteen of these cigarette papers, and in the other an equal thickness o' leaves of tissue paper from between visiting cards, for the tissue papers were much thinner and it took a larger number of leaves. 

"I found that a few drops of the water from the bottle containing the cigarette paper would kill a mouse, quicker than you could say 'Jack Rob in son,' and a teaspoonful of the water from the other papers seemed to cause a mouse to suffer no inconvenience. 

"I have killed dozens of mice with this water and there are others who have tried the experiment with the same success. Will Mr. Hill please tell me what made the difference in the same water, in the same kind of bottles, except the papers that were placed in the bottle?" (Mr. Hill is the president of the tobacco company who wrote Mr. Ford for an apology because he claimed cigarettes were not injurious.) 

Here is the one thing above all others in Mr. Ford's pamphlet which has impressed me : 

"Several of my young acquaintances are in their graves who gave promise of making happy and useful citizens," declares Luther Bur, the wizard of the plant and vegetable kingdom whose experiments have caused the civilized world to wonder, and whose experiments have benefited the civilized world by millions upon millions, in increase of prosperity, by the increase in the various things that he has done in improvement in flowers and in seeds and in fruits and in the redemption of the cactus in Arizona, taking the thorns out; he is in very deed the wizard of the agricultural world and one of the benefactors of mankind. He says : "And there is no question whatever that cigarettes alone were the cause of their destruction. No boy living would commence the use of cigarettes if he knew what a useless, soulless, worthless thing they would make of him." 

May the Lord help us in keeping our sons from becoming "useless, soulless, worthless things," is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

The Prophet Joseph Smith the most striking figure of the 19th century — His first glorious vision — Authorized to re-establish the Church of Jesus Christ — Priesthood restored — Established saving ordinances in behalf of the dead — Translated the Book of Mormon — Many glorious revelations received, and published, by him — Head of the greatest, the last, dispensation. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire an interest in your faith and prayers this morning while I stand before you for a few moments, that I may be led, like others who have spoken, to say something that shall be instructive and faith-promoting. 

Joseph Smith, the prophet, was by far the most striking figure of the nineteenth century. 1 realize that this is a very bold declaration and while many will readily concede to it, others will regard it as presumptuous, but let me say to you, brethren and sisters and friends, that there is ample evidence to sustain it. The following are a few things that make Joseph Smith, the prophet, conspicuous among men : 

In the first place, he was favored with a personal visit of God the Father, and of Jesus Christ, His Son. He testified that he knew they lived, because he had seen their faces and heard their voices, and that they were in the form and likeness of a man. Thus was restored to the earth again the knowledge of God, at a time when many supposed Him to be a being without body, parts or passions. This first glorious vision of the prophet swept darkness and doubt, ignorance and unbelief from the minds of men, at least hundreds and thousands, and a great flood of light burst in upon them and filled their souls. 

Joseph Smith, the prophet, under divine guidance, founded the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church under the heavens in this age of the world known and called by that name. 

In connection with the founding of the Church, Joseph Smith received and transmitted to others the holy Priesthood, representing divine authority, by which the Gospel is preached and the ordinances thereof administered for the salvation of souls, or, in other words, by which men are baptized by immersion for the remission of their sins and have hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Jesus said : "Except a man is born of the  and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." The gift of the Holy Ghost is the key that unlocks the deep and hidden mysteries of God. 

The Church founded by the Prophet Joseph Smith not only provided a plan of salvation for the living but also for the dead, being broad enough in its scope to reach every child of God, whether in this world or the world to come. The latter-day Church, like the former day Church- is built upon the foundations of apostles and prophets, evangelists, high priests, seventies, elders, bishops, priests, teachers and deacons, Jesus Christ being the chief corner-stone. 

By the power of God, Joseph Smith translated into the English language the Book of Mormon, a record which is quite as sacred and precious as the Bible itself. He also gave to the Church the Doctrine and Covenants, a book containing the revelations of God's will to His prophet and His people; also that wonderful little record, the Pearl of Great Price. If all other books in the world were destroyed in an instant and these four hooks still remained — the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price — they would constitute a library of priceless value, and would form a solid basis from which and by which to regenerate the world. 

In the providences of the Lord, and by His word and power, Joseph Smith the prophet restored to the earth again the everlasting covenant, called the new and everlasting covenant, a covenant that binds the husband to the wife and the wife to the husband for time and all eternity, thus securing to them  power of eternal increase and the blessing of endless lives, and emphasizing, as no earthly covenant alone could do, the sanctity of the marriage bond, and by inference or contrast, condemning the monstrous evil of divorce, when resorted to for trivial causes. 

Brethren and sisters, these are a few things which, I contend, raised Joseph Smith head an! shoulders above his fellows and attracted to him and to the Church converts from the nations of the earth, until the Church has prospered and grown to an extent beyond our expectations. 

The Lord said to Joseph Smith : "And verily, verily, I say unto you, whatsoever you seal upon the earth shall be sealed in heaven, and whatsoever you bind upon the earth, in my name and by my word, shall be eternally bound in the heavens, and whatsoever you loose upon the earth shall be loosed in heaven : and whosesoever sins vou remit on earth shall be remitted eternally in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you retain on earth, shall be retained in heaven." 

And again : "Verily I say, whomsoever you bless, I will bless : and whomsoever vou curse, I will curse, saith the Lord; for I, the Lord, am thy God." 

Thus to Joseoh Smith, like Peter of old, was eiven the kevs of the kingdom of heaven and thus was Toseph Smith, unlike any prophet that ever lived, placed at the head of this creat last dispensation, the dispensation of dispensations, even the dispensation of the fulness of times, when all things will be restored to their proper place and order and all things gathered into one. 

Brethren and sisters, I again sol repeat — Joseph Smith, the mighty prophet of God, was the most striking figure of the nineteenth century. The Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Selfishness, a principal cause of war — Peace and salvation result of heeding teaching of God's servants — The Gospel should be taught in our households, and to our neighbors — God's message to the world against liquor and tobacco. 

My brethren and sisters, I trust that the few words I speak this morning may be indited by our Heavenly Father, for I have no desire to talk unless He inspires me. 

The good things we have listened to during this conference will be food for reflection for me for many weeks to come, and I am grateful to be here, where all is peace. The world is in confusion, men running hither and thither, not thirsting for the word of God, but seeking to gratify their selfish desires and destroy each other's lives; and in Europe it has resulted in bringing about the greatest war this world has ever seen. In Mexico the spirit of murder, due to selfishness, has brought the people to a very unfortunate condition, all of which would not exist if the warring people understood and lived the Gosnel. Tt is gratifying to hear President Bentley say that the charity and patience of the Latter-dav Saints south of the Rio Grande is bearing fruit among their Mexican neighbors. It is quite difficult, usually, when we are smitten upon one cheek, to turn the other, but that is the Lord's wav to overcome the world. That is the commandment that has been given to the Latterday Saints, it is the Gospel of the Redeemer. 

Since our first parents lived in the Garden of Eden, the Lord has revealed Himself to the human family from time to time, and sought to safeguard them from the sorrow that overtakes men on account of selfishness. At intervals He has sent His prophets upon the earth, and they have repeated the kind advice of a loving Father to His children. The Old and New Testament scriptures are filled with counsel of the Lord, through His faithful servants in the old world. The Book of Mormon consists largely of the teachings of the prophets who, from age to age, taught the Gospel to the people of ancient America; and now, in our day, the Lord has raised up a prophet, revealed Himself to him, inspired him and illumined his mind to teach what is necessary for this generation to know. The thing that appeals to me is that the people, from father Adam until the present time, who have had the greatest joy and happiness in life have been those who have followed the teachings of the prophets of the Lord; those who have ignored them have paid the penalty in many cases by sorrow and destruction, missing the great blessings that our Father has placed within their reach. 

The Gospel that our Heavenlv Father desires all to understand is being promulgated in our day an! those who accept and live it will reap the happiness that follows. Fortunate are we who are assembled here today, that we understand and have accepted the truth an 1 that we are striving to make it a part of our lives. We send mission to the nations of the earth to proclaim the Gospel as revealed in this latter day. But that is not all our duty. Right at our doors, by die hundreds and thousands, are choice sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father. They live among us, we become friends, but we fail to teach them to the extent we i hould, concerning the Gospel that we know is the power of God unto salvation. The Presidency of the Church are doing all that lies in their power; they devote their time during the day, and often into the late hours of the night, in the interest of the Church. The brethren who are associated with them o'ive liberally of their time, traveling and teaching the Latter-day Saints and carrying the Gospel to our Father's children. The presidents of stakes, high counselors, bishops .of wards, and their assistants, labor unceasingly to bless the people, and their reward is sure. I hit are we doing all we ought, so that when we stand before the bar of our Heavenly Father He will say we have done our full duty by our fellows, His children ? Are we setting our own houses in order? Are we teaching our children faith in God that when sickness invades our homes they will call for the elders of the Church and have faith that our Father, the Great Physician, will heal them of their infirmities? Are we teaching those of our own household to repent of their shortcomings, teaching them rot to follow after the fashions of the world, that are calculated to destroy faith in God and detract from the glorious opportunities within our reach ? Are we teaching our children the necessity of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, calling their attention  the fact that it is the law of the Lord, who required His Only Begotten Son to go down into the waters of baptism in order to fulfill all righteousness? Are we teaching" our children the necessity of having the hands of the servants of God laid upon their heads, that they may receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which we are told will bring things past to our remembrance and teach us things that are yet to come? 

These are the first principles of the Gospel. They have been revealed anew in the day in which we live and fortunate, I say, are we that we have understood, them and that we are partakers of the blessings that follow their observance, for there is no other way. The Latter-day Saints are the only ones who bear the authority of our Heavenly Father to administer in the ordinances of the Gospel. The world has need of us. Throughout the earth are men and women who, if they understood, as we understand, would receive the Gospel of our Lord. I feel sometimes that we do not sufficiently sense the importance of it, that we do not teach it with the earnestness -it demands. Speaking of faith, something that 1 read recentlv comes to my mind. It is the teachings of the Prophet referred to by Moroni in the 7th chapter of the Book of Mormon, and reads as follows : 

"Wherefore, my beloved brethren, bath miracles ceased, because Christ hath ascended into heaven, and hath set down on the right hand of God. to claim of the Father His right of mercy which He hath upon the children of men? 

"For He hath answered the ends of the law, and He claimelh all those who have faith in Him, and they who have faith in Him, will cleave unto  good thing; wherefore He advocateth the cause of the children of men, and He dwelleth eternally in the 

heavens." 

This is the point, all those who have faith in Him will cleave unto every good thing. If we can but implant a knowledge of the Gospel of our Lord and faith in His ministry, in the hearts of the rising generation, we have gone a long way towards neutralizing the temptations and power of the adversary in this world. 

Quoting Moroni again, 

"Behold. I say unto you, it is by faith that miracles are wrought; and it is by faith that angels appear and minister unto men: wherefore, if these things have ceased, woe be unto the children of men, for it is because of unbelief, and all is vain." 

"For behold, the Spirit of Christ is given to- every man that he may know good from evil; wherefore I shew unto you the way to judge; for everything which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore you may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. 

"But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny Him. and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil, for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no, not one; neither doth his angels, neither do they who subject themselves unto him. 

"And now, my brethren, see that ye know the light by which ye may judge, which light is the light of Christ, see that ye do not judge wrongfully; for with the same judgment, ye shall also be judged. 

"Wherefore T beseech of you, brethren, that ye should search diligently in the light of Christ, that ye may know good from evil; and if ye will lay hold upon every good thing, and condemn it not. ye certainly will he a child of Christ." Our temporal welfare is of great importance. I endorse the teachings of this conference, to avoid the things that are so totally unnecessary and so terribly destructive of our lives. Our dear President in his opening address announced that we even now may be in the presence of our faithful leaders who have gone before. I am grateful for that suggestion and that testimony. What a happy influence it ought to have on our lives, if day by day, we could live so that our departed dear ones would desire to be near us. What a splendid thing it would be to live so that we could feel their presence and enjoy their companionship, even though they have passed to the other side. What joy will be ours if. day by day, we labor to radiate sunshine and inspire faith in the souls of man, that they may work righteousness, keep the commandments of our Father and look forward to a reunion with those who have gone before. 

I rejoice this day in a testimony of the divinity of the mission of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of th° world. I know, as I know that I live, that He is what we believe Him to be. I know that there is no other name under heaven wherebv we may hope to gain exaltation, but the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior. There is no other Gospel of salvation, and we. my brethren who bear the holv priesthood, have the responsibility of carrying that message, not only to the nations of the earth, but of exemplifying it in our lives and teaching it to those who are our neighbors, not of our faith. I warn you this day that the Lord holds us responsible to call ' His children to repentance and for the promulgation of His truth. If  fail to take advantage of our opportunities to teach the sons and daughters of God, who are not of our faith, who dwell in our midst, this Gospel of our Lord, He will require at our hands on the other side of the veil what we have failed to do, so let us not be recreant. 

I rejoice that a wave of prohibition is spreading over the land — another evidence of the Spirit of the Lord. I desire to read a testimony that is of the utmost importance with reference to the use of liquor and of tobacco. Wise men have testified that these things are not good, but I want to read to you the testimony of the Father of our spirits, the God who created us and who has placed us here that we might gain an exaltation. He says with reference to these things : 

"And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies." 

And again, "Tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly and is not good for man." 

What greater evidence should the Latter-day Saints require of the futility and the unwisdom of using those things, than the word of our Creator who gave us life? T am grateful that in the world men are beginning to understand. If they will not comprehend the scriptures, then by experience they are learning the lessons that our Father would have us know, that if we will keep His commandments, we will enjoy life here and farther than that, it will prepare us for the life beyond the veil. Oh, how °Tatefu1 I am for the knowledge that my Heavenly Father has given me. I know that Joseph Smith was n nr^ohot of the living- God and that the revelations given by our Father through him are for our uplift and  exaltation if we will only obey them. 

Brethren and sisters, let us do our part, let us this day make up our minds that from henceforth we will use our influence to drive from our midst every evil thing, by beginning at home, setting our own houses in order and then radiating our influence in love and kindness and by good works wherever possible. It is only a question of time until the liquor interests of this country will be banished and I hope and pray that the Latter-clay Saints will see to it that when they choose men to represent them in the State or Nation, that they will exercise their franchise as our Father in Heaven would have them do, and see to it that honorable men and good men are placed in positions who will remove from us, so far as possible, the temptations of the adversary, that our boys and girls may grow up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and gain eternal life. May the Lord add His blessings, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Jerusalem, my Glorious Home." 

Elder Theodore Erandlcy pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


