Afteroon
06 04 1916

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "God moves in a mysterious way." 

The invocation was offered by Elder Arthur Winter. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Our mountain home so dear." 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Universal redemption through obedience — Evil of contentions — Trinity of the Godhead — God the Father of spirit — Christ the Firstborn — Elohim, Jehovah and Michael in the creation — Adam head of the mortal human race, but not one of the 

Godhead —  Preexistence of Jesus Christ as Jehovah, a Personage of Spirit — Personality of the Holy Ghost — Plurality of Gods — Angels bearinr name of Deity — Christ the Word of God, the Redeemer of the World— God the Eternal Father to be worshiped and obeyed. 

I feel very much like President Smith did this morning in arising to address the congregation — I have not language to express the emotions of my heart in being privileged to assemble with you, my brethren and sisters, in this great congregation of Latter-day Saints. I am very thankful to God, our Eternal Father, for this blessing, and for having the testimony in my soul of the truth of those principles which were so grandly placed before us this morning by our President. There is nothing in the world that I know of which is so dear to my heart as the truth which has been revealed in these last days from God through His servant Joseph, the prophet. And when I think of the goodness of God to me during all the years that I have been associated with the Saints and labored in the ministry, I feel overwhelmed with gratitude and thanksgiving and praise. Praise be unto God our Eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost, and His servants who have been called in these last days to lay the foundations of the Church and Kingdom of our God! 

I would that all the world could see and understand these things as we do, but that is at present — I was going to say impossible — it can not be done at present, but I rejoice in the assurance given in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, in the revelations of the Lord to us, that the time will come when every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Lord, the Christ, to the glory of God the Father, and this will not be by compulsion or constraint, but by the willing desires of those who bow, they having been brought through sorrow and pain and suffering, penalties for their sins, into a condition ,of repentance and desire for the truth and a willingness to obey it. That to me is a glorious prospect. And the work of preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ which now devolves upon a few, will never be consummated entirely until that time shall come when every soul of Adam's race will have the opportunity of receiving and bowing to the truth as it is in Jesus Christ. 

There is a very great work to be performed when we think of that which has to be done in this regard. The gospel must be preached to every creature in the flesh and afterwards to every person in the spirit who has not heard it, until all the millions upon millions of the race of Adam shall have had the opportunity of bowing in obedience to the commandments of God and coming, to some degree, in communion with Him. At present, as we were told this morning, the duty devolves upon the Priesthood of this Church, in both its branches, in the Melchizedek and Aaronic branches of the priesthood, to minister in the name of the Lord by divine authority, and what they do under that authority in the way that the Lord has commanded is valid, and it has power and force in the heavens. What they administer on earth in the way that the Lord has appointed is recognized on high, and is of the same force and effect as though performed bv Deity. 

The truth which the Lord has revealed, naturally comes into col with error wherever it is found, and the time will come when all error, all untruth will have to give way and the truth will abound. It is by the truth that we shall be sanctified, that is, by obedience to it, as was explained to us today, not merely its reception in the mind, but its actual possession of us in all our being; that we live for the truth and by the truth and according to the truth and to the degree that we do that we become sanctified in our nature and come nearer to Him who is the fountain of truth, to us. Truth itself in the abstract is eternal, but there have been individuals who have been the embodiments of the truth and of all that is good and great, and our Heavenly Father is that embodiment, and Jesus Christ also, and the expression of it to us of all that is right and true and good. The eternal verities are embodied in them and are communicated to us as we are willing to receive them. When we do receive them, not merely in theory, but also in practice and make them ours in our lives, in our constitution, in our very being, so far we approach towards the perfection of Deity. 

The very first principle of our faith, announced in what is called the articles of our faith, is that we believe in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. These three separate personalities are placed in the very foundation of our faith, as its first doctrine or principle, and we ought to become thoroughly familiar with that which has been revealed concerning them and we ought to understand them alike. One of the very great beauties of our Church is that we are coming to union — the unity of the faith by the knowledge of the truth. When  know the truth and see it clearly we are alike in our perceptions and our understandings, and measureably according to our obedience in the government of our own natures by the truth. Sometimes, however, even in the Church of Christ, in which we are ''all baptized by one spirit into one body, whether we be Jew or Gentile, bond or free," of every race and tribe and kingdom and color, although we are baptized by water and by the spirit into one body and should be perfectly united, especially in doctrine and principle, yet like it was in the early Christian Church there are sometimes divisions among us in regard to many important things, and sometimes there are very sharp divisions upon thing's that are not so important. Our brethren in some of their class meetings and quorum meeting's, sometimes even in the theological departments of the Sunday schools they get divided in their opinions in regard to some very simple things — I was going to say silly things, but I don't want to be censorious — some things that are not worth spending time over. The reason I know about this is because T frequently personally receive letters from good friends in different parts of the Church, asking questions and declaring that there is a division of opinion among our brethren in regard to them. And the First Presidencv frequently receive communications from the brethren asking- for a decision on certain points that are really not worth discussing, that do not amount to anything, but there arc some things which are important for us to understand aright. 

Tt was very clearly shown to us this morning that we have one Eternal Father and that Jesus 

Christ is His Son, and that we also are His sons, with this difference, that we are all the sons of God in the spirit, that is in the spirit part of our nature, but Christ is also His Son in the flesh. I do not think there is any division of sentiment or opinion among our brethren and sisters in the Church concerning this fact, that the spirit part of man — that of course means woman too — is the offspring of God, God is the Father of our spirits. We often emote the saying of Paul, who seemed to have a very good idea in regard to all these things, or rather, if you do not believe that Paul wrote the Fpistle to the Hebrews as I do — (great dispute about that in the world) — in the Epistle to the Hebrews we are told that "we have had fathers of our flesh who corrected us and we gave them reverence," and the question is asked, "How much rather should we be in subjection to the Father of spirits, Heb. 12:9. There are many other texts in the old scriptures, in the Old Testament and in the New Testament, that I will not take time to quote this afternoon, because, as I have said, I think we are all agreed in regard to this one very important fact, this very encouraging truth, this thing that lifts up the soul of man above earthly things to the realization that his origin is not from the dust but from the Eternal God, the Creator, the Ruler, the Architect of the universe. He who made the worlds, and as we heard today, controls and governs and directs them, is actually our F"ather, not in some mystical sense, not in some mere theory, but we were begotten of Him. In the revelation contained in the 76th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants we are told that the inhabitants of the worlds are "begotten sons and daughters unto God." There may be more in that than we see at the first glance, but the result of it all is in our minds, if we are at all logical, that the great Eternal God is our Father and we are begotten of Him or UNTO Him and to Him we owe allegiance, to Him we owe obedience, because He is our Father and our God and our King. We should obey Him because of His parentage to us; we should obey Him because we are His children and He has the right to our obedience, and being so high and exalted and lifted up, He understands us better than we understand ourselves and He has our destiny in His hands and He has power over life and over death and we should be obedient to Him because of our relationship to Him. That seems clear to me and I believe it is to you and to the great body of the Latterday Saints, the Church. 

There still remains, I can tell by the letters I have alluded to, an Lea among some of the people that Adam was and is the Almighty and Eternal God. He is the father of his race, of course, the great patriarch over the human family, and being begotten unto him, he is the father of us in our earthly condition, in our mortality, and stands as the primal patriarch. But God says He put him there. Now, so far as that is concerned that is all right. In the 107th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, you will read about that. Three years before his death we are told Adam gathered together the majority of his posterity who were righteous into the valley of Adam-OndiAhman, and they rose up and bles'sed him and called him Michael the prince, the arch-angel, and the 

Lord appeared unto them. Now, mark you, there was Adam and his posterity, so far as they were brought forth at that time, and the Lord appeared to them — that wasn't Adam, was it? "And the Lord administered comfort unto Adam and said : I have set thee to be at the head" — the head of his race, the head of the human family in their mortal condition — "I have set thee to be at the head; a multitude of nations shall come of thee and thou art a prince over them forever" (verses 53-55). 

Here is Adam with his posterity, they recognizing him and acknowledging him as their patriarch and father and prince, and recognizing the fact that in his first estate he was Michael, recognizing also that the Lord appears and declares He places Adam at the head. Now, Adam had transgressed a law and because of that he had to pay the penalty, and because of that, death came upon his posterity on natural principles, (as we will understand better when we comprehend fully how these things occur, and how our tendencies and traits and taints are handed down from the fathers to the children to the different generations that come). But although he had transgressed, that had been foreseen, and, according to the revelations that we have, a plan had been prepared before this transgression took place whereby the results of it might be removed and whereby a blessing might come in that very thing that was called "the curse." That the knowledge of good and evil might come to mankind, that they might have an opportunity of showing whether they loved the truth and loved the good or loved the evil and the untruth, and that they might be judged ac to their works, and that their different capabilities and their different degrees of worthiness or unworthiness might be exhibited and developed and showed forth so that justice might be done and that mercy might be extended where it was needful, that mercy should not rob justice and justice should not rob mercy, the Lord, in view of the fact that a Redeemer had been prepared from the foundation of the world for the redemption of the whole human family, in their different degrees, smiled upon Adam and blessed him and placed him at the head of his posterity as the great patriarch of the race, as a prince over them forever. 

Now, because of that and some other little matters that might be mentioned, the notion has taken hold of some of our brethren that Adam is the being that we should worship. This has been explained, I think, from this stand several times, but notwithstanding that, peculiar ideas get into people's minds, not always becausethey are stubborn and wilfull and wicked or that they desire anything that is wrong, but because it gets into their heads and it is a very hard job to get it out of their heads, like the Scotchman who asked the Lord to keep him in the right path so that he might not go "wrang, for the Lord knew that if he once got anything into his head, it would be a mighty hard job to get it out of him." That is the way it is with lots of our folks, not because they are all Scotchmen, however, the idea has obtained in the minds of some of the brethren and we ought to get right concerning it. I am sorry that has not been rectified long ago, because plain answers have been given to brethren and  who write and desire to know about it, and yet it still lingers, and contentions arise in regard to it, and there should be no contentions among the Latter-day Saints. It is all right for people to have their own views and express them, if they will do it in a proper spirit; it is all right for people to stand up for what they really believe to be true, but when this spirit of contention comes, then, as we are told in the Book of Mormon, it is of the devil. 

Now, if Adam, as claimed by some of our brethren, is the being that we should worship, to whom we should pray, who was that person that put Adam at the head of his race ? Who was the person that Adam prayed to ? Adam prayed to God and we are told, as we can find in the Pearl of Great Price, which gives us a great deal of information on this matter, as revealed to Moses, and as revealed to Enoch, that Adam, after his transgression, was taught the gospel, the same gospel that we have, and the Lord said He would not suffer that Adam should die as to the temporal death until He "sent forth angels to proclaim faith and redemption through the name of His Only Begotten Son" (see Doc. and Cov. Sec. 29). So that Adam had to believe and repent and be baptized as we have to do, and we are told that he was baptized "in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost." So Adam was neither the Father, nor the Son, nor the Holv Ghost, was he? Then, who was he? Why, we are told he was Michael in his first estate, and as Adam he will stand at the head of his race. Daniel saw him "in the night vision" — Michael who was the archangel before he came here. Re-' member when you talk about Adam, that name only applies to the man Adam on the earth with a body made out of the dust, but Michael, the archangel, the Ancient of days did sit; so Daniel saw, and "ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him." And, then, we are told, "One like the Son of Man came in the clouds of heaven and was brought before the Ancient of days, and there was given Him dominion and an everlasting kingdom that all people should serve him" (Daniel 7:9-14). We will find that this will be the case; for when we learn a little more about this person — the Son of Man — we will see that this is His due — that He will be at the head of the Kingdom; He will be King of kings, and Lord of lords. He is "the first and the last," so He proclaims. You will find it in the Old Testament and in the New, and in the Book of Mormon, and in the Pearl of Great Price, that He is "The First and the last" and that all things were made by Him and they are of Him and through Him and for Him. 

Now, who is this person, this Jesus Christ? Is He Adam or a son of Adam? Not at all, except in the sense that Jesus of Nazareth was born of Mary, and therein was His humanity and that is traced right up to Adam, of course, in the scriptural genealogy. But who was the Father of Jesus Christ before He came on the earth in the flesh? We read in the Book of Mormon that when He appeared to the Nephites on this continent, He told them that He was the person that gave the law unto Moses. Who was it that gave the law to Moses ? We are told it was Jehovah. Well, was Jesus Jehovah? Yes, according to the scriptures, both ancient  modern, and that seems to be a stumbling block in the way of a few of our brethren. (See Doc. and Cov., Sec. 10:3, 4.) We are told by revelation that in the creation of the earth there were three individuals, personally engaged. This is more particularly for the Temple of God, but sufficient of it has been published over and over again to permit me to refer to it. Elohim, — not Floheim, as we spell it sometimes — that is a plural word meaning the gods, but it is attached to the individual who is the Father of all, the person whom we look to as the great Eternal Father. Elohim, Jehovah and Michael, were engaged in the construction of this globe. Jehovah, commanded by Elohim, went down to where there was space, saying to Michael : "Let us go down, for there is space there, and we will organize an earth whereon these [the spirits that are around us] may dwell, and we will prove them herewith to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them." You can read about that in the Pearl of Great Price — Book of Abraham, chapter 3. Now, when the work was done, which you read about in the Book of Genesis and more particularly in the Book of Moses and in the Book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price, when that was done. Michael became Adam and was placed in the Garden of Eden, as we read in ancient and modern revelations, and Eve was given to him to be his wife, bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh, and it is announced that no man should put asunder that which God had joined together. 

You see, do you not, that Michael became Adam and that Adam was not the Son Jehovah, and he was  Elohim the Father. He occupied his own place and position in the organization of the earth and in the production of mortal beings on the earth. Jesus of Nazareth was the Jehovah who was engaged with the Father in the beginning, and we are told in the 93rd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants that Jesus says concerning Himself, "I also was in the beginning with the Father and am the first-born." "Ye were also in the beginning with the Father, that which is spirit." That part of us which is spirit, was in the beginning with God, because we are His children and Jesus was there, the person that is called Jesus in the flesh, and He was the firstborn, that is how He is the first. "I am the first and the last. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end." He was the beginning of the spirits who people this earth, "the beginning of the creation of God," as we read in the Colossians and in the Book of Revelation, "the first-born of every creature" in the spirit. But, in the flesh He was the "Only Begotten Son" of the Father. Mary was his mother. She was of the House of David and therefore Jesus fulfilled the prediction that the Messiah was to be of the House of David, and of the seed of Abraham, and the seed of the woman who should bruise the serpent's head, as we read in the Book of Genesis. 3:15. 

I want to draw a clear distinction between these individuals that wc may stop this discussion that is going on to no purpose. Who is Adam? Adam is our father, certainly. He is the great father of the race, but we have had fathers that corrected us at home and we gave them reverence. Yes, that is right, but do we worship them and  to them ? Oh, no. Then why should we want to pray to Adam, who away back in the remote centuries was at the head of his race and in that sense is our father? He occupies the place that he was expected to occupy and did the work he was expected to perform, but after he transgressed and brought death into the world, "as by one man's disobedience death came into the world so by one man's obedience and righteousness life came into the world. So that "as in Aclam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive," all be resurrected, every one, bad and good and indifferent, all races and colors, and sizes and ages as they were laid down, so they will come forth, and it is through the power of the resurrection in Jesus Christ that they come forth. 

Let us cite the Book of John the Apostle, it is a splendid thesis. The Lord refers to it in the 93rd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, wherein John proclaimed that Jesus was in the beginning with God. He says : "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made," and Jesus declares in this revelation, 93rd section, that He was the person called the Word. He was not merely the word coming from the mouth of God, but He was the expression of the Father, He was the expression of God's word and will. All things are of God, as Paul said, and we of Him and all things by Jesus Christ and we by Him. When Joseph the prophet received his first manifestation from God, the Father and the Son appeared. The Father did not say a great deal, but we shall find that has been His course from the very beginning, because the Son was His Word. He declared : "This is my beloved Son, hear Him." And He, the Son, was that being, as He told the Nephites, who gave the law to Moses (3 Nephi 15:5) and He was the Being who had charge of matters from the very beginning. In the Deity there are the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and our father Adam was baptized in their holy name and he is not either one of them. Just remember that. 

In the fifth chapter of the Gospel according to St. John, Jesus speaks very clearly on matters that may seem mysterious to some people. You know there are some of our brethren who have thought that Jesus, in His first estate, as we call it, or in His former state, was a resurrected being. I do not know where they get the idea from, but it is likely from this, that He was called God by John the Revelator and by a great number of writers in the Book of Mormon and in the Doctrine and Covenants and in other revelations. "He was in the beginning with God, and was God;" and He could not be a god, they say, unless He had a body, had passed through mortality and had been resurrected. What scripture did they find to suggest that notion? I don't know of any revelation that declares it. I don't know of any that intimates at all that He could not be God unless He had passed through a mortal probation and had been tried and tempted and had suffered; that He could not be God beforehand; but we are told that in the beginning He was with God, and He says that the Father had shown Him all things that He Himself doeth. That is in the fifth chapter of the Gospel according to 

St. John. I will not take time to stop and turn to it. You read it. He was in conversation with some of the Pharisees, and they did not like His proclamining Himself to be the Son of God. " In the 10th chapter it is said they took up stones to throw at Him because He said He was the Son of God. And Jesus proclaimed the truth that there are several persons called God, just as Paul does in his First Epistle to the Corinthians. (Chapter 8:5, 6.) "Though there be many that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth," says Paul, "as there be gods many and lords many. But to us there is but one God, the Father of whom are all things and we in Him and one Lord, Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by Him." Jesus quoted the Psalms in regard to this. The Psalmist said, "I have said ye are gods, and all of you are children of the most high." (82:6.) Now, said Jesus, if he called them Gods, to whom the word of the Lord came, why do you find fault with me and desire to stone me for saying that I am the son of God? In the Psalm 82 it begins, "God standeth in the congregation of the mightv. Pie judgeth among the gods." 

There are gods many and lords many, but unto us, for our obedience and our worship, and our adherence to His word, there is one living and true God -the Creator of this and many other worlds, and we look to Him as the author of our life, by and through His Beloved Son, who was with Him from the beginning. The Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit as we are told, in the 130th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Father is a person with a body of flesh and bones, . the Son also, (He is now, undoubtedly), and the Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit. Now that 1 Joly Ghost, a personage of spirit, is also called God. Take the 20th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. In the laying of the very foundation of the organization of the Church it is declared most distinctly that, "The Father, Son and Holy Ghost, are one God." Just as in the presidency of a stake or of a quorum or of the Church there are three distinct and separate individuals, but one presidency of the quorum, or of the stake, or of the Church, so there are three separate and distinct persons, the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, as one Deity. Now who is the Son? The first-born, the beloved Son of God, whom He put at the head of all things, the heir of all things "by whom also He made the worlds." I am quoting scripture. Now, when God the Father placed Jesus Christ in a position, or placed Jehovah in any position and gave Him commandment to do this that and the other, He would not tell Him to do anything that He could not do. That is one of the fundamentals of our Gospel. "Surely the Lord God will command nothing of the children of men but He prepareth a way whereby they can accomplish it." God gave full power and authority to Jesus Christ, as we call Him now, that is His name, and He was named beforehand in the revelations of God,, as we can read in the Pearl of Great Price, His Beloved Son, He was with Him from the beginning. He was obedient in all things. He did no wrong when He was in that condition, nor when He was in the body. He as innocent of any transgression. He loved righteousness. 

He hated iniquity; and "therefore God anointed Him with the oil of gladness above His fellows." 

How many millions of ages ago it was when He became the firstborn, I don't know; it is not revealed. A great many things concerning our history before we came here are not revealed and will not be, perhaps, until we get into a further state of progression; but the Father placed His Son, His "Beloved Son," to look after the affairs of this world and to direct them, and He was in the creation, as I have explained and as I have quoted from the scriptures. In this Sth Chapter of John, Jesus goes on to explain to the people that He did nothing of Himself, but that which the Father sent Him to do, that Fie -did; and He said, "The Son doeth nothing but what He seeth the Father do, for the Father loveth the Son and showeth Him all things that He Himself doeth." (verse 20.) Now, if the Father, in the course of His great experience as revealed through the Prophet Joseph, had passed through the "estate" of mortals that He might be placed in the same conditions of trial, so was Jesus thus placed, and the Lord showed to Jesus all about this. He showed to Him all about the organization of the worlds. "The Father loveth the Son and showeth Him all things that He Himself doeth, and He will show Him greater works than these, that ye may marvel;" so we read. Then He goes on to tell, in regard to the resurrection, from the dead, what will become of all people. All being brought forth from their graves through His power as "the resurrection and the life," some to eternal life and glory and some to everlasting condemnation. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

That being the case. He understood all about it by sight, and the time being set when lie should come to the earth and take a body, He was qualified to do that for which He was appointed in the beginning. We need not have any dubiety about His understanding all that. There is no need for the theory that He must have had a body before coming to this earth, and there is nothing that establishes it by revelation. The mere opinions of men do not count for very much. 

The Holy Ghost as "a personage of spirit," whom Jesus Christ said he would send from the Father, and who would not come unless Jesus went away (John 16:7) was not and is not a "being of tabernacle," but, without a body of flesh and bones, he represents both the Father and the Son and is one ot the Godhead. (I John 5:7.) The Holy Trinity operate by the power and presence of the Divine spirit which permeates all things and is the life and the light of all things. Thus our Father is everywhere present, while as an individual He dwells in heaven "in the midst of all things," and so with the other personages in the Godhead. 

If you will read the first and second chapters of the Epistle to the Hebrews, you will learn there that it became necessary, in order to lead many sons unto glory and salvation, that Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, should be in all points as they are. Tf that is so, then he was a spirit in the spirit world when we were spirits and He was the first-born. Therefore it says, "as the children are made partakers of flesh and blood, He also Himself likewise took part of the same," so that He might puffer temptations like the rest, that 

He might pass through all these conditions of mortality in His own experience, and be raised from the dead. "Wherefore in all things it_ behoved Him to be made like unto Hi^-brethren." (Heb. 2:14-17.) 

One other point in regard to it: When Jesus was on the cross, what did He say just before His last, expiring moment? "Father, into Thy hands I commend my spirit!" and having said thus He gave up the ghost.." (Luke 23:26.) He was a spirit dwelling in a mortal body and He gave up the spirit just like we have to — "g; ave up the ghost." As I said, He was the first of all and He will be the last, because when He receives the kingdom from the Ancient of Days, after it is all purified and perfected, and the earth is redeemed, and the inhabitants thereof are cleansed from their transgressions through His atonement, He will present the kingdom to the Father. "The first and the last!" He is the only begotten of the Father in the flesh, the first begotten in the spirit, a great and mighty Being. He wrought more wonders when He came on the earth than we have any understanding of. He was the Mighty God, as proclaimed by the Prophet Isaiah,, the Wonderful Counselor, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, whom we can gladly adore. When we pray, we are told directly how to pray, and a sample is given to us in the blessing of the bread and of the water in the sacrament: "Oh, God, the Eternal Father, we ask Thee in the name of Jesus Christ, Thy Son," so and so; that is the pattern for our prayers. We pray to the Eternal Father, whom we have named Elohim. We pray to Him in the name of Jesus Christ, for Jesus 

Christ is His Word, He is the expression of God's will, He was with the Father in the beginning. The Father has placed His name upon Him. God sometimes places His name in angelic beings, ministering spirits, as you can read in the first chapter of Revelation and the first verse : "The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave to Him to show unto His servant things which must shortly come to pass, and He sent by His angel and delivered it to His servant, John." In the last chapter of the Book we read about John bowing to worship that being but he told him not to do it, for he was one of his fellow-servants and of his brethren, the prophets." Then the angel said, "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginnig and the end, the first and the last." (Rev. 22:13.) Well, was He? He was speaking for Jesus, the Christ, as Christ speaks for the Father when He is so appointed. See also the appointment of the angel spoken of in Kxodus 23 :20 : "Behold I send an angel before thee to keep thee in the way. Beware of him and obey his voice : provoke him not for he will not pardon your transgressions for My Name is in him." 

There isn't time for me to go any further on this matter. I have taken up a great deal more time than I had intended to do, but I have started on this point and it is for the purpose that we may avoid contentions and discussions that arise among us for no needful purpose. God the Eternal Father who made the world, by and through Jesus Christ, is our Father and our God and we worship and adore Him. and as we have been taught to do today we should obey Him. That is the great point. Take His word  live by it. Live by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Jesus taught that "a man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God." J_esus_of Nazareth^ bom of the virgin Mary, was literally and truly the Son of the Father, the Eternal God, not of Adam. Don't think so for a moment. Christ was the Son of God, of God the Father; the Father of His Spirit was the Father of His body. He was an exalted man who had passed through all things that Jesus Christ, His Beloved Son, afterwards passed through. It was a repetition of the things that had been done from remote, eternal ages, the great plan of salvation for all the people of all the worlds that God has created. He is not a mere force or etherial immateriality, but is the embodiment in His personality of light, truth, virtue, justice, mercy, energy and all the eternal verities. 

God help us to see and understand the truth and to avoid error! And don't let us be too strong in our feelings in regard to our opinions of matters. Let us try to be right. I have prayed from a boy, when I first heard the Gospel, that I might see the truth as God sees it, that I might have it as it really is, and the Lord has blessed me in answer to that prayer. I don't pretend to say that I do not make mistakes like other people do. I don't mean that, but I mean that my heart is set to find out the right and the truth; and while "God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform," I don't expect to have made known to me anything that should not be revealed, but the things that have been revealed I have studied and reflected upon and prayed about, and I know that the light of God, by the power of the Holy Ghost, has rested upon me and qualified me in my labors and lit up my soul with the light of eternity and drawn me nearer to Him. He is my Father and my God. And I venerate and rejoice in the atonement of Jesus Christ His Son and believe in Him with all my heart. Jesus of Nazareth, who was put to death on the cross, is the Son of God in the spirit and in the body. He is, therefore, our elder brother, and we should follow Him and emulate His example, embody all His virtues as near as we can, for He is our head over this Church, the living spiritual head. He made it, he organized it under the direction of the Holy One, our great Eternal Father. And now, praise and glory be unto God the Father, and to His Son Jesus Christ and to the Holy Ghost, who speaks for both the Father and the Son and is with the Church to enlighten it by the power of the Eternal spirit, even so. Amen. 

A duet, entitled, "Stay Thou with me," was sung by Geneva Harris and James H. Neilson; words and music by Evan Stephens. 

PREST. FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Temporal salvation of our people carefully considered — Worthy and capable persons selected for Church offices — Each President of Church specially qualified for -time of ministry — Astonishing outlay by Church for educational purposes, etc., — Successful efforts in home industries — Great advantages in obeying Word of Wisdom — Honest tithe-payers also pay their debts — The habit of saving inculcated. 

I feel very grateful for our presence on this occasion and for the  Spirit that has attended the First Presidency in their discourses to us today, for they have been superior. They always talk well, but I feel that they have talked a little better today than usual. I am sure that the Latter-day Saints have felt fed with the word of the Lord. Our understanding of the Gospel has been enlightened, and our faith strengthened; and I trust that we will do better in the future, serve the Lord more perfectly and have His favor and fellowship abiding always with us. 

I am reminded occasionally, as I presume all the brethren are, of the necessity of employment for the Latter-day Saints. I suppose the Presiding Bishopric are advised of these necessities and are doing everything in their power to find labor for those who are unemployed. In our state, as I suppose in other states as well, there are armies of people quite generally at labor, and yet always some needing employment. We are admonished of the necessity of production from the rich soils that we enjoy and the resources about us to provide for the temporal salvation of the people; for we not only need salvation spiritually but we need salvation temporally. I thought of this today, when looking over one of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, that refers particularly to the temporal salvation of the people. I was led, a few weeks ago, at one or two different conferences, to draw the attention of the presiding brethren and the people generally to the temporal salvation that is necessary for us; and I believe that it is not only good for Latter-day Saints but for everybody in the world. It is a doctrine that secures temporal salvation and prosperity to all people  will observe it. It has been given to us now for a great many years, at least, before I was born, and has been before us. It has been taught us continuously and we have undertaken to observe it, and have done so fairly well in very many instances. Still, hardly any of us have been quite perfect in that law. I don't know that there is any other revelation in which that same ex-, pression is used, except the one — a revelation for the temporal salvation of the Saints, and yet applicable and good to everybody else. I have discovered also that many other people have been imbued with this doctrine and principle, and are advocating it. It looks to me as though the Lord was working among the children of men for their temporal salvation as well as ours. I thank the Lord for this word and will, doctrine and counsel, which He gave to us so early in our history, and I thank Him for the hold it has upon the Latter-day Saints. I am proud to discover, as I have been able to do, that our chief brethren at home and abroad, those who are entrusted with responsibility and are required to be the shepherds of the people, and who stand as men sounding a note of warning upon the walls of Zion, for the welfare of the people — that these men as a rule are well established in the faith and in the practice of the doctrine I refer to. 

I listened on fast day to a very excellent discourse by President Smith in which he drew our attention to the splendid elements that have been developed in our posterity, in our children, who are born unto the Lord under the new covenant; to the integrity that has been inherited by them, and how reliable and trusty and true they are to the  of Zion. I appreciated it, as I am sure all did who heard him speak. Since that my mind has been turned also to the field of labor which I have been in since I was twenty years of age; practicallyall my life, so far as that is concerned; but since I was twenty years of age it has fallen to my lot to be associated with leading brethren, presiding brethren in quorums and wards, and in stakes and missions. I want to say that the testimony given by President Smith in regard to the results of our family relations, the fruit that has been produced under the covenant, the reliability and trustworthiness of our children, can also be borne concerning the remainder of those brethren and sisters, produced among the Latter-day Saints, who hold responsible positions. And a feature that I discover and bear in mind is that in our organization, so complete and so perfect, so valuable and so saving in its nature, it is the rule that we seek always, under the direction of the Lord and His counsel, for the very choicest and best men and women for positions of responsibility; and I want to bear this testimony in the presence of this congregation, that almost universally, we have been well satisfied, and have rarely ever made a mistake. It is very seldom that we find a brother or a sister who is not trustworthy. I want to say this for those upon whom this authority and responsibility rest at this time. There may be quite a percentage who are not, possibly, doing the very best they can, yet are all struggling to do the right thing. But when we go into the field we never find competition among the brethren and sisters to see who shall obtain positions of responsibility. We do in politics, but not in any of our religious organizations. In the wards and in the stakes of Zion, in the councils and quorums and associations and departments of Zion, we take time to deliberate, to consider carefully, and to weigh men and women for positions, and always try to find the best suited, the best qualified, those that fit the position and responsibility best. We have done that and are doing it all the time; and it is a delightful thing to us that there is no struggle one against another and no anxiety to see which shall overcome. We advise with our brethren and sisters in regard to the positions in which they are interested; and I want to say in their behalf that it is a very rare thing, I can hardly tell when one has been censured, or fault found with. Changes are made, must be, necessarily so, occasionally, as circumstances require on account of removal of people or the arising of new conditions; but it is a rare thing that one is ever dismissed because of transgression, either at home or abroad. I wanted to say that much for the record of the Latter-day Saints. 

When I heard the President's report as to what has been accomplished in fourteen years, I was brought to remember that his administration is just about the same length as the Prophet Joseph's, just about fourteen years. I have, during the last few months, referred on some occasions to the various administrations. There have been no two of them alike. There never has been one just like the present, never was one just like President Snow's, never one just like President Woodruff's; never one just like President Taylor's; never one just like President Young's, never one just like  Prophet Joseph's. His was the first, laying the foundation. He was the law-giver, giving the word and will of God, and establishing it and perpetuating it to his successors and the Church. I spoke of these administrations and I felt as though it was very proper I should. There may be those here present who heard me speak on that subject. I would not wonder if there were; but I drew attention to the fact that every administration had its peculiar features, for which it has been remarkable, and that this administration is the administration for building, at home and abroad, and the establishment of Church schools and their support. It is astonishing the amount that we have done for the cause of education. We have all helped with our tithing and offerings, our labors and our intelligence. We have done marvels; no people in the world that have made such an effort in regard to Sunday schools and the training of young people. I sometimes think we have pretty near overdone, by the efforts we have made, and there is a rule to regulate and put everything in order as it should be so that no one could slip out or be lost. The efforts of splendid scholarly men who are gathered together in our general boards and associations, the best that we have among the people, with all the advantages that can be brought to their assistance, are being employed now for the benefit of the rising generation. 

It is astonishing what is being accomplished, but I want to say just briefly that it is very desirable for the temporal salvation of the Latterday Saints and of the people of our state. (I speak of the Latter-day Saints because we are talking of them, and to them, and our work  with them; but we are also with the people of the state), it is necessary for the temporal salvation of the people of our state that there should be employment and home industries established. The earth should be cultivated and give fortli its rich fruits in all the various lines that are necessary. We have done wonders in a few lines — just what should be done in very many others. The sugar industry is one of the most prominent achievements. It was the ideal thought apparently of President Young in his day, and of President Taylor following him, both of them together making efforts for that purpose. It just seemed as though it was the most important industry, more important than anything else that could be established. And now it has been made a grand success. Now, those who grow the fruit, and vegetables should arrange for canning and taking care of them and supplying them to our neighbors; instead of our buying from our California neighbors and other neighbors, we want to be selling to them. We want to do the same and make the same success in the canning and taking care of fruits and meats that we have done in the sugar business, so that we shall bring means into the country, furnish employment, that there shall be nobody in Zion without labor, but all have something to do, to remunerate them. 

Then further, I want us to bear in mind this doctrine that I have been referring to. I shall not read the whole revelation but just a little of it that was given for the especial temporal salvation of the people, and I would like to emphasize some parts of this revelation that possibly we have not thought so much of as we should do; for it is given not  that we may have health and strength in our bodies and live a long time, that the destroyer may pass us by as he did in the days of Israel, but it is for our temporal salvation, that is, that we should have all our temporal necessities met and that we should not be clamoring as of the poor and those that are needy. 

SECTION 89. 

Revelation Given Through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27th, 1833. 

1. A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and church; and also the Saints in Zion. 

2. To be sent greeting — not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days. 

3. Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints. 

4. Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation, 

5. That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before Him. 

6. And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make. 

7. And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. 

8. And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

9. And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

10- And again, verily T say unto you, all wholesome herbs .God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man. 

11. Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

12. Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; etc. 

And the things that are thus forbidden in the law, — strong drinks and wine, and tea and coffee, (called hot drinks that were in vogue in the days when this revelation was given), and tobacco, — these things that are expensive, extravagant, destructive of life and health and destructive of means, it is more than wasteful, it is very serious and dangerous to the people to indulge in them, and they tend to poverty. They may be of some profit to those who deal in them, those who buy and sell them, but it is poverty to most of those who engage in the use of these things, which are altogether worthless, improper and wicked, injurious, hurtful, taking life, shortening life and giving us trouble. For if the tea and coffee, and the tobacco and the liquor and the beer that are used in our state, were let alone and the means turned to its proper use and purpose, everybody would be suitably clothed, suitably housed, and all our obligations would be reasonably met, and we would not be in debt. We would be out of debt and have everything that we require, instead of suffering and having those among us begging for employment. We would know how to save our little means, as it should be taken care of. For the tobacco money and the liquor money and the monev for tea and coffee, everv 

('ollar of it, as a rule, should be saved, except that which is used for medicine, carefully used, as it should be in case of sickness; and we would find that the Latter-day Saints would be thrifty and prosperous, and we would now be living more perfectly under this law, given long before I can remember, and which we have struggled to observe and done fairly well. As I say, the leading men and the leading women of the Church as a rule have made a splendid effort and have set good examples before us. I was delighted, in regard to our financial matters, to find what the President has reported today, the truth in regard to what has been accomplished in fourteen years. Only fourteen years ago, if you will remember, the Church had passed through a very serious struggle under the administration of President John Taylor and President Wilforcl Woodruff; and when it came to the inauguration of President Snow's administration, it was the burning question with the leaders of this Church, to know what to do and how to do it, to redeem our obligations. Brethren had to come to the rescue of the Church at that time and before, as the Church was embarrassed and was struggling under difficulties. But when the Lord in simple language to President Snow, said, "Let my people pay their tithing," and the people responded in such measure that, as reported by the President here, in 1906 we met our obligations and have been in good condition ever since. And those who have been faithful in the meeting of their obligations to the Lord have also, I have no doubt, been faithful in their obligations to their brethren; for it is as great a virtue  a man to do by his brother as he would do by the Lord. His obligations to his brother are just as sacred as the obligations to the Lord. Hence you will find, as a rule, those who are very strict and careful in regard to settling with the Lord and in due season thereof, will do the same with their brethren, so that our neighbors will not suffer because of what we owe them. Our merchants, bankers, and business men will receive their own; those that labor for us, build for us, we will meet these obligations honorably, and thus the circulating medium will pass with the people and all our obligations be met, and the necessities of those who help us will be met also. Hence, I want to exhort my brethren and sisters, that we remember this law and that we observe it so that we shall have the sinews of life and of business that are necessary to meet the requirements of our present condition. 

It takes a world of means to supply our missionary field. I don't know that the President quite gave us that information, but you woul 1 be astonished if the figures were shown to you of what it costs to handle the missionary work of the Latter-day Saints : including the time of the men, and the means that they have to furnish, to pay their own expenses. It amounts to figures of larjje proportions. The Twelve are laboring constantly to try and have the brethren be just as economical and careful as they can in their ministry. 

We want to be economical and careful in our home ministry, in our affairs at home, and every man and everv woman should have faith enough in their employment and in their posterity to lay by a little  in the savings department, so that they always have something ahead instead of always being in debt. I teach that lesson to the boys, I teach it to the girls, so that when they start in life they start with the understanding that it is possible for them to save a little something. And I want to tell you what to save — save all the tea and coffee money, all the tobacco .money, every dollar of it, every dollar of the beer and liquor and whisky money. Let no moneygo for these things at all. I fear that sometimes young people are growing up with an inclination to using those things that are forbidden. They should be restrained. We should take great care with our children, and with our neighbors, and with each other to prevent the waste of means upon those things that are destructive to human life and destructive to our temporal interests. Let us look out and be careful in this regard. Let the Latter-day Saints take this warning and advice and see that there is a saving in this respect; for in the way of every family, there is none so poor but what there are times and opportunities where something can be saved. No family so poor, if they are so inclined, but what they can furnish tea and coffee, and no man so poor that he can't buy his cigar or tobacco or cigarette; no man so poor that cannot find his beer and his liquor if it is in the country. They have resources to meet those things, and those are the resources that should be turned to savings accounts, so that all may have something to help them on a "rainy day" and in times of sickness. I want to make that exhortation in your presence, my brethren and sisters, and trust that the Latter-day Saints may profit thereby, and our friends and neighbors as well. 

May the Lord bless and sanctify to our good the things that we have heard this day and that we shall hear during this conference, that it may be a time of rejoicing. I don't know when I have ever come to a conference that I felt more delighted and happy than on this occasion; and I leave my blessing, as I am sure you have the blessing of my brethren. The testimony of President Smith as given in our favor here today, I think is wonderfully fine, and I want to bear the same kind of testimony for our brethren that are "treading the winepress" in their various stakes and wards and missions, and the sisters who are laboring in their various positions, seconding our efforts and labors for the salvation of the people. May the Lord bless us and bless all Israel, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hvrmn M. Smith. 

George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Seymour B. Young, Brigham IT Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Williard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer of the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen and Guy C. Wilson. 

Auditing Committee : William 

W. Writer, Henry IT. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, and Joseph S. Wells. 

Tabernacle Choir : Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; John Drakeford, librarian; and all the members. 

Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the annual report of the Church Auditing Committee, as follows : 

Salt Lake City, Utah, 

April 6th, 1916. Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W . Penrose, First Presidency of the Church of 

Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Dear Brethren : The Church Auditing Committee begs leave to report that we have critically examined the books and accounts for 1915 of the Trustee-in-Trust and of the Presiding Bishopric, as well as the reports made by the various Stakes, Wards, Temples, general auxiliary organizations and other institutions in' which the Church is interested. All of the accounts of receipts and disbursements of the Church funds are set out in full detail, and have been accurately kept and recorded. 

Your committee is especially pleased to comment again on the diligence and careful bookkeepingexhibited in all accounts that have been inspected. Our audit discloses not only faithful and accurate work, but also skill and devotion in using the funds contributed by the Saints for the best interests of the people. It is pleasing to make special mention of the liberal appropriations that have been made for the support of the poor, both at home and abroad, for the education of the children of the Saints, for the erection, enlargement and improvement of meeting houses in the Stakes and Wards of Zion, and in the Missions abroad. 

May the blessings of God continue to abide with you in discharging the great responsibilities connected with the work of the Lord, Respectfully submitted. 

Your Brethren in the Gospel, W. W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft, Church Auditing Committee. 

On motion, the foregoing was accepted, and approved, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder John Wells. 


AFTERNOON SESSION. 


