15
Morning
08 04 1900
Elder Reed Smoot, 

of the Council of the Twelve, said: 

"My dear brethren and sisters, I feel exceedingly weak in standing before this vast audience this afternoon. No doubt many of you are surprised at my being called to this position, but I can assure you that no one in this audience was more astonished than I. Five years ago I was called by the mouthpiece of God to occupy a position in the presidency of the Utah Stake. That was a surprise to me at that time and I thought then that the Lord moves in a mysterious way. This afternoon when the mouthpiece of the Lord told me it was the will of the Lord that I should occupy a position as one of the Twelve Apostles, I certainly felt a more humble and more weak instrument in his hands for doing good than ever I did in my life. I beg of the brethren of the Twelve to bear with me in my mistakes. I beseech of you, my brethren and sisters, to give me your faith and prayers for I need them, and to fulfill this position that I am called to, I must have them. If I can be humble and have the confidence of the people and of the Priesthood, as God has called me so will I receive it in the same spirit; and as He gives me wisdom and light and revelation, just so far can I do His will and serve Him in this calling. If I did not know that Jesus^ was the Christ and that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was His Church I can assure you that this calling that has been placed upon me would be the farthest from me to accept of any position that I could think of. 

My life in the past has been in a business direction more than in any other way, and now that this change has come and this call from God has been placed upon me, I hope and trust that I will do nothing — aye, I would rather lose my right arm than to betray the  you have placed in me this day by voting for me in this position. My only desire is that God will give me power to perform the duties that shall devolve upon me acceptably in His sight, and acceptable to you, to the Apostles and to the mouthpiece of God upon this earth. To this end I beseech of you an interest in your faith and prayers that from now on I may be clothed with the Priesthood that will be some good to the children of men. 

I ask God's choicest blessings upon His Church and upon every member thereof, that unity, peace and strength may be with us continually until we become a light unto the whole world, as has been predicted. In the name of Jesus Christ I ask it. Amen.
