18
Morning
08 04 1900
Second Assistant Superintendent Karl G. Maeser. 

The use of the Children's Sunday School Hymn Book. 

The Sunday school superintendents at the Stake Sunday school conferences sometimes report that the Sunday school hymn books are left at home by the children and have gradually gone out of use in their Sunday shools. Now, the Sunday School Union Board has spent considerable means in distributing these hymn books amongst the schools. A great many thousands, included in several editions have been published. Why has this been done? There is a principle involved in the use of these hymn books to which I wish to call your attention. Look over the congregations of the Latter-day Saints in their public meetings and you will perhaps see some old brother or sister using the standard hymn books of the Church and following the choir in the singing, but by far the great majority of the congregation have no hymn books with them, and cannot, therefore, understand the words which the choir are singing. This is all wrong. Singing is a part of the prayer— pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly Father. When there is a prayer being offered to my Heavenly Father, I for one always want to share in it; I want to be counted in that prayer, whether it is offered on the stand by one of the brethren or whether it be in the form of a song. How can this be possible if I do not understand the words that are being sung? Well, I always have  book with me and follow the choir in the singing. Now, this is the point: We older Latter-day Saints have got into the habit of going to meeting with our hymn books, and we are going to endeavor to get the rising generation into the habit of going to meeting with their hymn books, and, in order to do this, we must train them in our Sunday schools. Sunday school superintendents have come to me and said, "Well, brother Maeser, that is all very well, but how is it to be accomplished? We have talked, and talked and talked, but it has done no apparent good. What course would you advise us to pursue?" I have advised them as follows: "My brethren and sisters, if I were a Sunday school teacher and had been as signed by the superintendent to take charge of a certain department, and I had found since my appointment that the children in my department were not in the habit of bringing their hymn books with them. I would say, "My dear pupils, I am going to ask you a question, and that question is, which of you have a hymn book' with you? Hold it up and let me see it. That is all. I am going to ask you this question again next Sunday. If any of you have a hymn book bring it along and let me see it." Next Sunday comes. I have sixty pupils in my department. My question comes. "What question did I say I would ask you today?" Some one says, "You was going to ask who had a hymn book." "Well, how many of you have them?" Four children have hymn books and are able to hold them up; the other fifty-six have none. I would not find fault or scold, or make any discouraging remark, but I would thank and bless these four. "Now next Sunday I shaH ask you this same question again. You four will please bring your hymn books, and if the rest of you will do so I will be obliged." Next Sunday comes. "How many of you have hymn books with you today?" Seven. I have gained three now. I would continue this from one Sunday to another. I have got eleven perhaps the next Sunday, then seventeen, and so on, until three or four months have passed. Never occupy too much time in asking these questions, only about two minutes, no longer. After three or four  there are just five boys without hymn books, now I will suppose myself one of these five boys. The other fifty-five have their books, I cannot stand this any longer; I am getting ashamed of myself. All are beginning to hold up their hymn books but me and the other four. I cannot stand it. I go home and ask my father to give me ten cents with which to buy a hymn book. I get one and hold it up next Sunday with the rest, and then there are only four now without books. My brethren and sisters, it is not hard to do this, but we must persevere; we must never leave off asking this question. Neither must we think that our labor ends when all bring their hymn books, if we do the scholars will become discouraged that no one takes any notice of their books, and they will, by and by, leave their hymn books at home again. Before the year is ended we are in the same fix — the children have no books with them. We have to keep constantly at it. The children are as full of human nature as we are. They must be noticed, and they need some encouragement. We Sunday school workers, the grown up men and women, like a little encouragement in our labors, once in a while. So do the children. They must be noticed and encouraged in their work as much as we older ones. God bless you all is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
