19
Morning
08 04 1900
Elder Heber J. Grant. 

We find on the 137th page in the Doctrine and Covenants, the following: 

"For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." 

I have, all the days of my life, enjoyed sinking very much. When I was a little boy ten years of age I joined a singing class, and the professor told me that I could never learn to sing. Some years ago I had my character read by a phrenologist and he told me that I could sing, but he said he would like to be fortv miles away while I was doing it. (Laughter.) I was practicing singing a few weeks ago in the Templeton building-, and the room  I was doing so was next to that of a dentist. The people in the hall decided that some one was having his teeth extracted. (Laughter.) When I was a little boy Sister Eliza R. Snow exercised the gift of tongues, and the interpretation was given by Sister Zina D. Young; and therein I was promised that I should be chosen to be one of the leaders of the Church, and I stand here tonight in fulfillment of that prediction. All the days of my life I have tried to sing "O My Father," written by Sister Eliza R. Snow. When I was a child, next to my own mother, no woman that ever lived took as much interest in me, gave me as much motherly advice or seemed to love me more than did Sister Snow. I loved her with all my heart, and loved her hymn, "O My Father." I remarked some four months ago to Brother Horace S. Ensign that I would be willing to spend four or five months of my spare time if I could only iearn to sing that one hymn. He told me that any one could learn to sing that had perseverance. I said to him if there was anything that I had it was perseverance. So I suggested that we sit down and I would take my first lesson of two hours on that song. I have been continuing the lessons on it ever since. (Laughter.) I have sung it as high as 115 times in one day. I have practiced on the "Doxology" between three and four hundred times, and there are only four lines, and I cannot sing it yet. (Laughter.) I traveled from Holbrook, Arizona, to St. John, with Brothers Clawson and Kimball, some months ago, and I sang one hundred times that day and gave them nervous prostration. (Laughter.) Now I tried to sing "O My Father" at Snowflake, Arizona, and I only got as far as the "O," and I did not get that right. (Laughter.) I have been delighted tonight with the songs of these little children, and I am delighted with the singing that we have in our Sunday schools. A few months before Brother Goddard died I asked him to let me copy the songs contained in his song book, and I told him that, though I could not sing, yet I would read them to the children and would perpetuate his memory by reading these songs. He made some excuse at the time, but shortly before he died he presented me with a copy of his song book, written in his own hand-writing. I prize it more highly than money. I would not exchange it for its weight in gold. I intended to fulfil my promise, but when I learned, after five or six weeks of hard study, and after singing one hymn thousands of times, to sing a little I decided not to read these songs to the children, but to learn to sing them in the Sabbath schools. Professor Heber S. Goddard is now teaching me to sing, "Who's on the Lord's side, Who?" I do not know how many months it will take him, but I propose to learn it some day, whether it takes six months or six years. (Laughter.) When I do, if I get the opportunity, I will sing it here. I make these remarks because I feel that we ought to encourage our young people to learn to sing. From the standpoint of a singer, I have lost thirty-three years of my life. I was told, when ten years old that I could never learn to sing. I did not learn until forty-three years of age, and I have spent four or five months trying to learn to sing the hymns, "God moves in a mysterious way," and "O My Father." I have learned one because of the sentiments and my love for the author, and the other because the late President Wilford Woodruff loved it better than any other hymn in the hymn book. Now all singers say it is a mistake to speak before you sing, and therefore if I do not sing very well it is because I spoke first. (Laughter.) 

Brother Grant here sang two stanzas of "O My Father." 

Now, when Brother Goddard used to sing, when he got off he would try again. I have sung this two or three times with Brother Ensign, and I know that I am not singing it right; I have not pitched it right. Brother Goddard would try sometimes half a dozen times to pitch a song. I think I had better try and get this in a different key. (Laughter). 

Brother Grant then sang the concluding stanzas. (In the same key.) 

Now I expect many of you would like to take a trip of thirty or forty miles when you leave here. (Laughter) . Now some people will say Brother Grant has made an exhibition of him by singing here. I have but one object tonight in speaking and singing, and that is to encourage the young men and young ladies not to waste thirty or forty years of their lives before undertaking to sing. if i had told the congregation that I had learned to sing and had not tried they would not have believed it; and many do not believe it now. (Laughter.) But the fact remains that by continued effort one can learn to sing that has no knowledge of music whatever, as was the case with me. I did not know one note from another, and could barely distinguish one tune from another. When I first began to learn to sing this song ("O My Father") I would get off on nearly every line, and did not know it. I have learned to know when I am off. I have been off two or three times tonight. (Laughter). I have been troubled this evening with stage fright and have been very nervous. I have sung this song at least twenty times in this building. Brother Ensign has been behind me to help me tonight. Probably next time I will not have this stage fright. 

I want to repeat to the superintendents and teachers that the Lord says "the song of the heart" is a prayer to Him and that it shall be answered with a blessing upon our heads. I have a song in my home every morning, since I learned to sing, and I feel that it is a nice part of the family worship, and I feel that we can increase the capacity of our children to sing and to praise the Lord in the songs of Zion, if we will only teach them to sing over and over again. May the Lord bless you, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
