20
Morning
08 04 1900
Dr. J. M. Tanner. 

"All Sunday School lessons should have a bearing on the Gospel or its principles. 

We are engaged in the instruction of something like one hundred thousand children. When the population of the Latter-day Saints is taken into consideration, this is unquestionably the largest organization of children in the world, and our Sabbath school has its distinct objects, and, among the aims of our labors is the cultivation of the faith of the Latter-day Saints among  children. It is our aim to teach them the principles of the Gospel as we have learned them, and to make of them followers of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and to inculcate a love of that religion as it has been taught to us and as we understand it. It is therefore desirable that all of our Sunday school lessons should have some direct bearing upon our faith. They should have those distinct qualities and characteristics that impress upon the little ones the thoughts and feelings associated with the religion of their parents. For that reason pamphlets have been prepared, courses of studies have been mapped out and instructions have been given in the methods of presentation, and yet there is found, very frequently, a disposition to make this work in the Sunday schools purely an argumentative work, and it would be oftimes very difficult to discern any difference in the qualities of those lessons as taught by us and those taught by other denominations in the world. It is distinctly our aim and purpose then, to give a direct quality and bearing to this work and make the lessons correspond with the spirit of the faith which we have. Naturally enough, therefore, we should adopt those means that will best aid us in this direction. We want to know, then, how to present a lesson from a "Mormon" point of view. We want to know how to give these lessons a direct application to our faith, and that is the object of my remarks tonight. I cannot enter into the details, as time will not permit, but I can mention two means by which this may be brought about. The first, and perhaps most important one is that we understand at the outset that the purpose of religion, the purpose of teaching religion, is that our children may be taught to feel as well as to think; for religion is not a system of philosophy, however much scientists or revolutionists may desire to reduce it to a scientific basis. Religion is the Gospel of correct living, thinking and feeling, of correct lives, if you please, including all that we are, including our feelings as well as our thoughts, and for that reason we ought to be instructed how to think correctly and how to feel correctly. It is particularly the duty of  Sabbath school teacher to rouse within the hearts of his children those intense feelings that are engendered by a strong conviction of the truth of the work as he has received a testimony of it. And how we can teach the children to feel— to feel as we feel? In the first place we. must have strong convictions ourselves, and we must be intensely interested. It must be a work of love and come from the heart. It must be with ourselves a question of correct living, and above all things we must be pure in heart, pure in our thoughts and undefiled in our feelings, constantly, within ourselves, dedicating our lives to God and to His work. The Sabbath school teacher has to deal with children who are pure, who are pure from their infancy, whose lives have not been contaminated with the ways of the world, and he should be a man, or she should be a woman, qualified in every respect to come in contact with the purity of youth, and for that reason there should be a constant effort on our part to so conduct our thoughts and feelings that they shall be pure and sanctified before God. Therein lies our safety; therein lies our success. Every man carries with him a certain influence. There is within his character those qualities that make up his general disposition. We cannot always define that influence, but we know that every man carries with him an influence coming from his own individuality, and that individuality comes from his own thoughts and feelings. Those subjects upon which his thoughts dwell are the subjects that reach, through the influence of our presence, the feelings of others. Hence the necessity of correct living. If there is a Sabbath school teacher that is not constantly striving to better his life, to purify his thoughts and feelings, he is not fitted for the sublime work of a teacher in the Sabbath school. For that reason, therefore, we should constantly keep before us the thought, the idea, that we are directing the feelings of the children, and that convictions are forming within them that will carry them through life, that we are making impressions upon their young minds that will be lasting, and those impressions should be of the very purest and chastest kind. I hope, therefore, that the teachers will feel, when they have their classes before them, that they are to carry convictions to the hearts of their listeners, that they will remember that it is an important part of our teaching to instruct the children how to feel as well as how to think, for both are necessary in a complete life. Then again the Sabbath school teacher should be familiar with the history of the Church. If the Sabbath school teacher has had experience as a missionary he will find striking comparisons between the sayings of the ancient Apostles and Prophets and the Apostles and Prophets of the present time. The missionary will find that the conditions of life amonj ancient Israel were very similar to the conditions of life among us. He will find many striking peculiarities in the system of worship of the apostolic age that are also characteristic of our own system of worship at the present time. In other words, the Sabbath school teacher should be familiar with our own history, with the history of the Church, its organization, the labors of the Elders abroad, and so on, that in bringing up these lesons either from the Old or New Testament he can point constantly to the parallel existing between ancient and modern Israel, and in this way he will have constant illustrations that will enable the scholars to understand how we are like ancient Israel, for if one thing has impressed the Elder in his labors it is the great similarity that exists between us and ancient Israel, the similarity of organization, teachings, etc. The student should understand that if persecution overtook us it also overtook them; that if we were unpopular, they were unpopular; that if they had Prophets and Apostles, we have them likewise. The children should understand that if they believed in continuous revelation, we believe in continuous revelation, and in this manner bring constantly to their attention the similarity that exists between them and us, between our methods and theirs, our lives and theirs, our missionary work and theirs. This similarity may also be shown forth in teaching them geography. The location of ancient Israel was among the mountain tops, as is the case with us; their lakes resemble our lakes; their lake Mermom our 

Sevier Lake, their Galilee our Utah Lake, their Dead Sea our Salt Lake, their River Jordan our River Jordan. The impressions and ideas that they imbibed and that grew up in them on account of their homes and surroundings are peculiar to the Latter-day Saints today. All these things may be shown, and the constant comparisons that may be made in teaching these lessons to the Sabbath school children may reveal and will reveal to the minds of the children the great similarity between us, and these evidences will actually carry with them a conviction of the truth of our religion, and they will be more firmly convinced of its truthfulness than ever before. I hold, then, that these two means may, and ought to be, adopted everywhere in promulgating our doctrines and faith among the children, whatever the subjects may be in the Sabbath school. We are teaching the Old and New Testaments as well as our Church works, and it is as necessary, therefore, that these books — the Old and New Testaments — should be as valuable in establishing the truth and the evidences of that we believe,, as those books known to us as the Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon. 

I take it that the purpose or aim in asking me to speak upon this subject tonight was to call your attention to the disposition, on the part of some of the tea,chers to make our exercises in the Sunday school argumentative rather than to keep them in the line of our faith, that we shall have a distinct purpose in view in the education of our children in the. Sunday school, and that purpose is to make every one of our Sunday school children firm in the faith of our fathers and faithful and lasting Saints. God bles's you. Amen.
