21
Morning
08 04 1900
Elder Joseph W. Summerhays. 

If you remember, one year ago last November, we had a Sunday school con. vention which lasted two days. The  superintendency of the SundaySchool Union board feel that it would be good policy to hold another convention next fall similar to the one held last November, a year ago. The reason we mention it tonight is because there is considerable detail work connected with it, and if we hold a convention we must get to work immediately. We desire to ascertain the feelings of this meeting with regard to holding such a convention next fall. All in favor of holding another Sunday school convention some time next fall similar to the one last held will please make it manifest by raising their right hand. 

The vote was unanimous. 

We wish to announce to the Stake and ward superintendents that we are still lacking the histories of some of the Stake Sunday school organizations, as well as those of some of the wards. If you remember, at the close of our fifty years last December it was proposed that we get up a history of our Sunday school movement, to cover that period. We have been working on this book, and it is now being delayed, waiting the histories of the Stake and ward organizations that have not yet been sent in. We trust the lacking information will be forwarded immediately, that the work may not be delayed. 

ELDER THOMAS C. GRIGGS. 

Since coming to this meeting I have been requested to draw the attention of this conference to an item that pertains to our growth and interests. 

It must be realized that, in the existence, approximately, of the Sunday School Union of twenty-five years, from an enrollment of 30,000 it has increased to the number of 120,000, over a fourfold increase in twenty-five years. Our labors have been wonderfully blessed, and I trust that this growth will continue, so that at the end of the next twenty-five years we may be able to show another four-fold growth, bringing it up to nearly half a million. 

The attention of the Union is drawn to the desirability of establishing branch Sunday schools. The rule of the Union Board is embodied in the following: "Urge the desirability of establishing branch Sunday schools in wards where there is need of it; where,  instance, the children have to come long distances, or the school is overcrowded. The Union Board favors, where the distance is great between the different parts of the ward, where two or more Sunday schools are established in the ward, that each be fully organized with a separate superintendency." I will say but a few words with regard to this matter; many might be said. There are conditions existing in places, we find, where, through growth, the buildings have become so crowded that there is not room for more. Where these conditions exist it would be well for the superintendency to look abroad to provide means for establishing branch Sunday schools. This, of course, should be done with the consent and approval of the Bishop of the ward. Where children have to come a long distance also branch Sunday schools could be established with profit, in order to give them the advantages of our Sunday school teaching and training. It is not necessary in all cases that public halls or buildings should be provided. My experience has been that many profitable branch schools have been established, at the beginning, in private houses, where one or two rooms had been opened by some good brother or sister and the children of the vicinity have been gathered in, and in such instances, so far as I have experienced, those branch Sunday schools have grown wonderfully. There is this pleasing feature also connected with the branch Sunday school, as it has been established, and that is that it is largely a missionary factor; for not only do those that are active in the Church become members of these schools, but the facilities being placed within the reach of those that have become somewhat indifferent and who have not attended fully to their meetings and duties, their feelings and interests become aroused and they will send their children to this new school, and in this manner a good work is accomplished. Nor should we rest with this. There are the children of our friends, all brothers and sisters in the human family, to whom we should extend the advantages and privileges of the Gospel, for these principles are as valuable to them as they are to us. The Gospel word has been increased in the mission field by establishing Sunday schools; why should this be done only abroad when we have many opportunities at home? It may, perhaps, become necessary, where deemed advisable, in the establishment of these branch schools, that the main school render them their support and aid. This assistance should be freely given by sending brethren and sisters, experienced if possible, to assist in the teaching and also by sending music books, class registers, hymn books, etc., that they may have material to work with. We trust that the superintendents will be broadminded in this matter and not become circumscribed in their feelings and efforts or think that their work should be confined to their own schools only. 

This, brethren and sisters, Stake and ward superintendents, is but the skeleton of the idea in regard to this matter. I am satisfied that if we were to enter into the field in the Spirit of the Gospel as we should do, the skeleton army, mentioned by the Prophet Ezekiel, will stand upon its feet and be clothed with sinew and flesh and have a body pleasing to look upon. 

May the Lord bless us in these labors and in our efforts is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
