22
Morning
08 04 1900
Elder George Reynolds. 

Brother Mills, a few minutes ago, read to you the program of the forthcoming ^annual Stake Sunday school conference. I now wish to read to you the dates on -which these conferences will be held. 

April 28th and 29th— St George. May 6th and 7th — Parowan. May 12th and 13th— Malad. May 19th and 20th— Juab— Utah. May 26th and 27th— Jordan. June 2nd and 3rd— Wasatch — Granite. June 9th and 10th — Cache. June 16th and 17th— Oneida— Millard. June 23rd and 24th — Bear Lake — Sanpete. 

June 30th and July 1st — Star Valley. July 7th and 8th— Panguitch and Woodruff. July 14th and 15th — Kanab — Wayne. July 21st and 22nd — Morgan — Sevier. July 28th and 29th— Boxelder— Cassia. August 4th and 5th — Beaver. 

August 11th and 12th— Davis — Bingham. 

August 18th and 19th— Uintah— Fremont. 

August 25th and 26th— Emery— Alberta. 

September 1st and 2nd — Tooele. September 8th and 9th — Summit. September 15th and 16th — Weber. September 22nd and 23rd — Bannock. September 29th and 30th— Pocatello. Elder Reynolds, continuing, said: There are one or two items to which I desire to call your attention. One is with regard to the Leaflets. Some of the superintendents think that, because there is a date upon each, they should only be used on that date. This is a mistake. They can be used at any and at all tinies when desirable. We think that the length of the Leaflets now being published, as well as their great importance, is such that it will take at least two Sundays to consider each one properly, that no teacher should attempt to go over all the matter contained in any one of these Leaflets in one single Sunday. We have already published twelve numbers this year, but no more will be published this month, to give those that are behind a chance to catch up. We shall again begin distributing them to the schools for the first of May. 

The general board of the Deseret Sunday School Union issued, some time ago, another Bible chart, connected with the life of our Redeemer, known to us as number Ave, the superintendents and teachers have apparently not understood this, as our sales have been very small. A copy of this chart hangs on either side of the stand, giving a sample of the pictures contained therein. We wish to call the attention of the superintendents to the fact that we have a large number on hand at the Sunday School Union office. 

The Sunday School Union has also just published a chronological chart of Nephite and Lamanite history, which they propose to give free to every Sunday school which has an enrollment of more than seventy-five members. We have restricted it to this number for the reason that we thought a small Sunday school with less than seventvfive members would probably not have  Book of Mormon class large enough they have now, after considerable time, 

to use this chart profitably. This chart completed their labors. The picture is 

comprises the history of the Book of ready and we will be pleased to preMormon from the time that Lehi and sent a copy of the same to the Stake 

his colony left Jerusalem, 600 years be- superintendents, if they will call at the 

fore Christ, to the end of Moroni's rec- office of the Union, No. 408 Templeton 

ord. It likewise contains a tabular building, tomorrow, or any time after, statement of contemporaneous events 

that took place on the eastern conti- GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT GEO. nent; also the time during which each Q- CANNON. 

About a year ago a commit' se was that they require. I pray God to bless 

appointed 1 to secure the photographs of us in our labors and to give every one 

the Stake spuerintendents of Sunday the spirit of this mission and labor, 

schools of all the Stakes of Zion, as The choir then sang, "God be merciwell as those of the members of the ful unto us and bless us." 

Union Board and the general officers of Benediction by Elder Reed Smoot. 

the Union. These photographs were to HORACE S. ENSIGN, 

be grouped together and a picture General Secretary, 

made containing all of these. A commit- LEO HUNSAKER, 

-J:ee was appointed, as I stated, and Reporter. 

Nephite historian held the records and wrote that people's history. It also contains a statement of the years of the reigns of the Judges, as well as other information which will aid our students in the understanding of Book of Mormon history and chronology. We shall also send a copy to each Stake superintendent, and they can now be obtained at the office of the Deseret Sunday School Union. Any persons wishing to purchase a copy can do so. The price, mounted like the one I Tiave in my hand, backed with linen and mounted on rollers, is one dollar. We expect soon to have a large number of copies on hand in paper, which can be folded up and placed between the leaves of a book, the price of which will be only twenty-five cents. 

Our time has expired. We have been here now nearly two hours. I am down for some closing remarks. I will not trespass upon your time but a minute, but I want to draw your attention to the remarks made by Dr. J. M. Tanner. I think there should be more attention paid to the character of the instruction given in our Sunday schools, and every effort should be made to give the children and the youth a knowledge of our principles. I think we cannot devote our time and attention in any better direction than in taking this subject to heart and carrying it out as well as we can in our schools. We feel proud, I think, of our progress, but I can see a large field stretching out before us yet to be occupied. The children and young people are not receiving, with all our efforts, the thorough training 

8,000 Copies Sold Since April 1, 1899. ft llCW CbUrCl) UIOrR, 498 pages, by Dr. James E. Talmage, written by appointment from the First Presidency. Designed as a text book for use in Church Schools, Sunday Schools, Improvement Associations, quorums, and for individual study. Elegantly bound in all styles. 

PRICES: 

Cloth . . . 

Leather . . . 

Leather Gilt . 

Morocco Gilt 

FOR SALE BY . 00 

1.50 

2.00 

2.50 

^THE DESERET NEWS. 

Special Terms to Dealers, Agents, Classes and Quorums. 

TlK BOOH Of IttOrmon," Two lectures from the above work, compiled in pamphlet form by Dr. Talmage for convenience in study. Price 10 cents. 

(Wed Upon 

A bright, interesting story, illustrating theprinciple of pre-existence as believed by the Latterday Saints. Written by the talented home author, Nephi Anderson. 

Read it Yourself and Send a Copy to Your Friends. THE DESERET NEWS, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. To aid Missionaries in their fields of labor the 

Semi-Weekly News 

Will be sent to subscribers sent in by them at 

One Dollar a Year. 

This offer applies only to subscribers in the missionary field. 

Amen.
