5
Afternoon
06 04 1900
Elder John Henry Smith. 

Character of the Men who carry on the work of God — Condemnation will rest upon those who oppose It— Importance of family responsibilities — Value of the counsels of the wise. 

It gives me joy to have the privilege of meeting with you in conference and in listening to the brethren who have spoken unto lis. I trust that during the time that I may occupy I may enjoy your faith and good feelings, that the promptings of the Holy Spirit may attend the remarks that I may make. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is seventy years of ase today. President Snow this morning in his remarks dwelt upon the fact that we had passed our infancy, our boyhood, our young manhood, and had had a taste at least of that age which in the olden times was fixed upon as the allotted age of man. In my reflections on his re I was led to wonder whether It could be Dossible that in the reaching of that mature age there would anything occur which should cause weakness to appear in connection with the further development and accomplishment of the work assigned to men in this dispensation. Our experience hap developed that man sometimes work9 with very great devotion for a period of his life in the accomplishment of some specific purpose, and he sometimes reaches a condition of mind when he doubts the efficacy of his efforts to accomplish the purpose he has had in view. Others do not become impregnated with the Spirit that actuates him. They look in coldness upon the suggestions which he makes. They regard his efforts as visionary, and that the results of his struggles cannot in any sense be what he himself would anticipate; and after continued effort and perhaps failure sometimes, he stops and becomes seemingly discouraged and unwilling to proceed further. It is true, there have been some men whose hearts, in the midst of sunshine or storm, success or failure, have never cooled, and whose minds have never become disturbed under any circumstance. It is after this type that I believe the Elders of the Church of Jesua Christ should be made. That no matter what the conditions and circumstances are, no matter what the temptations may be, or what barriers may present themselves in the way of the accomplishment of a specific purpose, success must come. 

There is no such word as fail in connection with this work. Failure was not designed of the Father when he visited this earth in person, with His Son, and laid upon that child. Joseph Smith, the obligation _to teach the truth among the children of men. He gave him to understand that while discouragements might come in the way, while brethren might be false, while men and women might violate the ordinances of God's house and trample beneath their feet the requirements of heaven, there would be found a body of men in connection with this work and its development who never would sacrifice to Baal, but would stand in the midst of every storm and in every place where God Almighty required them to act, un, and true if need be to the giving of life and all to the cause of truth as our Father had established it. And yet we are possessed, like the rest of the human race, of our weaknesses. We are tempted, we are tried, we imagine many vain things, but so far as concerns this work and its development and success in this world in the accomplishment of the regeneration of the human race, it will not fail. "There is no such word as fail in the lexicon of our God." Men may fail; they may fail to read by the unerring counsels of the Holy Spirit the course that they should pursue; they may fail to be loyal soldiers and to recognize the orders that high heaven shall give, looking to the development of our Father's cause in the world, but there will be found sufficient to meet the needs and responsibilities and to discharge the obligations that the Master has imposed upon those to whom the sacred message was delivered by that angel who was to fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. Write it in your books, establish it in your hearts and fix it in every fibre of your being, that God will see its accomplishment in the loyalty and devotion of those whom He shall gather, one at a time, and establish among His people in the Church of Christ. 

Our brothers and our sisters among the religious peoples of the world should become after a time, in my judgment, impregnated with this thought, and cease the expression of their illfeelings and the application of improper methods, looking to the hurt of this work, for the promise is that "no weapon formed against this work shall succeed and they that arise in judgment against it shall be condemned." — not to. condemnation that shall fall from my lips, or condemnation that may fall from the lips of any who are associated with the work in the same degree that I may be; but in that condemnation registered by the finger of God, which blights those who set their hand against this work and labor for its destruction. For as the sun shines at noonday and as the brightness of morning appears in the eastern horizon, this work must suc. It is the decree of Providence. 

While we thus speak in connection with the work, and while we feel our weaknesses and our littleness as aids in its accomplishment, we recognize the fact that the day of destruction and schooling has not gone by. Around us are armies of boys and girls developing into young manhood and young womanhood, schooled under conditions somewhat different to those that have existed in former times, and yet not so different after all, only that we have allowed a great degree of laxity to grow up in connection with our government and association in our households that never should have existed. I have spoken a number of times upon the question of a more cautious, careful and determined purpose on the part of the head of every home, to see that he is in closer companionship with the members of his household than he has been wont to be in times past. I have received the Priesthood. It entails upon me a great obligation that takes my entire time in the missionary fields abroad, or in the discharge of duties in the ward or Stake. No matter about my own home circle, the wife and the children must look to their own interest there; but I must discharge this duty that leads me hence in the fulfillment or requirements that have been placed upon my shoulders, and to a degree that in my judgment is reprehensible. With this feeling in our hearts we have neglected one of the most sacred obligations in the world. I am wondering when that obligation shall be brought home to us which is laid down in the Scriptures, about the teaching of our children, how far you and I, holding the Priesthood of the Son of God, shall be found under the ban pronounced by the Savior of the world in the revelation of His holy will. The troubles and trials of this life are manifold, but there is no responsibility placed upon us greater than the care of our own. The statement by one of old that he who does not provide for his own is worse than an infidel and has already denied the faith, is one that will apply to a great many in our day and time. There must be a more systematic and thoughtful application of home government and home action upon the part of the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of L,ater-day Saints, or the ban pronounced in these words, which classes us with the infidel, will be manifest, and it will be written by the recording angel that our part has not been performed in the Spirit of that work which God has given us a share in establishing in the world. I do not believe that duty requires any one of you to be absent from your homes every night in the week, looking after somebody other than your own household. I do not believe that the adjustment of the responsibilities placed upon us in this Priesthood that we hold reauires that the sons and daughters of the Elders of this Church shall not be in touch with their fathers in such spirit as shall render them susceptible to the influence of that Priesthood and the spirit of this work, which leads them to make the sacrifices, if they can be called sacrifices, that has led them by hundreds and thousands into every part of the earth. It is an adjustment that is essential with these High Priests, these Seventies and these Elders in the Church, that the home and its interests shall be remembered, and that the men who sit down in their homes constantly and fail to perform their part in connection with the work outside of the home shall adjust their time upon legitimate and proper lines, which shall so distribute the labors that my wives and my children and that my associates with their wives and children may enjoy that legitimate and proper companionship designed by our maker when he made us husbands and wives, parents and children. 

It has given me great concern to have many of my brethren tell me that they have not spent an evening at home in years. This duty, that duty and these appointments have taken them here and there, and their sons and daughters scarcely see them. If they do see them, it is simply in the morning, when breakfast is eaten, and then they depart to the various labors resting upon them. I hope that in the consideration of these questions affecting the home and the work of God, we will see to it in the future that each of these interests shall receive its proper care and attention, and that the wife shall rejoice in the  at the fireside of her husband, at least occasionally, and that the boys and girls shall feel themselves in duty bound to congregate there. Then in the love manifest in that home by the husband for the wife, and wife for the husband and the parents for the children, there shall be a witness of God's mercy in the establishment of that principle by which men and women are bound together for time and eternity. It seems to me there is no reason in the world why the acting Priesthood in a Stake or ward should be away from their families every night in the week; why these Elders, these Seventies, these High Priests and these Apostles should have so little of that companionship that was established when they plighted their faith to their companions. The devotion of husband and wife should not become cooled as age approaches, but we should be determined in our hearts to maintain under every condition its warmth to the fullest, inasmuch as we have covenanted with God, angels and witnesses that for time and eternity we. would fill in justice and propriety the duties and responsibilities of the sacred relationship of husband and wife. 

President Cannon, in his remarks this afternoon, bearing upon the spirit of insubordination and a failure to recognize counsels coming from the proper source in connection with thework of God, has expressed very clearly and distinctly the feeling that is present with a great many people, the result of thoughtlessness upon the part of some, but largely attributable to the fact that that companionship which should exist in the home does not exist, and that our boys and girls get from under our control and we seem to lack the tact to draw them back under our influence. President Cannon gave to you his views in regard to the question of veneration. I am unlike him in a great degree, I lack in veneration. It has been necessary for me to cultivate it. While I respect my brethren and also the men and women whose hair has become *?ray, it is indeed an extreme effort for me to show that deference and respect which is due to the men with whom we mingle or who possess influence among the children  men. But his suggestions in connection with these matters are worthy of consideration. I have sought to impress upon my own sons the necessity of being men among men, to seek to understand principle, to act upon the basis of their consciences, and to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of life in the Priesthood which God has given to them, in such a way that the name they bear shall not be tainted. But we notice in connection with these matters that there is a spirit abroad that it is not right and proper to give ear to the counsels of wise and prudent men; that they are old fogies; that experience in the world counts for nothing, and that step by step we will brush their views out of the way. I presume it is an American idea that has developed itself in the world. Oh! how many will awaken in time to the understanding that they have been deceiving themselves, that the experience of a gray-haired father and mother, and that the careful and considerate counsels of a High Priest in the Church of Christ would have been, if utilized, potent for their good. 

My brothers and sisters, I recognize the fact that Zion is going to grow. I would grow with it. I would have my children grow with it. My grandsires labored in connection with this work; my sires have labored in connection with it. They believed it was true. I believe they were right. I not only believe, but I know that they were right; and if I can write this knowledge upon my wives and children and get them to understand the duty that they owe to God and their country in connection with the development of this work and its extension in all the world, I will indeed rejoice in every fibre of my being. But should they lose respect for the truth which God has revealed or for the love of right presented in the principles of the government that has been established, under which this work has been developed, it shall seem to me that life has indeed been a failure. If, however, the husbands and the fathers, the wives and the mothers shall be in attune with each other; if they shall love the home and the home circle; if  shall impregnate their children with an understanding of the truth, and with the reverence due to our heavenly Father and His representatives here, as well as to the grey hairs of every honorable man and woman in the world, it will have been, indeed, an accomplishment that will lend strength and force to this work, and its spread will be manifest in every direction. 

May heaven's peace abound in your hearts and in your homes; may you love the truth, and lay the foundation of love so deeply and thoroughly in the circle that God has given you a stewardship over, that when manhood and womanhood shall be reached, and the children, and the children's children shall look homeward, there shall be joy abounding in their hearts, which nothing in the world can quench. If we will do the bidding of our Father; if we shall remember that as husbands and wives our obligations are eternal; if we shall remember as parents and children that our hope of the approval of our Father in heaven is linked together, and if we shall fulfill the duties that life requires at our hands, rendering to our family their share, all will be well. If we will see to it that some men are not required to take all the care and responsibility, while others remain at home in idleness, all of us will be the better off, and the wives who have husbands lounging around the house will thank God for the privilege of their having something t'o do outside of their homes. We have received the truth. There is no mistake in regard to that. Mankind may just as well come to that conclusion first as last, and realize that every block placed by them in the way will but increase the impetus of the work. It is for us who have become its custodians to fulfill our mission and ministry. Our friends criticise us for the evils that are manifest among us. There are evils among the Latter-day Saints. There are boys unguarded, unwarned and untaught. There are girls left to the prey of the vicious and the impure. There are unwise mothers, who have never learned a single lesson from the experience of their own lives, and men who seem to forget the temptations and trials that beset them in their youth, and turn loose to be destroyed the treasures that God has given them. Oh! that I could write upon the heart of every man and every woman the rememberance of their own lives, and the struggles that they have had to make to preserve themselves from the pitfalls of immorality; and write also upon their hearts and souls the sentiment and feeling that our Father would inspire if they would open their hearts to him, that these pure spirits need the constant guidance, guardianship and care of their fathers and mothers. 

A^ain I say, may the Lord's peace abound with you. May the spirit of this conference resound to the ends of the earth with the declaration that Mormonism, as the world calls it, is a factor in the universe, come to stay, not to fade nor fail, but to increase and develop as long as there is a human being in sin; warning its own devotees that honesty, truthfulness, virtue and love and respect for everything that is noble and true is the foundation stone of the work.; calling upon everyone who has drifted into by and forbidden paths to repent and turn to the truth, and being to the world a light set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, which will increase in brightness and power until its light shall encompass the earth. God bless you. Amen.
