Morning
08 04 1900




ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

A striking evidence of God's goodness— Tithing and consecration — Importance of Church records. 

Brethren and sisters, I can say that I have greatly rejoiced in the spirit of this conference. We have truly had a time of instruction and refreshing to our souls, and this conference, held in the seventieth year of our age as a Church, has this far been one of the  that we have ever had. What a great variety of instruction has been given to this people, and we can see the growth and progress that has been made since we were convened in conference one year ago. We rejoice in it, and our hearts are made glad. Notwithstanding this, however, we witness things in the Church that need attention and correction, and we know that there is opportunity for still greater growth and progress. The Lord, as if in smiling approval of His Church (speaking of the Church as a whole) has sent a most glorious storm — a storm that was greatly needed and that gives promise of abundant crops in the year 1900. So greatly needed was this storm that the Latter-day Saints can overlook the inconvenience of getting around, and can lift up their hearts in praise and thanksgiving to God. Truly we are a blessed people. 

I was very deeply impressed with the revelation that was read in part by President Snow at the Priesthood meeting last evening, and also the very instructive comments made upon it. It is of such great and vital interest that I have thought to read the revelation to you this morning. It is recorded in section 85 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. The Lord says: 

"It is the duty of the Lord's clerk, whom He has appointed, to keep a history, and a general Church record of all things that transpire in Zion, and of all those who consecrate properties, and receive inheritances legally from the Bishop; 

"And also their manner of life, their faith, and works; and also of the apostates who apostatize after receiving their inheritances. 

"It is contrary to the will and commandment of God, that those who receive not their inheritance by consecration, agreeably to His law, which He has given, that He may tithe His people, to prepare them against the day of vengeance and burning, should have their names enrolled with the people of God; 

"Neither is their genealogy to be kept, or to be had where it may be found on any records or history of the Church; 

"Their names shall not be found, neither the names of the fathers, nor the names of the children written in the book of the law of God, saith the Lord of Hosts. 

"Yea. thus said the still small voice, which whispereth through and pierceth all things, and often times it maketh my bones to auake while it maketh manifest, saying: 

"And it shall come to pass that I, the Lord God. will send one mighty and strong, holding the sceptre of power in his hand, clothed with light for a covering - , whose mouth shall utter words, eternal words; while his bowels shall be a fountain of truth, to set in order the house of God, and to arrange by lot the inheritances of the Saint s. whose names are found, and the names of their fathers, and of their children, enrolled in the book of the law of God: 

"While that man, who was called of God and appointed, that putteth forth his hand to steady the ark of God, shall fall by the shaft of death, like as a tree that is smitten by the vivid shaft of lightning; 

"And all they who are not found written in the book of remembrance, shall find nor>e inheritance in that day, but they shall be cut asunder, and their portion shall be appointed them among unbelievers, where are wailing and gnashing of teeth. 

"These things I say not of myself: therefore, as the Lord speaketh, He will also fulfill. 

"And they who are of the High Priesthood, whose names are not found written in the book of the law, or that  found to have apostatized, or to have been cut off from the Church; as well as the Lesser Priesthood, or the members, in that day, shall not find an inheritance among the Saints of the Most High; 

"Therefore it shall be done unto them as unto the children of the priest, as will be found recorded in the second chapter and sixty-first verse of Ezra." 

Brethren and sisters, the Lord in revealing to the Prophet Joseph that a day of vengeance and burning is coming upon the earth, did not desire, I think, to arouse any feelings of fear or anxiety in the minds of His people. It was simply that they should be made acauainted with the fact that such a day is coming upon the earth and also that there should be a preparation made by his people for that time, that they might be able to abide that great and dreadful day of the Lord. One peculiar feature of this revelation is that while the Lord speaks of this time of trouble and calamity, he also comes down to the simple matter as it might seem to some, of giving instructions to his clerk. He says that his clerk shall keep a history and a general Church record of all things that transpire in Zion, and in the manner of life and faith and works of His people, and especially that it should be recorded of His people that they pay their tithes and offerings, and later perhaps that they shall observe the law of consecration, that they may escape the day of vengeance and burning. We see that the Lord is very particular in this matter. In the early days of the Church, some baptisms for the dead that were not properly witnessed and recorded, were rejected of the Lord, and the work had to be done over again. We know that great care and attention is given to this matter today in our Temples, and that efficient help must be secured to do this. Let me tell you something in relation to this great Temple of the Lord in Salt Lake City. From the time that that Temple was dedicated, in 1893, up to the year 1899, there were 475,662 ordinances performed therein, and for the year 1899, 68,871. making a grand total of 544,337 ordinances performed in the House of the Lord for the living and the dead, and this does not include the work that has been done in other temples of God. Truly it is a great and marvelous work, and not the least important thing about it is that these ordinances are all carefully recorded in the books and are filed away in the archives of the Temple, to be brought forth in due time. From these records the people who have gone to that house will be judged. Nothing that is done in that Temple will be accepted of the Lord, except it is properly witnessed and recorded. The Temple work is strictly looked after each day, so that nothing is neglected or omitted, much to the credit of those who labor in the Temples. The great work performed in the Salt Lake Temple, has thus far been accomplished under the Presidency of our Prophet and Seer, and we rejoice in it. 

I also want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, inasmuch as there is more or less anxiety at times among some of the Saints concerning the tithing, that the tithing records of this Church were never before in such good condition as they are today. I ask the Presidents of Stakes and the Bishops of wards to bear witness with me that the tithing is most strictly looked after, and that no mistakes occur, but which are readily detected. I was going to say that the "eagle eye" of the Presiding Bishop of this Church, through the very efficient help that he has, detects every inaccuracy and every neglect in the recording of the tithes. The Presiding Bishop is one of the Lord's clerks, and he of necessity must keep a strict and careful record. All of the tithing reports which come from the forty-two Stakes of Zion, covering Ave hundred and thirty-eight wards, are carefully tabulated and filed away in the Bishop's office, and you would be astonished, if you went there, to find how readily you could get any information pertaining to the tithing of this Church. There is no man, woman or child in this Church who has paid tithing, but whose name will be found upon the tithing records in the Bishop's office and the office of the First Presidency. It is all understood, and we are fast coming to that condition where nothing will be neglected or wasted. There are losses that occur in a natural and proper way, and that cannot be avoided, but the  is most carefully looked after. I have admired the system that is followed in the Presiding Bishop's office. 

There is another matter that I would like to speak of briefly, and that is this: God has inspired his servant not only to look after the proper recording of the tithes of His people, but also to call for the names of the nontithepayers of the Church. This is something that has never been done before, so far as I know. A list most carefully prepared as to names, but not always as to explanations has been compiled and furnished the First Presidency of this Church. That action seems to have come to us through the inspiration of God, that it shall be known who are neglectful in the midst of His people. I do not know that I am authorized to tell you how many names there are in it, but I can say that it is a large book. It was presented at the Priesthood meeting last night as a text book to talk upon. President Snow talked from that text, and Presiding Bishop Preston talked on it. It was a big text, so large that he could hardly follow it. There is not a man or woman in this Church who ought to pay tithing and who does not, but whose name is recorded in that great book. It was designed that in each case a reason should be given why each person had not paid tithing. But this has not been fully done in all cases, owing no doubt to the fact that this is the first request of the kind that has been made of the Bishops of this Church; but there will be an improvement in this particular hereafter. The lines are being drawn. It must be known to the authorities of this Church and to the people who are faithful and who are not faithful. God requires it and it must be recorded, for the reason plainly set forth in the revelation, that those whose names are not found recorded in the book of the law of God shall have no inheritance in Zion in that day when our eternal inheritances shall be divided out to us. Therefore it is a matter of serious importance, and we appreciate the meaning of the great text that was given to us in our Priesthood meeting. I am sure that those who were present were deeply impressed by what  saw and the instructions that were given. Notwithstanding this, I desire to say that if the Latter-day Saints shall make as much advancement in the year 1900 as they have done in the year 1899, it will be a bright and glorious day for Zion. I believe that God is well pleased with the efforts that have been made and with the faithful among His people. There is one reflection I had concerning the book of which I have spoken, and that is, it simply gives the names of nontithe-payers in the Church. It does not give the names of those who have paid only fifteen per cent of what they should pay, or twenty per cent, or fifty per cent, or seventy-five per cent. There are doubtless many of the people who only paid a partial tithing, or as Bishop Preston says, "a little ten per cent," which he informs us is no ten per cent at all. Ten per cent is ten per cent, and a tithing is ten per cent, neither more nor less. When it is below that, the view has been held that it is simply an offering to the Lord. However these partial payments have been accepted and recorded among the names of those who have paid tithing; for every man and woman in this Church shall have due credit for what they do. 

I had the permission of the President of the Church to look through that book, and I want to give you a very brief summary of what I found there as to why many people in this Church failed to pay their tithing last year. There are some people who will say: "Of course there were those among us who did not pay tithing last year; — some young men doubtless who have just come into their majority, or who have perhaps for the first time earned a little means and are not acquainted with this great law of tithing." In answer to that I want to say that it is a mistake. There may have been some such, but there were many High Priests, Seventies, and Elders, as well as members of the Lesser Priesthood, who failed to observe the law in 1899. That is the most astonishing thing connected with it. And what is still more curious is some of the reasons that are given why these bearers of the Priesthood did not pay . Let me say that in some cases no reasons were given at all, which indicated to me that the Bishops of those wards failed to see those who were derelict in their duty, failed to talk with them and get their reason for not paying tithing, which shows a great neglect. In some cases the reason given was, carelessness; in others, indifference; in others, a lack of faith. A very large number come under these heads. One High Priest was not converted to the principle. I say one; there was quite a number of High Priests against whose names the reason s-iven was that they were not converted to the principle. In other words, they did not believe the revelation of God, and yet they were High Priests in the Church. The reason given in the case of one Elder was that he hadn't thought enough about it to see the necessity of it. Is it not rather remarkable that we can find an Elder in this Church who has not thought enough about the law of God to see the necessity of obeying it? I wonder if he thought enough about the principle of baptism to be baptized, or about the principle of laying on of hands to have the hands of the Priesthood laid upon him for the reception of the Holy Ghost? "We learned from President Cannon last night that the law of tithing is just as essential and as saving a principle as the principle of baptism or the laying on of hands. In another case an Elder, a member of one of the Stake boards of the Y. M. M. I. A., had never paid tithing, so I presume that he had never been converted. In the case of several High Priests and a number of Seventies, the reason given was that though they were abundantly able to observe this law, they were not willing. In the case of a number of Seventies, the reason given was that' they did not believe in paying tithing. I presume that would probably be the case with all who wilfully neglected their duty. In the case of a High Priest, the reason given was that his wife paid a good tithing, but he did nothing. There may be a chance for that brother; his wife may be able to bring him into the kingdom. We hope so at least. Here, brethren and sisters, is a very remarkable explanation that was offered in the case of a Teacher in this Church. It does not say whether he was an active Teacher, or an ordained Teacher. The explanation is that he did not believe in tithing or in a God. The great wonder is that he is in the Church at all. In the case of an Elder, it was explained that he could not be persuaded to do anything in a Church capacity. This is not to be wondered at, for a man who fails to pay his tithing will lose the spirit of the work, and if he persists in that direction, he will apostatize and leave the Church, as sure as God lives. In the case of an Elder, the reason was given that he could not afford to pay tithing. Notwithstanding one-tenth of his earnings belonged to the Lord, he could not afford to pay to the Lord that which belonged to him, so he appropriated it and made use of it in other directions. In the case of a Seventy, it was said that he argued against the principle, and yet he is a Seventy in the Church! In the case of another, he had no faith in the Gospel! Here is a very strange explanation given in the case of a Seventy: It states that he does not like the Bishop, consequently he ignores the law of God. I suppose that because he does not like the Bishop, he won't be saved. Of one Elder it was said that he was full of good intentions for the future. Of course we have no means of knowing whether these good intentions may be relied upon for the future, but we do know that these good intentions did not lead him to pay his tithing in the year 1899. Here is an explanation, which will be the last I shall give: The Bishop, in referring to twelve non-tithe payers, says, "We think some of these would have paid tithing, had they been aroused immediately before the settlement of tithing." Well, confession is good for the soul, and that Bishop confesses that he failed entirely in his duty in not visiting these twelve non-tithe payers and arousing them to their duty. Of course, the great responsibility rests first upon the non-tithe payer, but after that there is a responsibility resting upon the Bishop and upon the president of the Stake. They should be familiar with the people in their Stake and in the ward who fail to pay tithing, and they should labor with them and try  bring them into a condition where they will keep the commandments of God. Now, in conclusion I want to bear testimony to the record that has been made by one ward in Salt Lake City — and perhaps the same may be said of others, for aught I know; but this ward has come to my attention through the Bishop. There were only four nontithepayers in that ward, and the ward paid to this Church something like ten thousand dollars in tithing. I tell you I was gratified, and I said to that Bishop, The reason to me is very apparent; you are interested in this matter of tithing, you are acquainted with your people. You know every tithe-payer in your ward, and you know every nontithepayer, or you could not tell me that there were only four, and you are looking after them. The trouble, as shown by this great report, is that the Bishops and the authorities have been somewhat derelict in their duty. In many cases the Bishop could not tell you how many non-tithepayers there were in his ward, let alone not being able to tell you who they were and why they failed in this duty. Now, brethren and sisters, if there are in this vast congregation of Israel, or in any of the Stakes, people whose names appear on the record that President Snow exhibited to us, I say it is to your interest to see to it that your names are taken from it, and that they appear, instead, in the book of the law of God, in order that, in due time, you may receive your eternal inheritance in the kingdom of God; which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Importance of (he law of tithing — A source of revenue and a Means of distinguishing (he faithful from the unfaithful — None should be denied the privilege of obeying this law. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I sincerely desire the presence and influence of the good Spirit during the few moments that I shall stand before you. that I may be guided in my remarks in wisdom, and that what may be said may be profitable. 

The subject that has been spoken of this morning is one of vital importance for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, not only to the body  the Church, but to each individual member; for the law of tithing is a test by which the people as individuals shall be proven. Any man who fails to observe this principle shall be known as a man who is indifferent to the welfare of Zion, who neglects his duty as a member of the Church, and who does nothing toward the accomplishment of the temporal advancement of the kingdom of God. He contributes nothing, either, towards the building of temples or maintaining them; he does nothing towards spreading the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and he neglects to do that which would entitle him to receive the blessings and ordinances of the Gospel. Every member of the Church ought to possess that loyalty of feeling toward the cause that he would feel himself wronged if he were denied the privilege of contributing to the sustenance of the Church of Christ in the earth. The law of tithing is the law of revenue for the Church. There is no organization in the world having for its object the benefit of mankind, the building up of industries, or the protection of the rights of the people, but what must provide means with which to carry out these purposes. 

When the Lord restored the Gospel the spirit of gathering came with it. The Lord commanded the people to gather together, and that they should not only be organized as a Church, but that they should be organized under the laws of the land, so that they might not be helpless and dependent and without influence or power; but that by means of united effort and faith they should become a power for the accomplishment of righteousness in the earth (D. & C. Sec. 44; 4—5). In order that there might be means with which to accomplish every temporal good for the people, the Lord instituted this law of tithing in the place of the greater and more perfect law of Zion. The Lord revealed to his people in the incipiency of His work a law which was more perfect than the law of tithing. It comprehended larger things, greater power and a more speedy accomplishment of the purposes of the Lord. But the people were unprepared to live by it, and the Lord, out of mercy to the people, suspended the more perfect law,  gave the law of tithing, in order that there might be means in the storehouse of the Lord for the carrying out of the purposes He had in view; for the gathering of the poor, for the spreading of the Gospel to the nations of the earth, for the maintenance of those who were required to give their constant attention, day in and day out, to the work of the Lord, and for whom it was necessary to make some provision. Without this law these things could not be done, neither could Temples be built and maintained, nor the poor fed and clothed. Therefore the law of tithing is necessary for the Church, so much so that the Lord has laid great stress upon it, as will be seen in these words: 

"And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you; 

'And this shall be an ensample unto all the Stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen." 

By this principle the loyalty of the people of this Church shall be put to the test. By this principle it shall be known who is for the kingdom of God and who is against it. By this principle it shall be seen whose hearts are set on doing the will of God and keeping His commandments, thereby sanctifying the land of Zion unto God, and who are opposed to this principle and have cut themselves off from the blessings of Zion. There is a great deal of importance connected with this principle, for by it it shall be known whether we are faithful or unfaithful. In this respect it is as essential as faith in God, as repentance of sin, as baptism for the remission of sin, or as the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. For if a man keep all the law save in one point, and he offend in that, he is a. transgressor of the law, and he is not entitled to the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. But when a man keeps all the law that is revealed, according to his strength, his substance and his ability, though what he does may be little, it is just as acceptable in the sight of God as though he were able to do a thousand times more. 

While this matter of non-tithe-payers was beins talked over, I heard of a Bishop who refused to receive tithing from a person because that person was poor. I wondered what Bishop it was. What Bishop is there in the Church who would deny a woman, even though she was fed and clothed out of the tithings of the people, the privilege of having her name recorded in the books? I will read a few words out of the same revelation that Brother Clawson has read to us this morning: 

It is contrary to the will and commandment of God, that those who receive not their inheritance by consecration, agreeably to this law, which He has given, that He may tithe His people, to prepare them against the day of vengeance and burning, should have their names enrolled with the people of God; 

"Neither is their genealogy to be kept, or to be had where it may be found on any of the records or history of the Church; 

"Their names shall not be found, neither the names of the fathers, nor the names of the children written in the book of the law of God, saith the Lord of hosts." 

Will you then deny the widow, because she has only a mite to bestow? Because the tenth which she proposes to give in obedience to the commandment of God is but a penny, are you going to deprive her of the privilege of having her name enrolled on the book :>f the law of the Lord, and of having her genealogy acknowledged and recorded in the archives of the Church? And because her name is not found there, are you going to deny her the privileges of -the House of God and of the ordinances of the Gospel? I think it is time the Bishops understood this principle. The Bishop should encourage every man, woman and child that earns and receives in return for his labor, to honor the Lord and to prove his obedience to the law of God by giving the one-tenth of that which he or she receives, as the Lord requires, so that they may have their names enrolled on the book of the law of the Lord, that their genealogies may be had in the archives of the Church, and that they may be entitled to the priv and blessings of the house of God. 

I recollect most vividly a circumstance that occurred in the days of my childhood. My mother was a widow, with a large family to provide for. One spring when we opened our potato pits she had her boys get a load of the best potatoes, and she took them to the tithing office; potatoes were scarce that season. I was a little boy at the time, and drove the team. When we drove up to the steps of the tithing office, ready to unload the potatoes, one of the clerks came out and said to my mother, 'Widow Smith, it's a shame that you should have to pay tithing." He said a number of other things that I remember well, but they are not necessary for me to repeat here. The first two letters of the name of that tithing clerk was William Thompson, and hfe chided my mother for paying her tithing, called her anything but wise or prudent; and said there were others who were strong and able to work that were supported from the tithing office. My mother turned upon him and said: "William, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Would you deny me a blessing? If I did not pay my tithing, I should expect the Lord to withhold His blessings from me. I pay my tithing, not only because it is a law of God, but because I expect a blessing by doing it. By keeping this and other laws, I expect to prosper and to be able to provide for my family." Though she was a widow, you may turn to the records of the Church from the beginning unto the day of her death, and you will find that she never received a farthing from the Church to help her support herself and her famil-y; but she paid in thousands of dollars in wheat, potatoes, corn, vegetables, meat, etc. The tithes of her sheep and cattle, the tenth pound of her butter, her tenth chicken, the tenth of her eggs, the tenth pig, the tenth calf, the tenth colt — a tenth of everything she raised was paid. Here sits my brother, who can bear testimony to the truth of what I say, as can others who knew her. She prospered because she obeyed the laws of God. She had abundance to sustain her family. We never lacked so much as many others did; for while we found nettle greens most acceptable when we first came to the valley; and while we enjoyed thistle roots, segoes and all that kind of thing, we were no worse off than thousands of others, and not so bad off as many, for we were never without corn-meal and milk or butter, to my knowledge. Then that widow had her name recorded in the book of the law of the Lord. That widow was entitled to the privileges of the house of God. No ordinance of the Gospel could be denied her, for she was obedient to the laws of God, and she would not fail in her duty when though discouraged from observing a commandment of God by one who was in an official position. 

This may be said to be personal. By some it may be considered egotistical. But I do not speak of it in this light. When William Thompson told my mother that she ought not to pay tithing, I thought he was one of the finest fellows in the world. I believed every word he said. I had to work and dig and toil myself. I had to help plow the ground, plant the potatoes, hoe the potatoes, dig the potatoes, and all that sort of thing, and then to load up a big wagon-box full of the very best we had, leaving out the poor ones, and bringing the load to the tithing office, I thought in my childish way that it looked a little hard, especially when I saw certain of my playmates and early associates of childhood, playing around, riding horses and having good times, and who scarcely ever did a lick of work in their lives, and yet were being fed from the public crib. Where are those boys today? Are they known in the Church? Are they prominent among the people of God? Are they or were they ever valiant in the testimony of Jesus Christ? Have they a clear testimony of the truth in their hearts? Are they diligent members of the Church? No, and never have been — as a rule — and most of them are dead or vanished out of sight. Well, after I got a few years of experience, I was converted, I found that my mother was right and that William Thompson was wrong. He denied the faith, apostatized, left the country and led away as many of his family as would go with him. I do not want you to deny me 

 privilege of being numbered with those who have the interests of Zion at heart and who desire to contribute their proportion to the upbuilding of Zion and for the maintenance of the work of the Lord in the earth. It is a blessing that I enjoy, and I do not propose that anybody shall deprive me of that pleasure. 

This is the way I feel in relation to the principle of tithing. We must provide revenue for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and theproper way to do it is by giving to theLord the one-tenth that he asks of us. Those who will do this, will receive the reward that he has promised. There is a promise of blessing attached to the observance of this law (Mai. 3: 10 — 13.) If you will sanctify the land' of Zion unto the Lord through the observance of this law, it shall be a, land of Zion unto you. The Lord wilt bless the land and make it fruitful unto you, as He did the land of the children of Israel. In ancient times the Lord blessed the earth for those who observed the law of tithing (2 Chron. 31: 5). This law was given to the children of Israel, and when they obeyed it they were prospered and had abundance; when they disobeyed it, they were afflicted with drough, with mildew, with rust, with the devouring insect, and they were impoverished and destroyed because they did not observe the law. Now, it makes no difference what happened to the ancients, or what the results may be to me. Though the Lord should try me by withholding His blessing from me and making me to drink to the very dregs the bitter cup of poverty, that should make no difference to me. The point is, what is the law of God? And if I know that law, it is my duty to obey it, though I suffer death in consequence. Many a man has gone to the stake in obedience, as he belteved, to the commandments of God. Not one of the ancient disciples who were chosen of Jesus Christ, escaped martyrdom, except Judas and John. Judas betrayed the Lord, and then sacrificed his own life; and John received the promise of the Lord that he should live until he came again to the earth. All the others were put to death, some crucified,. some dragged in the streets of Rome, some thrown from pinnacles, and some stoned to death. What for? For obeying the law of God and bearing testimony to that which they knew to be true. So may it be today. But let the spirit of this Gospel be so imbedded in my soul that though I go through poverty, through tribulation, through persecution, or to death, let me and my house serve God and keep His laws. However, the promise is that you shall be blessed through obedience. God will honor them that honor Him, and will remember them that remember Him. He will uphold and sustain all those who sustain truth and are faithful to it. God help us therefore to be faithful to the truth, now and forever, is my prayer in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER WM. H. SMART, 

president of the Eastern States mission, said: I take great pleasure in assembling with you in this conference and I am enjoying a spiritual feast, in listening to the counsels that come to us from God through His Holy servants. The uppermost thought in my mind is that God has indited the counsels that have been given to us in our meetings thus far. I have been away from the body of the Church for two years, as a missionary to the Eastern States. While I have been absent when conference time has rolled around my spirit has been here and I have longed to sit under the sanctuary and receive the word of God as it is given from time to time by His servants. I desire to bear my testimony to you, my co-laborers, " that God has inspired His Prophet in this day with regard to the law of tithing, and that this spirit is not only in Zion but that it has spread abroad into every part of the world where the Saints and Elders are living. A little less than a year  ago, after the word of the Lord had come through our Prophet with regard to this law of tithing, we caught up the spirit of it in the Eastern States mission. It electrified us. It was nothing but the power of God that did it. The spirit bore witness to us that that word was from God and that it was not of man. I do not feel that I have power to take up your val time this morning, but I did want to bear this testimony unto you, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER E. H. NYE, president of the California mission: My brothers and sisters, it is a wonderful privilege to meet with you in this conference. It seems as though I am hardly able to control my feelings, I am so overcome with joy in meeting with the Saints of the Most High. The spirit that has prevailed throughout this conference thus far has been a joy to my soul. I thank the Lord my God and my brethren the Presidency that I have been permitted to come to Zion from the State of California, where I have been laboring for the last three years and a half as a missionary. This grand question of tithing has been with us, and I bear testimony with my brother, Elder Smart, who has just preceded me, that the same spirit permeated the hearts of the Saints throughout the State of California, so much so that they have come to the front, paid their tithes and their offerings and enabled us to carry on the mission in that part of the world. I rejoice in this and in the testimony that has been given and in the spirit that has actuated the servants of God, who have spoken to us the words of life and salvation in these meetings. It seems to me that if we could comprehend the situation, every man and woman would rise in the strength of their manhood and womanhood and rejoice in the privilege of performing this wonderful work. We have in our own hands a key to the spiritual blessings of the Almighty. We meet together in our various wards and branches and partake of the sacred emblems of the flesh and blood of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. I am always impressed with the importance of that sacred ordinance, for in that it seems to me we have a key to the spiritual blessings of the Almighty. Let me call your attention for a moment to what we do in partaking of that ordinance: 

"Witness unto thee. O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember Him, and keep His commandments which he has given them." 

What for? "That they may always have His spirit to be with them." Every time that we partake of that sacred ordinance we enter into a covenant with the Lord that we will keep the commandments He has given. What are the commandments? "Love one another," is one of them. "Thou shalt net lie," is another. And our brethren, the Presidency and the Twelve, have been impressing upon us in a most wonderful manner that there is a commandment to pay our tithing. Now if we go to meeting, partake of this sacred ordinance, enter into this covenant anew, and then ignore these commandments, do we not, my brethren and sisters, become covenant breakers before the Almighty? This is the way it strikes me. This ordinance is instituted that we may continually renew our obligations unto the Lord, and the ordinance itself says what we do it for— that we may always have His spirit to be with us. Some of the brethren have quoted from the Book of Mormon. I will call attention to one passage in it. On the occasion of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ visiting the people upon this continent, He called them to prayers. He prayed, and they prayed: 

"And they did pray for that which they most desired; and they desired that the Holy Ghost should be given unto them." 

And further on the Book of Mormon tells us, after enumerating the wonderful gifts and blessings that the Lord bestowed upon the people, that it was because the love of God did dwell in the hearts of the people. This is a key to the whole grand question. If we will keep the covenants that we make before the Almighty every time we partake of this solemn ordinance, we shall come right up to the standard of perfection that the brethren have been talking about, and that those old Nephite Saints arrived at when there was no wickedness of any kind among them, because the love of God did dwell in their midst, and the record declares that they were a most prosperous people in everything. Here is a lesson for us, if we can take it to ourselves. 

I rejoice in the great work as it is rolling along. In the law of tithing  is a key to the wealth and blessings of the earth; for the Lord makes a declaration that if we will pay our tithes and our offerings he will open the windows of heaven and pour forth such blessings as there shall not be room to receive. These things have been manifested time and time again in the California mission. I could enumerate instances where individuals through the payment of their tithes have received wonderful gifts and blessings; have been prospered in all that they set their hands to do, and have proved to their own satisfaction that the blessings of the Almighty do come unto them through obedience to this command. May God bless you. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning; The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

The angels are coming to visit the earth. 

Benediction by Elder Rulon S. Wells. 


