Morning
07 04 1900



ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Individual Progress in the work of God depends upon obedience t.> God's Commandments- To become great it is not necessary to behold Angels and have great spiritual manifestations — E^rnal life the tgreatest tjift of God to man — The Church organ should be sustained. 

I rejoice exceedingly in the opportunity of again meeting with the Latterday Saints in general conference. I have enjoyed listening to the remarks which have thus far been made, and I desire, as was said here yesterday by President Snow, as all Elders with the proper spirit should desire, that I may be blessed of the Lord and that I may have the faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints, that what I may say. shall be beneficial to us and encourage us in performing the duties that devolve upon us as Latter-day Saints. 

It has ever been a source of surprise to me that there are so many members of the Church, more particularly those who hold the holy Priesthood, who profess to be Latter-day Saints, who testify to a knowledge of the Gospel and to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and yet who fail to keep the commandments of our heavenly Father, and to prove by their lives that they are in very deed Latter-day Saints. I am surprised at this, because I cannot understand how people with a knowledge of the Gosoel and the testimony that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the true and living God, and that he has established on the earth, under the direction of our heavenly Father and his Son Jesus, the Gospel  everlasting life, and that it is in very deed the pearl of great price to each and every one of us — it is a surprise to me, I say, that men, holding the holy Priesthood and possessing this knowledge, should, year after year, neglect the duties and the obligations that rest upon them. The Savior told His followers that they were the salt of the earth, but that if the salt lost its savor, it was thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men. He told them also that they were the light of the world, a city set upon a hill which could not be hid; he told them that men did not light a candle and put it under a bushel, but upon a candlestick, that it might give light to all that were in the room, and he admonished them to let their light so shine that men seeing their good deeds might glorify God. 

This admonition applies to us. We are the light of the world. We have received the inspiration of Almighty God. We have received a testimony of the Gospel, and we do know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and that Brigham Young, John Taylor, and Wilford Woodruff were prophets of God, as is Lorenzo Snow. Every true Latterday Saint has this testimony burning within his or her heart. Now, are we so living that the good deeds we perform bring credit to the work of God? Are our examples worthy of the imitation of all men? Do we by our examples show that we have faith in the Gospel? We are told that faith without works is dead; that as the body without the spirit is dead, so also is faith without works dead, and I am sorry to say that there are many professed Latter-day Saints who are spiritually dead. We many times ask ourselves the question, why does this man progress in the plan of life and salvation, while his neighbor, of equal intelligence and ability, of apparently the same testimony and power, and perchance greater power, stands still? I will tell you why. One keeps the commandments of our Heavenly Father, and the other fails to keep them. The Savior says that he that keeps his commandments is the man that loves him, and he that keeps the commandments of God shall be loved of the Father, and the Savior says he will love him and he will manifest himself unto him. The Lord also tells us that those who hear His sayings and doeth them shall be likened unto the wise man who built his house upon the rock, and when the rains descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon that house, it fell not, because it was founded UDon a rock. On the other hand, those who heard His sayings and did them not, the Savior likened unto a foolish man, who built his house on the sand, and when the rains descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon that house, it fell, and great was the fall thereof. There are many Latter-day Saints who are building their houses upon the sand. They are failing to do the sayings of our Savior. They are failing to carry out the commandments of our Heavenly Father that come to us from time to time through His inspired servants. 

Now, if we have the Gospel (and we know we have), I say to each and every Latter-day Saint, who desires to grow and enlarge in the Gospel, he must keep the commandments of God. As we keep the commandments of God and live god-like lives, we become full of charity, long-suffering and love for our fellows, and we grow and increase in all those things that go to make us noble and god -like. We also gain the love and confidence of those by whom we are surounded. It is by the performance of the plain, simple, everyday duties that devolve upon us that we will grow in the spirit of God. You find me a man that attends his quorum meetings, that performs his duties in the ward in which he lives, that hon~ estly pays his tithing, and I will find you a man full of the spirit of God and growing and increasing in the testimony of the Gospel. On the other hand, you find me a man that has seen angels, that has had wonderful manifestations, that has seen devils cast out, that has gone to the ends of the earth and preached the Gospel, and yet who is  to keep the commandments of God, and I will find you a man that is cirticising the Lord's anointed, and finding fault with what the President does, with where he goes, what he engages in and how he administers the affairs of the Church. There are many non-tithe-payers among the Latter-day Saints, and many of them say that the reason they don't pay tithing is because the tithing is not properly administered. Seeing, however, that they do not pay a dollar, it is none of their business how it is administered. But you will find that those who do not do their duty, are always complaining about somebody that does, and making excuses for themselves. I have never found a man who was keeping the commandments of God that had any criticism to offer concerning any administration of the affairs of the Church. Neglect of duty, failure to keep the commandments of God, darkens the mind of man and the Spirit of the Lord is withdrawn. We find it recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants "For although a man may have many revelations, and have power to do many mighty works, yet if he boasts in his own strength and sets at nought the counsels of God, and follows after the dictates of his own will and carnal desires, he must fall." As recorded in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where men repent and turn from their misdeeds, the Lord will forgive them, but His Spirit will not always strive with them. 

I have met many young men who have said to me, "I do not know that the Gospel is true. I believe it. but I do not know it." I have invariably replied to them that our Lord and Master has said that he who will do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether he spoke of himself, and if they would do the will of the Father, they should eventually have a knowledge of the Gospel. Some of them have said: "Oh, if I could only see an angel; if I could only hear speaking in tongues; if I could only see some great manifestation, then I would believe." I wish to say to all within the sound of my voice that the seeing of angels and great manifestations do not make sjrea: 23  in the Church and kingdom of God. Think of the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon. What is their testimony? It is that an angel showed them the plates, and that they knew they had been translated by the gift and power of God. How did they claim to know this? Because "His voice hath declared it unto us." What else did they testify? "And we declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; and we know that it is by the grace of God, the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, that we beheld and bear record that these things are true; and it is marvelous in our eyes, nevertheless the voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of it; wherefore to be obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things." Yet these men fell by the wayside, though they remained true and steadfast to their testimony to the Book of Mormon. 

What is the testimony of Sidney Rigdon in connection with the Prophet Joseph Smith, as recorded in the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. 

"And while we meditated upon these things the Lord touched the eyes of our understanding and they were opened, and the glory of the Lord shone round about; 

"And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the rierht hand of the Father, and received of his fullness; 

"And saw the holy angels, and they who are sanctified before His throne, worshiping God, and the Lamb, who worship Him for ever and ever. 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of Him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of Him, that he lives; 

"For we saw Him, even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by Him and through Him, and of Him the worlds are and were created and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

Think of it, beholding the glory of the Son and receiving a fullness of that , and hearing the voice declare that he is the only Begotten of the Father, and yet this man, Sidney Rigdon, proved a traitor to the Prophet and fell by the wayside! 

There is no character of which we have any record in the Book of Mormon that I admire more than Nephi. The life of that man has been one of the guiding stars of my life. His faith, his determination, his spirit to do the will of God has inspired me with a desire to follow in his noble footsteps. We speak of seeing angels. What is the record of seeing angels? Those of us who are familiar with the Book of Mormon know that when God commanded Lehi to send to Jerusalem and get the plates from Laban, some of his sons complained, but when Nephi came from the mountain to his father's tent, he said that he would go, because he knew "that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save He should prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." They went up; they failed, and the brothers wanted to go back to their father in the wilderness. But Nephi said "We will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us." They went up again and they gave their wealth to Laban. but they were driven back again. Then the older brethren smote Nephi and his bi'other Sam with a rod, and while they were doing this, an angel of the Lord stood before them and chided them. But no sooner had he departed, after having told them to go up again and God would deliver Laban into their hands, than they commenced once more to murmur. So it has been in all ages of the world, and so it will be with those who do not keep the commandments of God. Angels may visit them, they may see visions, they may have dreams, they may even see the Son of God, and yet the Spirit of God will not burn in their hearts. But those who do the will of God, and live God-like lives, they will grow and increase in the testimony of the Gospel and in power and ability to do God's will. 

After the angel had gone, these men said, "How is it possible that the Lord Will deliver Laban into our hands? Behold, he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty, yea even he can slay fifty; then why not us?" What did Nephi, the younger brother say? He said "Let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?" 

Here is the key-note, Latter-daySaints. Let us realize that God is mightier than all the earth. Let us realize that if we are faithful in keeping the commandments of God His promises will be fulfilled to the very letter. For He has said that not one jot or tittle shall fall to the ground unfulfilled. The trouble is, the adversary of men's souls blinds their minds. He throws dust, so to speak, in their eyes, and they are blinded with the things of this world. Men do not lay up treasures in heaven, where moth and rust corrupt not,where thieves do not break through and steal, but they set their hearts upon the things of this world, and the adversary obtains power over them. 

I say to you, Latter-day Saints, that the pearl of great price is life eternal. God has told us that the greatest of all the gifts He can bestow upon man is life eternal. We are laboring for that great gift, and it will be ours if we keep the commandments of God. But it will not profit us to merely make professions and to proclaim to the ends of the earth that this is the Gospel, but it will profit us if we do the will of God. As the inspired servant of God said, speaking of faith without works: 

"What doth it profit my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? 

"If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, 

"And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit?" 

I say, what doth it profit to go to the end's of the earth and proclaim the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and yet fail to do vour duty here in laboring for the  of God's kingdom? I say to the Latter-day Saints, be honest with God, pay your tithes and your offerings, support every institution of Zion, build up the Church of Christ, pray for the authorities of the Church, and then sustain them in every labor and in all that they undertake to do. 

I see that my time has expired, but I want to just make one suggestion. I rejoice in the financial growth of the Church organ; I rejoice in the increase of seven thousand subscribers to our paper, which belongs to the Latter-day Saints. I say, continue the good work. Subscribe for the Deseret News. Have it in your homes. Read the sermons that are published there; read the teachings of our Heavenly Father that come to us through His servants, that are published in that, paper. Do not allow your selfishness and your penuriousness to cause you, in order to save two dollars, to not have the inspiration of the Lord through His servants, as published in that paper. Sustain this paper. Why? Because it is yours. Because the Prophet of God desires its success; because it is fighting for Zion, and because it desires the triumph of Zion. Sustain every other good institution and God will bless you, which may He do, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

The gifts of God of great worth- Salvation conies through obedience— How a testimony of the truth can be obtained. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that the spirit of our Father who is in heaven may rest upon me while I address you this morning. I have listened with much interest to the remarks that have bee"h made by the various speakers during this conference, and I feel that I can heartily bear testimony to all that has been said. No doubt the remarks of Elder Grant will be appreciated by the Latter-day Saints, and they have had the effect to draw my mind to another phase of the Church and Kingdom of God. 

I observe among the Latter-day Saints a very great improvement during the last twelve months in the payment of their tithing, in their attendance at 's, and in the performance of other duties. I have been a little in the world, and I find a great many good people among them. I notice that people pay their donations according to the covenants that they have made in their denomination, and they build vast churches, costing millions of dollars. I find organizations and charitable institutions that support thousands of people, and I find communities where they pour out their wealth in millions for the benefit of unfortunate and suffering humanity. I find thousands and millions of people who are thoroughly devoted to the faith they have espoused. I speak of this in order that I may draw to the attention of the young and rising generation a feature connected with this work that is spiritual. I want the young and all who are before me to understand that the remarks of Elder Grant have not been intended to detract from the spiritual rights and privileges which the Latter-day Saints should enjoy. I am going to take the liberty to read to you a little from the holy Scriptures. I will read you the testimony of Moroni the Prophet. But before doing so, I want to tell you this: There is only one difference - between the Latter-day Saints and the denominations of the world, as far as I have been able to observe, and that difference lies in the fact that this people believe in continual revelation from God the Eternal Father, in the gifts and blessings of the Holy Spirit, and in various other blessings which the Lord has promised ' to the faithful in this generation. And let me tell you, whenever the absence of these gifts and blessings and the administration of holy angels occurs among this people this is not the people of God. I speak this in order that the young may understand it. The children of men had not heard or seen God the Eternal Father or his Son Jesus Christ for eighteen hundred years, and this congregation before me today would never have come here had not God the Eternal Father and the holy angels visited the Prophet Joseph Smith. I want to bear testimony to one thing: Where one man who has had the privilege of the gift of the administration of angels,  one man who has enjoyed the gift of prophecy, or the gift of healing, or the gift of miracles, or any of these divine gifts, which God promised the believer in the last days — where one such man has left this Church, there have been fifty leave it who have not had these gifts. That is my testimony unto you, my brethren and sisters. When one of the sons or daughters of God is born of the water and spirit, he or she is chosen of God the Eternal Father, and while Satan, as Elder Grant has said, will make a ten-fold exertion to overcome such, nevertheless God has given them a testimony and it is burning in their hearts; and you will find, if you reckon as between those who have received a gift of God and those who have not, that there will be fifty of the latter class to one of the former who will wander away from that straight and narrow path which Jesus Christ commanded the children of men to walk in. There are different phases to every question, and I feel strongly impressed to read the testimony of the Prophet Moroni: 

'Behold I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam, even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. 

"And when ye shall receive these things, T would exhort you that you would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, He will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost; 

"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. 

"And whatsoever thing is good, is just and true, wherefore, nothing that is good denieth the Christ, but acknowledged that He is. 

"And ye may know that He is, by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore I would exhort you, that ye deny not the power of God; for He worketh by power, according to the faith of the children of men, the same today and tomorrow, and forever. 

"And again .1 exhort you, my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God that worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men, to profit them. 

"For behold, to one is given by the Spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wisdom." 

What a great and glorious gift the gift of wisdom is. How nicely these subjects have been arranged, the Lord placing the gift of wisdom above all the other gifts. 

"And to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same spirit." 

That knowledge which has been referred to by Elder Grant, that we may know that God lives, not by the testimony of men, but by the power of the Holy Ghost, revealed unto us from God the Eternal Father, as referred to also by President Snow yesterday. 

"And to another, exceeding great faith; and to another, the gift of healing by the same Spirit. 

"And again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles; 

"And again, to another, that he may prophesy concerning all things; 

"And again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits; 

"And again, to another, all kinds of tongues; 

"And again, to another, the interpretation of languages and of divers kinds of tongues. 

"And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they come unto every man severally, according as he will. 

"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift cometh of Christ. 

"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that He is the same yesterday, today and forever, and that all these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spiritual, never will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, only according to the unbelief of the children of men. 

"Wherefore, there must be faith; and if there must be faith, there must also be hope; and if there must be hope, there must also be charity; 

"And except ye have charity, ye can in no wise be saved in the kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in the kingdom of God. if ye have not faith; neither can ye if ye have no hope; 

"And if ye have no hope, ye must needs be in despair; and despair cometh because of iniquity. 

"And Christ truly said upon our fathers, if ye have faith, ye can do all things which is expedient unto me. 

"And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth, that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief. 

"And wo be unto the children of men, if this be the case; for there shall be none that doeth good among you, no not one. For if there be one among you that doeth good, he shall work by the power and gifts of God. 

"And wo unto them who shall do these things away and die, for they die in their sins, and they cannot be saved in the Kingdom of God; and I speak it according to the words of Christ, and I lie not. 

"And I exhort you to remember these things; for the time speedily cometh that ye shall know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God, and the Lord God will say unto you, Did I not declare mv words unto you, which were written by this man, like as one crying from the dead? yea, even as one speaking out of the dust?" 

I have taken the liberty of reading this testimony of Moroni the Prophet. Joseph Smith the Prophet bore the same testimony, as recorded in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. Paul the Apostle bore the same testimony to the Corinthians and Ephesians in his day. I want to say, however, that while these gifts and blessings are the right and privilege of the Latter-day Saints, we should not depend upon them for our salvation in the kingdom of God. The gift of prophecy will not save any man. It is not a saving principle; it is a gift. It is to comfort our hearts. It is to give us the testimony of the mind and will of God concerning things which are to come. As Elder Grant has said, I may prophesy from now till the coming of the Son of Man, and if I fail to keep the commandments, I will not be saved in the kingdom of God. Neither do I believe that it is possible for a man to be saved in the kingdom of God without being born of the water and of the spirit. But this people can no more live spiritually without these gifts and blessings and inspirations from our Father than you can live a month without eating. You will die a spiritual death, and there will be nothing left of you in the kingdom of God but a dead form. As the Prophet has said, the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth light. 

Now the time will come when we will not need any of these gifts, but we do need them today very badly. I tell you that among the Latter-day Saints there is a famine for the spiritual gifts of God. That is my testimony unto you. These gifts and blessings are enjoyed among this people, but we do not enjoy them to that fullness that we will when we come up to the standard of keeping the commandments that Elder Grant has referred to. We will have to do these things little by little. We will receive line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, until we can enjoy the fullness of the measure of the stature of Christ. I testify to you, in corroboration of what Elder Grant has said, that just in proportion to the performance of your duties in the Church and Kingdom of God, you will enjoy the gifts and blessings of the Holy Spirit, if you desire them. These gifts and blessings will not come unto the children of men as an ordinary every-day affair. Any man that receives a gift from God will have to get it by earnestly seeking after the Father. As Paul the Apostle says, "He that cometh to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." Paul also, in speaking of these gifts, says that "when that which is perfect is come, that which is in part shall be done away." Bless your soul, when Jesus Christ comes to reign in righteousness on the earth, we will not have to speak in other languages. Why? Because the original language will be given unto this people, and we will all speak in one tongue. We will not have to say to others, "Know ye the Lord; for all will know Him from the least unto the greatest." The gifts of God and the knowledge of Jesus Christ will be upon every man, woman and child. We will not need this gift of knowledge, so that we can testify that Jesus is the Christ, for He will be with us. The brightness and joy of His presence will be in our midst. We will not need the gift of the administration of angels, because the holy angels will be in our presence, and will be ministering servants unto the righteous that live either on this or some other world,  today they visit this earth from the throne of God the Eternal Father. You will not, my brethren and sisters, in that day, need the gift of the interpretation of tongues, because everybody will understand the same language. It will not be necessary to have the gift of healing, because we will not need to be healed, for we will be sound and perfect. Thus I might go on and enumerate each of the gifts. They will all be done away with when that which is perfect is come. For these blessings are only in part. They are given to us now, — what for? Jesus said to His disciples that when He was gone He would send them the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, to comfort their hearts. Brethren and sisters, in our weak and feeble condition, with the vicissitudes of life upon us, when we come together in our fast meetings, does it not comfort our hearts to see a man or a woman enjoying a gift of God and getting up and exercising it? It fills our souls with joy, it renews our spirits, and we go forth with greater courage, power and determination to carry out all these commandments that Brother Grant has referred to. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, speaking about the various gifts of God, Joseph Smith the Prophet said that the greatest gift of God is the gift of salvation. Yes, and the way to be saved is to keep the commandments of God. I exhort you, my brethren and sisters, to seek for the best gifts, but not to put your dependence upon them. You may raise a man from the dead by the power of God, and that will not save the man you raise up and it will not save you. You may prophesy concerning all things till the winding up scene, and if you do not keep the commandments of God the words of Jesus will be reiterated unto you "not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." For the Savior declared: 

"Many will say to me in that day.Lord Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 

"And then will I confess unto them, I never knew you: Depart from me, ye that work iniquity." 

I make this quotation in order that you may see the force and application of Elder Grant's remarks, for I desire to bear testimony to them. At the same time, my brethren and sisters, I desire that every son and daughter of God who is under the sound of my voice, should understand that the difference between the Latter-day Saints and the rest of the children of men is that God the Eternal Father does not bestow upon them the power of His Holy Spirit and a knowledge of Jesus Christ as He has upon this people. We are the only people living on the race of this earth, out of fourteen hundred millions of people, upon whom the gift of knowledge has been poured out, to know that God lives, that Jesus Christ is His Son, and that we have inspired men in our midst. 

In the conclusion of my remarks, I desire to say unto the young men and young women, and to the strangers that may be in our midst, that all men, as Brother Grant has said, may know that God lives, if they will keep His commandments. This is a great and glorious privilege. Peter the Apostle says: 

"Add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; 

"And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; 

"And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity; 

"For if those things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye be neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." 

I promise you that if you will keep the commandments of God, repent of your sins, go into the waters of baptism and make covenant with the Father that you will obey him, you shall be born of water and of the spirit, and that spirit of revelation, so beautifully referred to here by our Prophet, Seer and Revelator yesterday, will come upon you, and you will know that God lives, that you are the creation of his hands, and that you shall have eternal life, if you will continue to keep his commandments. 

I feel to bless you all in the name of Jesus Christ, with every blessing that is for your good, and I pray that our hearts may be inclined to keep his commandments, that we may be saved and exalted in his kingdom. My brethren and sisters, there is nothing that is  in the sight of God. It is all spiritual in his sight. May God bless you, may we acknowledge his hand in all things, that we may be crowned heirs of glory, immortality and eternal life. My testimony unto you is that Joseph Smith was an inspired Prophet of the living God. I testify unto you that we have a prophet in our midst today, who receives the revelations of Jesus Christ for this people. I testify unto you that God the Eternal Father never will have a people upon the earth, excepting he has a Prophet, Seer and Revelator to reveal his mind and will unto them. For the Savior has said, "Thou shalt not live by bread , alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God." My testimony is that God lives, that he has prophets here upon the earth, that he has bestowed the gifts and blessings upon this people, and all men are called upon to keep His commandments, or they cannot be saved and exalted in His kingdom. I rejoice to be in your presence. I rejoice in every blessing that I enjoy. I feel to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in the prosperity of this people. He has turned aside the shafts of the enemy, and every weapon that is formed against Zion does not prosper. Zion is going to rise and shine, and it will become the glory of the whole earth. The Gentiles will come from the ends of the earth, and kings to the brightness of her rising, and they will say, as the Prophet Jeremiah declared: "Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity, and things wherein there is no profit." May we live to be faithful and be in readiness for the coming: of Jesus Christ, which is near our doors. For behold, he will come in the clouds of heaven, with ten thousand of His Saints, and to those who are righteous will he arise as with healing in His wings; but "all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch." My testimony is that when you take all the proud and all they that do wickedly from among the children of men, there will not be many left. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 

The preservation of families in the faith— The Counsels of the Priesthood should be regarded —Secret Societies shouH b" avoided— Unprofitable amusements should not be indulged in — Further improvement in Tithe-paying needed. 

I think, my brethren and sisters, that I realize in part the responsibility of standing before you to say a few words. I have nothing particularly on my mind at this time, but depend for what I may say upon the Lord and your faith and attentic^i. 

I can testify that this work is true. I know it is from the Lord. I can testify that the hand of the Lord has been over His people from the organization of the Church, seventy years ago, and when I reflect upon my own condition, I feel very grateful in my heart that I have been made to see the truth of this work and I have been able thus far to retain a membership in the Church and fellowship with my brethren and sisters. I feel that this is a great blessing. Where people can retain their fellowship in the Church and not be cut off it certainly is a great blessing. 

I appreciate the opportunity of meeting with you and testifying that this is the work of the Lord;, and thousands of you people know it just as well as I do. But this knowledge of the truth will not save us, unless we abide in it. If we let the cares of the world envelop our minds to such an extent that we lose interest in the work of the Lord, we are in a pitiful condition. But if we place first and foremost our obligations to the Church then we have a good chance to remain in the Church and to retain our fellowship with each other. And when we have fellowship with each other, we have fellowship with the Spirit of the Lord, which will direct us in all our ways, and we will be preserved in the truth with our families. Some of our families perhaps are wayward. They do not do as we would like them to do. Is not this the case in many families? There are sons and  whose give satisfaction and mothers, do about it? best we can. that we have cause of their  does not to their fathers What shall we Do the very but see to it not been the lack of integrity  the work of the Lord. I believe throug-n our faithfulness and our entreaties with the Lord we may be the means not only of saving ourselves, but those the Lord has entrusted to us as sons and daughters. The Lord is merciful and He will hear our prayers and grant our desires through our integrity for him and his work. And peradventure, through our faithfulness, our children who are wayward and who perhaps have strayed away, will come back to the fold bye and bye, because the Lord will hear us in their behalf. 

Perhaps there are many things among the Latter-day Saints that ought not to exist. The indifference to the counsels of God that was treated upon yesterday by President Cannon is a matter that is known to the whole people. We know that such conditions should not exist among the Latter-day Saints. There should be no necessity whatever for these things to be referred to by any Elders of the Church, because as Latter-day Saints we should live far above them. We should honor the Lord and His Priesthood and His work. We should set this example to our families, to our neighbors and to all with whom we associate. The lack of reverence to the Priesthood we may look upon as a trifling matter, but it is not. It is not the man particularly, it is the authority that God has bestowed upon the man. I am safe in saying, I believe, that there is no man who holds the authority of the Priesthood who has sought this position himself. He has not canvassed for the support of the people, but he has been placed in his position because the Lord wanted him there. Therefore men and women who trifle with these things and ignore the counsel of God, are treading upon dangerous ground and they will be brought into shame and disgrace before the people in the due time of the Lord, unless they repent. We cannot afford to do these things. Our duty is to sustain each other, sustain this work, to be in harmony with it, in all of its details, and to be in harmony with God's chosen servants in all the affairs of life. God will be with the men and women who will pursue this course, His Spirit and power will be with them, to sustain them through trying times. I know as well as I see you that Satan is abroad and his ministers are in the land by the thousands. They are perhaps in this tabernacle. At any rate, they are in our midst, and they are prompting individuals unknown to them, in the morning, at mid-day and in the evening, and trying to divert their minds from the truth and from the work of the Lord. They are trying to stir up division and discord among the Saints, and they succeed in a measure. We feel sometimes that it is doing no particular wrong if we associate ourselves with secret societies. But it is drawing us away from the work of the Lord and from the Priesthood. People who join these organizations will argue that it is important for them; it is a sort of insurance for their families; and they are not bad things because there is nothing bad done there. Of course I do not know anything about that personally. I speak simply upon principle, and from that standpoint I know they are not productive of good to any Latter-day Saint. These secret organizations are what broke up the Nephite nation, and there is one society after another being organized in the midst of the Latter-day Saints. And whose work is it? Do the leaders of the Church advise it? Do they countenance it? I do not know that they do. I know that I do not personally endorse any of these things, because I do not think they are productive of good. On the contrary, they will result in those who hold the Priesthood losing the spirit of that Priesthood and going into darkness. The Lord has given us the most complete organization there is in the world. You cannot find anything like it anywhere. It is a safe-guard and an insurance to the people. Who among all' the Latterday Saints is allowed to suffer. If the husband should be taken away, if any of the family should be taken away, are those remaining not provided for? Why, tens of thousands of dollars of your tithes and offerings go to provide for the needy. Hence in the Church of God there is no necessity for any of its members being associated with secret societies. There are people, of course, who do not belong to the Church living in our midst; they may  with any society they please. But for Elders of Israel, some of whom have traversed the earth in preaching the Gospel, to lay down their Priesthood and join secret societies, it is different. Are there any cases of this kind in the midst of the people? I hope not, but I fear that there are such cases. Hence I warn my brethren and sisters, especially the young, that these organizations are not for the Latter-day Saints. They belong to the world and^I warn you against them. I would warn you mothers to teach your sons to live the Gospel and its principles and to identify themselves with the organizations of the Church. We have organizations that take in all the people, from the child to those who are a hundred years old, and in them we have all that we can possibly attend to. Some of the brethren spoke yesterday about people being away so much from their families. Well, I do not know, but if all our organizations were attended to properly, it would take the fathers away a great deal. However, as Solomon said, there is a time for all things. There is time to instruct our children and to associate with our families, if we would divide our labors properly, * and not waste any of our time in associating ourselves with organizations wherein there is no rjrofit. 

There are a great many amusements introduced among the Latter-day Saints wherein there is no profit. People get together and indulge in card playing. I do not know personally that there is any particular wrong in playing cards, but it is the example and the fascination about it which leads to gambling, and this has ruined many men and families. It leads to drink and to many other evils. Hence, when I see published in the paper what a nice time so-and-so had at high five, or some other game, I wonder if there was any profit in the game to those people who assembled. I believe in social gatherings, such as family gatherings, and gatherings of the Saints, where they meet together and talk good things and rejoice together in the truth. I believe such gatherings are profitable; but when the table is set with intoxicants, I do not think they result in good. We should not encourage our  to engage in these things, because they lead to evil and away from the Lord and the influence of His Spirit. There are plenty of good and profitable things to engage in; and these things that are not profitable, let us not participate in them. When we are invited here and there to sociables and gatherings, we ought to consider, is there going to be any profit in this for me. Oh, yes; it's going to be a grand thing; we are going to have a nice program. Well, I have thought sometimes that we are getting so much program that everything will be run by program by and by, if the Presidency of the Church will only sanction it. I heard not long ago of Relief Society meetings having programs. I asked them what they had a program for. "Oh, we have a program so as to make it interesting:." "You leave the Lord out, then; you have everything cut and dried, learned by heart, and you do not depend upon the Spirit of the Lord." I do not believe in too many programs. In some cases we might have programs, which would be very nice and profitable. But to carry this to the extreme, like we have our politics, I think will work an injury. I heard of a ward once where they were going to introduce programs into their ward meetings. I do not believe in that. I think we can have a ward meeting without a program, and we will depend upon the Spirit of the Lord to direct what shall be said and done. 

My brethren and sisters, there are many things that we can improve in. We can improve in our tithes and our offerings. Who is there in all Israel that cannot improve a little in this direction? Peradventm-e there may be a few that observe the law of the Lord strictly; but I tell you the large majority of the Latter-day Saints do not, although there has been great improvement made among the people. Further improvement is in order, and it will be well for us to do a little better this year than we did last year. If we cannot do any more ourselves, we might convert others to pay their tithing, if we will take pains to reason with them, that they might not be burned in the day of the Lord Almighty. It is said that they that are tithed shall not be burned, inferring that they that are not tithed may be burned. This is  law of the Lord. It was not instituted by man. President Snow did not inaugurate this principle. The Lord revealed it to the Prophet Joseph and it is expected that all Latter-day Saints will observe this law of the Lord. I want to bear testimony that you who observe this law strictly will be blessed of the Lord. He will multiply you and your means shall be increased unto you, because you have obeyed the law of the Lord and you are entitled to have the windows of heaven opened unto you and blessings poured out upon you. But do not become faint-hearted or discouraged because you do not receive everything today that you expect; but trust in the Lord, and so sure as you continue to trust in the Lord the way will be opened up from time to time and means will be multiplied upon you. Above all things, my brethren and sisters, let us resolve in our hearts that from this time forward we will observe the law of the Lord, we will be consistent in our lives as Latter-day Saints, and we will try to educate ourselves to love one another, to love the work of God, to love His Priesthood, to reverence and obey them, and to walk in the light that God may sustain us and give us the victory, which He will do, if we will only do these things. 

How many of you Latter-day Saints neglect your prayers? How many fail to call your families together in the morning and in the evening, or have you so much to do that you cannot attend to it? Do you have to go to some secret organization, and you have not time for family prayers? I want to advise you personally to drop all these organizations wherein there is no profit; associate yourselves with things wherein there is profit, wherein you may have more influence with your households, in persuading them to obey the laws of the Lord. There are a great many things for Latter-day Saints to do, and we know what is best to be done if we will only sit down and think about it. Let us consider our condition before the Lord and place ourselves in the position of the Prophet who said, "Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my thoughts; and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting." Why cannot we adopt that sentiment? If we will do so, and observe these things, we will be glad of it by and by. When we get through with this short career of ours, and we look back upon our lives, if we have kept the commandments of God, what joy and satisfaction it will be to us. We shall go in peace and associate with the just behind the veil. 

Brethren and sisters, attend to the duties that pertain to your calling in the ministry, and let everything else take care of itself. God bless you, and lead us all in the paths of life, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang: Let the mountains shout for joy, and the congregation joined in singing the Doxology. 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith. 


