Afternoon
07 04 1900


ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 

Spiritual gifts must exist in the Church <>f Christ — Thcdr absence an indication of unbelief. 

I hope, while I shall address you, that the same good spirit may guide me as has assisted my brethren who have already spoken in the different meetings of this conference. I have enjoyed their remarks very much, and I believe all w r ho have been present have felt to rejoice in the good teachings that have been given us. 

This morning, when Brother John W. Taylor read the testimony of the Prophet Moroni to us, I was much struck with some of the words he read. We were told there that the spiritual gifts should always be found in the Church, and that if there ever came a time when these gifts were not in the Church it would be on account of unbelief; and a woe was pronounced upon the inhabitants of the earth if such should be the case. I thought how clear the Prophet Moroni made this; that the Church whenever it is upon the earth  have the Holy Spirit within it; the members of the Chuch must have this Spirit, and the spiritual gifts must be manifested; otherwise it would be a dead church. These words are recorded in the Book of Mormon — this wonderful book that has been brought forth by the power of God in our age. This book was printed before there was a church organized, and yet we find these remarkable words in it, which at once furnish the world with a test whereby they can judge if this is the Church of Christ or not. It says that in the Church there must be found these gifts. Now, if Joseph Smith had not been an inspired man; if the Book of Mormon was not the word of God, but written by man, how careful such a man would have been not to furnish the world with a test like this whereby they could at once detect whether it was the Church of Christ or not. A man who should fraudulently give himself out to be an inspired man, would be careful that such words should not be given to the world. But these were not the words of Joseph; they were the words of a prophet that lived some fourteen hundred years before, and one who understood the Church of Christ. 

When we look back upon the history of the Church we find that the spiritual gifts were very abundant in the original Church, and that whenever the Saints met they were much blessed with the power of the spirit. They were so eager to attend their meetings and to speak, prophesy, and talk in tongues, that the Apostle Paul had to regulate their meetings and give them counsel in regard to the manner of conducting them, that order might prevail. The Saints were abundantly blessed with these manifestations of the spirit. But when the apostasy took place, the spirit of the Lord departed, its manifestations were fewer, and at last they were not known in the Church. Then it was very convenient to teach -the people that revelations were no longer needed, that prophets were not needed; that these spiritual gifts were given only in the beginning of the Church, to convert men; but that they were not to continue with the members of the Church, and therefore they were done . When Jesus appeared to the Nephites, upon this continent, He taught them the pure Gospel and organized His church. He left this power of the Priesthood with His servants here, the same as He had with His servants upon the Eastern continent, and the spiritual blessings were enjoyed as long as the Church was in existence upon this continent. Moroni understood this so well that he said these gifts must always be found in the Church, and if not it would be a sign of unbelief. 

After the Book of Mormon was published, the Church was organized, and then men could read the book and test the words, and judge whether or not the Church that was afterwards organized corresponded with what the Prophet had said the Church should be. 

It was but a few days after the Church was organized before the spirit uttered itself in power, and spiritual manifestations were given and miracles performed, showing that the Church which had been recently organized was not an imitation, but that it was the Church itself, containing the same power and spiritual blessings. In fact, this wonderful book itself was translated by the power of God. Joseph Smith was an unlearned man; he had not studied at colleges; he was not much of a writer at that time, but had to employ others to write for him, and those who wrote for him wrote as he dictated. Now, you who have tried to dictate to a person know how hard it is to dictate, and to continue to do this, without altering or without having the last sentence repeated; but Joseph dictated to these men, and was not under the necessity of asking them where they had left off. because he translated by the power of God. The Urim and Thummim was in his possession, and with this instrument he was able to translate the characters that were engraven upon the plates. This was a miracle in itself, and these men who wrote for him would soon have been able to detect whether he was inspired in the translation, or whether it was his own brain that furnished them the material to write. And let me say that no man could write such a work, if he were  so gifted. He would be detected in some fault or other. 

The book has been given unto us by the Lord, and we find in it prophesies concerning our time and prophecies concerning the time that is already past, which have been fulfilled, proving the book to be an inspired one. These gifts which the book mentions should be found in the Church; my testimony to you is that they are found in the Church. Talking in tongues has been very common in the Church. Nearly all the members have at some time or another heard this gift, as well as the interpretation of tongues. Some may say, But how can we judge whether this is a true tongue or not? You can judge, by the Holy Spirit whether it is prompted by that Spirit or not. There have been times when the proof of the tongue spoken has been overwhelming. When President Peterson of the Sanpete Stake was a young man he attended a meeting in Illinois. There were many present, and the spirit of the Lord was poured out upon the Saints in a great measure. He felt urged by the spirit to talk in tongues, and when he sat down a young girl arose and interpreted it. She was but seventeen years of age, perhaps younger, and she interpreted what Brother Peterson had spoken. Some of the brethren there, then in good standing but who afterwards left the Church, were told that if they did not take heed they would apostatize, and that the balance of the branch should emigrate to the West and travel in wagons like houses, across large plains. This was the interpretation of the tongue. They did not then know that there would come a time when they should travel in covered wagons and go to the west. But a remarkable thing happened at that meeting. Two young girls that had been stolen while children, by the Indians, and been brought back by the government, were present. They heard Brother Peterson speak in tongues, and they declared that he snoke in an Indian tongue, which they had heard before, and they understood most of it, though they said he spoke it better than they ever heard the chiefs speak it, and the young girl, they said, had translated what they understood correctly. This is a great testimony of the truth of that gift, and many other instances could be mentioned, showing that this gift is in the Church. The gift of prophecy we know is in the Church. How many of the prophecies of our beloved Prophet Joseph Smith have not been fulfilled to the very letter? You take the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and you will find there many prophecies that have been fulfilled already, and many relating to time yet to come, which we believe will be fulfilled just as literally as have those that have already been fulfilled. Let me read a few words of a revelation given March, 1831, some eleven months after the Church was organized. In talking about what should come to pass, the Lord revealed to Joseph: 

"But before the great day of the Lord shall come, Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness, and the Lamanites shall blossom as the rose. 

"Zion shall flourish upon the hills and rejoice upon the mountains, and shall be assembled together unto the place which I have appointed." 

This was many years before the Latter-day Saints were driven from the States, and it talks in such plain terms concerning the gathering. The gathering is a unique principle in this Church, one that is not found in other churches. It is referred to in the Book of Mormon, and in the early revelations to the Church it is given to the people in great plainness. We are told in some of the revelations that the people should be gathered from all nations unto this land, which should be the land of Zion. When we now read about this, it may not seem so remarkable. But let us put ourselves back to the time when the Church numbered but a few members and was hardly known outside of a few counties, and remember that then the Lord told the Prophet that the work should be known in other lands and that the people should be gathered from all nations, and it becomes, indeed, marvelous unto us. Gradually our missionaries are reaching the different nations of the earth, and we have people here from every part of the earth, if not yet from every nation. Our missionaries are going in faith, proclaiming the truth. They are reaching one people after another. 

Nearly every nation in Europe has had the Gospel offered to them. I was reading a letter last night which Brother Hintze had received from Athens. Greece, a country where we have not yet done much missionary labor. Brother Hintze went there and preached the Gospel and the seed sown is germinating, and they want to be informed concerning the truth. Certain principles have struck them as true: others they do not understand yet. In the Donaw principalities we have a man la boring, who has already baptized several persons, and it will not be long before it can be said that all nations in Europe have been informed concerning the Gospel. And the myriads in Asia and Africa will yet have to hear the Gospel. The Lord is in His marvelous way preparing the way for the Gospel to be taught to men. I rejoice in contemplating the dealings of the Lord with this work of His, and my testimony to you is that God has established this work, and that He will see that it shall triumph in the earth. God bless you all, amen. 

ELDER M. F. COWLEY. 

The Church built on the foundation of Continuous Revelation— Each member entitled to an individual testimony of the truth. 

My brethren and sisters, I am pleased to have the privilege of meeting with you at this Conference. I desire in the performance of my duty the kind assistance of your prayers of faith. I have been edified through the instructions of my brethren. They have encouraged me and also corrected me, for I find in them instructions which will enable me to improve wherein I lack, and encourage me in the enjoyment of the blessings resulting from the duties which perhaps I have performed more faithfully than others. In contemplating the character of these instructions, it is a solemn testimony to me of the truth of which my brethren have spoken, that the Church is guided by the spirit of revelation. But we are not guided by the spirit of revelation as much as we ought to be. I think sometimes that we ha,ve not fully divested ourselves of the elements of sectarianism which some of us may have brought from the world and which others have imbibed because of their . Our Elders, in preaching the Gospel in the various nations of the earth, call attention to the fact that it has always been a characteristic of humanity to profess a belief in the revelations and the remarkable manifestations of the power of God which have been exhibited before their day. But when confronted with the opportunity or necessity of exercising the same faith, and enjoying immediate revelation, they have been weighed in the balance and found wanting. The Church of Christ never did exist on the earth, only as it existed by the spirit of revelation from God. The Jews, when the Gospel was presented to them by John the Baptist and also by the Savior, had just the same opportunities that the Christian world of today have, that is, of reading from the Scripture, which had been made by the Prophets preceding them, and receiving instructions from the doctors of the law and those whose pretended business it was to expound the Scriptures. But when one came to them and said that the kingdom of God was nigh at hand, they were not prepared to receive it. The Gospel then as now was a test to all institutions. John the Baptist said "The ax is laid unto the root of the tree, therefore ever-- tree which bringeth not forth good fruit, is hewn down and cast into the fire." Jesus was desiring to bring to the attention of His disciples the necessity of being built upon a solid foundation, and propounded a question unto them as recorded in Matthew, 16th chapter. He said: "Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?" And His disciples said, "Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias: and others, Jeremiah or one of the Prophets." Thus we see that it was all guess work with them, so far as the general public were concerned. He turned to the Apostles and said: "But whom say ye that I am?" In response there came an emphatic testimony, not from a doctor of the law, not from an educated man, who had built his faith upon a mere reading of the ancient scripture, but from a poor, unlettered man, who had been called by the voice of the Son of God from the fisherman's net, when  Messiah had said to him and his brother Andrew "Come and follow me and I will make you fishers of men." From Peter the testimony came in no uncertain tones, saying, "Thou are the Christ, the Son of the living God." And Jesus said to Peter: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father which is in heaven." 

I wish to bear my testimony that flesh and blood never did, because it never could, reveal unto man the identity of the Son of God, or make plain to the understanding of the children of men the things of God in any respect; and if it required a revelation for the Apostle Peter to bear witness that Jesus was the Christ, it will require revelation for every man and woman in every dispensation of the Gospel, to bear the same testimony. Indeed, the Son of God enunciated this fact as an eternal doctrine, when he sent the Seventies out to declare the Gospel. He had commanded them to go without purse or scrip, just as the servants of God have been commanded in this dispensation, that the world may be tested and that the disciples of the Son of God may act upon the principle of faith and trust in God to provide for them the necessities and comforts of life. When the Seventy returned to the Savior with the report of their mission, they said that they lacked nothing: 

"In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes; even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight. 

"All things are delivered to me of my Father; and no man knoweth who the Son is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal Him." 

This is a plain and simple doctrine, and whatever may be the attainments of mankind, based upon the opportunities of the age in which we live, augmented by the experience and the learning of the preceding generations, they cannot understand the things of God, without the spirit of revelation. 

I wish to bear my testimony that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was founded upon the principle of revelation, and that it has been guided and controlled by the spirit of revelation from its inception to the present time. God designed to guide this Church by the voice of revelation. When I see any lack of confidence on the part of our people in the wisdom of the Prophet of God and his associates, I am impressed with the fact that we are lacking in that faith which belongs to the work of God. When the Prophet Joseph "Smith was instrumental in establishing this work, he made certain promises, such as have been alluded to by my brethren today. These promises have been fulfilled to the very letter. They not only extended to the remarkable manifestation of the gifts and powers of the Holy Ghost, but they extended to a promise that every man and every woman in the Church should have a substantial testimony concerning the propriety of every movement made by the Prophet of God, in advancing the interests of the work of God upon the earth. And it can be pointed out on the pages of history that neither the Prophet Joseph Smith nor any of his successors ever gave counsel unto the Saints of God that was not attended with blessings and prosperity to those who heeded and acted upon it. Moreover, it cannbt be found upon the pages of history where any man has risen up in opposition to that counsel and has stretched forth his hand to steady the ark of God, but what that man has come to disappointment and his folly has been made manifest in the midst of the people of God. I can bear my testimony that these evidences, which have been recorded as a result of the experience of this Church, will continue down to the latest period of time. God has established this work; He has maintained it; He has prospered it in the earth, and He will continue to do so from this time henceforth and forever. God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER A. O. WOODRUFF. Koom for improvement among the Priesthood — The great distinction between the true Church and other religious bodies — A difference in spirit — Every part of the body necessary to its healthful existence — Warning against a hideous evil. 

My brothers and sisters, I trust that I may have your support and the bless of God to guide me in my utterances here this afternoon. I have no other desire in standing before you than to give you that which the Lord may reveal unto me. and I desire to so live that whenever I am called upon to occupy a position of this kind, the Lord may be pleased to favor me with His Holy Spirit, that I may not be left to depend upon the wisdom of man. 

I have a desire this afternoon to say some words that may be stimulating and encouraging to those who hold the Priesthood, especially to those who are acting in the Lesser Priesthood. President Snow has gone among the people and discharged the duties which our Heavenly Father has given him to perform, and after doing so, he unloads a great degree of this responsibility upon the shoulders of the Priesthood in all its organizations. I know there is not that activity among many quorums of the Priesthood that there ought to be; and while it is true the Latter-day Saints during the past year have done exceedingly well in the payment of their tithes, they have not done as well as they would have done had the Teachers, and Priests and the Elders in Israel performed their duties as faithfully as President Snow has discharge his. True, most men who hold these positions are younger men than President Snow, but I regret to have to acknowledge that they have not been as diligent throughout the different Stakes and wards of Zion in regard to this message, which the Prophet of the Lord has given to the people, as they should have been. While visiting a Stake a short time ago, I learned by questioning the High Council, that some of them had not been visited by their Teachers for years; and while that Stake had increased about fifty per cent in the payment of their tithes during the past year, I thought to myself, what a showing they might have made, if the Priesthood in all its departments had been active and faithful. 

In order that I might bring before you what I desire. I will read a portion of the 12th chapter of First Corinthians. 

"For by one spirit we are all baptized  one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have all been made to drink into one spirit; 

"For the body is not one member but many. 

*'If the foot shall say, because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body 

"And if the ear shall say, because I am not the eye I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? 

"If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling? 

"But now hath the Lord set thee members every one of them in the body, as it has pleased Him. 

"And if they were all one member, where were the body? 

"And now are they many members, yet but one body, 

"And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee; nor again, the head to the feet, I have no need of you. 

"Nay, much more, those members of the body, which seem to be more feeble, are necessary; 

"And those members of the body, which Ave think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor; and our uncomely Darts have more abundant comliness. 

"For our comely parts have no need; but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked. 

"That there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another. 

"And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. 

"Now ve are the body of Christ, and members in particular. 

"And God hath set some in the Church: first, Apostles; secondarily, prophets; thirdlv. teachers; after that miracles: then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. 

"Are all Apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles? 

"Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret? 

"But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way." 

The Church of Christ was referred to here yesterday and compared to a man seventy years of age, The Apostle Paul also in his beautiful figure compared the Church of Christ to the body of a man. I wish to say a few words regarding this figure which has been used, I have asked myself, what is the greatest cause for the difference between the Church of Christ and the churches that have been es by man, for there are many forms of religion, some patterning closely after the one founded by our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. And I have thought, is it not because these different bodies have not the Spirit? I compared this spirit to the Priesthood of the Son of God, and concluded in my own mind that this was the greatest cause of the difference which exists between the Church which Christ has established and the churches which have been established by man. When the Prophet Joseph inquired of the Lord regarding the divinity of the different denominations that then existed upon the earth, and many of which exist today, he was told that they had a' form of godliness, but denied the power thereof; that they drew near unto the Lord with their lips, but their hearts were far from Him. I thought to myself what a comparison there was between the true Church of God, with the Priesthood and Spirit to enliven it, and the dead forms of religion, as they have been instituted by men. We might carry this comparison a little farther, and take the skeleton of this body, the organization of the Church of Christ, animated by the Spirit and Priesthood of God, and in connection with this skeleton we have the sinews, the helps in government, the muscles, the nerve system and the circulation of the blood from the heart into all parts of the body. And just as it is impossible for a human body to exist without the spirit, so is it impossible for the Church of Christ to exist without the Priesthood of the Son of God. Just as it is imposible for a body to be complete without the brain, the heart and the other organs of the system, so would it be impossible for the Church of Christ to exist in perfection without the Presidency, the Apostles, the Seventies, the High Priests, the Elders, the Priests, Teachers and Deacons. All of them have their special work to perform, just as the organs of the human system have their particular part to do. I compared the circulation of the blood in the body to the active Priesthood, which goes about the whole body of the Church, imparting life and vigor and setting in order all of the parts that may be out of place. Whenever a member becomes injured, the blood assists in building it up. So with the workings of the Priesthood of the Son of God, in the great body which Christ has established. 

I believe that every organization of the Priesthood is just as important and vital to the Church of Christ as every organ is to the human system; and in Stakes or wards where the Deacons, the Teachers, the Priests and the Elders have nothing to do, there will be a stagnation of blood. Our people have suffered the malady in neglecting to pay their tithes, but now this Priesthood is getting to work, this blood is circulating more freely, and directing its attention especially in the direction of curing the body of this particular malady. The Priesthood has labored energetically, but not as much so as we should have done. There are many Teachers and Priests that have not labored as faithfully as they should have done. Think of what a beautiful body this would be if every quorum was active; if the blood circulated through every part of the system and if every part was renovated and cleansed, so that it might be in a perfect state of health. God help us that we may be able to get this body, the Church of Christ, into this desirable condition; that the list containing thousands of names of persons who ought to be tithe-payers and are not, may be wiped out. I believe that one of the most practical ways of bringing about this condition is for the Presidents of Stakes, Bishops of wards and the Presidents of Quorums to see to it that they discharge their part of this responsibility. It is not expected that President Snow will be able to reach all parts of the body and be able personally to regulate and renovate the body of Christ, but there are members of the body that have been chosen to do this work, and if they do not do it, that condition which we desire will not exist. 

I hope, my brethren and sisters, that President Snow shall live to see the desires of his heart granted unto him. I pray for this and labor for it among the brethren in the Stakes where I go, so that confidence in the. Church of Christ in regard to financial affairs may  maintained. The Church is now upon a good financial basis; but we ought not to cease our labors as soon as we hear good news. We ought not to run well for awhile, and then tire out just when our assistance is most needed. It has taken considerable labor on the part of the Priesthood to stir the people up to a realization of their condition and their negligence in regard to the payment of tithing, and it will take a continual labor on our part to keep the people awakened to these things. Strange that we always have to belabored with in order to get us to do right; nevertheless we have to be labored with and we have to labor with each other that we may keep alive in the Church of Christ. If we are not brought in contact with this Priesthood and its workings we soon die out, just like a member of the human body would die out if the blood did not circulate to that part. Thus it is very necessary that the brethren who hold the Priesthood and the sisters who are engaged in the different organizations of this Church should carry their responsibility and feel that there is an individual responsibility connected with this work which rests upon them, and that God will not justify them if they do not discharge their duties in their separate callings. 

I wish to read, for the benefit of those who hold the Priesthood, from the third chapter of Ezekiel, beginning at the 17th verse: 

'Son of Man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel: therefore ' hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. 

"When I say unto the wicked. Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from- his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. 

"Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity, but thou hast delivered thy soul. 

"Again, when a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumblingblock before him, he shall die; because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thine hand." This, my brethren and sisters, may be applied to those of us who have received the Priesthood of the Son of God. We have not received it through man. The leaders of this dispensation received it from Peter, James and John and John the Baptist, the men who held the keys of this Priesthood and who received it from the Son of God Himself. Therefore, the responsibility that we are under has not been placed upon us br man; it has come to us from God; and when the head shall say to us, Do this, or that, we are under obligations to do it. We are under obligations to see that there is no stagnation in our part of the body; that there is no negligence in the payment of tithes or in the keeping of any of the commandments in our Stake or ward or association. It is my duty at the head of any association, ward or Stake to see that the people are doing their duty. If they are entirely negligent to the teachings of God that come to us through His mouthpiece, I want 10 tell you, my brethren and sisters, that those who stand at the head of these organizations will come under condemnation. The Presidency, the Twelve, or the Seventy cannot be in all the wards; but there are men placed there with equal responsibility in their callings, and they have to discharge these duties or the Lord will not hold them guiltless. He will not excuse them if they do not labdr diligently and delve into the dark corners and see that there are no cobwebs in their Stake or ward, but that everything is working as it should do; that there is ' no clog in the machinery of * this great body of Christ, but that each is doing' his part. If we will do this we will gain salvation and we will enter into the presence of God and hear the welcome plaudit, "Well dope, thou good and faithful servant." If we do not, we cannot expect, because the Priesthood has been conferred upon us, that we will inherit the celestial kingdom of our God. The Lord will not reward the drone, nor the slothful; He will not reward the unjust steward, the one who has not taken advantage of the opportunities God has placed within his grasp. If our talents are great, we have that 

 more need to use them than those who are not so greatly blessed. 

Before taking my seat there is another matter that occurs to me which I wish to speak upon. I have noticed that there is a spirit creeping in among a certain class of the Latter-day Saints which is not of God, but of the world. It has been popular, ever since Mormonism was established, to have large families; for we understand that there are hundreds of thousands of spirits in the other world anxious to be tabernacled by good fathers and mothers, that they may pass through this state of probation. But there is a certain class of Latter-day Saints that has come to think as the Gentile world does — that it is not stylish, not nice to have large families; and therefore we find, much to our sorrow, that in some instances steps are taken to prevent these spirits being tabernacled by them. I want to say that every Latter-day Saint ought to feel that the, are not justified before God their Father in pursuing a course of this kind. We want, so far as God will favor us, the privilege and blessing of posterity. And those who employ means to prevent this will find in the spirit world that they have lost the stars in their crown and have shut out a means of exaltation; that they have done a grieVcus wrong which they may not be able to repair for many ages, if at all. Those who fought the system of plural marriage in years gone by were people who were, as a rule, opposed to the large families of the Latter-day Saints, and took steps themselves to prevent spirits coming to them to be tabernacled, in some cases going so far as to be guilty of murdering the unborn innocents. Upon such the curse of God will rest. I greatly desire that this practice shall not creep in among the Latter-day Saints. I have prayed that the Spirit of this subject might be given to some of the older members of this quorum, or to the Presidency, that they might dwell upon it, because I know, from what I have heard from reliable sources, that this spirit which I have spoken of is in a slight degree at any rate creeping in among the Latter-day Saints. Thank God for posteritv. Thank God for the large families of the Latter-day Saints. I wish that we had millions more of them today, and that the world were full of this class of people, who fear God and who desire to serve Him and keep His commandments, and whose sons and daughters are reared in the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I thank my heavenly Father for the testimony which He has given me that this is His work, that President Snow is a Prophet of the true and living God, that God is with him, that He has inspired him, and that the changes which are being brought about in our financial conditions are due to the revelations of God through His Prophet. May God help us to be faithful, to be loyal. May He give us His Spirit, that we may not get into the dark, that we may not lose the Spirit of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. Let us stand up to the rack and do our part. Let us see to it that the responsibility which is placed upon us is discharged, that we may enter into the presence of God our Father, and share the reward of the laborer and those who have been valiant for the testimony of Jesus, and receive eternal life. I ask it through Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Pfeseivatlon and Multiplication of life — Dangers of sign seeking — Man established in the truth by faithfulness and the spirit of G n d. 

It will give me great pleasure to receive the spirit to bear testimony to that which we have heard today and yesterday. I think the true spirit of counsel and instruction has rested upon the Apostles who have spoken to us during this conference so far, and I desire to say that I endorse with all my heart the excellent counsel and blessed instruction which they have given to this people. I sincerely hope we will remember these counsels, and remembering them, carry them out in our lives. It matters not how many good things we may hear, nor how much we may know, if we do not apply the instructions we receive and the knowledge we possess to the accomplishment of the work that we have in hand. The paramount duty is to labor for Zion, and work for our own salvation, that we may gain the victory over ourselves and over the powers of evil that are in the . The Gospel has been preached to us, and we have essayed to obey it, that we might become the sons and daughters of God — heirs of God and joint-heirs with his Son. We can never attain to the blessings of the Gospel by merely becoming acquainted with it and then sitting down and doing nothing ourselves to stem the current of e^il that is preying upon us and upon the world. 

The remarks that have just been made by Brother Woodruff are worthy of attention and acceptation on the part of the young men and young women of Zion. Those who have taken upon themselves the responsibility of wedded life should see to it that they do not abuse the course of nature; that they do not destroy the principle of life within them, nor violate any of the commandments of God. The command which he gave in the beginning to multiply and replenish the earth is still in force upon the children of men. Possibly no greater sin could be committed by the people who have embraced this Gospel than to prevent or to destroy life in the manner indicated. We are born into the world that we may have life, and we live that we may have a fulness of joy, and if we will obtain a fulness of joy, we must obey the law of our creation and the law by which we may obtain the consummation of our righteous hopes and desires — life eternal. 

If the time will permit, I desire to endorse the sentiments that were expressed bv Brother Grant. It is a wicked and adulterous generation that seeketh after a sign. Show me Latterday Saints who have to feed upon miracles, signs and visions in order to keep them steadfast^ in the Church, and I will show you members of the Church who are not in good standing before God, and who are walking in slippery paths. It is not by marvelous manifestations unto us that we shall be established in the truth, but it is by humility and faithful obedience to the commandments and laws of God. When I as a boy first started out in the ministry I would frequently go out and ask the Lord to show me some marvelous thing, in order that I might receive a testimony. But the Lord withheld marvels from me, and showed me the truth, line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, until he made me to know the truth from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, and until doubt and fear had been absolutely purged from me. He did not have to send an angel from the heavens to do this, nor did He have to speak with the trump of an archangel. By the whisperings of the still small voice of the spirit of the living God, He gave to me the testimony I possess. And by this principle and power He will eive to all the children of men a knowledge of the truth that will stay with them, and it will make them to know the truth, as God knows it, and to do the will of the Father as Christ does it. And no amount of marvelous manifestations will ever accomplish this. It is obedience, humility and submission to the requirements of heaven and to the order established in the kingdom of God upon the earth that will establish men in the truth. Men may receive the visitation .of angels; they may speak in tongues; they may interpret; they may prophesy; they may heal the sick by the laying on of hands; they may have visions and dreams; but except they are faithful and pure in heart, they become an easy prey to the adversary of their souls, and he will lead them into darkness and unbelief more easily than others. The devil himself can appear like an angel of light. False prophets and false teachers have arisen in the world. There is perhaps no gift of the spirit of God more easily imitated by the devil than the gift of tongues. Where two men or women exercise the gift of tongues by the inspiration of the spirit of God, there are a dozen perhaps that do it by the inspiration of the devil. Bless your souls, apostates speak in tongues, apostates prophesy; apostates claim to have marvelous manifestations. And what is that to us? The trouble is, we know so little of the truth ourselves and we live by it so poorly that almost any little jackanapes in the country may rise up and claim he has had a vision, or some marvelous dream, and however absurd or untrue it may be, he may find believers and followers among those who profess to be Latter-day Saints. I believe in the gifts of the Holy 

Spirit unto men, but I do not want the gift of tongues, except when I need it. I needed the gift of tongues once and the Lord gave it to me. I was in a foreign land, sent to preach the Gospel to a people whose language I could not understand. Then I sought earnestly for the gift of tongues, and by this gift and by study, in a hundred days after landing upon those islands I could talk to the people in their language as I now talk to you in my native tongue. This was a gift that was worthy of the Gospel. There was a purpose in it. There was something in it to strengthen my faith, to encourage me and to help me in my ministry. If you have need of this gift of tongues, seek for it and God will help you in it. But I do not ask you to be very hungry for the gift of tongues, for if you are not careful the devil will deceive you in it. He can talk by the gift of tongues as well as the Lord can. Paul did not seem to care much about the gift of tongues either. He said to the Corinthians: 

"I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that by my voice I might teach others also, than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue." 

So far as I am concerned, if the Lord will give me ability to teach the people in my native tongue, or in their own language to the understanding of those that hear me, that will be sufficient gift of tongues to me. . Yet if the Lord gives ^nu the gift of tongues, do not despise it, do not reject it. For if it comes from the Spirit of God, it will come to those who are worthy to receive it, and it is all right. But this idea of seeking it, desiring it, when you don't pay your tithing, when you don't pray in your families, when you don't pay your debts, when you desecrate the Sabbath day, and when you neglect other duties in the Church; I tell you the devil will take advantage of you bye and bye, if he does not at first. 

The time will not permit me. or I would like to take the Scriptures and read from them in relation to this subject. I love the truth; I love my brethren, and I know that the visiting of an angel alone will not keep one in the Church. The opening of the heavens to you in marvelous manifestations will not establish you in the truth. We have abundant proof of that in the history of the Church. But the men and the women who are honest before God, who humbly plod along, doing their dut-"- paying their tithing and exercising that pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, which is to visit the fatherless and widows in their afflictions and to keep ones self unspotted from the world and who help look after the poor; and who honor the holy Priesthood, who do not run into excesses, who are prayerful in their families and who acknowledge the Lord in their hearts, they will build up a foundation that the gates of hell cannot prevail against; and if the floods come and the storms beat upon their house, it shall not fall, for it will be built upon the rock of eternal truth. I pray that this vast congregation will build upon this imperishable foundation, upon the principle expressed by the  of Joshua, "as for me and my house, we will serve God," and as also expressed by Job, "Though he slay me, yet will I put my trust in Him." If you have that spirit toward God and His work in these latter days, you will build, steadily and, slowly it may be, but surely, upon a foundation that will endure throughout the countless ages of eternity. And if you do not get any great manifestations, you need not worry about it. You will get the testimony of Jesus Christ in your hearts and you will know God and Jesus whom He has sent, whom to know is life eternal, just as well as those who receive visions. For those who do receive visions, the devil will try to make them believe that they were delusions, and if they commit sin, he will be sure to make them believe it. God bless you, is my prayer. Amen. The choir sang: 

"Ye simple souls who stray, Far from the paths of truth. 

Benediction by Elder Jonathan G. Kimball.