Afternoon
06 04 1900



PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Why Ihe Saints are interested in current events— Th"ir gathering a phenomenal movement — Kiv.^rence for the authority of God. 

The presence of such a large congregation makes one feel the necessity of having some aid other than human to enable the speaker to instruct and edify so many souls. I have that feeling this afternoon. It is an impressive sight to look from this stand on this large body of people, all gathered here for the purpose of being fed and instructed in the ways of the Lord, many having left their homes probably hundreds of miles distant to come to this conference, and in so doing having the right to expect that they will receive something from the Lord to compensate them for the time and labor which they have expended, in the journey. This being the case. I for one am deeply impressed with the importance of saying something, by the help of the Lord, that will be a benefit to all of us. Without the spirit of God, I know it is useless to attempt to speak to the people; but we are promised that if we come together as we have done today, in faith, the Lord will give us that which shall be profitable. * Every conference that we  in this house seems more important than the preceding one. Our circumstances are constantly changing; we are passing through different scenes, and the events which take place shape themselves in such a manner as to call forth deep reflections on our part. 

I suppose there is no community upon the face of the earth that is so interested in that which is taking place in the world as the Latter-day Saints are. All the people take great interest in that which transpires in our own nation and in foreign nations. We are interested spectators of public events. The wars, the commotions, the revolutions among the inhabitants of the earth, and also the elemental disturbances that occur, are -all noticed by us, because in our minds they have a bearing on the great future that lies before the earth and the inhabitants thereof. If there is an earthquake, if there is a famine, if there is a wave sweeping over some portion of the earth, if there are cyclones and disturbances in the atmosphere, if there are pestilences and plagues, if there are wars and contentions, they all attract our attention, because we are expecting calamities of this character. We have been gathered together from the nations of the earth, and for a definite purpose. The men and women who have left their native land and come to these mountains have not made the journey in vain. They would be very much surprised if there were not occurrences which would in their estimation justify them in having taken this journey. So far they have not been disappointed. There are very few Latter-day Saints who regret the step they took in leaving their native land. They see ample justification for their action. If they are true to their religion especially, they feel that they have been amply repaid for coming here by the blessings which they have received. No doubt this will be the case more and more, because Zion is to be a place of safety. The words of the prophets concerning Zion and the last days will be literally fulfilled, and all that has prompted this mighty movement among the different nations of the earth will be made plain. I think it one of the greatest phenome that has ever been witnessed among mankind, the gathering together of these hundreds of thousands of people from the far distant lands where they lived. It is unprecedented in history; it is marvelous in its execution, and it is one of the world's great movements. In years to come it will be regarded as one of the phenomenal movements of the inhabitants of the earth. 

We have come to this conference for the purpose of hearing the word of the Lord. I believe before we separate we shall be abundantly satisfied, and feel that the Lord has been with us. There are a great many subjects that may be talked about. The field is vast, because the instructions that we receive here are intended to cover the whole life of the Latter-day Saint. 

We have heard this morning a good many instructions that have been valuable, and I can bear testimony to the truth of them. This is a mighty work, and it is achieving mighty results. The brethren spoke this morning about our union, and praised it. Well, we are very united in some things; but in my opinion we are far from being the united people we should be. My mind of late has dwelt considerably upon the want of reverence there is among us for the Priesthood of the Son of God. Now, I may say some things in this connection that may not be suitable in the opinion of some; but I have strong feelings on this subject. I have felt that too much reverence can not be shown to the Priesthood of the Son of God. I think it has been a characteristic^ of my life to entertain extreme reverence for the men who bear the Priesthood. I had this feeling when a boy, in the days of Joseph. To me Joseph was perfect. I could not see, and I did not hear anything that ever made any impression upon me to the contrary. It was so with my feeling for President Young. I was intimately associated with him the last twelve years of his life. I saw him in private and in public. I saw him when he laid aside, it might be said, his reserve and would unbend and talk with familiarity. There was one feature in his character that won my admiration, and I have not lost it to this day — I never heard President Young utter an expression that would weaken anybody's respect for the Prophet Joseph. He admired him; he looked upon him as the Prophet of God, as he was. I do not think that anyone else ever heard an expresssion from him that would tend in any manner to weaken respect, or reverence, or love for the Prophet Joseph Smith. I admired that in his character. And though I was closely associated with him, I never saw a fault in Brigham Young. I expect many would think this very foolish in me, and that I must have been very blind. Perhaps I was; at any rate, I wanted to be. I never wanted to see his faults. I think it was Pope who said: 

"Be to her faults a little blind, And to her virtues over kind." 

That was the feeling I had concerning President Young. I wanted to be blind to the faults of the man of God. I knew he was a fallible man, a human being; but I did not want to sit in judgment upon him, nor to criticise his words and acts. To me he was God's servant. God had chosen him out of all the men on earth to hold the keys — that power, awful in tsome respects, which God commits to one man on earth at a time. He had chosen him, and who was I that I should sit in judgment upon him and criticise him? I never felt as though I dared do it. I never had the disposition to do it. 

The Lord took him, and He gave us another man to hold the same authority, to occupy the same position, to exercise the same powers; and I felt towards him as I did towards Brother Brigham. I knew him intimately also; had known him, I may say, all my life; but during his presidency over the Church we were thrown very closely together, because we both had to go in to exile. I might repeat the same in regard to Wilford Woodruff, who succeeded President Taylor. I knew these men as intimately as one man could know another, and I can only say this: more angelic characters, men of sweeter dispositions, I do not believe ever lived. They were men who were as perfect as human beings could be. They loved God supremely. They loved their Priesthood and the cause of God with all their hearts. They would have been willing, if necessary, to have laid  their lives at any time for the truth. 

This is my testimony concerning these men. We have probably heard all sorts of stories about them during their lifetime, particularly about President Young. In his lifetime he was maligned, and perhaps many of the Latter-day Saints believed the malicious and malignant stories that were told concerning him; but this is my testimony this day in the presence of these assembled thousands, that a more perfect man than President Young I never knew. So I may say of his two successors. 

Now we have a man who has taken the same place, by selection and appointment of the Almighty — President Lorenzo Snow. He is a man who has proved himself through long years of fidelity to the work of God. He stands here in our midst as the Prophet of God, the man holding the keys, the man who can bind on earth and it will be bound in heaven, the man who can loose on earth and it will be loosed in heaven, the man who has the power (which, however, he exercises very rarely, if at all) to forgive sins, to curse and they shall be cursed, to bless and they shall be blessed. I have said it is an awful power. It is; and it ought to be and is exercised with the greatest care and discrimination. God has chosen this man; He has delivered him from perils and from death, and has brought him at his present age to be the President of His Church. Had He a purpose in this? Undoubtedly He had. God foreknew who should hold the keys after Wilford Woodruff passed away, and he selected this man— as perfect a man, as far as we know, as far as fidelity to the truth and willingness to submit to- anything, even to death if necessary for the truth— to hold the same posiion and to exercise the same authority. Are we as bearers of the holy Priesthood and as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints aware of this? Are we conscious that God has chosen this man to be His mouth-piece unto us, and to stand in the stead of the Lord Jesus to His Church upon the earth? Do we take this into consideration? I am sorry to say that I do not believe many  the Elders do this. I judge this by their conduct, by their want of reverence and respect, by their lack of obedience, and by an absence of a disposition to ask for and to be governed by the counsel of God. 

I leave you my brethren and sisters to judge whether I am too severe in my expressions upon this point. I tell you' that there never was in this Church, within my recollection, such an absence of respect and reverence for the authority of God as there is now among this people. I believe I am justified in saying this by the facts, and that the proof of this statement is within reach. Why is it? Many men seem to think that their way is better than any one's else; and though we believe and testify that God has a Prophet in our midst, , through whom we can get the word of the Lord, we despise that word, so much so at least that we will not ask for it, for fear we should be told something that does not agree with our feelings and with that which we desire to accomplish. I tell you, as sure as God lives, there will have to be a change in this respect, or some men will go to hell. God will not put up with it. 

We have come here today to hear the word of God, and I am going to tell you what I think, if I do offend you. As a servant of God, I want to warn you of the danger you are in and of the consequences of the spirit that is being yielded to. I would no more dare to do anything of an important character without consulting the man of God than I would think of putting my hand in the fire, especially to do something that I knew he felt differently about to what I did. As I have said, God has chosen him to stand where de does — not you or me; and He knows every secret thought of men's hearts. His allpiercing eye has penetrated the innermost recesses of his heart, and he has seen all there is about him, inside and out. He knows him thoroughly, because he created him. He knew his past history, he knows his present history, He knows his future history. And knowing this, he has chosen him. What can we do better than to show respect to our God by listening to His servant, by treating him with reverence, asking  counsel and seeking for his guidance? I know we pray to God for him,, that he may be inspired from on high. Do you believe your prayers? Do you believe that God will and does inspire him? I hope you do; and I hope that having this feeling, you will be prompted to different action. Men may talk as they please about one man power, and they may fight us and seek to destroy us because we listen to the man of God, but the fact still remains that this whole people are dependent for guidance, when they are guided aright, upon the man who holds the keys. Our settlement in these valleys was due to the recognition of that authority; the building of these settlements throughout these valleys is due to that. And shall we say that in some things we are willing to be guided; we think it right to be guided in matters of doctrine, etc.; but in other matters, just as important and necessary for the salvation and preservation of this people, we are not willing? Latter-day Saints, you cannot do it. You cannot get away from this authority and remain Latterday Saints, for yon sever yourselves from the Church of God, because everything you have is based on the recognition of this authority. 

I want to see us as a people open our eyes to behold our true position before God, and the relationship that we bear to the Priesthood of the Son of God. I have no doubt that you all can see the spirit growing in the many quarters to draw off and to say — -thev may not say it in these words, because Lorenzo Snow is an exceedingly modest man and does not assume anything, and therefore fault cannot justly be found with him; but it is tantamount to saying "we do not believe that you, Lorenzo Snow, have any right to talk to us or to guide or counsel us in these matters. We think that we have a perfect right to do as we please." 

Well, no one will ever question that. Brother Brigham Young spoke this morning about our free agency. Every man and woman enjoys this gift. But we have a right to exercise our free agency in doing right, in being obedient, in listening to counsel and in doing that which God wants. I think that I am as much of a free agent when I obey God as I would be in rebelling against Him and obeying Satan. 

I feel that this people should cultivate more reverence for the authority of the Priesthood— that authority which has proved so great a blessing to them. I would like to see them do it, and that is the burden of my remarks on this occasion. I do plead with you most earnestly to cultivate this feeling of reverence for the Priesthood of the Son of God. You cannot show reverence to the Priesthood without showing it to the men who bear it. Let us teach our children the same feeling, that they may have reverence and respect for the Priesthood, and be willing to obey, and not have a spirit of fault-finding, carping, and pointing out defects of character. Tou who have been in sacred places know one thing, that you cannot speak evil of the Lord's anointed and be justified, and if you break your covenants in that respect, you are of course incurring severe condemnation. 

I pray God that during the remainder of this Conference we may be filled with His Holy Spirit, and that His power may be in our midst, resting upon all who speak unto us, and that we may go away enlightened and benefited by our services here during the three days we shall be together, which I humbly ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Character of the Men who carry on the work of God — Condemnation will rest upon those who oppose It— Importance of family responsibilities — Value of the counsels of the wise. 

It gives me joy to have the privilege of meeting with you in conference and in listening to the brethren who have spoken unto lis. I trust that during the time that I may occupy I may enjoy your faith and good feelings, that the promptings of the Holy Spirit may attend the remarks that I may make. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is seventy years of ase today. President Snow this morning in his remarks dwelt upon the fact that we had passed our infancy, our boyhood, our young manhood, and had had a taste at least of that age which in the olden times was fixed upon as the allotted age of man. In my reflections on his re I was led to wonder whether It could be Dossible that in the reaching of that mature age there would anything occur which should cause weakness to appear in connection with the further development and accomplishment of the work assigned to men in this dispensation. Our experience hap developed that man sometimes work9 with very great devotion for a period of his life in the accomplishment of some specific purpose, and he sometimes reaches a condition of mind when he doubts the efficacy of his efforts to accomplish the purpose he has had in view. Others do not become impregnated with the Spirit that actuates him. They look in coldness upon the suggestions which he makes. They regard his efforts as visionary, and that the results of his struggles cannot in any sense be what he himself would anticipate; and after continued effort and perhaps failure sometimes, he stops and becomes seemingly discouraged and unwilling to proceed further. It is true, there have been some men whose hearts, in the midst of sunshine or storm, success or failure, have never cooled, and whose minds have never become disturbed under any circumstance. It is after this type that I believe the Elders of the Church of Jesua Christ should be made. That no matter what the conditions and circumstances are, no matter what the temptations may be, or what barriers may present themselves in the way of the accomplishment of a specific purpose, success must come. 

There is no such word as fail in connection with this work. Failure was not designed of the Father when he visited this earth in person, with His Son, and laid upon that child. Joseph Smith, the obligation _to teach the truth among the children of men. He gave him to understand that while discouragements might come in the way, while brethren might be false, while men and women might violate the ordinances of God's house and trample beneath their feet the requirements of heaven, there would be found a body of men in connection with this work and its development who never would sacrifice to Baal, but would stand in the midst of every storm and in every place where God Almighty required them to act, un, and true if need be to the giving of life and all to the cause of truth as our Father had established it. And yet we are possessed, like the rest of the human race, of our weaknesses. We are tempted, we are tried, we imagine many vain things, but so far as concerns this work and its development and success in this world in the accomplishment of the regeneration of the human race, it will not fail. "There is no such word as fail in the lexicon of our God." Men may fail; they may fail to read by the unerring counsels of the Holy Spirit the course that they should pursue; they may fail to be loyal soldiers and to recognize the orders that high heaven shall give, looking to the development of our Father's cause in the world, but there will be found sufficient to meet the needs and responsibilities and to discharge the obligations that the Master has imposed upon those to whom the sacred message was delivered by that angel who was to fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. Write it in your books, establish it in your hearts and fix it in every fibre of your being, that God will see its accomplishment in the loyalty and devotion of those whom He shall gather, one at a time, and establish among His people in the Church of Christ. 

Our brothers and our sisters among the religious peoples of the world should become after a time, in my judgment, impregnated with this thought, and cease the expression of their illfeelings and the application of improper methods, looking to the hurt of this work, for the promise is that "no weapon formed against this work shall succeed and they that arise in judgment against it shall be condemned." — not to. condemnation that shall fall from my lips, or condemnation that may fall from the lips of any who are associated with the work in the same degree that I may be; but in that condemnation registered by the finger of God, which blights those who set their hand against this work and labor for its destruction. For as the sun shines at noonday and as the brightness of morning appears in the eastern horizon, this work must suc. It is the decree of Providence. 

While we thus speak in connection with the work, and while we feel our weaknesses and our littleness as aids in its accomplishment, we recognize the fact that the day of destruction and schooling has not gone by. Around us are armies of boys and girls developing into young manhood and young womanhood, schooled under conditions somewhat different to those that have existed in former times, and yet not so different after all, only that we have allowed a great degree of laxity to grow up in connection with our government and association in our households that never should have existed. I have spoken a number of times upon the question of a more cautious, careful and determined purpose on the part of the head of every home, to see that he is in closer companionship with the members of his household than he has been wont to be in times past. I have received the Priesthood. It entails upon me a great obligation that takes my entire time in the missionary fields abroad, or in the discharge of duties in the ward or Stake. No matter about my own home circle, the wife and the children must look to their own interest there; but I must discharge this duty that leads me hence in the fulfillment or requirements that have been placed upon my shoulders, and to a degree that in my judgment is reprehensible. With this feeling in our hearts we have neglected one of the most sacred obligations in the world. I am wondering when that obligation shall be brought home to us which is laid down in the Scriptures, about the teaching of our children, how far you and I, holding the Priesthood of the Son of God, shall be found under the ban pronounced by the Savior of the world in the revelation of His holy will. The troubles and trials of this life are manifold, but there is no responsibility placed upon us greater than the care of our own. The statement by one of old that he who does not provide for his own is worse than an infidel and has already denied the faith, is one that will apply to a great many in our day and time. There must be a more systematic and thoughtful application of home government and home action upon the part of the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of L,ater-day Saints, or the ban pronounced in these words, which classes us with the infidel, will be manifest, and it will be written by the recording angel that our part has not been performed in the Spirit of that work which God has given us a share in establishing in the world. I do not believe that duty requires any one of you to be absent from your homes every night in the week, looking after somebody other than your own household. I do not believe that the adjustment of the responsibilities placed upon us in this Priesthood that we hold reauires that the sons and daughters of the Elders of this Church shall not be in touch with their fathers in such spirit as shall render them susceptible to the influence of that Priesthood and the spirit of this work, which leads them to make the sacrifices, if they can be called sacrifices, that has led them by hundreds and thousands into every part of the earth. It is an adjustment that is essential with these High Priests, these Seventies and these Elders in the Church, that the home and its interests shall be remembered, and that the men who sit down in their homes constantly and fail to perform their part in connection with the work outside of the home shall adjust their time upon legitimate and proper lines, which shall so distribute the labors that my wives and my children and that my associates with their wives and children may enjoy that legitimate and proper companionship designed by our maker when he made us husbands and wives, parents and children. 

It has given me great concern to have many of my brethren tell me that they have not spent an evening at home in years. This duty, that duty and these appointments have taken them here and there, and their sons and daughters scarcely see them. If they do see them, it is simply in the morning, when breakfast is eaten, and then they depart to the various labors resting upon them. I hope that in the consideration of these questions affecting the home and the work of God, we will see to it in the future that each of these interests shall receive its proper care and attention, and that the wife shall rejoice in the  at the fireside of her husband, at least occasionally, and that the boys and girls shall feel themselves in duty bound to congregate there. Then in the love manifest in that home by the husband for the wife, and wife for the husband and the parents for the children, there shall be a witness of God's mercy in the establishment of that principle by which men and women are bound together for time and eternity. It seems to me there is no reason in the world why the acting Priesthood in a Stake or ward should be away from their families every night in the week; why these Elders, these Seventies, these High Priests and these Apostles should have so little of that companionship that was established when they plighted their faith to their companions. The devotion of husband and wife should not become cooled as age approaches, but we should be determined in our hearts to maintain under every condition its warmth to the fullest, inasmuch as we have covenanted with God, angels and witnesses that for time and eternity we. would fill in justice and propriety the duties and responsibilities of the sacred relationship of husband and wife. 

President Cannon, in his remarks this afternoon, bearing upon the spirit of insubordination and a failure to recognize counsels coming from the proper source in connection with thework of God, has expressed very clearly and distinctly the feeling that is present with a great many people, the result of thoughtlessness upon the part of some, but largely attributable to the fact that that companionship which should exist in the home does not exist, and that our boys and girls get from under our control and we seem to lack the tact to draw them back under our influence. President Cannon gave to you his views in regard to the question of veneration. I am unlike him in a great degree, I lack in veneration. It has been necessary for me to cultivate it. While I respect my brethren and also the men and women whose hair has become *?ray, it is indeed an extreme effort for me to show that deference and respect which is due to the men with whom we mingle or who possess influence among the children  men. But his suggestions in connection with these matters are worthy of consideration. I have sought to impress upon my own sons the necessity of being men among men, to seek to understand principle, to act upon the basis of their consciences, and to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of life in the Priesthood which God has given to them, in such a way that the name they bear shall not be tainted. But we notice in connection with these matters that there is a spirit abroad that it is not right and proper to give ear to the counsels of wise and prudent men; that they are old fogies; that experience in the world counts for nothing, and that step by step we will brush their views out of the way. I presume it is an American idea that has developed itself in the world. Oh! how many will awaken in time to the understanding that they have been deceiving themselves, that the experience of a gray-haired father and mother, and that the careful and considerate counsels of a High Priest in the Church of Christ would have been, if utilized, potent for their good. 

My brothers and sisters, I recognize the fact that Zion is going to grow. I would grow with it. I would have my children grow with it. My grandsires labored in connection with this work; my sires have labored in connection with it. They believed it was true. I believe they were right. I not only believe, but I know that they were right; and if I can write this knowledge upon my wives and children and get them to understand the duty that they owe to God and their country in connection with the development of this work and its extension in all the world, I will indeed rejoice in every fibre of my being. But should they lose respect for the truth which God has revealed or for the love of right presented in the principles of the government that has been established, under which this work has been developed, it shall seem to me that life has indeed been a failure. If, however, the husbands and the fathers, the wives and the mothers shall be in attune with each other; if they shall love the home and the home circle; if  shall impregnate their children with an understanding of the truth, and with the reverence due to our heavenly Father and His representatives here, as well as to the grey hairs of every honorable man and woman in the world, it will have been, indeed, an accomplishment that will lend strength and force to this work, and its spread will be manifest in every direction. 

May heaven's peace abound in your hearts and in your homes; may you love the truth, and lay the foundation of love so deeply and thoroughly in the circle that God has given you a stewardship over, that when manhood and womanhood shall be reached, and the children, and the children's children shall look homeward, there shall be joy abounding in their hearts, which nothing in the world can quench. If we will do the bidding of our Father; if we shall remember that as husbands and wives our obligations are eternal; if we shall remember as parents and children that our hope of the approval of our Father in heaven is linked together, and if we shall fulfill the duties that life requires at our hands, rendering to our family their share, all will be well. If we will see to it that some men are not required to take all the care and responsibility, while others remain at home in idleness, all of us will be the better off, and the wives who have husbands lounging around the house will thank God for the privilege of their having something t'o do outside of their homes. We have received the truth. There is no mistake in regard to that. Mankind may just as well come to that conclusion first as last, and realize that every block placed by them in the way will but increase the impetus of the work. It is for us who have become its custodians to fulfill our mission and ministry. Our friends criticise us for the evils that are manifest among us. There are evils among the Latter-day Saints. There are boys unguarded, unwarned and untaught. There are girls left to the prey of the vicious and the impure. There are unwise mothers, who have never learned a single lesson from the experience of their own lives, and men who seem to forget the temptations and trials that beset them in their youth, and turn loose to be destroyed the treasures that God has given them. Oh! that I could write upon the heart of every man and every woman the rememberance of their own lives, and the struggles that they have had to make to preserve themselves from the pitfalls of immorality; and write also upon their hearts and souls the sentiment and feeling that our Father would inspire if they would open their hearts to him, that these pure spirits need the constant guidance, guardianship and care of their fathers and mothers. 

A^ain I say, may the Lord's peace abound with you. May the spirit of this conference resound to the ends of the earth with the declaration that Mormonism, as the world calls it, is a factor in the universe, come to stay, not to fade nor fail, but to increase and develop as long as there is a human being in sin; warning its own devotees that honesty, truthfulness, virtue and love and respect for everything that is noble and true is the foundation stone of the work.; calling upon everyone who has drifted into by and forbidden paths to repent and turn to the truth, and being to the world a light set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, which will increase in brightness and power until its light shall encompass the earth. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

The Saints (rust in the Lord— Caus^ of the opposition of the world — Exhortation to faithfulness — A plea for liberty. 

I am very thankful to our Heavenly Father that I have the privilege of attending this conference and of rejoicing with my brethren that we are seventy years of age. I was very much impressed in listening to the instructions that have been given, how everything tends to establish the Scriptures. The 37th Psalm says: 

"Fret not thyself because of evil-doers, neither be thou envious against theworkers of iniquity: 

"For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. 

"Trust in the Lord, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. 

"Delight thyself also in the Lord; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. 

"Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass: 

"And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday." 

From the testimonies that we have heard this seems to be the history of the Latter-day Saints. They are the most valiant and courageous people on the face of the earth, because they "Trust in the Lord and do good." It required a great deal of moral courage to accept this Gospel, to come out of the world and take up the cross of Christ, and to advocate a doctrine that was everywhere spoken against. But it has established in us an everlasting character. We know no fear. Our trust is in the Lord; and the exhortation to us, Learn the will of God and do it, brings forth and establishes within us a character. We are always willing to do the will of God. We came into the Church for that express purpose. We found that it would be impossible for us to be delivered from death, hell and the grave, unless we accepted of the doctrine of Christ as taught by the inspired servants of God; and being on the unpopular side we had to defend ourselves. We tested the principles of everlasting life, and we have discovered they are true. God has given unto us line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, and we are growing in grace and in the knowledge of God. He has told us over and over again that if we will love him and keep his commandments we shall prosper in the land. The Scriptrues are true. The Holy Spirit has come unto the sons and daughters of God in the day and age in which we live. We all realize that we have our individual mission; that when we seek unto the Lord and ask His guidance, He guides and directs us. He gives us the opportunity of being everything that we could wish to be, in fulfilling the mission He has appointed us, to His honor and glory. There is no need of our ever being deceived or being beguiled by the influence of the adversary — who of course is adverse to God's will being done— if we will only observe the will of the Lord and do it. We have a Father in heaven who loves us, and who has given unto us the  of dwelling upon the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of times. We encourage the rising generation to trust in the Lord and individually seek His counsel. The Lord does not require a blind obedience, but an intelligent obedience, and the Savior has exhorted us to ask and it shall be given us, to seek and we shall find, to knock and it shall be opened unto us. On one occasion he gave us the parable of the unjust judge, and told us to praywithout ceasing, to put our trust in the Lord, and He would give us everything necessary. 

The Church of Christ has a bad reputation. It always did have. "We desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest; for as concerning this sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken against," was said of old. It is a trick of the adversary that we should be evilly spoken of, and it is his disciples, who despise the commandment "thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor," who have given us our bad reputation. But that matters very little. We know we are of God, and that the world lieth in the arms of the wicked one. We know that the principles # of everlasting life, which we have subscribed to, are true, and it is to our best interest individually to accomplish that which the Father has given us to do. If those who fight against us, who despise us and who will not fellowship us would search for themselves individually as we have done, they would see as we see and have the same comprehension of the principles of everlasting life, because they would have the same spirit, even the gift of the Holy Ghost, without which no man knowth the things of God. I have no faith in the wisdom of man, nor in doctors of divinity. They have made a mistake from the beginning. The history of the world tells us that mankind always accepted false prophets and slew and rejected those who were sent of God with the glad tidings of great joy. In the days of Noah, but eight persons out of the whole world accepted the Gospel of the Son of God, and were saved, while the others, under the dominion of the prince and power of the air, rejected light and truth and made their bet? where we would not like to go. 

I say to you, my .brethren and sisters, seek the counsel of the Almighty in your individuality, and when the Lord reveals to you what your mission is. fulfill it to the glory of God, no matter who else is pleased or displeased. The whole duty of man is to serve God and keep His commandments, and woe unto us if we do not do it. We have been slothful; we have been indifferent; we have robbed the Lord in tithes and offerings; we have been self-sufficient and have despised the counsels of the Almighty, and He has called upon us to repent, to reform, and to consecrate unto Him that which is His due, according to His commandment, which is, that of everything He shall give to us, we will consecrate to Him onetenth, and our ears shall be open to the cry of the widow and the fatherless, and we shall visit them in their distress. The Lord has also commanded us to get out of debt, so that we may owe no man anything and be independent and keep the law of God. Unless we do so He cannot establish His statutes upon the land. I want to bear my testimony to the truth of these prin^ ciples. I know they are true. I know that God lives; I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a true prophet sent of God. All mankind can obtain this testimony, if they will seek for it. There was a time when I did not know it. I sought the Lord for it, and he gave it to me, to my perfect satisfaction. My exhortation to the people all the time is, for goodness sake be kind to yourselves; hear the word of the Lord and do it; stand in the dignity of your manhood and resist the influence of the world. Woe unto us if we are overcome of the world; woe unto us if we are excommunicated from the Church. We have a long list of men who should pay tithing and do not. I am sorry for them. I wish they had sense enough to be kinder to themselves, for they are laboring under a curse who rob God in tithes, and offerings. They have no right to partake of the Sacrament, being unworthy. Every time they do it they eat and drink damnation; for they tell the Lord that they are willing to take upon them the name of Christ and to keep His commandments, yet they do not do it. Hypocrites! Hypocrites! A great deal better if they should wake up to an understanding of the dangerous position they occupy. If the Bishops are kind and considerate to hear with teem, to plead with them and to dig all around them and they reject it, when they pass behind the veil their record is made, the day has gone, the night has come, and their souls are not saved. Then comes the agony; but we have made it ourselves. We work out our salvation, or we work out our damnation. It is our own act. I know these Principles are true; they are common sense. There is no blessing, no eternal life promised to those who despise God and His commandments, and who prefer darkness to liRht It is a condemnation to reject ight and truth; and when the Lord Jesus Christ shall come in flaming to take vengeance upon them who know not God and keep not His commandments those who love darkness rather than light will be punished with everlasting banishment from the presence of God and the Lamb. 

I rejoice very much in the instructions that have been given today. I am m harmony with every revealed principle. I say that the Latter-day Saints are the noblest people upon the face of the earth; and instead of governments < striving to stay their progress, they should do everything to enable them to progress in light and truth, and to develop principles and conditions which they know nothing at all about, know what we are doing, and we understand the science of life. We understand where we came from, what we are here for and what is our future destiny, because we are taught of God. We are in harmony with eternal prinPiDl-s Our Elders go forth preaching the Gospel of the Son of God. They take their lives in their hands, leaving their families behind, and proclaim this glad message of great joy and that God has again spoken. They call the people to repentance, and warn them of judgments to come. We are told that judgment Will commence at the house of God It will fall upon this very class of people who despise God, and reject His commandments. We take our little  to our Sabbath schools, our primaries, our Mutual Improvement associations and quorums of Priesthood for the express purpose of training them that they may grow up without sin unto salvation. The Lord wants to establish His righteousness. That is what He has hired us for, and we should love truth and righteousness, and have our ears open to hear, our eyes to see and our hearts to understand, that we may be for God and His righteousness. 

Did you ever know this people so unpatriotic as to be petitioning the government against any handfull of people ' No patriot was ever guilty of anything of the kind. A patriot is a man who sustains the Constitution of the United States and believes in religious liberty. There are hypocrites among professed patriots, as well as other classes of people. I say God bless the patriots. God bless our government, and give them wisdom, strength of character and moral courage to stand by the principles of the Constitution, and not be cowards. I would plead for this with all my heart. For of all people in the world, we are interested in having a righteous government. We know how to appreciate libertv and freedom, and we never interfere with other people's doctrines or belief. We have enough to do to teach our own. We have the truth, the way and the Ufe and we have no time to find fault with others. It takes us all our time to publish the glad tidings of great joy. 

I pray God my eternal Father that He will establish the kingdom of God upon the earth in power; that the kingdom of heaven may come; that His will may be done on earth as it is done in heaven, and that we who have taken upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ may be true and faithful to our covenants, and that we may have the grace of God to overcome and endure unto the end, in His glorious kingdom, through Jesus Christ. Amen. Singing by the choir. Benediction by Elder Christian D. Fjeldsted.