10
Second Overflow
04 04 1915
Elder Walter P. Monson. 
94
49-53

None

None

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Words fail to express the gratitude which I have in meeting with you, this beautiful Easter Sunday, and in experiencing the sweet influence which has characterized this conference thus far. I have often heard, while in the world, the beautiful hymn:  
  
"O ye mountains high,  
 
Where the clear blue sky Arches over the vales of the free;  
 
Where the pure breezes blow,  
 
And the clear streamlets flow, How I long to your bosom to flee."  
  
Never has that hymn been sung, in my hearing, while I have been away from the body of the Church, but what I have had a longing, a yearning for this land which is so dear to me. I have often thought of St. Bernard who, when he visited Switzerland, looked over the beautiful lakes, and saw the magnificent picture that was presented to him, how he covered his eyes lest the glorious scenes should detract from his love for duty, and from the love which he bore to his Maker. When I come into the vales of these mountains, and see the snow-capped peaks, that are familiar to me, there seems to be a necessity for me to cover my eyes also, lest the appeal should be so strong that it would detract from my desire to do my duty. I love these glorious mountains, and more than the mountains, I love the people who dwell here. More than the people who dwell here, even father and mother, houses and lands, and wife and children, I love that cause which I have been sent out into the world to represent.  
  
Eighty-five years ago this Church was organized with only six members, in the State of New York, the state where, perhaps, the greatest opposition is now prevailing against this work, and against this people. When we look over our weekly reports, in the mission field, we see there are only few baptisms, if any. The elders are plodding along, as it were, gleaning from among the crowded cities of the world, and from country districts, those who have a greater love for God than they have for their self-ambitions. It seems that the progress is not of the proportions that our elders would like to see it; arid oftentimes an elder will express himself, that he cannot see any good resulting from his labors. But when we stop to consider the report that was read this morning by our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith, and see how the Saints have been gathered from the various parts of the earth, how diligent they have been, not merely seeking this world's treasures, but how willingly they have laid on the altar of sacrifice much of the means they have acquired to come and enter the House of the Lord, where they have done a magnificent and stupendous work for those who have gone beyond, those that were less fortunate than we. It causes my heart to leap with joy to know that my parents had the courage and fortitude to leave their possessions, and everything that was near and clear unto them, and come into these valleys of the mountains, where such love for truth can bear fruit in the hearts of their children.  
  
I love the people of the Lord. I love to see the progress that this work is making. Perhaps that cannot be seen or counted numerically only. I believe that the Almighty has anticipated this very condition, for we read in the 13th chapter of Matthew a statement made by the Master, that the kingdom of God was likened unto leaven which was hid in three measures of meal, and which leavened the whole lump. In order to measure the success attendant upon the work of the missionaries in the world, one must understand what the teachings of sectarian ministers were about eighty-five years ago, in the year 1830, and then compare the teachings of the same sects and organizations of today. If you will turn back the pages of ecclesiastical history, you will find great speakers whose sermons are a matter of record, who taught that awful doctrine of hell fire, that unless a person would be willing to kneel before the penitent bench, he would go into an ever-burning and never-ending hell. About twenty-five years ago this doctrine began to be disowned by the churches of the world, and thus it seems that one particle of the Gospel leaven has entered into the souls of the children of men, and they have cast off that damnable doctrine. Also, there was the doctrine taught that infants, whose parents refused to have them christened, or baptized, would go to a never-ending hell, there, perhaps, to serve as kindling for the devil. But these things have now been discarded. I doubt whether there was ever a person who has lived upon the earth, and who had been called upon to lay away a little one from its mother's arms, and buried it in the grave that ever thought that that child went to hell. It is people outside of that relationship who have thought that such a little one was going to a never-ending hell. The love of Christ has more fully entered into the hearts of the children of men. All are growing nearer to it, and even though the people seek to destroy the work of the Lord, yet these things which God has ordained, these works which He has performed, albeit by the slowest growth, will stand and endure. Some one has said, ''God can make an oak tree in a hundred years, and can make a mush-room in one night." We must reach out to the one hundred year mark before the wonderful growth is fully recognized, as shown by the testimonial that you give in your attendance upon this conference, and the love and devotion you show to the cause.  
  
In looking through one of the large book stores in New York City, I discovered a work entitled "A Century's Change in religion." This has come from the press at as late a date as Nov., 1914. It is written by one George Harris, a very learned divine. There are many things contained therein that we cannot accept, I may say, as gospel truth; yet there are many things which he points out that have come about by the evolution of thought, and the culling process of truth. The author shows how many of the errors which our fathers inherited have been dead and buried for a number of years. I desire to read an extract from his Introductory:  
  
"I select this period also because a large part of it is within the recollection of many now living. Indeed, those discoveries and influences which have, or are supposed to have, brought these changes have come upon us within the last fifty years. I do not mean that religious beliefs and practices were stationary for eighteen hundred years, or during the first half of the 19th century, but that the changes of the last fifty years are more marked than those, we may almost say, of all the time preceding."  
  
Is it not a remarkable statement for a minister to make, that the last fifty years has seen greater religious advancement than all preceding time since Jesus came and ushered in His reign. I wonder if we realize the effect of the efforts of our humble elders in crystalizing these truths in the hearts of the children of men. Now I will read to you an extract concerning a doctrine that has been entirely ignored, or ridiculed, by most of the ministers of the Christian world. It was a startling revelation to me to know that people in the world have so far ran into the realm of truth that they are growing into the desire to do work for their dead:  
  
"About thirty years ago a curious controversy arose, as to the decisiveness of this life. It led to the trial of five professors in the Theological Seminary at Andover, Massachusetts, who, it was alleged, taught that those who had not heard of Christ in this life, the heathen, the generations before Christ, might, after death, have knowledge of Him and repent and be saved. A foreign missionary society refused for several years to appoint as missonaries young men who thought it possible that those who did not have the Gospel in this life might, after death, have opportunity to believe on Christ, or who went no further than saying that they did not know the fate of the heathen.  
  
"The accused professors argued from the universality of the Gospel. Christ died for all men, and since none can be saved except they believe on Christ, it would seem that all men will have the opportunity of knowing Christ; that if there are any, and there are certainly many, who do not know Him in this life, they will know Him in the intermediate state, before the day of judgment. It was thought that scripture lends itself to such a hope, for an apostle says that Christ, 'having been put to death in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit, went and preached unto the spirits in prison which aforetime were disobedient in the time of Noah;' and again says, 'For unto this end was the Gospel preached even to the dead;' and the most ancient creed of the Church says, that Christ crucified, dead and buried, descended into Hades, the abode of departed spirit.  
  
"The accusers said that scripture is emphatic on the decisiveness of this life, since it affirms that men shall be judged acording to the deeds done in the body; that now is the day of salvation; and said that the passages in Peter are obscure. They also declared that the 'nerve of missions' would be cut, if it were supposed that the heathen would have opportunity of salvation after death; that is, that the motive of missions is the fact that the heathen are going down to perdition. Other charges were brought, as that the professors taught that there are imperfections in the Bible; but the gravamen of the accusation was that these teachers believed and taught that there may be a second probation, and that such an opinion is very dangerous, that men will postpone repentance to a more convenient season.  
  
"The Board of Visitors of the Seminary, before whom the professors were tried, removed one of them from office, acquitting four, although the evidence was the same for all; the case was carried to the Supreme Court of Massachusetts; the decision of the Visitors against the removed professor was declared invalid, on the ground that the other Board of the Seminary, the Trustees, were not made a part in the trial. It is not yet twenty-five years since the verdict was given, yet it is rather difficult not to realze what it was all about. It shows, however, how real the unseen world was, how intimately related the realms of light and darkness were to this world in the thought of men."  
  
Now I wonder where they got that from! Surely the spirit of Elijah has spread out over the world, and it is "turning the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest the earth be smitten with a curse." I will read a little further:  
  
"We do not profess so intimate knowledge of the unseen world, nor affirm positively that this life determines the life to come. We do not speculate about it, we refuse to beleve that all who have not consciously accepted Christ, those cut off in youth, those who grew up in vicious surroundings, those who never heard of Christ, are doomed to eternal woe. The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting. And now a very orthodox writer says, in a book published by the American Tract Society which is most evangelical, and no one protests:  
  
"'We repeat with all sacred emphasis the words, ' 'the Gospel was preached even to the dead." We note the instance that is given, the spirits in prison, which aforetime were disobedient in the time of Noah, that is, the spirits of those who perished in the flood. We must not dogmatize, we need not vainly guess; but we may reverently affirm that the Son of man is capable of reaching and influencing the souls of men on yon side of the veil, as well as on this; and that in a degree and by means infinitely beyond anything that science or faith can either dream or discover.'"  
  
The same writer says:  
  
" 'The horrible invention of a purgatory, from which man's enlightened conscience revolts, and which the Word of God makes absolutely incredible, has produced a violent reaction in modern minds, whereby even the idea of Hades — the scriptural idea of an intermediate state, where departed spirits await the resurrection of their bodies — is rudely blotted out, and so one of the grandest and one of the most fruitful periods of man's education for eternity is an utter blank in the minds of most of us. But we refuse to be robbed of what the Holy Ghost saith; whether by the abuses of Roman excess or by the violence of Protestant reaction. We hold to the teaching of Holy Scripture — whatever may be the peril to a narrow sectarian type of orthodoxy. There is no purgatory, but there is an intermediate state. And the only glimpse we get into that world unseen (Hades), reveals to us the Spirit of Jesus proclaiming His Gospel unto the dead. Here let our authoritative teaching regarding the matter begin and end, flooding all the world of Hades with the light of the Savior's presence and the music of his blessed voice.' '  
  
"I think all will agree that everlasting punishment is seldom, if ever, mentioned in the pulpit now that the word 'hell' seldom crosses the lips of any preacher. While it is believed that a man may be morally ruined, the conception is rather of character debased, degenerated beyond hope of recovery, than of acute physical suffering. The fire that is not quenched, the worm that dieth not, are, it is thought, figures of corrosion and decay. The lake that burneth with fire and brimstone for ever and ever is symbolic of lost souls consumed with remorse. There is nothing more dreadful than a ruined soul, a hardened heart. Character is fixed by purpose, and it may be that after a time it cannot be changed. Judgment is upon character; heaven is good character, Christ-like character; hell is bad character, selfish, grasping, unsympathetic character."  
  
Some "Mormon" elder must have explained these blessed principles to those who were moved upon to write such glorious truths. When we see the leaven raising the entire lump, our hearts are made to rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. His work is not marked out by that which can be seen by human eyes, but it is eternal in character, and of universal dominion, and will endure throughout the ages to come.  
  
I rejoice in having this opportunity of bearing my testimony, my brethren and sisters, for I feel that I know that God lives. There is no fiber of my being that does not respond in joyous love to God, for the light and truth that He has given unto me, for I feel that the most sacred obligation that I have is to see to it that the sentiment never enters my heart, "Am I my brother's keeper?" The Lord has said of His Saints-. "Ye are the salt of the earth." No good housewife ever makes a meal of salt, she uses just enough to make the meal palatable. Your sons and daughters out in the mission field, are a Sprinkling of salt in the fleshpots of the world. O, it causes my heart to rejoice to contemplate these things. An article from a very scholarly writer, says that the word "salt" and the word "Savior" came from the same root word. You now can see the beauty in the passage with such an explanation, "Ye are the salt of the earth" — ye are the saviors of the earth. How many of us have had it stated in our patriarchal blessings: "And you shall come forth and stand as a savior on Mount Zion, crowned with immortality and eternal life!"  
  
May God bless us with His Holy Spirit, that the greater degree of the religion of love, which is sure to follow the darkness of the existing horrible war, may find a resting place first in the hearts of God's people throughout the world, as enunciated by our beloved prophet, seer and revelator this morning. May God add His blessing to us all, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 
