17
Outdoor
04 04 1915
Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 
79
72-78

None

None

(President of California Mission.) 

"Thy dead men shall live; together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust, for thy clew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead," so said Isaiah to ancient Israel. Today (Easter Sunday), throughout all Christendom, people who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ are giving evidence, by worship and by offerings and gifts, that they believe the words of Isaiah. It was not always so, and so far as that is concerned, it is but true in a limited sense today, for of the 350,000,000 of so-called Christians, against 1,500,000,000 of people in the world, there are many of the Christians who do not accept as a fact the teachings of the Bible that Christ did arise, and that the dead shall come again from the tomb as foretold by Isaiah and by the prophets who followed after him.  
  
As well said by Elder Richards, anyone who has studied the providences of God from time immemorial must be struck with the evident love, mercy, charity and provident kindness that lie has exercised toward His children, for though Adam fell and brought upon himself and his children endless sleep in the grave, God suffered men not to die, until they had been sufficiently instructed in the plan of life and salvation, to know that they might live again. An angel was sent who instructed Adam not only in the principle of faith in God and repentance from wrong doing, but in the ordinance of baptism, and took him and laid him beneath the watery element, that he too should be born anew from the grave of waters and thus evidence faith in Christ, typified by the Lamb, that he was instructed to offer as a sacrifice to teach all his children in a concrete manner the fact that Christ, the Lamb of God, in the meridian of time should be offered up as a sacrifice that men should not sleep eternally in the dust. So Adam was baptized, and he taught these principles of saving grace unto his children and his children's children for nearly a thousand years of mortal reckoning.  
  
Not only did God manifest Himself to Adam and the ancient patriarchs — to Noah, who builded the ark, and to his sons, and their immediate descendants, but when Israel had become a nation of serfs in bondage in Egypt, He spoke unto them by the mouth of Aaron, as well as by that of Moses; and not only to Israel did He make His call to repentance, but unto the Egyptians as well. For mark you, not one of the wondrous miracles performed in Egypt but what was a direct rebuke to the Egyptian gods.  
  
The insignia of power in Egypt was the sacred snake, two entwined which made the crown of the Pharaohs of Upper and Lower Egypt. The rod of Aaron, cast upon the ground in the symbol of that power, overcame the snake of the Egyptian, and in that little thing, showed the power of the Hebrew God to be greater than that of the magicians of the Egyptian king.  
  
The River Nile, the Father of Waters, the healer of the sick, worshiped by the Egyptians as the bringer of seed time and harvest — for in flood time it spread its waters out over the great valley of the Nile, making it the granary of the ancient world — this river became flooded with the red waters from the mountains, until it became like as blood and was a thing of disgust unto the people. It nauseated where once it had pleased, and sickened, they turned away from that which once they had bowed down to in devotion, unto which they had offered virgins as sacrifice — and felt again that the wrath of the Hebrew God made manifest His omnipotence over theirs of the Nile.  
  
Its inundation brought with it, doubtless, the plague of frogs. The frog, in Egypt was a sacred creature, and he who inadvertently should tread upon one and kill it, was himself to suffer the penalty of death. Now this great plague came upon the land, as foretold by Moses, until it crowded into their homes, into their bedrooms, and even into the kneading troughs. Sickened again, and in disgust, the Egyptian turned away from the laothsome creature, and was robbed again of a god that he had worshiped.  
  
So with the plague of lice and flies — for one of their most sacred goddesses was supposed to keep these things out of the land of Egypt — but they crept in upon them, into sanctuaries of their temples, even the holy of holies, and the priestly robes of the initiated priesthood, were all defiled by these loathsome things, until again they were disgusted with their gods and felt how impotent they were when arrayed against the power of Israel's God; and so on, from step to step, the hail, the thunders and the lightnings which are so infrequent in that land, so much so that it is said "in Egypt it never rains," came upon them and destroyed their crops. Murrain came upon the beasts of the field and destroyed doubtless the great bull Amnion that they worshiped in the temple of Heliopolis.  
  
The great god Ra, the sun, that painted the flowers and ripened the harvest, that secured them in warmth, was put out in the midst of darkness, that men could feel, and made a night of three days in which there could be no light made, and so this god in turn, was made to bow to the power of Israel's God.  
  
By this time, the Egyptians were ready to let Israel go, but Pharaoh hardened his heart again. His possessions had not diminished so much. His servants had kept from him the dread things that had come to the common people; and so he still held out for the power of the Egyptian god against that of Israel. Then the warning was sent unto him— for lie had refused longer to look upon the face of Moses — that the destroying angel should pass through the land, and that the firstborn of every creature, both of man and beast should be destroyed except where they exercised faith in the blood of the Lamb, and typified it as it had been in Eden's garden by the sacrifice that was to be made, and their door-posts and the lintels thereof were to be sprinkled with blond of the sacrificial lamb. That night, we understand, a scourge passed over Egypt, and none escaped except those who were faithful and did as ordered by Moses. In the house of Pharaoh was lifted the voice of mourning, for his firstborn was stricken down with the dread malady, and so their great god Osiris, the last and final one, the arbiter of their fates, the one who gave life to the world, was put to naught and shamed by the power of the Hebrew God.  
  
And so by these miracles testimony was given to ancient Egypt, that they too might repent and not be cut off until they had been sufficiently instructed in the way of truth. And when Moses, having divided the waters of the Red Sea, and carried his people through victoriously to the nether side thereof, to the plains of Arabia, when he sought out his father-in-law Jethro, and announced unto him all that God had done in Egypt, the old priest, who had given to Moses his priesthood and instructed him in the ways of righteousness, lifted up his voice and his eyes unto the heavens, and said, "Now I know that the Lord is greater than all — for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly — He was above them."  
  
And so the Lord, by His beneficence and love hath taught to all men as they would receive light and instruction, the fact of His redemption — the truths of His Gospel.  
  
It was a hard thing to understand that men might live again — they who were laid away in their tomb — that their bodies, revivified, renewed and immortalized, should come forth to eternal life, to immortality and everlasting youth: but Isaiah knew it, and declared it unto Israel as I have quoted: and the major prophets after him bear that same testimony.  
  
The Lamb of God Himself declared when he was upon the earth, "I am the resurrection and the life: he who believeth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live," and said, "If I be lifted up, I shall draw all men unto me;" and declared that not only should the living hear His voice, but they who were dead and in their graves should hear the voice of the Son of God and live."  
  
The testimony of the ancient fathers of the Church, as well as the Scripture, bear witness that Christ, before He arose from the grave and broke the shackles of death, went into the prison house and preached to the spirits which were in prison — and for this reason, says Peter, "that they might be judged according to men in the flesh" — by the same law, by the same ordinances, by the same constraints, the same reasoning that men are judged today: faith in God, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost — for these were the principles of the Gospel that Christ and His apostles taught to men, by which He founded the Church, setting at the head first Apostles, Prophets, etc. — and being "judged according to men in the flesh," as you and I shall be judged, being in the spirit world they should "live according to God in the spirit."  
  
We have been told, and we have read, of the miraculous resurrection of the Christ, of His recovery from, death, and the bringing out of His body from the tomb, that He walked and talked with men, ate with them, and taught them for a season of several weeks relative to His plan and their labors for bringing to pass the salvation of the souls of men. I know that hard-headed men are loath to accept the fact that we can live again; and yet, if this be not true, we stand as a contradiction of all of nature's creation. We are a paradox, yea, more than a paradox, an anomaly; for God has set in our hearts alone, so far as we can determine, the longing, the desire, the yearning after immortality and eternal life. We understand that there is nothing meaningless, nothing vain or waste in the emotions of living creatures: that they shall meet their complement here or hereafter.  
  
We build, we suffer, and we sacrifice for things that within and of themselves of necessity, because of mortality, can never be attained unto in mortal life. Life were vain, in fact, "if in this life only we have hope," for the deepest things that stir our souls, that which appeals to us most, has to do with the future, with the eternal association with one another, in the family relationship, in the presence of God and His Christ, who was the first fruit of them who slept, and in whose image and likeness, John tells us, we shall be when He comes again, for the grave and death and hell shall give up the dead in them, and they shall come forth in the same type as the Master did.  
  
Men believed in spirits anciently, and they believe in them today, and when the Master stood before His disciples, "they were affrighted," saith the scriptures, for they thought it was His Spirit, but He called unto them and said, "Handle me, and see that a spirit hath not flesh and bones as you see me have." And still they were afraid, and so He asked if they had anything to eat, and they gave to Him an honeycomb and fish, and He ate in their presence. A week later, on the Lord's day, when He appeared unto them again, and the doubtful one, Thomas, who had heard the testimony of his brethren and of the women who had seen the Christ and conversed with Him, did not believe that testimony, but said, "ye have seen a spirit." and contended with them, that he would not believe unless he could thrust his hand into His side and feel the prints of the nails in the hands and feet of the Master, and would not believe that He had recovered His body from the dead — the Master appeared before him and said, "Reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side and be not faithless but believing," and Thomas, convinced in his soul, cried out, "My Lord, and my God;" and the Master upbraided him gently because he had needed such a testimony to believe, because he would not accept the word of his brethren nor their testimony. He said, "Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they who have not seen and yet have believed."  
  
And that is the touch-stone of virtue with the Christian today. Does he walk by faith? Is he willing to accept the words of the witnesses of the Christ and the words of the Master, and not desire to handle and see for himself as did Thomas? For I want to tell you that when a man has to do a thing, there is no virtue in it. But when he chooses to, when he exercises faith and confidence, then there is virtue and righteousness in it.  
  
I said if there be no immortality, we stand as a contradiction to the rules of nature, an anomaly in her handiwork, for when we look forth upon her creations, they all answer the end thereof in this life, except man. We need not deal with the vegetable field, but when we come to animate things, to the birds of the air and the fishes of the deep, and the beasts and the creeping things of the field — they have no thought of the morrow, no care and no heed. Divine providence cares for them, brings a complement of their lives to them. Some will tell us it is intuition that guides them so unerringly in the pursuit of that which prolongs their lives and enables them to perpetuate their species in the earth, and others would have us believe it is habit; but those who walk by faith see behind it all a divine will that directs all of the energies of nature and all of her creatures, to the end that His name shall be honored and glorified, and that His purposes relative to His creatures shall be fulfilled, and that they aside from man, and man too, shall come to a fullness of joy.  
  
But with the creatures beneath men, they have not their own will, they answer the ends of the divine will. But when it comes to us. God hath given us our free agency to choose and to act for self. We gloried in this before the worlds were. It is one of the greatest benefactions that we have in this life, because by it and with it men can develop the divine which is within them and come into a full fruition of godliness.  
  
I said that beasts have no thought of the morrow, and no heed, except as instinct or divine love may guide them to provide for their morrow or for themselves; but when it comes to man, he has the capability of worship, of paying homage and devotion that the beast has not; and this of itself, according to the rules of nature, demands a complement in a being to worship, in someone to pay homage to and a creature that arouses our devotion, and to whom we can prove ourselves devoted; and so this, of itself, makes God a necessity, for men to come into full complement of his God-given attributes and powers. Man alone has the power of conceiving of a heaven, of a hereafter, and it is with all men, from the most illustrious in the halls of learning, to the pagan of the darkest continent and to the Indian of our own loved country in his most remote and ignorant state. They dream — these latter — of their "happy hunting grounds," of a place where they shall be provided for, where gaunt famine and sickness are unknown, with a larder never empty, and where men dwell as brothers and friends.  
  
The Christian dreams of a place where he shall worship God and look upon His face, where there shall be anthems of hallelujahs sung forever. And the Latter-day Saint looks for the place where he shall build, as he began to build in this life for an eternal home, for the family relationship, for father and for mother, for wife and husband, for parents and children, to associate together until they shall come into a fullness of all that their fond hearts have desired and their minds have conceived of; and it shall be an endless home of eternal progression in the presence of the Christ and with the Father, who is God over all. The capabilities which man has are divine, and they only lack time and opportunity for expression in complete development to become like the Father, whose children we are.  
  
With Him and in His presence, in the eons of years yet to come, we shall come into a fulness of divinity, and build yet other mansions for our Father, thus adding to His glory as we add to the glory and perpetuity of our own homes and families.  
  
None but men can conceive of this, and when he has once conceived of it, and then is told that this probation is the end of life, and this is the end of progression, when death shall claim us and shall still the voice and shut down the eyes and make pulseless the hand — how vain is life, and how vain the imaginations and sacrifices of man! But how exalting the other thought! What an incentive to correct living and to proper thinking for men to believe that they can strike hands with the Infinite. One can become like Him and have and hold the family relationship forever and ever without end of years, that God loved them from before the beginning until after the ending of this life, and that this bringeth a fullness of joy — to have the body and the spirit inseparably connected, the body by which we receive so many of our impressions in this life, by which we have manifested ourselves to our fellows, by which we have learned the sweets of life as well as the bitter things, by which we have achieved success, in which we have been chastened by adversity and sorrow, through which we have learned what it is to be cared for and to be loved, that we in turn might be compassionate and loving to others, and that the full development of our capabilities and talents must come and be with and through this vehicle that our Father hath clothed our spirits with, and that with this body we shall come into not only that which I have intimated, but untold, which the mind of man here, finite, cannot conceive of!  
  
Would not life then be vain in conceiving these things and having these powers of conception, these beliefs, these longings and yearnings, and have them go unanswered? After we have sacrificed for them, loved them, and loved those who have labored for them, would not life be vain? Would we not be a contradiction to the law of nature if there be nothing of life save this little span of existence, of mortality? And so today, in the light of modern revelation, in the light of what the scientist has unfolded, though as yet he has not demonstrated it in his laboratory — yet so nearly that our greatest thinkers today, — Stead and Lodge, who are dead, and Currie and Crooks, Myers and Funk and others alive, have announced the fact that there is an immortal soul, and that it is not impossible even scientifically, to demonstrate sufficiently to prove to the seeking mind and the faithful heart that Christ arose from the dead; — so shall the bodies of men again live and be "energized" and be made immortal.  
  
I thank them for this testimony, because there are some who will not accept in faith, as I have said, nor as did Thomas, anything that is not demonstrated coldly before them; but in the light of these things, and of modern revelation, I say again, as Isaiah said, unto you, and as this Sabbath day, the Easter Sunday, should bear witness to all men, — "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust, for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and thy earth shall cast out the dead." Amen. 
