3
Overflow
04 04 1915
Bishop Orrin P. Miller. 
23
15-17

None

None

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

When we think that this is Easter Sunday, a very important day to us Latter-day Saints, with the views we have of the life of the Savior, it brings to us rejoicing and thanksgiving. Our hearts bound with happiness when we realize that we have been established in these valleys, in the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, according to the predictions of ancient as well as modern prophets. O what joy it brings to us when we see the tens of thousands of honest-hearted, devoted people assembling together this morning to worship the Lord, and to be taught of His ways, that we might walk in the path which He has marked out for us as His children. We could not help but repoice at this, and our hearts are made glad because we have confidence in those that are leading us as prophets, seers, and revelators, in this the dispensation of the fulness of times.  
  
The great number of people that have gathered together upon this occasion have come from the various stakes of Zion, sixty-seven stakes now organized, and different states of the Union. I presume every stake in the Church is here represented; I have noticed individuals from Canada on the north to Arizona and Old Mexico on the south, and I take it that all have come to headquarters, to the present center stake, that we may be taught of the wars and laws of the Lord, that we might be able to walk in His paths, and remain true and faithful unto the end.  
  
What joy and satisfaction these thoughts bring to us, when we look back over the history of our people. In looking over this congregation, we see pioneers who blazed the way across the desert and came into these valleys many years ago, and helped to establish the ensign that was spoken of by one of the ancient prophets, that should be established in the tops of the mountains, in the midst of the everlasting hills, and all nations should flow into it. We feel to rejoice that these prophecies are being fulfilled, and that we, the offspring of those great pioneers, are enjoying these blessings, the fruits of their labor. When we reflect upon the conditions that confronted them when they came into these valleys; nothing but a barren waste, not a beautiful shrub or a tree, except the few that nature had produced, the valley being desolate and barren, and the only human associate that they had, beside themselves, was the Lamanite or native Indian; and the howl of the coyote was heard on the plains and the prairies. When we look now at the condition of our people, luxury and ease evident in every valley in the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, and we are enjoying the best and happiest and most prosperous times that have ever come to our people since the settlement of these valleys; and when we reflect that many were buried upon the plains on the journey from the Missouri River — my grandfather was buried out on the lonely desert, rolled up in a blanket and put into a shallow grave — when I reflect upon these things. I feel grateful to God for the blessings that have come to us.  
  
I feel like Nephi of old. full of gratitude and praise to my Heavenly Father, that I have been born of goodly parents, and that I have been taught in the ways of the Lord, that I might appreciate His blessings. And O how I rejoice that the hearts of my parents were touched when the humble elder came to them in their native country and preached unto them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as we understand and enjoy it this day. We rejoice in these things because we understand and comprehend them. My parents received the Gospel in their native country, one of them across the ocean, in the land of the troubled nations of today, and their coming to this blessed country made it possible for me to be present with you upon this occasion. Why should we not rejoice when we realize these things.  
  
And now, my young brethren and sisters, you who have been born in these valleys, born "under the droppings of the sanctuary," heirs to the holy priesthood in the new and everlasting covenant which God has established in the earth, how we should rejoice in these things, and always be grateful and willing to bear our testimony to the great blessings which the Lord has given unto us as His children. How we venerate the names and the memories of our aged parents. We do not need to hire men to teach us, and to proclaim to us that the Gospel is true; thousands of white-haired veterans could stand up in the congregations of the Saints today, should the President ask them, yea, ten thousand of them could rise up and proclaim in power and authority, but in a humble spirit, that they know Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. We have been taught this truth, and have received a knowledge of it, we have received the Holy Ghost, and that testimony has come to us, having obeyed the law upon which these blessings are predicated. It is not guess-work with us; we know it for a surety, we have been converted and convinced of these truths. We have been baptized in water, the same as the Savior was baptized by John, and we have come forth out of the water, and had hands laid upon us for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and the Holy Ghost has come to us, and it has been as the promises said, a constant companion and guide to us, a monitor of righteousness and truth, that shall remain with us forever, if we are faithful. These truths abide in our hearts; we know they are true, no matter what the world may say about us Latter-clay Saints.  
  
I desire to bear my testimony to the principles of the Gospel as they have been revealed to us. I have endeavored in my youth to accept every one of them, as the Prophet has revealed them; and I bear my testimony to you that he has revealed no untruth, but everything that he has revealed has been the truth, and truth is mighty and will prevail. The Latter-day Saints can truly sing the beautiful hymn,  
  
"High on the mountain top truth's banner is unfurled,  
  
Ye nations, now look up, it waves to all the world."  
  
May the Lord bless us is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
