32
Afternoon
06 04 1915
Elder J. Golden Kimball.
14
133-135

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

Brother Smoot yesterday quoted one of our articles of faith: "We believe all that God has revealed." I have been thinking about it; all that God has revealed, as found in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price. When you think of it 'for one moment it requires a great big belief to believe all that God does now reveal; "and we believe that He will, yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." It is not very difficult for a Latter-day Saint to believe all that has been revealed. To me it is all true, but the great trouble I am having is to make it work. (Laughter). I have been trying to crystallize what faith I have — and I might say that I haven't any to spare. Why not find out one or two or six of these splendid things that have been revealed and see if we can include them in our work?  
  
After listening to Brother Roberts I think I will have to put on what they call the "soft pedals," because those things stir my soul. It is my calling; it is my appointment. I feel it, and I sense it just as much as Brother Roberts does; it sounds to me like mobilizing, and I think that is the meaning of all this noise. I believe it will take time to awaken and arouse all the Seventies. We will have to get our choir to sing, "Hark, listen to the trumpeters!" I don't know but what it will be necessary to have a martial band and work up a little enthusiasm, and play on the imagination of these Seventies for a while; it won't hurt them. You need not be afraid of getting them over excited. (Laughter). We are almost immune to missionary work and the reason for this is, we haven't been called upon for a long time; only a very few Seventies are filling foreign missions, at present.  
  
The presiding bishop's office report shows that there are over 11,000 Seventies. I wish they would get busy and help us find about two thousand of that number, because they are not yet enrolled; I think we have decreased that number since last year. We have that great body of priesthood, and I don't think any one in this Church, not even the General Authorities, realize more than we do the condition, the financial condition that our brethren are in. We find that it is because of the building of homes, the purchasing of land, and a great many other difficulties that have come to them. They have had sickness, and financial, disappointment. The First Council have interviewed a great many men and I can say for the Seventies, as far as I am personally concerned — and I have interviewed just as many as any of the Council has — that we have few cowards in our band, but some of them have "served tables" so long, and settled difficulties, and been ward teachers, and slept in good beds and remained home, that it is just possible some of them have cowardly thoughts; and the reason for this is, they have been at home so long they have become attached to their homes, and they need weaning. (Laughter). It is a very great responsibility.  
  
I am going to ask you a few questions and then conclude my remarks. I wonder if we Seventies know what we want? I know my father preached once, "that to want a thing and you can't get it is hell." Some people have never been able to find out what they want. I have learned that when my family want anything they seem to want it mighty bad, and I never have much peace until I get it for them. Do we see and understand what we want? I now ask you in all solemnity, brethren — and you might as well look the cannon in the mouth; as this is no Sunday School proposition when you talk about preaching the Gospel — don't we know, haven't we been? I know something about it; I have filled two missions. I don't look like I would ever be able to go again, but I am ready. I hardly think I could pass a physical examination, but my temperature is all right, and my pulse is beating regularly, and I am ready to face the music. I have enough faith to accept a call.  
  
Do you want to "inherit eternal life?" Every man answer for himself — no use trying to put the burden on the Council of the Twelve or the First Council of the Seventy. Do you want to inherit eternal life? Are you willing to pay the price? Do you want to take up the cross and follow your Master, and inherit eternal life? Remember the young man — I wish I was as good as he was; he observed all the laws; but the Savior said: "One thing thou lackest;" and what did He tell him? Did He ask him if he was in debt? no, he knew; he knew how to settle that matter at once. Sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and take up the cross and follow Me, and thou shalt inherit eternal life. And that is what the young man thought he wanted, when he asked the Master, "Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?" The young man received his answer, and he went away a good deal sicker than a lot of these Seventies will be when we get after them. He did not want eternal life at the price; he did not have the faith.  
  
Faith is a process; faith consists in hard work, and when you accept a call for a mission, the desire must be put in one's soul day after day. You think it over and over, and then go doggedly back to it and keep on asking yourself, What is it I really want? You will have an awful time answering the question. If you have found out what you want, then my advice to you is to get prepared for it. I am willing to be one among the number. I am willing to sell what is necessary to pay my debts. I would be pleased to pay them. We will have to take care of your farms, and plow your land, and put in your grain and harvest your crops; we will have to help the wife with the children, and teach the boys to work; and then we will go out and preach the Gospel, if you will assist us. This is no fifty-cent proposition. If you brethren can't go — you rich men and you poor men — then put up your money like men, and we will do the work. Money talks when it comes to missionary work, as our families have to be cared for. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught the doctrine that these Seventies were "not to serve tables, and they were not to settle difficulties," but were to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and the Twelve and Seventy have particularly to depend upon their ministry for their support and that of their families; and they have a right, by virtue of their offices, to call upon the Churches to assist them.  
  
I have the spirit of the Seventy calling, I feel it in my hands; I feel its thrill all through my being, and I propose to breathe it into every Seventy that comes near me. So if you don't like it, you better keep away from me. I want eternal life. I want salvation, and I desire to breathe the same desire into my wife and children, so that they will want to partake of it, and be willing to make some sacrifice. I want to breathe it unto every Seventy that I come in contact with, and then go out into the world and see God's children partake of eternal life and salvation, the greatest of all gifts that God can give to His children. I want it. I know what I want, and I begin to find out what it will cost. The Lord bless you. Amen. 