34
Afternoon
06 04 1915
Authorities Sustained. 
10
136-137

None

None

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows:  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage.  
  
Hyrum G. Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church.  
  
The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and, Levi Edgar Young.  
  
Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his first and second Counselors. 
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder.  
  
Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, assistant Historians.  
  
As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Francis M. Lyman.  
  
Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer of the General Church Board of Education.  
  
Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools.  
  
Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, chairman: George H. Brimhall, Willard Young and C. N. Jensen.  
  
Auditing committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler. Heber Scowcroft and Joseph S. Wells.  
  
Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young University, Provo: Joseph F. Smith, Jesse Knight, Wilson H. Dusenberry. Reed Smoot, Willard Young, Susie Young Gates, Richard W. Young, Lafayette Holbrook, Stephen L. Chipman, Jonathan S. Page, jun., Joseph R. Murdock, and Joseph F. Smith, jun.  
  
Tabernacle choir: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, Secretarary and Treasurer; John Drakeford librarian; and all the members.  
  
Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference.  
  
Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference.  
