36
Afternoon
06 04 1915
Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith. 
32
141

BLESSING AND BENEDICTION. 

None

Our Father who art in heaven, at the close of this conference we return unto Thee the thanks and the gratitude of our hearts for Thy many kindnesses unto us, for the words that have been spoken, for the revelation of Thy works and the work of Thy Son, Jesus Christ, and of His life and mission in the world. We pray Thee to bless and sanctify the teachings given at this conference to the good of Thy people, and the furtherance of Thy work here upon the earth. Wilt Thou sanctify the songs and music which have been heard in this conference, to the good of all those who have heard the same.  
  
Wilt Thou remember Thy people who have been gathered together here in conference. Let Thy peace and blessings go with them to their homes, that they may have with them a constant and thorough understanding of Thy word as it has been taught here; that they may not misconstrue any of the teachings, and that they may have moral courage and strength to obey them in their lives, that they may thereby be worthy to receive Thy blessings.  
  
Now Father, as Thy servant whom thou hast called to bless Thy people, I seal upon this great multitude in this conference the blessings which Thou art willing to bestow upon us, Thy people, and upon Thy servants whom Thou has called to preside and to teach Thy people. Wilt Thou bless those who have heard these teachings, that they may take them to their homes and put them into practice.  
  
Help us, O Father, to do Thy will and to receive Thy blessings with humility and gratitude. Let Thy blessings go with this people to their homes, that no ill or evil shall befall them, that they may go with Thy benediction, with Thy smile and approbation upon them; may they by their good works, by their testimonies, and by their loving kindness to their neighbors, influence many others of Thy children to learn the truths Thou hast made known.  
  
Dismiss us now with Thy blessings, help us in all our endeavors to serve Thee and keep Thy commandments, and unto Thee we will ascribe the honor and the praise forever, through Thy Son, Jesus Christ. Amen. 
