37
Afternoon
06 04 1915
Hyrum M. Smith.
33
142-143

From Elders and Saints Abroad.

None

To the presidency and general authorities of the priesthood, and to all the Saints in the stakes and wards and organizations of the Church in Zion, love and greeting.  
  
We, the Elders and members of the Church of Christ, scattered in the nations of Europe, beseech for you a splendid outpouring of the Holy Ghost in the annual conference, and the continued showering down of the choicest favors and blessings of God upon you in all your abiding places.  
  
You reside in the promised land, where the Lord has tenderly gathered you; we are yet scattered abroad in the earth. Your feet are planted in pleasant places and all your paths are peace; we are among a people multitudes of whom find pleasure only in unrighteousness and tread the downward paths that lead to destruction and death. You are privileged to meet and worship the Lord in undisturbed tranquility; we meet under unfavorable circumstances, some of our branches having been disorganized and many of our meetings suspended. Your prayers and songs of praise ascend in sweet cadence and joyous strains to the ears of the God of Sabaoth; ours too, have been heard and answered. The word of the Lord falls upon your ears as a benediction from the lips of inspired men whose hearts are very near the Lord, while the elders are being rapidly withdrawn from us and we feel keenly their absence. You dwell in beautiful homes among the pure in heart, while we are surrounded by Babylon. You inhabit the hills and valleys of Zion, and through the favor of God and the blessings of industry the earth yields in her abundance and strength; in Europe the hills and valleys are torn and furrowed by trench and shell, and have become graveyards and fields of slaughter, and the otherwise fruitful ground is soaked in blood and glutted with the bodies of men. Your children ''grow up like calves of the stall," fed by the choicest inspiration of heaven and through your sons have the people of many nations been blessed; our children are surrounded by fearful temptations, and they face unpromising prospects — some are already orphaned and some are denied the presence and protection of fathers and older brothers, and the minds of others are full of dread of the future.  
  
Nevertheless, we rejoice with you in all the blessings of prosperity and peace enjoyed by the body of the Church in Zion. We also are of the "body of Christ, but members in particular," members far removed from the head and trunk, but for all that, none the less a part of the body, and we are deeply interested in the welfare of the whole. We rejoice in the knowledge that, while we may be the "less honorable, and weaker members," yet we are not forgotten by the body which feels after us and is kindly solicitous of our well-being.  
  
In behalf of the Latter-day Saints in the nations of Europe, we thank you, the body of the Saints and each member composing the body, for your considerate remembrance of us in your recent liberal, contributions to assist those of your members in these countries, who, because of wars and contentions, have been reduced to privation and want. The Church has ever been mindful of her children and we who now have another instance of her mercy, extend to you our heartfelt gratitude and humbly acknowledge the open hand of our Father in heaven, whom we love and whom we worship in the name of Jesus Christ, His Son and our Redeemer. As it has been clearly shown that we have need of you, so do we pray that we may have power, through faith in God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, to remain true to the Gospel we have received, and seek to work righteousness in the earth that you may also ever feel that you have need of us.  
  
In all our tribulations we rejoice in the knowledge and testimony of the truth, and count it a favor that we are found worthy to suffer affliction for Christ's sake and the Gospel's. We beseech you, brothers and sisters, pray for us that we may receive faith and strength to endure to the end so that, if not in this life, then in the life to come, we may be saved and found worthy to dwell with you in the Celestial kingdom of our Father in heaven.  
  
In the love of God and the fellowship of Jesus Christ, we salute all the Saints who have covenanted to serve the Most High "and the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you, to the end that He may establish us in holiness toward God, even the Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all His Saints." Amen.  
  
Hyrum M. Smith.  
  
Liverpool, Eng., March 23, 1915.  
  
P. S. — The elders still remaining in these lands are in good health, and only need the cheerful encouragement of their loved ones in Zion in order to remain in good spirits and hope.  
  
Let not the parents, relatives and friends of the missionaries worry and fret, we are in the hands of the Lord and we know, as you must know, that He can take care of us and preserve us while we are here, as well as He could if we were home with you.  
  
H. M. S. 