7
Overflow
04 04 1915
Elder Samuel O. Bennion. 
2
29-31

None

None

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I realize, my brethren and sisters, what it means, in some measure at least, to occupy this position, addressing an audience of Latter-day Saints, many of whom have been reared in the Church, and filled missions abroad; I realize the responsibility that attends the speaker and the audience together, that the Spirit of the Lord may direct the words of the one who addresses them.  
  
I feel very weak in attempting to speak to you this morning, but I have been interested in the remarks that have been made by the speakers at this session of the conference; and though we remain only a few moments longer in this meeting, I trust we may find it possible to commune with each other so that we will all be edified and blessed.  
  
I have been interested in the missionary work for a good long while, and have learned what it means to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. In speaking to the public, either to the Latter-day Saints or those who are not termed Saints, I have found that all men are more or less interested in religion, if you can get men to gather their thoughts for a short time, and concentrate them upon the many gifts and blessings that the Lord has given His children on this earth. I have never met a man in my experience but what wanted to be saved, but desired that, sometime in the future, he might dwell with our Father in heaven. I am reminded always of the words of the Savior when He appeared unto Mary and told her to go and tell her brethren. He told her to touch Him not, for, said He, "I am not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God." All men and women in the earth are children of the same God, and are entitled to His blessings according to their works; and as a result of their works they will be rewarded at some future time. Here where we have grown up, the majority of the people who belong to the Church have, I suppose, been born under the covenant, and have been familiar with the Gospel of Jesus Christ from childhood. They have become acquainted with it through early instruction, beginning in the Primary, then in the Mutual Improvement Association, Sunday School, etc., and many have gone on missions into the world; it seems almost that they were born Latter-day Saints.  
  
I believe that a man's condition here is largely the result of his preexistence, a subject which has been commented upon a little this morning. A person's future will depend largely upon his life here. Today's condition is largely the result of yesterday's actions, and tomorrow will be largely affected by today. If men and women are inclined toward the Lord today, they are pretty apt to be that way tomorrow, and so on. I have learned that it is very profitable for any man to be a possessor of a testimony of the Gospel; to know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; such testimony is a gift of God. T have learned also that repentance is a gift of God, and that men cannot truly repent unless the Lord gives them the spirit of repentance. He gives all men the gift of repentance who draw near unto Him, and desire to forsake evil and choose the good. The same gospel that was given to man in the days of Adam, and in the days of all the holy prophets, is here upon the earth in this dispensation of the fulness of times.  
  
I am inclined to believe that the work of the Lord is nearing an end here, and that His work will not continue many more years. According to the time of the Lord, we are in the last days, and this gospel must be preached diligently. For this purpose, more men and women are sent into the world today than at any other period, and still the cry is for more missionaries. There has never been a time in the history of our missions when there was more need of numerous missionaries than at the present time. Last summer there were four cities in the Central States Mission under the ministration of only one elder and two lady missionaries, all that we could leave with them. They traveled from one city to another every week, encouraging the people who were investigating the gospel. There are some men in this congregation who could go into the mission field, if they made up their mind to do it, and it would be a splendid experience for them, and a blessing to those to whom they ministered. I want to tell you that no man ever acquired a thorough knowledge of anything except by experience. He never truly acquires a knowledge of the advantages of money only as he has to toil in earning it. Property that comes to a man through inheritance is seldom properly appreciated by him; in a majority of cases they lose it in a short time. Experience in the mission field, at home and abroad, is the best kind of training, the thing that fastens the gospel in the minds of the missionaries till they are able to hold fast and walk by the light of it. Preaching the gospel wherever permitted and practically living it, is a sure method of attaining success.  
  
The Lord has said, in the 58th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that "men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." And so, my brethren and sisters, the power is in you and me, given by our Eternal Father, to every one of His sons and daughters, that they may be prepared to work in the ministry of the Lord Jesus, at home and abroad. We can plan for a future experience in the mission field, a short or a long one, according to our desires. My brethren and sisters, it has been my desire to impress upon this body of men and women that missionaries are needed, men of experience. I want to say to you that I have never seen anyone come into the mission field yet but what there is a place for him, and there have been people somewhere who would listen to him. But we need older men than formerly. The time has arrived, I firmly believe, when men who have already had an experience in the mission field are most needed. Experience keeps men alive, fresh and able; decay results if we get into ruts, drift into easy paths, or become inactive. I believe that the Lord desires that the Priesthood in this Church should, every one of them, be at work, at home or abroad; and I believe that all who are able to act as missionaries will be called. Joseph Smith said that every man who was called into the ministry in the world was ordained unto that calling before the world was. If that be the case, they undoubtedly understood the gospel of Jesus Christ in the pre-existent state. My brethren and sisters, in order to obtain the blessings that have been pronounced upon the elders of Israel, those who are called will have to use the free agency that God gave unto them and exercise the power of their Priesthood in fulfilling the requirement that has been made of them. The Lord has said that "many are called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world." Men engage in business, and lose sight of the greater blessings and privileges, and the purpose for which they came into the earth.  
  
My brethren and sisters, time will not permit me to speak longer. I enjoy knowing that I am a Latter-day Saint. I value my membership in this Church as the greatest possession that has ever come to me. I rejoice in the knowledge that the Lord lives, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that this people called Latter-day Saints are His people. I know that those who go down into the waters of baptism will be accepted of Him. I know that Joseph Smith received the revelations of the Lord which he said he did, and that he received a visitation of the Father and the Son, and messengers from the heavenly world.  
  
I humbly pray that the blessings of the Lord will continue with us each day while we live upon the earth, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
