Afternoon
05 10 1908


ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Blessings received only by obedience to l aw —Observance of Word of Wisdom will increase faith— Obedience to simple laws qualifies for obedience to the higher. — Saloons closing in towns where Saints predominate. — Uplift mankind — make this land Zion. 

While I stand here this afternoon 

1 very much desire that the Lord will give me His Spirit, that the words I utter may be His words, for of myself I have nothing that I wish to say, I realize that the time is valuable, therefore I pray that the Lord will bless me that something may be brought forth that will be profitable to this vast congregation. 

I rejoice that the President has been inspired to call our attention  section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and to emphasize the importance of it to the Latter-day Saints. We are living in a da) when the Lord has spoken again to His people. We, who are members of the Church, who have complied with the requirements of our Father in Heaven, understand perfectly that God lives and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently serve Him. We understand that He has given certain rules and regulations to govern us in this life, and obedience to His requirements insures us His pleasure, and the blessings promised will follow our obedience; but, if we fail to obey His teachings, if we ignore His wise counsels, then we have no promise from Him, and we are wasting opportunities that will not come to us again. I feel the importance of the Latter-day Saints observing this particular law. I believe that by obedience to it, much more faith may be enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints. We read in the teachings of Mormon that if there were not miracles wrought among that people it was because they did not have faith; and he told therri, 'further, that without faith, "awful was the state of man." If we violate the known will of the Lord it is natural that our faith will wane, for the Spirit will not always strive, with us. 

There is no blessing that the Latter-day Saints need that they may not enjoy. Our Father has established His work in this day: there is communication between the heavens and the earth, and the inspiration of the Lord flows to His servants who are living righteous lives and complying with His requirements. There is no glorious thing, that man can rightly desire that we may not enjoy within the folds of the Kigdom of our Lord; but if, as a people, when commandments have been given to us, by Him, and we fail to observe them, then the promise is not to us, but it will be realized by those who are obedient. 

We are living upon what is commonly designated by us as the Land of Zion. These great continents of North and South America, have been so named. Millions of God's children reside upon this favored land, and He has said that it shall be blessed as long as the inhabitants thereof keep His commandments and obey His laws; one of which is the Word of Wisdom. In our day the Gospel has been given — not that a few people might be magnified, but that the blessings ot our Father might be enjoyed by all His children, for He desires the salvation of each and every soul that has been born into the world. Unto you, my brethren and sisters, has come a knowledge that God lives. All doubt has passed from you, if you have complied with His requirements. You no longer feel, as some of our brethren and sisters of other faiths say, that you "hope" God lives, that you "hope" there will be eternal life for us. If you have done His will, if you have had faith, if you have repented of your sins, if you have been baptized by proper authority, by immersion, for the remission of those sins, and received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, then do you know that God lives, that Jesus Christ was the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of our Father of establishing' this latterdav dispensation. With that knowledge in our hearts — which many of our brethren and sisters have not yet received — can we be recreant? 

As the sons of God, bearing the Priesthood, can we neglect the invaluable opportunities that are placed within our reach? Can we shut our eyes to the glorious privileges that are unfolded to us by our Father in Heaven? Will we fail in keeping this simple commandment, a commandment that He has said is adapted to the capacity of the weak, or the weakest of all who are or can be called saints? I firmly believe that by reason of neglect of this simple requirement, faith has diminished in the hearts of some of our people. That, by a more general observance of the Word of Wisdom, faith will be increased among the Latter-day Saints, and greater knowledge will flow to us as a result; for, by obedience to it, there will come a disposition to obey other laws of our Father, and compliance with each' insures a blessing. If this law, that is adapted to the capacity of the weakest of us, is obeyed, it will be a foundation upon which may be added many great blesings that our Father will be pleased to bestow, that otherwise we would not be entitled . to and could not receive. How can any of us feel justified in ignoring a simple law of God that He, by His own voice, has said any of us can obey? Can we expect to be able to keep a higher law. and be able to attain great exaltation, if we fail to keep this simple requirement? 

I rejoice in being able to say that, as I travel among the people, I find a disposition to keep that counsel, given for our temporal salvation. Brother Anthony Ivins and I recently visited the Saint George Stake of Zion; it was the last visited, and for that reason I specially mention it. The president of that stake (comprising 22 wards) arose  conference and announced to the people that he and his counselors, the members of the high council, and the bishops with their counselors all kept the Word of Wisdom, with the exception of two men. it so happened that, during our visit, we met the two men referred to. We explained to them the position they occupied, that, as leaders among the people, they were unable to teach the Word of Wisdom because they were not themselves keeping it. In humility, and in a spirit of obedience to the desire of our Father they said : "We will make it unanimous, so far as this stake of Zion is concerned; God being our helper we will put from us those things that He has forbidden." If the stake presidency, high council and bishoprics of any stake will keep the Word of Wisdom, and set their own houses in order, they will exert a powerful influence for good, that will be felt in the remotest parts of their field. 

Referring to the liquor saloon. Saint George has had a saloon, up to a few months ago, but the citizens concluded that it was too expensive a luxury for that community. They decided that the morals and lives of their sons were worth more than the license money thai would flow to the city treasury, and the place was closed up. Since that time drunkenness in that city has. practically become a thing of the past, even to such an extent that during their County Fair, which was held prior to the Stake Conference, I was informed by one who was an officer there, that, in the multitude gathered, only two men were seen who gave any evidence that they were under the influence of liquor. The peace and order of the citv has been wonderfully improved; and men and women who  there feel to thank their Father in Heaven, day by day, that they had wisdom and power sufficient to put away the thing that had been such a detriment to them. 

I take it for granted that all of us who voted to sustain the advice and counsel of our President, understood what we were doing. That it did not mean only that we an. willing somebody else should do the work. My understanding of the obligation we assumed was that here,in the presence of our Heavenly Father, we agreed that all the influence we can exert will be used, on the right hand and upon the left, day and night, if need be, to purify the moral condition, and pre~ pare the way for a more wholesome condition among the citizens of this great land. We are not depriving man or woman of any blessing, when we withhold from them that which dethrones their reason and debases their lives. Brethren and sisters, the sisters particularly — God has blest you with power and influence, as he has blest we men; you have the franchise and should exercise it; and in love and kindness you should work for the uplifting of all; in doing this there will flow to you joy and peace, by reason of the results that will follow your efforts. 

This grand State of Utah ought not to be one of the last to stand for temperance, it ought to have been first, by reason of the revelation of our Father that has been given to the Latter-day Saints. If this body of men and women will keep the covenant that they made yesterday, it will be only a question of a little time until, from one end of this state to the other, temperance will abound, and there will be a change that shall conduce to the blessing of every man and woman that lives in our midst. I rejoice that these things have been taught to us in this conference. My soul is atune to the word that has gone forth; and as I looked into the faces of men and women in the congregation yesterday, I realized that they, too, felt as I did, that it was a step in the right direction. 

This is the land of Zion, blessed above all other lands. Our Father has placed with the people the power to make it the grandest of all nations upon the earth. He has helped to make it such, for verily I believe, today, no other nation under heaven is equal, in privileges, to the nation in which we live. God grant that we may not side-step. Ithat we may not back-step, but that, day by day, with our faces turned toward righteousness, we may go steadily onward, serving the Lord, keeping His commandments, and fulfilling the requirements that He has made of us. This is our Father's work. The land  hat we live in is blest above all other lands; God has decreed it — only so far, however, as the people upon it are righteous. He has given us the Gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation. It has been taught to us in plainness; He has given us power to keep its laws; He has given us tihe privilege of proclaiming them; He has broken down the barriers wherever the Gosoel has been proclaimed. Here in Zion, with hearts filled with joy and gratitude for the blessings we receive let us evidence, by our lives, that we do know that Jehovah is at fife head, that this is not the work of any man, but that it is the work of our Father. 

Mav the Lord strengthen us for our labor : may He au^lifv us for our ministry : Mav He give us strength to keep His commandments  by day; and may we seek to apply in our lives the glorious principles He has revealed, that by and by, from this portion of His vineyard, may radiate peace and righteousness, that others observing our good works, may be constrained to glorfy our Father in Heaven. May the Lord continue His blessings upon us; may those who have assembled here take to their homes the influence of this blessed occasion; and, day by day, may we consecrate our lives for the blessing and the benefit and the uplifting of our fellow-men, using the intelligence with which God has blest us to overcome evil and plant, in the place thereof, righteousness and truth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Temporal and spiritual welfare enhanced, by observing Word of Wisdom.— Love to do God's will should be the incentive to obedience.— The Savior's great example of loving obedience. — Splendid record in some wards and stakes. 

The spirit of this conference, as nearly as I am able to judge, is to create a sentiment among this people in favor of yielding more implicit obedience unto the word of the Lord; as pertains to the keeping of the Word of Wisdom'. I do firmly believe that it will be fitting for men and women holding leading positions in this church, to carry from this conference to their homes, in the stakes and wards of Zion and in the mission field, this sentiment, and that they should advocate it, and teach it to those under them — the ward teachers, the officers of the various quorums of Priesthood, and auxiliary organizations. The offi of the Church must see to it that they themselves observe this important Word of Wisdom, and then teach those over whom they preside to do likewise. They must follow this counsel up closely until they see the fruits of their labors. 

I am reminded that a few years ago, when the Church authorities discovered that the Church was greatly involved in debt, and they could see no opening, apparently, bv which they would soon be able to meet the obligations and liquidate the indebtedness, inspiration came to the President of the Church, and he saw that if the Latter-day Saints would pay their tithes there would be an abundance of means, in the storehouse of the Lord, with which to pay the debts and meet the current expenses of the Church. Therefore, a sentiment was created, and a wave passed over the people, a resolute determination that they would do their part well and faithfully in the payment of their tithing, and the results were most gratifying. 

I am reminded, now, that since we received the word first in this conference from the President of the Church, the mouthpiece of the Lord unto us, all the servants of the Lord who have addressed us, or nearly all of them, have been inspired to speak upon the same subject. I do feel that we should put forth an effort, greater than we have ever done before, to make obedience to the Word of Wisdom universal among us. If there are some who will complain that too much time of this conference has been given to a consideration of the Word of Wisdom, I will answer that no faithful Latter-day Saint, who has himself been yielding obedience to this requirement of the 

Lord, will make such complaint. Any person who speaks thus you may justly suspicion as not having observed this important revelation of the Lord. There are many reasons which might be assigned why we ought to observe to keep the Word of Wisdom', reasons which are common to those in and out of the Church. As a matter of individual economy we ought to observe it. As a matter of national economy all men and women ought to observe it; also that the evil effects of the use of these things which are forbidden may be obviated among the people. The evil effects of these forbidden things, on the system of the individual, ought to remind him. if he will stop to consider, that it is profitable for him to yield obedience unto this requirement, whether he is in the Church or out of it. 

Above and beyond all these reasons, and any others which 1 can think of, is that whicn appeals to the Latter-day Saints — that our Father in heaven has expressed it as His will that we do observe these laws. I would call your attention to a part of the second paragraph in the 89th section, which reads as follows, referring to this revelation; it "was given by revelation, and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days." We have accepted Joseph Smith as the prophet, seer, and revelator of this last dispensation, and in doing so we accept these revelations as being the word of the Lord to us. Here the Lord expresses His will, in very plain terms, that this revelation is given "showing forth the order and will of God.' If for no other reason, this should be sufficient for any consistent Latter-day Saint to induce him' to yield implicit obedience unto this word. I can think of no gospel subject that will apply directly to more people among us as Latter-day Saints than this Word of Wisdom, unless it may be the principle of obedience, which includes yielding obedience unto this word; or repentance, which also includes turning away from these things which are forbidden, and obeying the will of the Lord. In our onward march towards perfection we will not leave the first principles of the Gospel of the Master, but will continue to observe them. In the Church, we, the teachers, are placed for the express purpose of bringing the people up to a knowledge of the Son of God, showing them the way unto perfection. I desire to say here that we never can reach perfection until we yield obedience unto this simple word of the Lord. We are required to do the will of God, at any sacrifice. I have in mind the word of the Lord upon this subject, contained in the revelations : "Let no man be afraid to lay down his life for my sake; for whoso layeth down his life for my sake, shall find it again, and whoso is not willing to lay down his life for my sake is not my disciple." We are not asked now, my brethren and sisters, to lay down our lives to show our obedience to the Lord, and our worthiness to be His disciples, but we are asked by the Lord to abstain from the use of strong drinks and tobacco, in every form, also to abstain from the use of meats to excess. This is a simple requirement. How can we hope to have faith to lay down our lives, how can we claim to be willing to do so, while our lives and actions, every day, show to our neighbors and to the Lord that we are not willing to rid ourselves of the use of strong drink  tobacco- — those things which are forbidden of the Lord? Let us be consistent with ourselves and our professions of faith. 

I am reminded of the great warfare that was carried on in heaven, while we existed in the spirit, of which we read in the revelations of John, given upon the Isle of Patmos, and more clearly explained in the revelations of the Lord to Moses, as found in the Pearl of Great Price. The account states that, when Lucifer rebelled against the Father and drew away a third of heaven's hosts, that great general, the First Born of God our Father, in the spirit and Who was the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, stepped forward and, in contradistinction to the demands made by Lucifer, that God our Father should give to Him His honor, which means His glory and His power and authority, the First Born said: "Father, Thy will be done, and the glory be Thine forever." That is the true spirit of the Gospel, the spirit that every Latter-day Saint ought to possess, no matter what the requirement may be. Do you not think that Jesus, when He made that declaration, had some conception of the requirements that would be made upon Him? I think so. We are told expressly, in the scripture, that He was the Lamb slain from before the foundation of the world; and I believe that when He made that remark to the Father, He did not intend it to apply merely to the warfare in which they engaged in the spiritual existence., but that it was to continue in all His work pertaining to the salvation and eternal life of the children of men, which involved His mortal existence here upon the earth. As you will observe in the reading of the scrip, that spirit characterized, more than anything else, the life and labors, the testimony and teachings of our Savior. In the midst of His direct sorrow and suffering, when He endured such agony that it is said of Him that He sweat, as it were, great drops of blood — in the midst of it all He said, "Oh, Father, if it be Thy will, let this cup pass, but Thy will, and not mine, be done." That is the spirit. When Adam was cast out of the garden of Eden, as we read in the revelations of the Lord to Moses, found in the Pearl of Great Price, he was commanded to build an altar and make offerings to the Lord, the firstlings of his flock, those that were without blemish, and he did as he was required. After a time, an angel appeared to Adam and said : "Adam, why do you do this thing?" Adam' answered, "I know not, save God has commanded me." That should be a sufficient reason for obeying every commandment that our Father has given unto us. It ought only to be necessary that it be known by us that the Father wills it so, to incite us to go straightway and perform our duties, and live by the law; we have his promise that He will help us. How was it with Abraham, when he was called upon to offer his son Isaac, in whom he had hope of a numerous posterity of honorable men and women ? The Lord required that he take his son three days' journey into the mountain, and upon a place which should be indicated to him he was to slay his son, offer him as an offering to the Lord. All his hopes would thereby be blighted, yet we have no account that Abraham said to the Father : Why am I required to do this ? I warrant you that Abraham made no such argument with the Lord, nor did he  with Him to know the whys and wherefores; but he went and offered his son, virtually offered him, and it was accepted of the Lord. It was sufficient for Abraham to know that God had commanded it; and why should not the same be sufficient for us? If we are consistent, anything that the Lord expresses to us as His will, whether it be by written revelation or through the mouths of His servants in whom we have confidence, and whom we sustain, when we know what the will of the Lord is, and we fail to do it, with all our mind, might, and strength, we are under condemnation before the Lord, and are not acting according to the light He has given us. 

I am very thankful for the knowledge I have of the faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints generally, in yielding obedience to this word of the Lord. In one stake of Zion it was reported to me, by the president of the stake, that every officer in all the organizations and wards of the stake, observed to keep the Word of Wisdom, except a very few who had given him their word that they would observe it in the future. I have found, as I remember now, a stake president of primary associations, in one of our stakes here on the east, in reporting her organization, made the statement that out of ninety officers engaged in primary work in the stake, including the ward officers, eighty-nine of them were strictly observing the Word of Wisdom. I remember, too, the report made by a superintendent of the Young Men's associations in one of our stakes, in wjjich he made the statement that all the Mutual Improvement officers in the wards and stake, excepting two, were observing that law. We often hear such reports, during our travels among the people. There are thousands to whom this word does not come as a reproof, yet there are too many, by far, who have disregarded this word of the Lord. It is time, my brethren and sisters, that we begin to comply with these smaller things, things that are most easily complied with, that we may prepare and school ourselves for the greater requirements that may be made upon us in this Church. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful in this and in all things in the keeping of His commandments, that we rmy receive the promised bless ing of eternal life, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

A baritone solo, "Oh, rest in the Lord," was sung by Elder Charles E. Pike. 

ELDER ORSON E. WHITNEY. 

The Lord's Work Progressive. — The Latter-day Saints in Sympathy with Every Good Cause. — Dr. Henry Van Dyke on the Question of Human Betterment. — The World Growing More Just and More Kind, but Lacking in Self-restraint. — God Cannot Fail. — Good Will Triumph Over Evil, and the World Will Attain Perfection. 

I hope that my voice, which is somewhat disabled by a cold, will permit me to speak what is in my heart. 

It is about two thousand years, according to our accepted chronology, since the Lord Jesus Christ died on Calvary, since He commissioned twelve apostles and other seventy and sent them' forth to preach the Gospel to every creature. It is over one hundred years since the Prophet Joseph Smith came into the world to restore the Gospel, from which the world had departed. 

It is seventy-eight years since the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was organi^d, and Mormonism — so-called — has been preached among the nations during that time. 

The question uppermost in my mind today is this : Has the world been benefited by what the Lord has done ? Is it growing better or worse as a result of the efforts put forth by the God of Heaven for the salvation of mankind? I think there can be but one answer to such a question. I am a believer in the progress of the human race. I believe that the world, in spite of its wickedness, its opposition to the truth, and its hatred of the people and the cause of God, is six thousand years nearer to perfection than when Adam fell from the Garden of Eden. I believe that this Church, in spite of its derelictions, its disobedience to some of the requirements of the Gospel, its neglect of some of the principles revealed from heaven for the perfecting of the Saints and for the salvation of all people — I believe that this Church, in spite of its errors of omission and commission, is in a better condition today than it has ever been. I cannot consistently take any other view, and yet I know that there is great room for improvement. The present condition, however superior to the conditions of the past, furnishes no argument to justify stagnation and stand-still. 

The Apostle Paul exhorted the Church in his day to be progressive. In his epistle to the Hebrews he says : "Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on to perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, of the dodrine of bap, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment." Paul, of course, did not mean that any principle of the gospel should be abandoned or put upon the shelf. There never will come a time when faith will not be essential to salvation. It is one of the greatest of principles, and although it comes first, it is no small or trivial thing. There never will come a time when repentance will not be necessary, so long as men sin and depart from God. The Apostle did not mean that the Church, in its progress to perfection, should leave these principles behind, as having no further use for them; though that construction might be put upon his words, if the letter be taken without the spirit. Hence the Prophet Joseph Smith, in revising the scriptures, saw proper to insert the word "not" in that very injunction of the Apostle Paul, making it read : "Therefore, not leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on to perfection." It was a plea for progress, but not a license to lay aside as a thing that had outlived its usefulness, any principle of salvation. 

The work of the Lord is always progressive. There has been progress in the world from the beginning; not in every part, not in every particular, but in the general trend of human affairs as manipulated by Divinity. God has not been thwarted in the work that He set out to perform — the redemption and eventual perfection of the world that He created. The lives and labors of the patriarchs, from Adam to Abraham; of the prophets, from Moses to Christ; and of all good men and women who have figured in history before and since that time — these have not been in vain. Noah's mis did not fail, though the antediluvian world went down to death for rejecting his testimony. Through Noah the truth was perpetuated and the earth repeopled after the flood. I cannot conceive that the Son of God could die to lift up fallen humanity and nothing but degeneracy and degradation result. I cannot conceive that a man like Joseph Smith could live, or that such a religion as "Mormonism" could be preached in the world for upwards of seventy years, and mankind not be benefited thereby. It is perfectly apparent to those who see aright that the doctrines taught by Joseph Smith have permeated society, have modified the religious creeds of men, and are acting as a leaven upon the world at large. 

I was once conversing with a Christian minister, who said that he did not understand the position taken by the Latter-day Saints toward the good works that were being done by other religious organizations and by philanthropic and progressive agencies in general. "You have an article of faith," said he, "which commits you to the admiration of and search after every thing that is virtuous and praiseworthy." The article referred to is as follows : "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul; we believe all things, we hope all things; we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." Said this gentleman, "That being one of your articles of faith, I cannot understand why you take no account of the good that is being done outside of your own community. Here we are, retranslating the scriptures, endeavoring to make them more perfect, more accurate, and you take no interest in it. We are uncovering buried cities and civilizations, deciphering ancient monuments and manuscripts, and you account it of little or no worth. We are founding hospitals and reformatories, sending missionaries to the ends of the earth, establishing missions and charities, pleading for justice, kindness, peace and progress — and you take no stock in what we are dotag." 

I answered that he was very much in error in his supposition. And I think that the gentleman would have modified his opinion had he been present here yesterday when President Joseph F. Smith, during his splendid discourse upon the Word of Wisdom, gave a most hearty endorsement to the great temperance movement that is rolling like a mighty billow over the land; when Heber J. Grant, one of the apostles of the Church, presented a resolution, which was unanimously and enthusiastically adopted, pledging this great people to an effort to secure legislation for the closing of saloons and the discouragement of the liquor traffic; when the president of the apostles, Elder Francis M. Lyman, feelingly commended the good work that is being done by enterprising and benevolent men in all countries. Had my ministerial friend been present this morning, he would have heard another apostle, John Henry Smith, fresh from the National Irrigation Congress at Albuquerque, New Mexico, utter similar sentiments, reminding us that we are one in sympathy and friendship with all agencies that have as their object  betterment of mankind, whether in the redemption of these arid wastes, the success of the great temperance cause, the safeguarding of morality, or the correction of evil in any form. The gentleman would have found that the Latter-day Saints stand by their articles of faith, and that Mormonism befriends every good cause, every high enterprise started by any people in any part of the world. And why not? Many of these movements are the fruits of the preaching of "Mormonism" among the nations, while others are the fruits of Christianity, w 7 hich, in its purity, from our point of view, was only the "Mormonism" of an earlier day. 

Let me now present a few paragraphs from an article by a scholarly and learned divine, Dr. Henry Van Dyke, who, in his admirable essay, "Is the World Growing Better ?" says : 

"No man knows of a certainty the answer to this question. If it were an inquiry into the condition of the world's pocket book, or farm, or garden, or machine-house, or library, or school-room, the answer would be easy. Six million more spindles whirling in the world's workshop in 1903 than in 1900; eight hundred million more bushels of wheat in the world's grain-fields than in 1897 : an average school attendance gaining 145 per cent, between 1840 and 1888, while the population of Europe increased only 33 per cent. So the figures run in every department. No doubt the world is busier, richer, better fed, and probably it knows more than ever before. * * * But is it growing better? That is another question, and a far more important one * * * I asked John Friendly, the other day, 'Do you think the world is growing better? 'Certainly,' said he, with a smile like sunrise on his honest face, 'I haven't the slightest doubt of it.' But what makes you so sure of it? 'Why, it must be so! Look at all the work that is being done today to educate people and help them into better  of living. All this effort must count for something. The wagon must move with so many horses pulling at it. The world can't help growing better!" 

Then he left me to go down to a meeting of his 'Citizens' Committee for the Application of the Social Boycott to Political Offenders' (which frequently adjourns without a quorum). Immediately afterwards, I passed the door of the 'Michael T. Moriarty Republicratic Club' — wide open and crowded. On my way up the avenue I saw a liquor saloon on every block — and all busy. The news-stands were full of placards announcing articles in the magazines —  "Graft in Chicago," "The Criminal Calendar of Millionaires," "St. Louis, the Bribers' Paradise," "The Plunder of Philadelphia." Headlines in the yellow journals told of "Immense Slaughter in Manchuria," "Russia Ripe for Revolution," "The Black Hand Terror in the Bronx," "Gilded Gambling Dens of the Four Hundred," "Diamonds and Divorce." 

"John Friendly's cheerful a priori confidence in the betterment of the world seemed to need reinforcement. Some of the horses are pulling his way, no doubt, but a good many appear to be pulling the other way. Under such conditions the wagon might stick fast or go backward; possibly it might be pulled to pieces. Who can measure, in the abstract, the comparative strength of the good and evil forces? Who can tell, beforehand, which way the tug of war will go ?" 

Dr. Van Dyke then goes on to show that there are three main points of goodness — justice, kindness, and self-restraint. A man is said to be growing better when he is becoming more just, and careful to do the right thing; more kind, and ready to do the helpful thing; more self-controlled, and willing to sacrifice his personal will to the general welfare. The doctor declares his belief that the modern world, in two of these important directions, manifests a great improvement over the ancient world. He reminds us that in order to arrive at anything approaching a correct con in the premises, we must be willing to take a long view and a wide view. "What we have to look at is not the local exception, nor the temporary reaction, but the broad field as far as we can see it, the general movement as far as we can trace it;" and taking that view, it seems to him that the world is really growing better; "not in every eddy, but in the main current of its life; not in a straight line, but with a winding course; not in every respect, but in at least two of the three main points of goodness." 

To illustrate the growth of justice, he cites the fact that in Shakespeare's time a woman was looked upon as a mere piece of property. She belonged to her husband; he could beat her with impunity; he could deprive her of the guardianship of her children; the very presents that he gave her were still his property, for she could hold nothing in her own right. But all that has been changed; woman today is a person in the light of the law; she can hold property for herself, and can share equally with her husband in the guardianship of her children. The wife-beater is now punished as a criminal. "Surely," says our author, "it is an immense gain in justice that woman should be treated as a human being." He holds that not only is woman rising among those nations that lead the march of civilization, but that even in Mohammedan and in heathen countries her cause is gaining ground. 

In the same way he interprets the laws that protect the young against cruelty, oppression, and injustice, citing the Factory Act of 1833 and the Mines and Collieries Act of 1842 in England as examples of a steadily-increasing effort since that time to diminish and prevent the degradation of the race by the enslavement of childhood to labor. Moreover, it is now regarded as unjust to deal with young delinquents as if they were old and hardened criminals. "No more herding of children ten and twelve years old in the common jail! Juvenile courts and probation officers, asylums and reformatories; an intelligent and systematic effort to reclaim the young life before it has fallen into hopeless bondage to crime; this is the spirit of the civilized legislation of today. In 1903 no less than ten of the American states enacted special statutes with this end in view." 

The abolition of ancient and medieval methods of judicial torture — such as the rack and the thumbscrew — and the abandonment of brutal and degrading methods of execution are also mentioned : Criminals are no longer impaled, crucified, disemboweled, or buried alive; and capital punishment, which was formerly inflicted for stealing and for forgery, is now confined to the two great crimes of murder and treason. Some things that were once punishable are no longer prosecuted, such as heresy, witchcraft, religious nonconformity; and, on the other hand, new offenses have been created that were formerly ignored, such as the adulteration of foods, gambling, the violation of laws in restraint of the liquor traffic, selling cigarettes to children, tapping electric wires, disfiguring the landscape with advertisements or printing them on the American flag, making combinations in restraint of trade, sleeping in a public bakery, spitting on the floor of a street-car. "A large part of what appears to be the increase of crime in recent years (according to statistics), is due to this new definition of misdemeanors. * * * 

Another part comes from the greater efficiency in the execution of the laws and the greater completeness in the tabulation of reports. * * * Pike's History of Crime in England estimates that in the fourteenth century murders were at least sixteen times as frequent as in our own day." 

The learned doctor also refers to the abolition of the slave trade, the establishment of international law, the granting of copyrights to foreign authors, and the purchase, by the United States government, of the lands owned by the Spanish friars in the Philippines, instead of the confiscation of those lands, which would have been the rule a hundred years ago. These and other acts are cited as evidences that the spirit of justice is growing among men and nations. 

In regard to the increase of kindness in the human race, he thinks that the evidence is even more clear and strong. "There are more people in the world who love mercy, and they are having better success in making their spirit prevail. More is being done today to prevent and mitigate human suffering, to shelter and protect the weak and helpless, to minister wisely to the sick and wounded in body and in mind, than ever before in the history of mankind." The work begun by John Howard a hundred and thirty years ago, which has done so much to cleanse away the shame of a cruel, filthy and irrational prison system, is given prominent mention. Our author affirms that since the middle of the nineteenth century charity has grown twice as fast as wealth in England, and three times as fast in France. In the United States the amount of the larger gifts ($5,000 or more) rose from $29,000,000 in 1893 to $107,000,000 in 1901. And "with all this increase of money comes an equal increase of care and thought in regard to the best way of using it for the real benefit of mankind. Reckless almsgiving is recognized as an amiable but idiotic form of self-indulgence. The penny dropped into the beggar's hat gives place to an inquiry into the beggar's condition. * * * * * * * * Schools of philanthropy are established to study and teach the economy of generosity. Asylums are investigated and supervised. Relief funds are intrusted to responsible committees, who keep books and render accounts." 

Upon the broad theme of international mercy, the doctor states that since the days of Abraham there have been three hundred and fifty great famines in various parts of the world, but, he asks, who ever heard, before the nineteenth century began, of any of the hungry nations receiving help from the outside? "Now, within a week after the distress is known, money, food, and help of all kinds begin to flow in from all quarters of the globe." The Hague tribunal is referred to as an effort to get rid of the hell of war, or at least to mitigate its horrors and torments, and comparison is made between modern and ancient methods of conducting war. "Let any man," he says, "read the story of the siege and sack of a town in Holland by the Spanish soldiers, as it is given in Motley's 'Dutch Republic,' and compare it with the story of the capture of Paris in 1870, or even the taking of Pekin in 1900, and he will understand that war itself has felt the restraining touch of mercy." "Not one of the great nations of  world today would dare to proclaim a war in the name of Religion." 

Our author then comes to the third factor of real betterment — self restraint. In justice and kindness, the world, he believes, is becoming better, but in the matter of self restraint, the willingness to sacrifice one's own passion and pleasure for the good of others, he says : 

"Here, I confess, my guessing is confused and troubled. There was a vast improvement from the fourteenth to the nineteenth century, but whether the twentieth century is carrying on the advance seems uncertain. * * * The theory of individual liberty threatens to assert itself in dangerous forms. Literature and art are throwing their enchantments around the old lie that life's highest value is found in moments of intense self-gratification. Speed is glorified regardless of direction; strength is worshiped at the expense of reason. Success is deified as the power to do what one likes. Gilding covers a multitude of sins. On the one hand, we have a so-called 'upper class' which says : the world was made to amuse me; nothing else matters. On the other hand we have an apparent increase of the criminal class, which lives at war with the social order. Corporations and labor unions engage in a struggle so fierce that the rights and interests of the community are forgotten by both parties. In our own country, lynching— which is organized murder for unproved offenses — grows more common. Divorces increase to 60,000 in one year; and there is an epidemic of shocking accidents and disasters, greater than any hitherto recorded, and due, apparently, to the spirit of unrestraint and recklessness which is sweeping furiously in its motor car along the highways of modern life. 

"Is this selfish and headlong spirit growing? Will it continue to accelerate the pace at which men live, and diminish the control by which they are guided ? Will it weaken more and more the bonds of reverence and mutual consideration and household fidelity and civic virtue, until the states which have been civilized by the sanctions of love and the convictions of duty are whirled backward by the passion of self-indulgence into the barbarism of luxurious pleasure or the anarchy of social strife?" 

He concludes that it is neither brave nor wise to give these troublesome questions an answer of despair. Two are stronger than one, and if the world has grown more just and more kind, we can reasonably trust that in the long run it will improve in the matter of selfrestraint, and the selfish, reckless spirit will be overcome. 

This seems to me a very intelligent and comprehensive view. I thought of it while President Smith was speaking yesterday, when he declared that his motive for presenting the Word of Wisdom was the fact that it was more neglected than any other revelation which God had given to this people. Right in line, you see, with the argument of this learned man, that in the matter of self-restraint there is a laxity, even among those who are otherwise just and kind — not just, not kind to themselves, however. And in this spirit of self-indulgence, this unwillingness to curb and control the passions, there lurks a danger that threatens the disruption of society. It behooves every good man and every good woman to stand in a solid phalanx against any tendency that imperils the happiness of the human race and nullifies in any degree, the good that is being done in the interests of temperance, virtue and philanthropy. 

One more thought and I will conclude. I wish to recur to a question propounded by Dr. Van Dyke in the fore part of his interesting essay : "Who can measure, in the abstract, the comparative strength of the good and evil forces? Who can , beforehand, which way the tug of war must go?" 

I can, and you can; every soul illumined by the Holy Ghost can tell what will be the inevitable outcome. If God and Satan are pulling against each other, what will happen must be plain to every reverent, thoughtful mind. The issue is not in doubt. God will not be mocked; Omnipotence will not be defeated. While He allows the agency of man and the agency of Satan their full play, never at any time has He given to man or to Satan the power to destroy His work or prevent the fulfillment of His predestined purpose. Strength will prevail over weakness. Truth will triumph over error. No matter what trials and persecutions the cause of Christ may have to undergo before its victory is assured, the final outcome will be glorious. Christ will complete His work; the righteous will be saved; the wicked, damned; and the world will attain perfection. 

"Truth forever on the scaffold; Wrong forever on the throne; Yet that scaffold sways the future, And behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, Keeping watch above His own." 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Gratifying evidences of faith of the Saints. — Blessings invoked on those devoted to God's work. 

We feel to give to God praise and gratitude from our hearts for the manifest interest shown by you, the Latter-day Saints, the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in this semi-annual . During the inclement weather of yesterday this building was filled to overflowing, and overflow meetings were held in the Assembly Hall and in the Barrattt Hall, and the Spirit of the Lord was enjoyed richly by all who heard. We thank you and the Lord will bless you, my brethren and sisters, for your devotion to His cause, for your love for His truth, for your union and fellowship toward those who are called to labor in your midst and to preside over you in the various organizations of the Church. I feel in my heart to say not only God bless you, but as I may exercise my own right as a witness of the Lord Jesus and as an apostle of Jesus Christ, I bless you with all my soul, because you love the truth, and you manifest it. There is nothing in God's world that draws men and women so near to my heart as that they love the truth and that they love God, that they love the cause of Zion and are devoted to the interests of the Church. This endears men and women to my heart; I love them when they love this work and  they show their interest in it. It lifts my soul to heaven and fills it with joy unspeakable. 

God bless you in your bodies, in your minds, in your labors, in your homes, in all your positions and, above all things, pour out upon you His Spirit that you may rejoice more and more abundantly in God's glorious work that He is inaugurating in the world in the latter day. Peace be to you and all that pertains to you and to the kingdom of God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the . earth. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Seymour B. Young. 
