Morning
06 10 1908


ELDER JOHN G. MdTJARRIE. 

(Late President Eastern States Mission.) 

In traveling through this uneven country of ours, whenever we reach any summits in the road, whether they be high or low, we instinctively stop to take our bearings; we want to determine where we are and what progress we have made, and allow our eyes to look as far as possible along the path or road that we are following. There is a striking analogy between such movements and our movements upon this mysterious current we call "time." There are periods in the lives of individuals, also of communities and organizations, when  instinctively stop to take their bearings, and try to determine what course they are taking, which way they are moving, and what progress they have made. 

Only a short time ago, as a people, we were standing upon the summit of a century, reckoning time from the birth of our Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and the organizer of the Church in this last great dispensation. Standing upon that summit, it is probable that no line of history, from the creation to the present, affords such a splendid view or such a grand chain of important events, that stretches from the White Mountains of Vermont to the shores of the Great Salt Lake; also, when we turn to observe the stream of life and truth, and knowledge, that has been flowing in upon us, beaming upon the world, there is nothing in all the history of revelation to compare with it. In no particular period of the world has there been such a rapid increase of knowledge and intelligence and power; and there have been many important events, revelations, manifestations of the presence and power of God which even exceed that of the transfiguration, for in this dispensation, both the Father and the Son appeared to introduce this great "marvelous work and a wonder," with which we have the honor and the privilege of being connected or united. 

I was reading an article written by one of the faculty of the Columbia College, in relation to the teach of theology in the schools. He felt that we really needed and must have some kind of religion, some kind of ethical and moral teaching, but the problem that seemed to confront them was this, not only the wide diversity of opinions between the Jew and the Christian, and between the various sects of Christianity, but the question was whether they had any real underlying principles of theology that they mifht make coherent with the principles of science, and whether they were prepared, at this time, to submit to a careful and thorough analysis the principles of religion, the dogmas that were being taught, and whether they would stand the same critical examination that other principles of truth might stand. In submitting and bringing these in contact with each other, there was the question as to whether it would really develop or shatter the faith of the students whose minds they were trying to instill with a love of God and belief in a divine Creator. When I read this I thought, how grateful we should be, as Latter-day Saints, that we have had revealed unto us principles of truth which are coherent with all other principles of truth, and that thev will readily fit in with any knowledge that may be revealed to us, either from the heavens above or from the earth beneath — anythin^ that we can gain from astronomy or from geology or from any of the other manifestations of God's creation;we may be assured that they will not run counter to the divine ethical and moral truths and principles which He has revealed unto us. 

In a summary published in one of our scientific journals, this statement was made, that perhaps the greatest discovery of the nineteenth century, after summing up all, was  there is no place, space, or condition that is beyond the imperial dominion of law. This is only a rather faint way, or another way, of expressing the information received in a revelation given through Joseph Smith, to the effect that there is no space without a kingdom, and no kingdom without space, no kingdom without law; and that all things were created, controlled and developed in harmony with law; and also that there was a law irrevocably decreed in heaven uoon which every blessing was predicated. If this little bit of information had been understood by the teachers of philosophy and theology, down through the centuries, what a wonderful difference it would have made in the establishment of truth in the world. 

The theory of Darwin, in relation to evolution, has perhaps destroyed the faith of more people than anything else; it seemed to run so directly counter to the interpretation placed upon the Scriptures, by those at least whose business seemed to be to interpret these Scriptures. But a short time before Darwin, and Huxley, and Spencer marshaled their arguments and hurled them against what was then considered to be the battlements of divine truth, we received a revelation, through the Prophet, in relation to the problem and mystery of life. In this revelation the statement Was made that the principle of life was not created but always and eternally existed, like the principles of chemistry and other eternal laws or principles of power. A great French scientist, in an article lately published, said that the Darwin theory was built up without one single example to prove it, that there was not one individual example where one species had really been changed GENERAL CONFERENCE.  another. He concludes his article with a statement like this, that we cannot successfully resist any hypothesis in relation to the origin of living things, but it is only a step in advance to conclude that life in itself existed separate and apart from this earth, and anterior to our world, and, like the principles of chemistry and other things, that it probably always existed. I felt grateful that I might receive, even in my Sunday school teaching, a true knowledge of the origin and purpose of life, without having, perhaps, to reach it through all these difficult and uncertain methods. 

I know that through their theories they have discovered a great many truths, but how much better it would have been if they could have started, at first, from a true hypothesis in relation to this great law, or these rules which have been revealed to us for the preservation, the development and the purification of our carnal tabernacles, these temples which have been created and given to us, which we must cleanse and purify that they may become fit places to be inhabited by the Spirit of God. I say these "rules" that have been given, by which I mean the requirements which have been given to us in what we sum up and call the Word of Wisdom. How we ought to appreciate this law, these rules; and just at this particular time when, practically, the whole professional and scientific world are coming to understand and see the beauty, power, and virtue in these suggestions. How contemptible, as a people, we would be if we failed to glorify them in our actions before we would allow ourselves to be coerced into a kind of obedience to them, through the strong arm of the civil law. It has been my ex and my privilege to recommend a great many of our returned missionaries for positions that they have desired to fill. In applying to the companies that furnish securities, some of the great eastern security companies, they have had to have a reference in relation to their integrity, their character, and their habits. In receiving letters from these security companies, almost invariably the questions have been asked : Are they users of tobacco? Do they indulge in strong drink? Have you ever seen them under the influence of liquor? When young men go to apply for positions, that is, positions of trust or importance, some of our great railroad companies, and other great corporations of the United States and of other nations, these questions are asked, and they look carefully into these things to know whether the young men are users of tobacco, and whether or not they ever indulee in strong drink; and they regard as much stronger and brighter,and more useful, the young men or the young women who have kept themselves free and clean from these things. 

I was remarkably impressed with an incident that happened in the State of New York, at a time when a crime had been committed, when a renegade son of one of our leading families had committed an overt act, which brought down upon us the indignation of the whole population of that great city; and I wondered whether the lynch law would not be administered to us. This occurred on Friday night, and upon Saturday morning all the papers in the city were ablaze with this news, which was extremely sad and disappointing to us; and upon Sunday morning the reporters of practical101  every paper in the city flocked into our meeting, expecting to report something startling and peculiar of the emissaries of this "occult or mysterious religion." Of course, we welcomed them to our meeting and talked pleasantly with them, and we told them we were glad to have our faith, our principles, and our lives advertised to the world. When the account came out next morning, instead of what some of us expected — a fierce arraignment — they said that, to their surprise, instead of meeting a lot of peculiar, long-bearded, mysteriouslooking men, they met a company of voung men who looked like college graduates; and they said, further, "these missionaries have that clear look which indicates clean living." I thought, this is really the way to glorify our Father in Heaven; and if we will observe these laws, and if we will incorporate into our lives these divine principles of truth, we need not fear for our reputation; we will carry upon our faces, upon our countenances, the testimony of our lives, and we will reflect there the glory of our Father in Heaven. To me, it becomes our bounden duty to do these things, especially in view of the great claim's that we make and the sacred name that we bear — that of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. May the Lord help us to do this, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that no one needs the prayers of the people of God more than I do, in  this position, this morning. It has pleased the authorities of the Church, and, I believe, it has pleased my heavenly Father  — because I believe the authorities of the Church act under the inspiration of God — to transfer me from my old field of labor, in the Southern States Mission, to the field recently vacated by Brother McQuarrie, who has just spoken to you. I believe I will find a great deal of happiness, pleasure and satisfaction in doing missionary work in that historic country. I said, in the Assembly Hall yesterday, that to me it is sacred ground, on account of the marvelous things which our Father in heaven has accomplished in that part of our country. I called attention to the fact that it was there the boy prophet went out into the woods and prayed for light and knowledge, and did not call upon the Lord in vain. It was there the angel Moroni appeared to the prophet, and delivered to him the sacred records containing the history, both religious and civil, of one-half of the world. It was there this prophet and his brother, the patriarch, were born. It was there the Church was organized, and where the Lord raised up three men to bear witness unto all the world that they had beheld the plates, had seen the angel, and heard the voice of God bearing record of the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon. It was there that the priesthood of God was restored, and that John the Baptist came and gave authority to lead mankind into the waters of baptism. There, also, Peter, James and John came and restored the holy apostleship. Not only that, but, as I said yesterday, it was in that section of the country that God caused the Government of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  United States to be formed. That was the work of God just as well as the restoration of the Gospel. 

There is no church organized upon the face of the earth today whose members have such religious devotion to the Government of the United States as have the Latter-day Saints, because we believe in the statements I have made. We believe an angel was sent to earth, that he delivered a record unto a young man raised up by the Lord, and gave him the power and authority to translate that record into the English language, which gave to the world the history of prophets who had lived upon the earth centuries ago, and who had been brought by the power of God from the tower of Babel and afterwards from Jerusalem. God had shown to one of their prophets, as he took him up on the top of a high mountain, what would take place in the future; just as the angel of the Lord said to an apostle of Jesus Christ, on the other hemisphere. "Come up hither, John, and I will show you things which must be hereafter." So it was with Nephi, when he was taken up on the mountain, and the visions of the future were opened to him. This book, given to us by the power of God, relates the vision, or an abridgement of the vision that God gave to that prophet. As He parted the curtain of time and permitted him to look into the future, he saw the power of God resting upon Columbus, moving upon him to cross the mighty waters and visit the land upon which were dwelling a remnant of His people. God showed him in vision how others would cross that water, and how, eventually, the Spirit of God would move upon  and cause them to break loose from their mother country. And in that vision it was revealed to the prophet that, in the war between the people who had gathered upon this sacred land, and the people of their mother country, the power of God was with the people here in organizing an independent government upon the land of Zion. We believe, as part of our religion, that the contents of this book came from God, and, therefore, that the organization of the government of the United States was accomplished by the power of God is also a part of the "Mormon" faith, and they cannot be untrue to it. They do more than any other church upon the face of the earth for the United States government; they are making many sacrifices to keep an army of two thousand young men out in all the civilized nations of the earth, trying to convert men of every government upon the earth . to believe in the divinity and sacredriess of the Book of Mormon, and therefore to believe that there is an earthly government upon the face of the earth that God Himself had a hand in organizing. No man is baptized into the "Mormon" church, whether it be in the United States, England, Germany, or any other country, who does not accept as a part of that faith these truths that I have uttered concerning the government of the United States. This is the reason that we love the government. This is the reason that our aged President, a few years ago, one who has now passed behind the vale, when the government stood face to face with war with Spain the venerable Prophet of God advised the youth of Israel to stand for the flag, and offer their lives in defense of the government 103  the United States. It was on account of this portion of their faith, this portion of their religion, that when they were driven from . the confines of the United States, they clung close to and cherished the banner representing the government, and brought it with them to what was then a part of Mexico. 

It is too late in the day for people to organize themselves into a party on the false basis that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is antagonistic to the government of the United States; and it is also too late in the day for them to taunt us by saying that we dare not disobey the men who stand at the head of the Church. I want to place myself on record that I have never heard a particle of counsel coming from a man who has stood at the head of the Church, that is not just and right. It is always good and safe counsel; and every individual who has membership in the Church can look the enemies of these men in the face and say: Yes, I stand solidly for our leaders in every way, shape and manner, and I propose to have my children do so, for in standing by them I find more safety than with those who fling vilifications at them. It is true that we may have a testimony of the Gospel today and, by our own acts, we may lose it tomorrow, but as long as we cling to the light, we will vote not only twice a year, but three hundred and sixty-five days in the year to sustain the men who stand at the head of the Church. I said yesterday that their enemies are the enemies of this people. What their enemies would do to them, they would do to you, if they had the power; and that has been demonstrated. I do not know whether I am  upon dangerous and forbidden ground or hot; no one has warned me. I remember the time when Brother Roberts was elected to a political office on the Democratic ticket. There were members of this Church who went from one end of the state to the other trying to defeat him — I was one of that number; that may be the reason he was elected — but when the enemies of this people got ready for the attack it was not on B. H. Roberts, it turned upon the Church. The fight ended in the House of Representatives of the United States. So it was when the Republican party elected Senator Smoot; the fight was not on him, it was on you just as much as it was on him. 

God has restored His Priesthood to the earth. Sometimes the evil one selects one man and sometimes another, but always he demonstrates that it is the Priesthood of Almighty God he is fighting. Probably I feel this keenly because I am kept out in the missionary field free from political strife, not mingling in your political quarrels. As long as a young man does his duty in the missionary field, he prays with all earnestness for the prophets, seers and revelators who stand at the head of the Church. 

I have heard men, sons of prominent men in the Church, bear solemn testimonies that they knew Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; I have heard them give counsel and advice to youn^ men in the missionary field, whom they incidentally met, counseling them, by the spirit they then possessed, to stand by the authorities of the Church. Then I have seen them, when their fathers — who seemed to be the anchors of their faith — passed to the other side, turn, with GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the hideousness of a rattlesnake, against the very men that they pretended to support before. I have often wondered whether, if their fathers had continued to live, they would have continued to bear_ the former testimony. Perhaps it is good to take men's fathers away from them, at times, so the children can exercise their own free agency, that God may know how a man is for himself. 

There is not a young man in this audience but has the right, if he lives for it, to know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, to know that this work is true, just as well as these brethren on the stand. God is no resoecter of persons. I do not bear testimony to the truthfulness of the work of God because some of these authorities or all of them bear that testimny. I knew it before I ever saw a majority of these brethren; I know it as well as they know it, and that is the privilege of every member of this Church. When God does give us that testimony, and we are living under the influence of the Spirit that comes from on high, we will sustain the men who are at the head of the Church, with our lives, if necessary; and we would be anxious for all the world to know that we sustain them, and that we are willing to stand between them and danger, because of the position they occupy. This is where I hope every man and every woman in this Church stands. 

I pray that God may give you the light and influence of His Holy Spirit that you may receive a testimony of the Gospel, that you may know the object God had in placing you here upon this earth. This was not the beginning of your lives. 

I have heard it said, often, that man is a dual being — I say, he is a trinity. Man is a representative of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. When a human body comes into the world,there is a light from another sphere placed within it. The spirit that God places within this tabernacle was not created in this sphere, it was created yonder, in the presence of our Father and our Mother in heaven. When that spirit tabernacle was born unto them, there was a light, there was an intelligence placed within it that existed from everlasting. So that man was created in the image of God, and, like unto God, he is from' everlasting to everlasting, and is thus a representative of the Trinity in heaven. Try to live under the influence of that Spirit which comes from Them, and be true to the covenants that you have made with God. Remember the words of the Prophet Joseph, that, in all your flounderings be careful to stand by the brethren whom God has given to us as prophets, seers and revelators; whether it pleases the world, or not, it will please God. May His blessings be upon you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Prof. John J. McClellan rendered a beautiful artistic arrangement of "Home, sweet home,", on the grand organ. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

I pray you, my brethren and sisters, that I may have the benefit of your faith and prayers while I speak unto you. The sole desire of my heart is to say those things that it would please the Lord to have me tell you. 

As I listened to the instructions of the servants of God, yesterday and throughout this conference, I felt in my soul that it was a blessed privilege to enjoy the presence and counsels of the general authorities of the Church. As we have been told, we have been reproved for things we were guilty of; yet it is said that the rebuke of a friend is just, "but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful." One of the ancient prophets, in lamenting the downfall of Israel, stated as one of the reasons for the decline of his glory and the blessings of the Lord being taken from him was that he could not receive correction. The instructions that have been imparted unto us this day will make for righteousness in our lives; and I for one — and I know that we all feel likewise — feel to accept these instructions in the spirit in which they were given, and demonstrate unto the Lord that we love His servants and show our appreciation of their counsels by living up to the principles of the Gospel, which they teach us from time to time. 

We bring you cheering news from the mission field. Your sons are bearing aloft the royal standard of the Gospel in a creditable manner. People marvel at the influence which these young men wield, but they forget that a life of unselfishness and love and devotion to dutv not only strengthens us with our people, but magnifies us in the eyes of those who are not of our faith, and in building up each other, we are only building up ourselves. One of the reasons for the strength of this Gospel, and for the influence which your sons wield in the mission field is this : they speak under  power of the Holy Ghost, and the oower of the Holy Ghost carries their words, their instructions unto the hearts of the children of men. One of the reasons for the decay of religious thought in the world today is that men are teaching solely by the learning of men; they are not relying upon the power and influence of the Holy Ghost. The prophet has said : "To be learned is good, if you obey the counsels of God;" but, my brethren and sisters, when it comes to a choice between the two, when it comes to that which makes most for righteousness, personal goodness will count more in the battle of life and in the building up of our fellow man, in the development of character, than will mere intellectual knowledge. 

The very power of this people lies in the fact that they are obedient to God, and to be obedient is to please Him, and not to debase themselves. I am sure that the Latterday Saints feel this way today, and that from their hearts they can exclaim with the Apostle Paul, "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, because it is the power of God unto salvation, unto every one that believeth." Now we discover the reason for the opposition to this system of religion called Mormonism; it is because it is the power of God unto salvation; it is because the principles of this Gospel are making headway in the world. The Gospel is making substantial progress in the nations of the earth; go where you will, the light of the Gospel is spreading, and the principles are not so new and strange to the world as they were three or four decades ago. You talk to men about the principle of revelation; they are beginning to believe in that princip.le, and men are no GENERAL CONFERENCE.  scoffing at the Prophet Joseph Smith— that is, men of understanding, men with unbiased minds, men who do not read the history of "Mormonism" with their prejudices, but read it with their eyes; these men with liberality of thought are beginning to see in the Prophet Joseph Smith a man of God, a prophet of Israel who enunciated and taught these glorious saving principles to all the world for the salvation of mankind. 

The Lord has said that some men shall see signs, but not unto salvation. The greatness of this work is apparent to fairminded men, while others are fighting the work, because their minds are prejudiced, and they do not discern its glory, virtue, and power. When Jesus called Lazarus from the grave there were men who marveled at that miracle and believed in Christ; and there were also men who, filled with envy and hate, straightway went unto the Scribes and Pharisees and prejudiced them still more against the Son of God. When the Savior healed the blind man, and restored his sight, he who was blind was summoned before the Jewish tribunal. They tried to make him believe that Jesus was a sinner, that his sight had not been restored by the power of God. This excited marvel and wonder in the mind of the man who had been afflicted, and he said : It is a marvel to me that you men, who are steeped in the knowledge of the Scripture, who are learned according to the laws of your church, it is a marvel to me that you can not see that this was done bv the power of God. So it is with us today; it is a marvel unto us, or to many of us, that men seeing the greatness of this work do not discern its virtue, its beauty,  the only motive it has, which is the uplifting and the benefit of mankind; because, God being our witness, our hearts are filled with love for the children of men and duty to God, and this creates in us a love for our fellow creatures. 

Well, my brethren and sisters, we know in our lives this Gospel has been the power of God unto salvation. When the Lord was born, widen that heavenly song was sung, when that message of good will was given to the earth, "Peace on earth and good will to man," it was met by persecution; it was answered by hate; it was replied to with murder. What was there in that innocent babe of Bethlehem to excite the envy and hate of the world ? It had not wealth; it had not high earthly station; it was born amid humble surroundings; but the adversary recognized in that babe the Messiah, the being who had come to earth with the Gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation. The adversary well knew that all the obsolete forms of religion that the Jews had, did not make for righteousness or bring men and women to a knowledge of God. History repeats itself; the centuries went by; the religious world was in a state of confusion, when the boy prophet Joseph Smith declared to the world that he had seen the Father and the Son. He but delivered to the world a message of peace, yet that message was met with persecution, and with hatred, and with murder. What was there in the boy prophet that should call forth this envy and hate and murder? He was not wealthy; he was not of distinguished parentage, as the world goes; he did not wear soft clothing; he was born amid humble surroundings, but Satan 107  in that boy the messenger of God through whom should be restored to the earth the Gospel which is the power of God unto salvation. So it is today, that is the reason for the persecution and the hatred that are being visited upon the Latter-day Saints. It is not because we strive for political gratification or for political honors, but we are the people of God, we have the Gospel of the Son of God, and our mission is definite, we have an object in view, and this object makes us strong, even the object of preparing the world for the glorious second coming of the Redeemer. To this our mission we will be true, and though men persecute us we will pursue the even tenor of our ways, and preach the Gospel of love. 

You remember reading that when the Grecian nation was in danger of invasion, two statesmen were discussing the best means of repelling the invader, and one of the statesmen could not meet the logic of the other with logic; he grew angry and went to strike his opponent, but the latter said : "Strike if you will,but listen." We say to the world, if you must persecute us, we will accept it in the spirit of Christ. Strike, if you must, but listen — listen to our message, for it is important to you, it is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Brethren and sisters, the schooling we are receiving, the arduous labors we are performing are good for the Latter-day Saints. The poet said : 

"This is a scene of combat — not of rest; Man's life is a laborious one at best; On this side of death, his labors never cease, 

His joys are joys of conquest — not of peace." 

Every Latter-day Saint can preach the Gospel. It is not given to everybody to go out into the mission field, but it is given to us all to pay our tithes and our offerings, that houses may be built to the worship of God, and, as the Lord has said, if we labor all the davs of our lives and bring but one soul unto the knowledge of Christ, how great shall be our joy with that soul in the kingdom of our God. So you, my brethren and sisters, who are not on the "firing line," you can live good true lives at home. By paying your tithes you are assisting in erecting meeting houses in the world as well as in Zion, and in those places of worship men and women will meet and they will listen to the Gospel of the Redeemer. Their souls will be turned unto God, and in the day that we shall be rewarded for the deeds done in the body, you people whose money has been expended in building these houses, you shall have joy with the souls of men who have been saved by reason of your generosity in giving of your means to build up the kingdom of God. 

I pray that the light of the Gospel of Christ may spread throughout the earth, as the good old hymn says : 

"Thy swift messengers are treading The high courts where princes dwell, 

And thy glorious light is spreading; Zion prospers, all is well." 

May Zion continue to prosper; may the Gospel continue to spread, until every son and daughter of God basks in the sunlight of everlasting truth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Work more effective than words. — Nobility of true manhood and womanhood. — Defenders of truth and doers of duty. — Vile literature and poisonous journalism condemned. 

"The world wants men, true men, Who cannot be bought or sold; 

Men who will scorn to violate truth — Genuine gold." 

Last Sunday afternoon, ten thousand voices declared, as one, in favor of prohibitory laws against the saloon traffic and against the violation of the Sabbath day. I thought, after the vote was taken, and several times since, that is the easiest part of the work; it was easy to say "aye" to the resolution, but what is wanted now are men, true men, who cannot be bought or sold, who scorn to violate truth — genuine gold. 

In ancient Israel, fifty thousand soldiers, under Zebulori, one day came to David. It is said that they knew the ways of war, that they could wield the bow and the arrow, and that "they could all keep rank, and were not of double heart." 

Can all the ten thousand, and the 250,000, or more, represented by that ten thousand, all keep rank and be not of double heart? It is work that will count in this state. It is not the "aye" alone. "Aye," "aye" will not do it; work, work, will do it. "It is not every one that sayeth Lord, Lord, that shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." 

We want men. There is nothing in life so admirable as true manhood; there is nothing so sacred as true womanhood. Manhood! Oh, what that means — to be a man, to be worthy of the honor that Antony  to Brutus, when he pointed and said : "This was the noblest Roman of them all: all the conspirators, save only he, did that they did in envy of great Ceasar; he only, in a general honest thought and common good to all, made one of them. His life was gentle, and the elements so mixed in him that Nature could stand up and say to all the world : This was a man." Wordsworth's heart leaped up when he beheld a rainbow in the sky. Burns' heart wept when his plowshare overturned a daisy. Tennyson could pluck the flower from the "crannied wall," and see, if he could read in it the mystery, "all that God and man is." All these, and other great men, have shown to us, in the works of nature, the handiwork of God. Shakespeare could "find tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything." All, I say, are expressions of goodness, and praises to God invite; but the!?lory of creation, "the beauty of the world," says Shakespeare, "the paragon of animals," is man. "An honest man is the noblest work of God." We delight in associating with true men; it is good to be in their presence. "They are living light fountains," says Carlyle, "which it is good and pleasant to be near." I often think that it is easy to be honest; and to be honest means that we are in harmony with divine law, that we are in keeping with the noblest work of God. 

A dishonest man brings only misery into the world. Look at Judas — oh, what that man brought upon himself by not being true. He associated with his Lord and heard the divine truths from his Master's lips. It may be that once he felt, in his heart, the truth; but he let out109  influences come upon him. He let his appetite for greed lead him into dishonesty. Following that prompting he opposed the works of the Master, found fault with conditions around him. Six days before the passover, Mary, out of the great love in her heart, anointed Jesus. Who is it that finds fault? Not an honest man whose heart was in the truth; but the Judas, and even in his fault-finding you detect the lie: "Why was not this ointment sold for so much money, that we might give it to the poor ?" Oh, dissembler! Oh hypocrite! Not that he wanted the money for the poor, "but," says one of his companions, "because he was a thief and kept the bag." He sat at meat with his Lord, near his Master's side, there in the presence of the Divine Man, pretending to be one with Him in friendship — not only friendship but discipleship; not only that, but a disciple in whom had been placed trust. There at the table, eating bread by the side of his Master, he was still untrue and had already bargained to betray his Lord into the hands of His enemies. Later he passed out from Christ's presence, out into the darkness; oh, God pity the man who so leaves the light! Pity Judas that night, when he left the radiance of that room, the company of discipleship and the divine presence of the Lord; when he passed out into the darkness to give expression, not to his better self, but to the dishonesty within him, responding to the appeals of a morbid appetite, of a dishonest soul. Then came the culminating act of hypocrisy and deceit, when he implanted the kiss upon his Master and said : "Hail, Lord." It is not with such a man that you feel inspired; it is not in  presence that you feel illumined. Follow him to his death, and the feeling of pity and compassion for him' is intensified when you see his sad end. 

Compare his life with that of James, the brother of the Lord, or even James, the brother of John. We do not know much about them, but they were both true men. But the one who wrote his epistle, probably also gave the decision on circumcision, a man who was true under all conditions. He was a Jew, born with the prejudices of the Jews against the Gentiles. Yet, when the light came to his soul that Christ's truths were for all the world, his old traditions had to be swept aside, and he stood there in the face of his countrymen and declared the truth, which God had revealed to him, that the Gospel was for all. Follow that man from there on in his just acts, the few we know, and see how he commanded the respect, even of his enemies. Why? Because he was true to his Lord; he was true to that which he knew to be right. When he had occasion, a few years before his death, to rebuke dishonesty, to call the attention of the people to evils that existed, and admonish them to be true to the Gospel of Christ, he speaks such words as these : 

But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. 

For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord. 

A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways." 

Then again : 

Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these  things ought not so to be. Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? 

Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield salt water arid fresh. 

Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. 

But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. 

The man who is true to his manhood will not lie against the truth. We are told that we can crucify the Lord afresh. If that be true, we can betray the Lord afresh. There is that within every man which is divine, a divinity within every man's soul. It can not die. God renews it, inspires it, works to keep it alive. The man who will be true to the divine within, is true to his Lord, and is true to his fellowmen. The man who betrays that, the man who is untrue to that which he knows to be right, is wavering, is weakening. God pity him; he may go so far that he will step out of the light, out of that divine presence, and woe be unto him when he does; God help him. 

Men and brethren, we have declared to the world that we have the Gospel of Christ, that we are going to stand against vice. That "aye" the other day merely meant this : We have buckled on the armor; we have unsheathed our swords. Now, shall we make the charge ? or shall we waver and be driven by the wind and tossed? Shall we forsake this cause, in order to please men? because we desire to give "eye service" rather than heart service, because of some political power that is brought to bear upon us ? No! We will stand, true to ourselves, true to the divine within us, true to that truth which we have received. 

We ought to know that it is not good to have such evil surroundings as saloons in our midst, to draw away our young and lead them into the darkness of misery and despair. Let us be true today; let us act; let us act! After leaving this conference,when we are thrown into the company of men who will try to tempt us, when we are thrown again under the influence of appetites that we have developed, let us, like James, be true to the death. As he stood there on the pinnacle of the temple, and the men, looking upon him then as a just man, said : "Where is the gate to Christ?" he bore his testimony of the Lord Jesus. Even then, historians tell 'us, they said : "We can't believe him, even though he is just;" and they hurled him down to beat him to death. James' death is inspiring; Judas' death is death! death in its gloomiest form. 

All men who have moved the world have been men who would stand true to their conscience — not only James, not only Paul, Peter, and all those ancient apostles, but all other great men in history. I often admire Luther; I cannot help but feel better when I read his words to the assembly at the Diet of Worms, all the Catholic church opposing him, and all the powers of the land staring him in the face. "Confute me by proof of Scripture or by sound argument," said he; "I cannot recant otherwise. It is not safe for a man to do aught against his conscience. Here stand I; I can not do otherwise; God assist me." It was Joseph Smith who, after having a testimony of the Lord Jesus in his bosom, declared to the men who said, "It is from the devil" — ministers who had influence with him before, men whom' he respectIll  as, at least, attempting to teach the word of God — to them he said : "I know I have seen a vision, and God knows that I have." And he was true to this testimony to the last. When he was going to his death, he declared to all the world : "I have a conscience void of offense toward God and all men." Why? Because he had been true to it; he was a man possessing divine manhood, for true manhood is divine; oh, it is glorious. It was that spirit that prompted our leader (President Joseph F. Smith) to say to the world : "I will be true to those who have trusted me; I can not do otherwise." That is the manhood the Latter-day Saint should possess, in defending the truth. That is the manhood that we all need when we go out into our wards and stakes, to inspire young men with that same truth; it is that we need in combating all kinds of error — not only the saloon, not only the tobacco habit, but another condition that is here in our midst, which is just as fatal as the saloon, which is just as poisonous, aye, more poisonous than the tobacco, bad as it is. I refer to the vile literature that is being circulated among the young. 

The greatest power in the world today is the press. Think of the thousands, the hundreds of thousands, the millions, that daily are brought into contact with the thoughts that are published to the world. Speaking of this power, Carlyle says : 

"I many times say, the writers of newspapers, pamphlets, poems, books, these are the real, working, effective church of modern times. Nay, not only our preaching, but even our worship, is not it, too, accomplished by means of printed books? The noble sentiment which a gifted soul has clothed for us in melodious words, which brings mel into our hearts — is not this essentially, if we will undrestand it, of the nature of worship? There are many, in all countries, who, in this confused time, have no other method of worship. He who in any way shows us better than we knew before that a lily of the field is beautiful, does he not show it us as an effluence of the fountain of all beauty; as the handwriting made visible there of the great Maker of the Universe? He has sung for us, made us sing with him, a little verse of a sacred psalm. Essentially so, how much - more he who sings, who says or in any way brings home to our hearts the noble doings, feelings, darings and endurance of a brother man! He has verily touched our heart as with a live coal from the altar. Perhaps there is no worship more authentic." 

Let me digress here a moment to say that the element of greatness all through these men I have named is sincerity, true consistency. A sincere man who sits down at night and pens that which his soul believes to be right, that which his soul tells him will be good for humanity, is exercising a power over the world that is beneficial. We should hail that expression of greatness, of goodness, with thanksgiving. But the insincere man, the man who will sit down at night and distort facts, who will wilfully misrepresent truth, who is a traitor to the divine within him which is calling, nay longing for truth, what shall we say of that man? He is publishing falsehoods to the world, giving poison to young, innocent souls who are longing for truth. Oh, there is no condemnation too strong for the hypocrite, for the  betrayer of Christ.. We will not condemn him, but God will, in His justice; He must. 

Too much time is taken up by our young people, and by our older ones, too, in reading useless pamphlets, useless books; "It is worse than GENERAL CONFERENCE. ," says Farrar, in that excellent little work on "Great Books:" 

* * * * "t rea( j through the squalid details of every police trial, or the nauseous revelations of divorce courts, or vague political conjectures, or the sensational items of 'the silly season.' There are papers that seem to exist for no other reason than to 'chronicle small beer.' How can we have time to think or leave a margin to our life, if we spend hours every week in dabbling about in what Mr. Lowell called 'the stagnant gooseponds of village gossip.' When the 'mems' and 'items' and 'pars' are full of gossip, scandal, and spite; when they are like the verminiferous dust in which are incubated the germs of envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness — the less we notice them the better. They are undiluted poison to the healthy soul, which loves charity and truth. There is one piece of advice which I would give with intense earnestness to all. It is this : Never be tempted by curiosity to read what you know to be a bad book, or what a very little reading shows you to be a bad book. Bad books, by which I do not mean merely ignorant and misleading books, but those which are prurient and corrupt — are the most fatal emissaries of the devil. They pollute with plague the moral atmosphere of the world." 

Men in Israel, it is time that we take a stand against vile literature. It is poisonous to the soul. It is the duty of a parent to put the poison, that is in the house, on the highest shelf, away from that innocent little child who knows not the daneer of it. It is the duty of the parent also to keep the boy's mind from becoming polluted with the vile trash that is sometimes scattered — nay, that is daily distributed among us. There is inconsistency in a man's kneeling down with his family in prayer, and asking God to bless the leader of our Church, and then put into the hands of the boy, who was kneeling there, a pa that calls the leader a hypocrite. It ought not to be done; it is poison to the soul. 

How can we tell? May be those are the great men who are writing the scurrilous articles, and these whom they attack are not the great men ? Some may say : Give the children an opportunity to hear both sides. Yes, that is all well and good; but if a man were to come into your home and say to you that your mother is not a good woman, you would know he lied; wouldn't you ? And you wouldn't let your children hear him. If a man came and told you that your brother was dishonest, and you had been with him all your life and knew him to be honest, you would know the man lied. So when they come and tell you the Gospel is a hypocritical doctrine, taught by this organization, when they tell you the men at the head are insincere, you know they lie; and you can take the same firm stand on that, being sincere yourself as you could in regard to your mother and brother. Teach your children, your boys and girls everywhere, to keep away from every bad book and all bad literature, especially that which savors of hatred, or envv, or malice, that which bears upon it the marks of hypocrisy, insincerity, edited by men who have lost their manhood. 

"The world wants men, true men, Who can not be bought or sold, 

Men who scorn to violate truth — Genuine gold." 

Now, brethren, it is for us to say whether we will be the Judases or the Jameses, whether we will be true to the divine within us, in observing the word of wisdom, in Sabbath keeping, in giving to our children pure literature — the best 113 , so that we can keep their souls free from the polluted atmosphere of poisonous journalism. 

May God bless us all, that we may, above all, be true to the divine within us; be men, true men; be noble women, true to motherhood, true to wifehood, true to God; then we shall all be one. If all the world will take that same stand, every man give out only that which he understands to be right, some day we must all come to the truth; sincerity of life will bring all men to the truth, eventually. God hasten the day, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! 

What more can He say than to you He 

hath said, You who unto lesus for refuge have 

fled? 
