Second Overflow
04 10 1908


In the Assembly Hall at 2 p. m'. Elder George F. Richards presiding. 

The Temple choir and congregation sang the hymn, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Charles A. Callis. 

The Temple choir sang the hymn, 

"Praise ye the Lord! 'tis good to raise." 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is a pleasure for me to have the privilege of addressing you this afternoon, and I trust that while I do so I will have an interest in your faith and prayers, and that our Father in heaven may bless us, that what is said may be in accordance with His mind and will. It is unprofitable for any one to address this congregation of Latter-day Saints, or anywhere else, I think, whether they are Saints or not, without the inspiration of the Lord to direct his remarks, while he is teaching the Gospel or acting in the authority he has received from the Lord. 

I was thinking this, afternoon about the great man who wrote Proverbs, who said, "Where there is no vision the people perish. But he that keepeth the law, happy is he." In traveling throughout the country we can see this is verified to the letter, that people will undoubtedly perish if there is no divine vision. If our Father in Heaven does not reveal His mind and will unto His people, through such means as visions, and through prophets, then they must perish in unbelief. That was the condition under which the world was when the Prophet Joseph Smith received instructions from an angel. When the Prophet read in the Bible the instruction that James laid down, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him," he was, perhaps, the first man in ages that  put the interpretation upon that passage that he did. He thus ascertained in his boyhood days that he might go and ask the Lord. It appeared clear to him that the Lord had inspired James to make this promise, and that, therefore he might go and ask God which of all the denominations of religion then upon the earth were correct. Thus the Lord had indicated a means through which His sons and daughters need not perish, and there would be no need for them to run hither and thither, searching for the truth and not finding it, but that He would again open up the channel of revelation to His children. 

Since that time the work has been going on; missionaries have been going out into the world, under the appointment they have received of God through the Presidency of His Church, whom the Lord has appointed to guide and govern Israel in these last days. Through the inspiration of Heaven, thus coming unto them, thousands have received the truth. Under the inspiration oi the Lord, thousands of authorized men have gone out and declared unto the people that there has been a vision again, that there has been and is now revelation to God's children here in tjhe earth from the Eternal Father, that we need no longer perish in unbelief. We can call upon Him and receive an answer to our petitions; we can serve Him in spirit and in truth, and know that if we follow the plans He has given througjh His Son Jesus Christ we will receive an inheritance in His kingdom according to our works here upon the earth. Our missionaries go out preaching these truths, and thousands of people have accepted the Gospel message which they bear, and now know that the doctrines of "Mor" are correct and that God has indeed again revealed His mind and will. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared this unto the world. He gathered around him many men who were capable of declaring it, who stood by him, and who went forth among the nations of the earth, and they have gathered fruit unto the Master. They can look into the faces of their brothers and sisters and declare that they know that God lives and has spoken again from the heavens, and that we arc entitled to revelation from Him, the same as in the days when Christ ana His Apostles were upon the earth. They declare the same Gospel that Christ taught; they teach with words of soberness that Jesus and His Father have again appeared unto the children of men, that there is a channel opened up whereby men and women may go on unto perfection, and be received back into the presence of their Heavenly Father. 

The Latter-day Saints as a body I think, do not understand this as perfectly as they should do; I believe they should pay more attention to it than they do. It is obligatory upon us to teach it unto all the sons and daughters of God that we come in contact with. It is our duty when we have children to teach it unto them, and prepare them that when the time comes for them to go into the world and preach it unto the children of men, they may be qualifed to do so. 

There are thousands of people, my brethren and sisters, who have not yet heard the Gospel of the Redeemer. As I have said, we are sending out missionaries to teach them the Gospel, to cry repentance unto them, and I want to tell you they are representing us nobly in the earth; they are receiving praise and gratitude from those among whom they labor, and they are laboring earnestly and faithfully. I believe there are none under the sun who labor more faithfully than do the Elders of Israel, traveling from house to house, from state to state, without hope of remuneration in this life, preaching the Gospel freely unto the people, after the plan that the Apostles of old did, and the same condition that Christ laid down when he said : "Freely ye have received, freely give." They go out into the world, calling people unto repentance in their homes and upon the street corners, preaching in halls, and leaving books, tracts and other literature with them, that have been prepared by the Latter-day Saints, truthfully representing their principles and doctrines. 

It is wonderful, my brethren and sisters, the work in this direction that is going on in the world; and I may as well give a brief account of what is being accomplished in the mission where I have the privilege of laboring. During the last nine months, beginning with the first of January, we havj had 216 baptisms. We have distributed over 49,000 books. We have held,6,633 meetings,have visited 195,471 families in tracting, and distributed 244,617 tracts. We have blessed 117 children. At a cost of, perhaps, an average of $20 per elder, per month, it is simply astonishing the amount of work that our elders are doing. Now this is just one corner of the earth, and we understand that the elders are laboring similarly teaching the Gospel that the Savior taught, distributing literature, asking the people if they won't, at least, read about us; asking them to investigate the doc we are teaching, not asking them to be baptized at once, bul listen to what we have to say. We ask them to "read the Book of Mormon, see if it does not testify unto you, through the Spirit, concerning its truthfulness." 

When we think of the great missionaries who have thus gone, and of the great work they have done, such men as John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff, who went out without purse or scrip and taught this Gospel unto the people, going from house to house, from city to city, it is remarkable how strong and faithful those men were in times of trial, and what testimonies their converts received from the Lord that He had again spoken from the heavens. When men who had become disaffected sought to turn the baptized believers away from the Prophet Joseph Smith, it was invariably their reply, if the Gospel was true when you taught it to me, it is now. We have the privilege today of listening unto men of God, unto Prophets of the Lord, who prove unto us that the revelations of our Father in Heaven still continue, and that we need not perish in unbelief, if we will but open our ears to hear and our hearts to understand, and that this Gospel of the kingdom has been established and will never be thrown down nor given unto another people. The responsibility rests upon the Latter-day Saints to go out and declare unto the world the principles that have been revealed from heaven. There is nothing greater in the world than "Mormonism," there is no religion equal to it. So far as the conversion of the souls of men is concerned, our field is the world. It is our duty to go out and declare the Gospel of  Redeemer. Hundreds of thousands have already responded to the call. 

As to loyalty, there is nothing in the world that equals the loyalty of the Latter-day Saints. We know that the Lord has spoken from the heavens that He has a Prophet here upon the earth; and we are sons and daughters of the pioneers of this chosen country, enjoying what our pioneer fathers and mothers prepared for us. I have wondered if we have been doing all that we should, and if we sense as we should the position that we occupy as sons and daughters of those pioneers who passed through so much hardship for the establishment of the people of God in this country. 

We have not any time to waste. No matter whether a man is at home or abroad, he should use his time and his talent, all that can possibly be given, to the building up of .the Church and Kingdom of our Father. A man who will do this will grow and increase in the earth, and will be blessed of the Lord, he will be a power for good wherever he goes, and will be in a position to return unto the Lord some of the blessings that he has received, some of the substance of the earth, and results of the talents that God has given him. Such a man will be entitled to the resurrection and exaltation which you and I are all seeking for. I thank the Lord for His mercies and I ask Him to bless the Latter-day Saints, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HUGH J. CANNON. 

(President of Liberty Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, there are doubtless in this congregation  and women who have traveled many miles, several hundred miles perhaps in some cases, to attend this conference; and they have come here, no doubt, with a desire to be strengthened in their faith, and built up in their determination to more faithfully serve the Lord in the future than they have done in the past. It seems to me, under these circumstances, that they have a claim upon the blessings of the Almighty, and any speaker who attempts to address them should certainly have the benefit of their faith and prayers. No man, no matter what his qualifications may be, who has the spirit of the Gospel in his heart, ever attempts to address a congregation upon the vital principles of the Gospel without feeling a desire to have the guidance of the Holy Spirit, and certainly I am in that position myself this afternoon. 

I have been led to think during the last few weeks of the importance of having a testimony of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. It has been impressed upon my mind more strongly than at any time before in my life, that we should have a knowledge that God lives, the knowledge that we are engaged in His service, the knowledge that the authority, the Priesthood, is in our midst, and that we have among us those who are qualified, and have the authority to point out to us the way in which we should walk. Now, we hear a great deal concerning the outward ordinances of the gospel. The Latter-day Saints, in my opinion, are pretty well posted as to the Scriptural proof. Of course we are not as well acquainted with the Scriptures as we might be; but still it seems to me we are better equipped with proofs of the divinity of the Gospel that are contained in the Scriptures than we are with the inward testimony. We know what the Scriptures say about our duties, and about the religion in which we believe. We see the outward manifestations of the Spirit of the Lord. We see the sick healed. We know that the signs follow those that believe. But important as this is, it is not the only testimony which we can have, and I believe it may be said with perfect truth that it is not the most important testimony that can come to our hearts. Every person who belongs to this Church should inquire into his own condition and see whether there is in his heart strong and abiding faith, and a testimony of the divinity of this work outside of any Scriptural proof, because it is stronger and more enduring than any written word or any outward manifestation can possibly be. If we will look into our hearts, as I have said, look down into the depths of our own souls, I am sure that every man and woman will discover an abundance of reasons why we should maintain our standing in the Church, and why we should go on in the path which has been pointed out for us to follow. There is no Latter-day Saint who has reached the age of accountability, or at least has reached the age of manhood, but would find in the depths of his heart sufficient reason for his standing in this Church, and sufficient reason for him to labor diligently and faithfully to maintain that standing. 

For my own part, when I examine myself and my own life, my own hopes and aspirations, I need go no further to find evidence enough to justify me in the pursuit of my present course; because, weak and frail and incompetent as 

I am, I still see that I am better and higher, more advanced, than would have been the case without the teachings of this gospel of Jesus Christ. I see where it has made me better, where it has held me back from committing sin, and from going in wrong directions. It has taught me by the whisperings of the Spirit, that when I depart from the straight and narrow path, I may return and get into line. I need no better indicator as to my duty than the teachings which are contained in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Savior said, "By thenfruits ye shall know them." When we apply this test to the Church and to its members, individually and collectively, we find sufficient proof to convince any reasonable man that our claims are well founded. We need not be ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ when we apply this test, which the Savior gave, to the lives of those who have joined tjhe Church, and who arc carrying on this work, because the} will compare very favorably with any other people upon the face of the earth, according to my experience. We are imperfect, and do things which we should not do. We grieve, no doubt many times, the Spirit of the Lord, by our weaknesses and our folies; and still there is no better people throughout the world, I am fully convinced, than can be found in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When this test is applied it furnishes a satisfactory answer to me for the hope which I have, for the faith which is in my heart, that this is the truth, and that through this Gospel I may be saved in the kingdom of our Father in Heaven. 

Now, we are not perfect. We do not pretend to be. We do not want to think we are perfect, but it 't hurt us any to think that we are as good as other people, as long as we are humble and prayerful. There is a higher standard set for the Latter-day Saints than for any other people upon the earth. 1 remember once having a conversation in the mission field with a young lady who had been born and raised in Utah, although she was not a member of the Church, and never had been. She was studying music in the city of Berlin. We had a number of gospel conversations with her. While she was very friendly, and frequently helped us in our meetings with her musical talent, she did not have any faith in the Gospel, at least not very much. On one occasion when I was present she got into an argument with some of the missionaries. She said : "Well, I know Catholics, and Methodists and Presbyterians that live their religion better than the Latter-day Saints do." "Why," I said to her, "that is easy. It is not difficult for a Catholic to live his religion." It is easy for any person belonging to these various denominations to live their religion, because it does not require anything special of them; but you take a religion that sets perfection as its standard, that requires perfection of its members, and it is a little more difficult to live that religion. With all due respect to other denominations, it is possible for their adhierents to go along with the stream, living as the world lives, and still live their religion , but with the Latter-day Saint it is vastly different. He must cast aside all these weaknesses which men in the world have, must walk in that straight way, deviating neither to the right nor to the left, in order to live the religion of 

Jesus Christ; he must not smoke, must not drink tea or coffee, must not profane, must not break the Sabbath, must be virtuous, clean in every act and thought of his life. In order to fully live up to his belief, he must live a perfect life, and who can do it in this mortal state? Very few, if any at all. None, perhaps, can live this Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as it should be lived. No wonder that people may say the Catholics or persons of other denominations can live their religion better than we Latter-da\ Saints can. Why, it is further proof that the religion which we have, and which we claim is the plan ol salvation is better and higher than anything else in the world. 

I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart for the testimony of the divinity of this work, which He has given«ne. I thank Him that 1 know that He lives, that I know that Jesus is the Christ, and I thank Him still more that I know that divine authority is upon the earth today. I appreciate that testimony more than the other, if possible. There are plenty of men in the world who have a knowledge of Jesus Christ, who believe firmly, and who are sincere in that belief, that He was the Son of God, and that He did redeem the world. And still they have not got the knowledge that He has spoken in this day. They know nothing about the authority which He has delegated to mankind in the generation in which they live, and they are deprived of the great blessings whicli come to the Latter-day Saints, as partakers of the New and Everlasting Covenant; and therefore I say that, if possible, I am more thankful for the testimony which I have that prophets live upon the earth now, that the Lord has spoken today, than I am for the other knowledge. Of course we can never have this testimony without having the other, but I am reminded of the number of people there are in the world, and the number there are in our own community who know that Christ lives. At least, they profess to have that knowledge. Some of them go a step further, and profess to believe implicitly that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the Almighty, that Brigham Young was his legal successor, and that John Taylor, Wil' ford Woodruff and those who have succeeded them as presidents of the Church were duly authorized to lead this people; but some of those remind me of the saying of the Savior, they honor the dead prophets but would kill the living prophets if they had the power. There are men in our community who do that very thing, who have that very feeling in their hearts, because they have grieved the Spirit, and they are living in the dead past. I thank God that to some extent I can live in the present, and in the future. 

All that I have, all that I ever hope to have is tied up in the Gospel. I pray that the Lord may bless us and enable us to walk in the path set for our feet. That we may see the light, and that we may know it when we see it, that we may not be left to wander in darkness; that our faith may be strong and perfect, and that we may go on to perfection, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, 

"Memories of Galilee" was rendered by the Temple choir, including the quartet, Florence Grant, Maria B. Winder, Charles S. Martin, and James Maxwell. 

BISHOP HEBER C. IVERSON. 

I have greatly rejoiced in the spirit and instruction of this conference and I sincerely trust that during the few moments I occupy this important position I may be inspired of the Lord to say something that will be of value to us, and that will redound to the honor and glory of our Father's work and kingdom. 

I have listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks that have already been made, and especially have been impressed with the statements made by President Cannon, who preceded me. Some time ago I attended a meeting at which he spoke, and his testimony was similar to the one borne to us this afternoon, and it made upon my mind a lasting impression. He .spoke of his gratitude unto our Father in heaven for imparting unto him the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, "but more important," said he, "than the other is the fact that I know that he who stands today at the head of the Church is likewise a prophet, inspired of the Almighty, chosen of Him to lead Israel and to guide His people." This last expression — possibly not in these words exactly — found an echo in my heart, and as I have stated, made a lasting impression. I believe it to be of vital importance, my brethren and sisters, that we should know that Joseph F. Smith, who, today stands at the head of God's cause upon the earth, is His chosen servant, that he is inspired of God. Thanks to .the Lord, we may enjoy this testimony, and need not grope in darkness. The Lord, in His wisdom, His infinite love and mercy, has indeed made plain the way, and made the provision, whereby each  all of us may know for ourselves whether our President speaks of the Lord or of himself; whether he speaks as one having authority, and whether the work that he is endeavoring to advance in the earth, and the instructions he gives unto us from day to day, are the Lord's work and His will concerning us. 

I remember reading from that learned Professor Drummond, these words : "Obedience is the organ of spiritual knowledge, a most remarkable association," says he, "that has been made by the Master." Jesus Himself made this declaration, "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me; if any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine,whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." In other words, he who is in the line of duty, keeping the commandments of God, obeying His requirements and receiving His instruction, upon him will rest the inspiration of the Almighty, the light of heaven and of truth, and he will know it is true, darkness is not in his path. Prof. Drummond, commenting upon this says, "It is a most remarkable association, where we associate obedience, which is considered purely spiritual, with knowledge, which is considered entirely intellectual." But yet the association has been made by the great Master and Teacher. Along this line of thought let me illustrate the importance of the principle of obedience by calling your attention to a circumstance with which you are familiar. The Lord directed the prophet Samuel to say to Saul that he and his army should go forth and slay all the Amalekites, and bring nothing with him on his return home. Saul went out and fulfilled part of the commandment, but saw that  seemed to attract him, and he spared part of that which he had captured, to the displeasure of the Lord and Saul's own destruction. When Saul returned to the Prophet Samuel and declared he had done the will of the Lord, and had kept His commandment, the prophet asked him, "What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?" and Saul undertook to make apology. You are all acquainted with the story, and you remember the words of the Lord through the Prophet Samuel : "Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice as in obeying the voice of the Lord ? Behold to obey is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams." Returning to the sentiment expressed by Prof. Drummond, that "obedience is the organ of spiritual knowledge," just a word of comment on that thought. In the wisdom of the Almighty it has thus been ordained, were it otherwise than that "obedience is the organ of spiritual knowledge," and that to know God, to find out Him and His ways, were left to the learned and the wealthy, how should the humble and unlearned, the poor of the earth receive the gospel? The Lord, in His mercy and love, has made plain the way and easy the path that the most humble and unlearned can find if they seek after Him; they may know Him, if they will, without a college education.great wealth or affluence. They can come unto Him and receive of His bounteous blessings and His love. The Lord has made these provisions, and we as Latter-day Saints should be grateful that the gospel has been preached to the poor of the earth. You remember the Lord said that this was one of the evidences of His divine mission when they who were sent by John the Baptist came and asked Him in reference to His identity, whether he was the Messiah or whether they should look for another. Jesus told them to go and tell John that the lame are made to walk, the blind to see, and the gospel is preached unto the poor; that the gospel was preached to the poor was cited as a strong evidence that He was indeed the Lord. 

In order to enjoy the blessings of the Lord we must yield obedience to His will. I was thinking along this line this morning, while listening to the remarks of President Smith, in relation to a vital principle, one of the fundamental principles of the gospel. Obedience to the Word of Wisdom I regard as of very great importance to us as Latter-day Saints, for that word contains a great deal that is of temporal and spiritual value to us, and to the youth of Zion. I consider that every father and mother should set his and her children examples worthy of emulation. When children are taught in the Sabbath schools, the Primary associations, the Religion classes, and kindred institutions, and taught by the elders of the Church that it is the Lord's will that we abstain from those things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom, and then they see their fathers and mothers, whom they regard as the most nearly perfect beings in the world, on whom they rely absolutely for guidance, whose instruction and example is more potent in the formation of their character than any other agency in the world, if they see them in open violation of this Word of Wisdom, what think you is the result upon the minds of those children? I believe that if I  inherited an unholy appetite that is difficult to control, and I am conscious of it, that if I give way to it I will possibly destroy or darken my soul, and drive from me the Spirit of the Almighty, which it is my privilege to enjoy, I should lose no time in doing all in my power to control and root out, if possible, that inherent disposition; or, if I have an appetite, the gratification of which is worth more to me than my children's interests and welfare, I feel and believe that I am an unworthy parent. Every child that comes into my home is not only a child of mine but a child of my heavenly Father, and unto Him I am responsible for the instruction I give to that child, for the example I set and possibly for the result of those instructions and examples; for them I shall stand amenable to Him. I remember now the words of the Apostle Paul, who said : "We have had fathers of the flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence; should we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of our spirits and live ?" The essential part of man, nay, the being himself, the spirit, is a child of God; man is a dual being. We have had fathers of the physical organism; these physical beings were created, begotten by our earthly parents, but that which thinks and wills, the ego, self or spirit, if you please, the enduring part of man, that which existed in the presence of the Great Eternal One, and came to earth to pass through this mortal probation, this school of human experience so necessary in the providence of the Almighty, that I say is a child of our Father. When He sends a child of His to earth He gives to the parents that which is more precious to Him than all the wealth of the worlds 

He has created. Sacred, indeed, is the trust, and great is the responsibility that is placed upon those who receive a child of His. I say, then, if my precepts and example are not in keeping with His will and in harmony with His law, and that child of His shall go to destruction, because of my failure to keep the commandments of the Lord, woe be unto me. And if I shall, through my own wrongdoing, transmit an unholy desire or soul destroying appetite, to any child of mine (for I am a believer in pre-natal influences) I shall thus place around that child's neck a millstone, as it were, and possibly that millstone may drag him into the depths of degradation, and I, because of selfish gratification of my appetites, am responsible for his destruction, what think you shall be my condemnation? I regard these things seriously, my brethren and sisters. I consider as one of my most solemn duties and responsibilities, that I shall set before the children that God gives me examples worthy of emulation. Recognizing my own weaknesses as I do, asking God's help constantly in the battle of life, I desire that I may indeed impress upon my children, if possible, the thought that I am at least sincere in my profession. If I can lay deep in their hearts the fountain of faith, make them feel I truly believe that which I am teaching them, that my life is consistent therewith, and I can go to my grave having established in the hearts of my children abiding faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ, His revealed will and commandments, I will feel that I have done more for them than though I had bequeathed them untold millions, or .eriven to them any or all the perishable things of this world. 

I feel that the Word of Wisdom is an important law unto this people. If the father and mother in the home feel that they can violate this commandment of the Lord with impunity, they are mistaken. Supposing you teach your children that these forbidden things, set forth in the Word of Wisdom, are hurtful to them, and then you partake of them'; suppose you teach your children that tea, coffee, tobacco, or liquor are hurtful, and you partake of any one of these, in so doing do you not give your children the opportunity to think and to feel that, while you do not partake of the other things mentioned that the law is not so important in your mind as it might be? These things are all in the same forbidden class, included in the same commandment, therefore, do you not give to your children a license, and do you not set before them this example, and impress them with this thought, that the law, after all, cannot be very important, otherwise my parents would not violate it? Either that, or the children will say to themselves, "My parents believe in it, but they are too weak to live up to the requirements of the Lord." Truly you would be humiliated if you were compelled to acknowledge before your children your inability and weakness. It would indeed be humiliating for you to say to your children : "This is the Lord's will; these things are hurtful, but I am not strong enough, I am not capable of controlling myself sufficiently, and I yield to my appetites." Besides, it would lessen your influence with your children, and lessen the respect they entertain for you, very materially. We should be consistent in these matters; we should deny ourselves for our children's sake, our own sake, and because of the reverence we have for Him' who is the father of the spirits of our children; and for the sake of being obedient to the will of the Lord, that we may be possesed of that knowledge to which President Cannon referred, and of a knowledge of the truth of the gospel. 

I am delighted to know, as President Smith said this morning, that there is a temperance wave sweeping the country. I sincerely hope that we shall feel its force, and that we shall be found in the stream of its onward progress; that we shall do our utmost to assist in the accomplishment of the end for which it aims, and that we and our children may derive benefit from this important movement. 

In conclusion, I desire to bear testimony that I know that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God, that he is now the one chosen of God to lead this people. We can do no better than to seek his counsel and advice, and follow therein. It is no sacrifice »of manhood for us to resolve that we will be obedient unto the Lord, that we will be submissive unto him; for I take it that obedience is one of the strongest attributes of the noblest men in the world. It was one of the pre-eminent features or qualities in the life of Him who died that men might live. None have been quite so obedient as was He, obedient to the will of His Father. Let us remember His orayer : "Father, if it be possible, let this bitter cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will,, but as thou wilt." I believe that before him passed, in panoramic view, as it were, that which he would have to endure; in the depths of. woe and bitterness of suffering, He felt that  it were possible that His great mission could in any other way be accomplished than that He should thus suffer, that it might be so; "nevertheless, not my will, but as thou wilt; not my will, but thine, be done." He is our example in obedience. He was implicitly obedient to the will of his Father, yet He was the greatest Man that ever lived in the world, and, by the way, the most maligned, abused and persecuted Man that ever lived. From' His childhood, yea, from His birth, His life was sought by the powers of darkness. Remember how Herod, the king, sought His life, for fear that he, Herod, would be deprived of his throne by the King Child, if Jesus were permitted to live. Hence, I say, from the day of His birth until He was cruelly suspended between heaven and earth, He was hounded, persecuted and maligned, slandered and abused by those who were in darkness, and by those whose hearts were full of bitterness and prejudice. If He was thus misunderstood, driven from pillar to post, maligned and slandered, He was the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, the sinless One upon whose lips was found no guilt, if He was thus ill-treated and misunderstood — and I believe there were those so full of corruption, so comoletely given over to the power of the adversary, that they claimed they did God service in thus persecuting- and putting to death the Redeemer of the world — I say if this be true of Him who was sinless, could it not be true likewise that His servants who, though not sinless, are men after God's own heart, that they, too, might be mis' understood, maligned, slandered, and put to death by those who are  by the powers of darkness ? I say to you that JoseDh F. Smith is a prophet of God. Under God's inspiration he will lead this people aright. My greatest desire is that I may be ever worthy of his confidence, willing to receive his counsel and follow therein; if I can do this I feel sure of salvation in the kingdom of God. 

May the Lord add His blessing, and help each of us to secure an inheritance in His kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Those who are in the tabernack this afternoon, listening to the prophets, seers and revelators of God's people are hearing no greater truth than you have heard from the brethren who have spoken to you here in this building. Those who have spoken have done so by the power of the same Holy Spirit, by the authority of the same priesthood, and they have taught you the truths of heaven. I have listened with a great deal of interest to their remarks, and I sincerely hope that God may help me, as I believe they have been assisted, and that you may give me your faith and prayers during the time that I may occupj in speaking to you, as I may be led by the direction of the Holy Spirit. 

Apostfe Richards told you, in introducing me, that I had been for some years in the Southern States. Ten years and three months have 1 labored in the sunny south, and thai, too with a great deal of satisfaction. My father was a southerner , he was born in the State of Kentucky, and while my mother wa: in Illinois, yet her people were southerners, and were from the state of South Carolina, so that I have southern blood in my veins and Irish also. (I am proud of that little drop of Irish blood. I suppose it is Irish; my father's mother's name was O'Neill — I don't think she came from Germany.) I have been most happy in bearing my testimony to the principles of the Gospel throughout the south land, and many times I have publicly expressed my appreciation of the kindness bestowed upon me by the people of that land. I have stated many times that I believed they were the most religious people in the United States, the kindest hearted, the most generous and hospitable, and I repeat it. My heart will never be weaned away from the good people of the south. 

Inasmuch as one mission president has given a synopsis of the work done in his field, I think perhaps it would not be out of place for me to do likewise. 

During the time I have labored in the south, 1 think there has been 25,000 Books of Mormon distributed among the people, 160,000 Voice of Warning, 150,000 copies of "Mr. Durant," a work upon the principles of the Gospel, some 25,000 hymn books, 40,000 other miscellaneous works, 3,500,000 religious tracts; and there has been a little over 6,800 people baptized into the Church. That bears me out, I think, in saying they are the most religious people that we are finding in any portion of the United States. Their love is strong, and their pre judice is strong. They are not hypocritical. If they are your friends you will find it out very quick, and if otherwise they don't hesitate in letting you know it. God bless the people of the south. I thought I would like to say just these few words concerning them, now that I am to take my departure to another field of labor. I am glad I am going to another field; that is my business. I am a Seventy in the Church, and my place is out on the firing lines. That is w,hen; my priesthood calls me, and I trustthat while I live and bear this priesthood I will be willing to remain out in the world, so long as the authorities of the Church may see fit to keep me there. 

There are many reasons why I rejoice in the knowledge that I am going to labor in the Eastern States. I look upon that as a sacred ground. It was there that the boy prophet, as mentioned by President Bennion, went into the woods, and kneeling down in solitude, asked God for wisdom. It was in that field where the heavens were opened, after centuries of darkness, and where God the Eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ condescended to speak once more to their children upon the earth. It was there, in answer to prayer, where God sent the angel Moroni to visit the Prophet and reveal to him concerning the plates that had been hid for centuries, and which gave to the world a knowledge, then unknown, concerning the dealings if the Almighty with one half of this world of ours. It was there that this sacred record was translated by the gift and power of God. It was there that the Almighty sent John the Baptist with the Aaronic priesthood, when he came to Joseph and Oliver, in Pennsylvania, and laying his hands upon their heads, bestowed upon them, in the name of Messiah, the Aaronic Priesthood, with a promise that it never more would be taken from the earth until the' sons of Levi did offer an offei unto God in righteousness. It was there that the Father sent Peter, James and John, who came upon their mission to bestow the holy Melchisedek Priesthood and ordain those servants Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was there that the first people in this dispensation were led down into the waters of baptism, where they were confirmed members of the Church, where the Church was organized, and where God did many wonderful things in setting up His Church and Kingdom upon the earth. Not only that, but it was in that territory that God did something else before this, the setting up of the government of the United States, a part of the work of God that wai a forerunner of the coming of His Holy Son upon the earth. In this sacred book too, the Book of Mormon, we read that the Almighty took the prophet Nephi upon a high mountain and gave to him a vision of the future, showing him a time when His Spirit would move upon an individual, causing him to crosj the mighty waters, coming to a remnant of His people, and that the power of God would be upon those who gathered to this land. The Lord showed Nephi how His Spirit moved upon them in breaking loose from their mother country, and afterwards contending for their liberty, and organizing the government of independence upon this land. 

Talk about loyalty to the government of the United States, there is no church upon the earth the members of which believe as fully as wc believe, that the organization of this government was a part of the work of Almighty God. There is no people upon the earth who believe as strongly as we believe, that what God has set up no man should teai . Therefore that sacred book, which is a part of our religion, give^ the lie to any man or any set of men, any political party, who say the Latter-day Saints are not the most loyal Americans living upon the face of the earth. We keep an army of over 2,000 men out in all parts of the civilized earth, teaching, what? That God made the government of the Unites States! That is a part of their missionary work, distributing the proof, given to us by revelation from on high, of the fact that this government is a part of the work of God, the only government upon the face of the earth that He has set up, and demonstrated by revelation, by vision, that it is His work. Yet we find some people who say that we are antagonistic to the government. I almost feel like quoting the words of President Angus M. Cannon, who said once, "the sooner some people went to hell the quicker they . would get out," and I don't know but that is about true. 

It is our business to go into all nations of the earth and tell mankind what God has wrought, what He has set His hand to do in the dispensation of the fullness of times that the Priesthood has been restored, that the last dispensation has been ushered in, that the Church has been organized. The words of the angel to the boy, the farmer's lad, have come true, notwithstanding he was told that he would never be known outside of the county where he lived, yet today there is not a civilized nation upon the face of the earth where the name of Joseph Smith is not had for good and for evil. There is no other thing, no other work, that has been a fulfiller of so many predictions of the Almighty as this . -In our day, in every nation upon the earth, there are people saying, "Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, where we can learn of His ways and walk in His paths;" and this has been brought to pass by the restoration of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Chrisf upon the earth in this dispensation. It is true that the enemy said to our fathers and our mothers, "Get ye up into the mountains," and they got; and they are fulfilling one of the mightiest revelations of God, by being driven here. Every time, as Brigham Young said, they kicked Mormonism, the^ kicked it uphill, never down hill. 

We acknowledge the hand of the Lord even in our persecution, but that does not justify the persecutors. It needs be that offenses come, but woe be unto them by whom they came. God did not compel them to do it; they have got to pay the penalty. It was probably ordained in some way that there should be a traitor in the days of the Messiah, but that does not take away from Judas the responsibility, as an individual, or his punishment for betraying the Son of God. He has got to suffer the pangs of the condemned; and so will all persecutors suffer the pangs of the condemned, until the justice of Almighty God shall bt satisfied. It will not be a lake of fire, either; it will not be to be toasted upon coals of fire; it will not be having a horned devil there with a pitchfork turning them over as he roasts them upon coals of fire. Here we are mortal, with mortal faculties. We commit sin, and we suffer the pangs of the remorse of conscience, but after a while it passes away, and we forget it, because we are mortal, and then we go on sinning more and more, and we continue to forget it. But I want to say to you that when we are resurrected from the dead we will not come up mortal. Every faculty of our being will be immortal, and we will bring forth with us a remembrance of everything that we have not atoned for, and we cannot forget it. We will there suffer remorse of conscience untii we have paid the uttermost farthing; and I don't know but that will be worse than coals of fire. 

I bear testimony that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God. I warn to bear testimony that no man can be untrue to that man and still receive blessings from God the Eternal Father. I say it is your duty to be loyal and true. His friends are your friends, his enemies are your enemies. You should teach it to your children and your children's children, from generation to generation, that the man who may be at the head of this Church, no matter what his name is, no matter who he may be, his friends are your friends, his enemies are youi enemies, and what mankind would like to do to him they have it in their hearts to do to you. 

I remember in the missionary field that I had a portrait of an individual who was not a religious man, not by any means. Probably he did not do at all times what he ought to have done, but I have written beneath his picture the words, "Fprter Rockwell, the Prophet's Friend." He was indeed the friend of the Prophet; a devoted protector of the head of the Church. He would have, laid down his life in defense of the man who stood at the head of the Church, and he is remembered today for his loyalty, and his love for those whom God had placed at the head and his de will be remembered in his favor on the books above. While he may have to pay the uttermost farthing for sins he committed, 1 want to tell you on the other page of that book he has received a credit for loyalty that will stand in his favor throughout the countless ages of eternity. I think we should let the world know that, to a man we are willing to surround our president and protect him. That we look upon his enemies as our enemies, and that we will defend him with our lives if necessary. 

I rejoice in the testimony that God has given me concerning this work, and feel for myself, and know, it is true, and I want to remain true to it. I bear my testimony to you that the men at the head of this Church are prophet; of God and I want my testimonyrecorded for or against me, because I give it as knowledge, and I bear it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Divine inspiration manifest in discovery of this land, and establishment of its government.— Saints should live up to the light and knowledge they have received. — Good works the only sure evidence of faith. — Church members blessed with wise, faithful, and diligent teachers. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that the words that have been spoken to you this afternoon are the truths of heaven, inspired of the Lord, and I admonish vou to remember them, and put them into practice. 

The Lord revealed, many centuries ago, to one of His Prophets, Nephi, that His people who inhabited this country, North and South 

America, should be destroyed, leaving but a remnant of the seed of his wicked brethren, on whom rested the curse of blackness, that this country should be lost to the knowledge of the eastern world, and that He would inspire one who should journey upon the waters and discover this promised land. And so we believe, emphatically, that the discovery of America by Christopher Columbus is a direct fulfilment of the prediction of the Lord, and that it is a part of His great plan, as has been stated, in preparing for the restoration of the everlasting gospel in these last days. He not only inspired Columbus to discover America, but He also inspired men to establish this great government, whose principles are as liberal as the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, yielding obedience to which will make men and women free indeed. We understand that not only did the Lord inspire the declaration of independence and the constitution of this great country of ours, but by His power He has enabled the people thus far to maintain independence, and liberty of faith, under the constitution of these United States. We Latter-day Saints are presumptuous enough to believe that we as a people, though but few in number compared with the population of these United States, are the "IT," if I may use that expression; though limited, our numbers help to make up this great commonwealth. By and by from the center of Zion, the word of the Lord is to go out, not only to this nation, but also into all the nations of the earth, until every nation, kindred, tongue and people shall have the opportunity to enjoy the same blessing's that we enjoy today through the gospel of our Mas. This is the great land of pronlse in which we live. I thank the Lord for the liberty implanted in this great country of ours. I thank the Lord, too, for the liberty which our people find in other nations where they are located. There is a spirit of toleration and liberality with the heads of other nations where our people have colonized. I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all these civil blessings for our people, as well as other spiritual and temporal blessings that are so bounteously poured out upon us. 

I was thinking while the brethren were speaking, of that passage of scripture beginning with the 11th verse of the 4th chapter of Ephesians, which tells how the Lord gave to His primitive Church certain officers, "Apostles, Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors, Teachers," etc., for certain specific purposes, for the work of the ministry, the perfecting of the Saints, the edifying of the body of Christ, till they should all come into a unity of faith and a knowledge of the Son of God. So in these days He has organized His church in perfection, giving unto us all the officers that were had in the primitive church, and many auxiliaries as helps in government; and these people, the Latter-day Saints, are well taught. Indeed, if we were now living up to the light and knowledge that has come to us, our light would shine out in the nations, they would behold the power of God manifest among us, and see a people who would delight in works of righteousness, and who would eschew all evil. Had we lived fully up to this light the evils that have come to some of us through strong drink, and other evils, would have been averted. For instance, the sickness, weakened constitutions, and premature deaths resulting from' the use of tobacco would have been prevented. This work would have rolled on more rapidly, because the timings of the people would have been paid as the Lord designed. As a result of complete compliance with that law, the blessing and favor of heaven would have been more abundantly poured out upon us, and the earth would have been blessed for our sakes to bring forth more than it has. 

I acknowledge the faithfulness of the people generally. The Lord has acknowledged their faithfulness, and He has manifested His appreciation of what we have done, and has favored us by pouring out many blessings upon us; certainly we have been greatly blessed of the Lord. But I do feel that as a people we have need of being impressed with the importance and necessity of doing as well as we know how, as well as we have been taught. That we are well taught there is no question. We know what we should do, and we know what we should not do. We are not only required to do and to labor, but we are commanded to abstain from doing certain things which are evil, demoralizing, degrading, and unbecoming honest, honorable men and women. Indeed, the gospel of the Master is one of self-denial and self-sacrifice; it requires faith to enable men and women to make the sacrifices required, and to deny themselves the things which are forbidden by the gospel. Just as we were told by one of the speakers this afternoon, it may be an easy matter for people of some denominations to live" up to the requirements of their churches and creeds, but with the Latter-day Saints there is a continued warfare  life, denying one's self the things which his nature craves, and making sacrifice day after day; it requires faith to enable us to do these things and to continue to the end. We cannot hope to be able to succeed, and come off victorious in the end, only through faith in God and the help that He will give us through faith. If I do not pay my tithing, what reasons have I to assign for not doing so ? I can think of no other reason than that I have not faith sufficient to do it. If I could make myself believe that God has spoken from the heavens, that it was He who gave that revelation which says that one-tenth of my interest annually should be given to the Church for the building up of the kingdom, if I could believe in my heart and soul, even as if God came and told me that it is His will I should do so, I think I would have no further trouble. The difficulty is, if I do not yield obedience to that law, I manifest that I do not believe the law. I try to make myself imagine that I believe it, but in this I deceive myself. What did the Apostle James say? "Lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls, but be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving yourselves." So, I feel that some of us Latter-day Saints are actually deceiving ourselves, trying to make ourselves believe that our faith is perfect in the law of God, and at the same time it does not produce that result which the Lord desires. 

We have need, my brethren and sisters, to increase our faith in the Lord; and so these officers are placed to teach us faith in God, and in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world, and faith in the Holy 

Ghost as one of the trinity of the Godhead, whose influence fills the immensity of space, the medium of communication between the Father and His children. Those who have spoken to you today are laboring for this end. You have heard two presidents of missions of the United States, and two local presidents, one presiding over an important stake of Zion, and another over a populous ward. You have heard their pleading, and their teachings. Such are the teachings of other servants of the Lord, who can be counted by the thousands. Thus we are teaching the Latter-day Saints, and teaching the world; and we propose to continue to teach and labor in loving kindness and persuasion, to bring men and women to that perfect faith in the Lord which will secure them eternal lives, by their yielding obedience to the laws and requirements of the gospel. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May His favor be upon us. May we be able to understand His will, and with all our souls, with all our might, mind and strength, serve Him, making the required sacrifices that we may obtain eternal life, is the humble prayer of your fellow servant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.* 

The choir sang the hymn, "Onward, Christian soldiers." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Daniel G. Miller. 
