Morning
05 10 1908


ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Kind treatment at Irrigation Congress.— Utah victories at New Mexico Territorial Fair.— Music and religious services on passenger train. — Moral elevation of mankind the mission of the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy in the privilege of being present here this morning, and sorely regret that it was not quite possible for me to be with you here yesterday, that I might have participated in the spirit of the opening session of the conference, and been in communion with you during the entire day. 

It has been my privilege, within the past few days, to be in attendance at the Irrigation Congress held at Albuquerque, New Mexico. There were present about nine hundred delegates from various sections of the Union, and the spirit of the congress was a very satisfactory one. Some of us, however, were compelled to leave before its close, as also we were delayed in reaching and being in attendance upon its first meetings, owing to conditions along the lines of the railways. The spirit of that gathering was the improvement, so far as practicable, of this western land, the reclamation of the arid sections, and establishment of such enterprises as tend to the betterment of that section of the world we love so much. 

We were also happy to be in attendance, though briefly at the Territorial Fair of New Mexico. Utah was in competition with other sections of the country for a cup or trophy, given by Mr. Hearst 01 New York; and I am pleased so say to you that Utah was successful in carrying off that trophy, valued at one thousand dollars. In addition to this, there was a contest between four or five bands. The band from Utah, led by Mr. John Held, was in competition for another cup, presented by Mr. Hearst, valued at $100.00. There was a band fron Chihuahua in Mexico, said to stand very high in the knowledge of music and there were several other bands, One, I believe, from Denver, and others from the Territory of New Mexico, and possibly one from Arizona, though I am not certain in regard to this latter statement. The result of that competition was that the band from Utah secured the cup valued at $100.00, given by Mr. Hearst; and they returned home in jubilation over their success. 

We were kindly treated, as we always have been among that body of gentlemen who congregate at these congresses; and the fairest possible action was taken, in every sense of the word, by all concerned, looking to the good of every section. We find that we are gradually becoming more widely known, and that the ill feelings that have sometimes existed are being eliminated from the hearts of men and women, as they become conversant with the nature of our work. 

I desire to say, in addition, that yesterday the band gave something of an entertainment in their car, to which the people upon the train were invited, and they gave us some very fine music indeed. It was also our privilege to sing hymns, and to offer prayer, and we had the further privilege of speaking to that body of people from many sections of our country, to express our regard and love for our country, and to proclaim our purpose to aid in its advancement and upbuilding, and in the betterment of its citizenship. After 1 had spoken, a motion was made, by Brother Richard W. Young, tendering a vote of thanks to the band, and this was unanimously carried. Then they played "My Country 'Tis of Thee," and the Doxology was sung, "Praise God From Whom aii Blessings Flow," after which Bro ther George Austin offered a closing prayer. Quite a number of the people who were in that company expressed themselves as very happy indeed to have been invited to be in attendance upon that occasion. 

I presume it is possible that some of them may be present here today, with the purpose in view of hearing our choir, as well as seeking to become acquainted with the conditions that exist in this part of the world, and for the purpose of listening to the voices that may bt raised from this platform, in speaking upon the principles of the Gospel. 

My brothers and sisters, I regret to say that owing to engagements that have arisen with me, I shall be under the necessity of leaving this city today at one o'clock, for California. I trust you will tolerate my absence, as I have been entangled in the meshes of some business connected with these congresses, that requires the fulfillment of my word to be in attendance. 

With you, I want to endorse the resolutions that it is said you passed here yesterday. I did not read them, but I take it for granted that the common sense of the Latterday Saints, and their faith in the Supreme Being, lead them to decide upon their movements and purpose in harmony with such suggestions as may come from our presiding authorities, looking to the betterment of the human race — not alone the problems of our own advancement, the uplifting and upbuilding of that system we love so Well, but the betterment of our great country, that its citizenship may be improved by our aid and suggestions. We desire, also, that we ourselves may be improved by the application of the principles of temperance and morality; and that we may be inspired with a thorough and determined purpose that the best elements of pure manhood and pure womanhood shall be awakened also in the souls of our fellows, to the best of our ability. This is our , and our mission. The work we have accepted came from God, and it comprehends within it all things that are noble and good, all things that are pure and right. They who drink at the divine fountain, and are impressed with the Holy Spirit and enjoy its direction, will be found in their struggles and efforts seeking to enhance the well being of their countrymen. When I say "01 untrymen," I am in harmony with the view that was held by the fathers of our country, in regard to this land, that it was indeed choice above all other lands; and that- it was indeed the purpose of our government to open the door of liberty, peace, and happiness to the human race. While I do not anticipate that the downtrodden people of all the world can find a home under the flag of tne United States, it being impossible for this land to care for and protect them all, yet I do believe that the principles of liberty announced by the fathers of this republic, and upon which this government has builded, will modify, and change, and "leaven the lump" until every land and clime under the sun will, in greater or less degree, receive the principles enunciated by them, and make the effort to so overcome false traditions of the past that ail nations will eventually be found in the way of the accomplishment ol good. 

My brethren and my sisters, with this mission and purpose in view, appreciating the glorious land in which we live, the truths of thr Gospel that has been re-established, the visitation of heavenly messengers, the presence of God Himself and His Son, their declaration of truth, and the bestowal of the graces and gifts so essential to the well-being of the human race, we  led to think more cautiously, and to act more considerately. When we reflect upon these things, we should feel disposed to act more wisely and more kindly in the conduct of our lives, in obedience to the principles of temperance and morality, the principles of justice,, mercy and love, reaching out the helping hand to the unfortunates of the world, pointing to them the way of life and the enjoyment of liberty, freed from the trammels of evil into which so many have drfted. 

My brethren and my sisters,I bear my testimony to the truth of the Gospel of the Redeemer, and I say to you; obey its behests, keep the commandments of God, stand upright in the majesty of the Spirit that comes from on high, and when His jewels are clustered, in the eternities, upon your brow will rest the crown of life, and you will receive the approval of God. Disobedience to these principles, disregard of the Divine will, and disregard of the laws of this glorious country of ours, means trouble, tribulation, and sorrow; while, on the other hand, if we are true to these principles and keep the commandments of God, happiness and peace will be the result, and the blessings of God will come to His children. May God bless you Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Evidences that Temple building is approved by the Lord. — Predictions, and the word of the Lord, concerning latter-day Temples. — Intense interest manifest in Temple work. — Great number of ordinances performed. 

Brethren and sisters : Perhaps the most striking feature of the Latterday work, in which we are engaged, is temple-building; we are a temple-building people. Whenever and wherever the Lord has had a people upon the earth, He has required them to build a temple, or a house of the Lord, unto Him. If this be true, what becomes of the claim of the Re-organized Church of Latter-day Saints that they have the Church of Christ, for they are without a temple and without temple ordinances; and what becomes of the claims of many other denominations in the earth? For they also are without a temple and without temple ordinances. 

You will remember that in the early ages of the world, in the days of ancient Israel, in the wilderness, that they had a tabernacle, a kind of a movable building, suited to their condition, which no doubt to them took the place of a temple; at least, it was the sanctuary of God, a place where He could meet with His people; and there were many demonstrations of power and of the favor of the Lord witnessed in the tabernacle in the wilderness. Later on, in the promised land, a great temple was reared to the name of the Lord; it was known as the Temple of Solomon. It was dedicated to the Lord under very interesting circumstances, and with demonstrations of power and of divine acceptance. Later on, the Savior, many times appeared in the temple and instructed the people there* His disciples and the saints, and when that holy house was used for improper purposes, and was desecrated, the Lord Jesus drove the offenders therefrom, for He declared that it was His Father's house. Even on this continent, in the days of the Nephites, we learn that temples were built among the people, for Nephi declared that he built a temple of the Lord and that  was patterned after the temple of Solomon. At the time, or just prior to the time, that the Savior manifested Himself to the Nephites, the people gathered around the temple in Bountiful, discussing the wonderful events that had transpired. In these latter days, after the saints founded the city of Kirtland, a temple was reared there to the name of the Lord; and as in the case of the temple of Solomon, the dedication of the temple at Kirtland was attended with demonstrations of power and of divine acceptance of the Lord. He appeared to be well pleased with that work, and in that house the saints enjoyed many glorious visions. It is recorded in section no of the Doctrine and Covenants, as follows; under the heading, "Visions manifested to Joseph, the Seer, and Oliver Cowdery, in the Kirtland Temple, April 3, 1836." — seventytwo years ago : 

"The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. 

"We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us, and under His feet was a paved work of pure gold in color like amber. 

"His eyes were as a flame of fire, the hair of His head was white like the pure snow, His countenance shone above the brightness of the sun, and His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: 

"I am the first and the last, I am He who liveth, I am He who was slain, I am your advocate with the Father. 

"Behold, your sins are forgiven you, you are clean before me, therefore lift up your heads and rejoice, 

"Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name, 

"For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here, and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house. 

"Yea, I will appear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house. 

"Yea, the hearts of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house; 

"And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands, and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured out upon the heads of my people." 

Why should the fame of that house, the first temple reared in this generation, spread to all nations? Because it was accepted of the Lord, and the Lord Himself appeared in it, He manifested Himself to His people, and His voice was heard there declaring that He had accepted it, and that He had accepted His people. And there were other glorious visions given;Moses, Elias, and Elijah appeared, and committed keys of power and authority to the Prophet. 

A few years after the saints settled at Nauvoo, and founded that beautiful city, they reared a temple to the Lord; and again, when the people migrated to this country and established a community in the mountains, after they had founded the great city of Salt Lake, they built a temple to the Most High God. In their infancy, as it were, in the days of their poverty, the foundations of this great temple were laid. After the saints settled in Cache valley, and had founded the city of Logan, they built a temnle there. Also, after they had settled in Manti, thev built a temple there: and when they founded the city of St. George, away to the south, thev were a poor people, but in the course of time, they built a temple there. Thus we have, in this mountain region, four great  glorious temples; and doubtless Isaiah, the Prophet, had his eye fixed upon the temple located on this block, when he said : 

"In the latter day, the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the tops of the mountains and be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it." 

Brethren and sisters, go forth into the world, entier into th; mountains, visit the high places of the earth.and where — except here — where will you find a temple erected to the Most High God? Surely Isaiah was inspired, and his prophecies are being fulfilled by the Latter-day Saints. Let me call your attention to this significant fact, that these temples, which have been er ected at such a cost of time and means and labor, were not built to beautify the country or to please the eye, or to attract the attention of strangers, but were built for a greater purpose, and that purpose is emphasized in the following words, better, perhaps, than I can tell it; 

"And again, verily, thus saith the Lord : Let the work of my temple and all the works which I have appointed unto you, be continued on and not cease, and let your diligence and your perseverance and patience and your works be redoubled, and you shall in no wise lose your reward, saith the Lord of Hosts. 

"And if they persecute you, so persecuted they the prophets and righteous men that were before you; for all this there is a reward in heaven. 

"And again, I give unto you a word in relation to the baptism for your dead : 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, concerning your dead : When any of you are baptized for your dead, let there be a recorder, and let him be eye-witness of vour baptism : let him hear with his ears, that he may testify of the truth, saith the Lord, that in all your recording it may be recorded in heaven, that whatsoever you bind on earth may be bound in heaven; and whatsoever you loose on earth may be loosed in heaven, Therefore, brethren and sisters, these temples of the Lord are regarded by the Latter-day Saints as the connecting link between the heavens and the earth; and therefore, again, because of the ordinances for the dead, which are performed in the House of Goa we are not only building up a great church upon the earth, but are laying the foundation for a great church in the spirit world. It is because of this, in my judgment, that the Lord emphasizes the importance of temple work and that with us His people, it must continue on and not cease. 

Some years ago, a brother approached me, and he said : "Brothei Clawson, I am sixty-seven years of age; I have been a strong and active man in my life, and have done a great deal of hard work, but now I am somewhat feeble; I can not engage in manual labor as heretofore. How shall I spend my time ?" I said to him, "Go to the house of the Lord." "Thank you," he replied, "I will take your counsel." About eight years later, I met this brother again. He appeared to be very happy indeed; and there was an expression of joy in his countenance. "Brother Clawson," he said, "during the past eight years I have been working for my ancestors, in the house of the Lord, After that conversation with you, I went east and I gathered up eight hundred names of my relatives; and during the past eight years I have personally officiated for three hundred of my ancestors, and I propose to continue on with the good work; I am happy for the Lord has blessed me." He further said, "1 saw in vision, upon one occasion, mv father and mother, who were "ot members of the Church, who 1">d not received the Gospel in life.  I discovered that they were living separate and apart in the spirit world, and when I asked them how it was that they were so, my father said: 'This is an enforced separation, and you are the only individual that can bring us together; you can do this work; will you do it?'" — meaning that he should go into the house of the Lord and there officiate for his parents who were dead, and by the ordinance of sealing bring them together and unite them in the famiL relation beyond the vail; and he informed me that he had attended to the work, and I rejoiced with him and congratulated him. 

Just now, at the beginning of this meeting, I went down into the audience, and a brother reached oui his hand, a brother eighty years of age and upwards, I think, I judged so from his appearance. He shook my hand, and I recognized him as a man who had been much in the temple here, and I said to the party sitting next to him, "This is a temple man," and the brother spoke up and said, "Yes, Brother Clawson, I have officiated in the temple for twelve hundred souls." Then I turned again to the party next to him and said: "Our brother here may pass through life unnoticed; he may attract but little attention, but I tell you he will be a big man in the other world." He will be an important character there, because it will be known of him and will be said of him that he turned the key of life and salvation for twelve hundred souls. And I submit to you, my brethren and sisters, is not that a mighty work, and are not his last days better than his first days? 

Brethren and sisters, the opportunities that are before us in the house of the Lord are boundless. 

Our dead are waiting, anxiously waiting for this people to go into the house of God and officiate for them that they may be liberated from the prison house in the spirit world. During the time these four temples have been in operation, there have been over three million ordinances performed in behalf of the dead and over 240,000 ordinances in behalf of the living, or in other words, between three and four million ordinances performed for the living and for the dead. So I maintain and wish to strongly emphasize, if I could, that probably the most striking feature of the latter-day work, in which we are engaged, is the building of temples. We are a temple-building people, and ever will be, for this is one of our duties, it is one of the obligations resting upon us and made binding upon the Latter-day Saints, and made binding upon every people who are blessed and accepted by the Lord. May God bless us and help us to appreciate His goodness, His power and His authority, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"He leadeth me," a tenor solo, was sung by Elder Wm. D. Phillips. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Necessity for prayer, and its efficacy. — The Saints admonished to pray in their homes. — Marvelous results of prayers of faith. — The praying Saint will not apostatize. — Prayer a reliable source of peace and happiness. — Prayer needful under all conditions and circumstances. 

We have been blessed, my brethren and sisters, with sweet music during this conference, but above , we have been extremely blessed with the word of the Lord, through His servants, by way of admonition to this people. 

Yesterday, while President Smith was speaking upon the Word of Wisdom, my soul responded "Amen" to every word utered by him, and I said to myself: I would that the "Mormon" people were united in their observance of this great law, that every member of the Church would accept the counsel given at this conference respecting temperance as the will of the Father and live strictly according to the revelation of God in this particular. Is it possible for us to place ourselves in a position to accept and adhere to this requirement of the Lord? I am convinced that it is. Then what can I recommend to this people, or what advice can I give to this congregation, and to the Saints in general, that would help them to live this law strictly? I have decided that the best thing I can say is to recommend to the people that they pray to God for help and assistance, and continue to pray in earnest until the desired end has been attained. Let those who have already obeyed the law pray that power may be given them to assist those who are still struggling to overcome their shortcomings in this regard. 

During this conference I have felt like calling the attention of the Saints to the necessitv of prayer, for I know what prayer has done for God's people in the past, and what it has done for them in this age. I feel in my soul to thank the Lord that I had a mother who taught me to pray, from the time I was old enough to understand anything. She not only taught me by word and example to pray, but she taught me in the same way observance of the Word of Wisdom. My home was a home of prayer and temperance, and I sincerely thank God for it. 

Here let me quote the words of one of our hymns, that I always love to hear sung: 

Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, 

Unuttered or expressed; The motion of a hidden fire 

That trembles in the breast. 

Prayer is the burden of a sigh, 

The falling of a tear, The upward glancing of an eye, 

When none but God is near. 

Prayer is the simplest form of speech 

That infant lips can try; Prayer, the sublimest strains that reach 

The Majesty on high. 

I trust and hope that all the Latter-day Saints attend to their prayers. I have been surprised many times, when traveling in the stakes of Zion, to hear presidents of stakes say that, in some homes of members of the Church, prayer is almost forgotten. I say to every Latterday Saint that this is wrong and dangerous. Have family prayers; they should be simple and sincere, a supplication to God from the heart, asking for His blessings and mercies. I know that He will bless the people if they will ask Him. Christ taught simplicity of prayer; and gave as an example that simple yet sublime form now known as the Lord's Prayer. I often wish that it was repeated in our congregations more than it is. In the Senate of the United States, the Reverend Edward Everett Hale, the chaplain of that law-making body, never offers a prayer but what he brings it to a close by repeating the Lord's Prayer. 

Prayer is the proper way of com between God's children and Himself; when that communication ceases, then spiritual decay begins. I can testify to that, my brethren and sisters, and I know that almost every one of you can testify similarly — not from experience, but from observation. We have seen men enjoying the Spirit of God, thankful recipients of His blessings, enjoying peace and contentment in their homes, and thanking God night and morning for these blessings; but, for some reason or other, they ceased to acknowledge God as the Giver of all good, and prayer became a thing of the past with them; in almost every case the Spirit of God has been withdrawn from such homes and such men, and spiritual decay began. Therefore, let me ask you to pray with your families; and I advise you to see that every one of your children is taught how and when to pray. 

A famous preacher, Christmas Evans, says of prayer: "It is the rope in the belfrey; we pull it, and the bell rings in heaven." 

To him, my brethren and sisters, prayer was real. He believed in God, had faith in Jesus Christ, and was convinced that through prayer blessings were obtained by the children of this world. I believe that it has been by prayer alone that modern Christian organizations have retained as many truths pertaining to Christ's teachings as they have. I know that the prayer of a child is pleasing to God, and that the prayers of all righteous people availeth much. I ask that God will put it into the hearts of our children to pray to Him. I know, as the hymn says, that "prayer is the soul's sincere desire," and that it  either be to God or to Mammon — one or the other. If an honest person offers a prayer, if it is in his heart to ask of God those things that will be best for him, and that will tend toward the uplifting of mankind in this world, the betterment of God's children here, then that petition is a prayer that will ascend to the throne of the Father; but if it comes from the heart of a wicked person, and it is a mere selfish request, not intended for any righteous purpose, it is a prayer to mammon. 

Many people say : What does prayer do? What good does it accomplish ? Let us reflect; let us refer to the Bible, and see what prayer did for God's people in the past. As I recall it now, prayer has divided seas, and has rolled back flowing rivers; it has caused living streams of water to burst forth from solid rock; it has muzzled lions and has rendered vipers and poisons harmless; it has arrested the sun in its rapid race, and has stopped the course of the moon; it has burst open iron gates, and has recalled souls from eternity; it has called legions of angels down from the heavens. Prayer has bridled the vicious passions of men; it has routed and destroyed armies of proud, daring atheists. Prayer has brought one man from the bottom of the ocean, and carried another, in a chariot of fire, to heaven. I can imagine the scoffer and unbeliever saying : "Oh, this is ancient history. These are Bible stories; tell us what prayer has done modern individuals; tell us what prayer has done touching the things of this life; something that prayer has done in this age of the world, and let the dark ages take care of ." Well, I know a people who can say that through the power of prayer there have been accomplished as great things in this day as were ever done in former ages. It was through prayer that the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith; through prayer that the great plan of salvation was revealed unto him. It is through prayer that this people have been directed from' the foundation of this Church to the present time. It was through prayer that the pioneers were protected and guided across the trackless plains of the western wilderness, and brought safely to the tops of these mountains. It has been through prayer that God has blessed the earth in these valleys and made it produce abundantly, of fruits, vegetables grains and nearly every other requisite for the sustaining of His people in comfort. It seems to me that if we look into our own lives, and see what prayer has done for each and every one of us, we will find countless blessings that have come to us through prayer. 

But we must so live that we are worthy of the blessings asked for. I do not believe that a people steeped in sin, or a man corrupt in heart, can receive the full blessings of the eternal Father, for they do not place themselves in a position to receive them. A man must repent of his sins; he must have faith that God is the Giver of all good; he must believe that God actually exists before he can feel that his prayer will be answered. 

As far as I am concerned, and I believe as far as each and every Latter-day Saint is concerned, we can say it is through prayer that we have received a testimony that this Gospel is true, that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. I remember when I was a boy, my mother would talk to me by the hour, and often testify to me that she knew that this was Christ's Church. I had my doubts, and frankly stated to her that I had no such testimony. She was never discouraged, and would always say, "Reed, attend to your prayers; keep yourself unspotted from the sins of this world; have faith in God, and you shall know that this is God's work, that this is His Church, and you will be able to testify to the world that you know that God lives." The Prophet Joseph Smith told President John Taylor that if he would pray earnestly every day of his life, he would never apostatize from the Church. I say also to all members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that if they will attend to their prayers, make the hearthstone of the home an altar for prayer, where the words from sincere hearts appeal to our Father in Heaven, pray honestly, morning and evening, with the family and in secret; I promise them that they will never apostatize from this Church. 

When I was one of the presidency of the Utah Stake of Zion; I had a number of people come to me with their troubles, in a few instances, wives complaining of their husbands, the husband, in one or two cases, complaining against the wife — and to such a degree that they actually thought separation was necessary. I desire to say to you, that in not one instance did a woman or man come to me under such conditions but, upon inquiry, I found that family prayers had entirely ceased in such homes, the 

Spirit of God had left them, darkness had come in place of light, and the influence that made the home happy before, that made the husband love the wife and the wife the husband, had been removed, and they were drifting farther apart every day. 

I know that God will bless His people if they will attend to their prayers honestly and sincerely. Prayer is a duty. Why? Because God says that He desires His people to pray. And far greater than a duty, prayer is a privilege to every Latter-day Saint, and that privilege should be exercised by every member of the Church. No matter whether it be child, man, or woman, we should value our souls; and, as we value our soul's eternal happiness, as we value the salvation of mankind, the fulfilment of the decrees of God, the extension of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the eradication of all vices in our midst, as we value the great principles of temperance, virtue, truth, and charity, so let us pray. Let us pray early and late, and let the prayer not only be by the lips but from the heart. Let us pray in secret and in public. The sick and afflicted of this people need our prayers. The poor and needy need our prayers. The President of this Church needs our prayers. The President of this Nation needs our prayers. The wicked need our prayers; and I wish to say to you that Salt Lake City needs our prayers. All the peoples of the world need our prayers, and God will give answer, in His own due time, if they come from the hearts of an honest people. May we realize the importance of prayer and what it means. It is a weapon that God has  in the hands of His people, a weapon He has given us with which to fight sin; and remember this, that when we use it, we have God on our side to uphold our hands in any battle against sin. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that the blessings of God may be with you, and that you will take to your homes, from this conference, the spirit of prayer. Teach it to your children, and let one people — the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — be known all over the world as a people who believe in prayer. During my visits in the East, I have had people testify, many times, that they have been in the homes of Latter-day Saints, and know that the "Mormons" are a prayerful people. I remember one Senator, living in an adjacent State, whom I have heard testify, time and time again, that there was one class of people in his State that honestly believed in prayer; they even opened their amusements with prayer. He also testified that he had been in the home of a president of a stake, and that he had seen every member of the family, night and morning, kneel in prayer, after having sung a hymn, and join in calling upon God, in all earnestness, for His aid; and that no one could witness such a sight without testifying that such people must be sincere and honest in their attitude and belief respecting God and their religion. My brethren and sisters, let our lives be such that we can have all men testify the same of us; and may God's blessings be with you and with this people forever, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDEE HYRUM M. SMITH. ' 

Deserved reproof should be humbly accepted. — "There is no such thing as necessary evil." — Intelligent obedience most desirable. — Leaders should themselves walk the path they want flock to follow. 

I would like to read a portion of a revelation given to Joseph Smith, the Seer, at Kirtland, in May, 1831, in which the Lord said : 

Hearken, O ye elders of my Church, 'and give ear to the voice of the living God, and attend to the words of wisdom which shall be given unto you, according as ye have asked and are agreed as touching the Church, and the spirits which have gone abroad in the earth. 

Behold, verily I say unto you. that there are many spirits which are false spirits, which have gone forth in the earth, deceiving the world; 

And also Satan hath sought to deceive you, that he might overthrow you. 

Behold, I the Lord have looked upon you, and have seen atiominations in the Church that profess my name; 

But blessed are they who are faithful and endure, whether in life or in death, for they shall inherit eternal life. 

But wo unto them that are deceivers and hypocrites, for, thus saith the Lord, I will bring them to judgment. 

Behold, verily I say unto you, there are hypocrites among you, who have deceived some, which has given the adversary power, but behold such [that is, those who are deceived] shall be reclaimed; 

But the hypocrites shall be detected and shall be cut off, either in life or in death, even as I will; and wo unto them who are cut off from my Church, for the same are overcome of the world. 

Wherefore, let every man beware lest he do that which is not in truth and righteousness before me. 

And now come, saith the Lord, by the Spirit, unto the elders of His Church, and let us reason together, that ye may understand. 

Let us reason even as a man reasoneth one with another, face to face. 

Now when a man reasoneth he is understood of man because he reasoneth as a man, even so will I, the Lord, reason with you that you may understand. 

Wherefore I, the Lord, asketh you this question, unto what were ye ordained? 

To preach my gospel by the Spirit, even the Comforter which was sent forth to teach the truth; 

And then received ye spirits which ye could not understand, and received them to be of God, and in this are ye justified? 

Behold, ye shall answer this question yourselves; nevertheless I will be merciful unto you — he that is weak among you hereafter shall be made strong. 

Verily, I say unto you, he that is or-, dained of me and sent forth to preach the word of truth by the Comforter, in the Spirit of truth, doth he preach it by the Spirit of truth or some other way? 

And if it be by some other way, it be not of God. 

And again, he that receiveth the word of truth, doth he receive it by the Spirit of truth or some other way? 

If it be some other way it be not of God: 

Therefore, why is it that ye cannot understand and know that he that receiveth the word by the Spirit of truth, receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth ? 

Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understandeth one another, and both are edified and rejoice together; 

And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness; 

That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light and continueth in God, receiveth more light, and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. 

As remarked by Elder Reed Smoot, I also have rejoiced, during this conference, that my spirit has received gladly every word that has been spoken. Those remarks of the President of the Church, in relation to the Word of Wisdom, found my spirit in perfect accord, and I rejoice that I, who heard, understood exactly as he who spoke. I have understood the words of all the brethren. They have not been mys; they have been plain and easy to understand; and those who have spoken and all who have heard, I trust, have understood alike, and thereby evidence that they are possessed of the Spirit of Truth and of Light, and not of darkness. All that has been said has been edifying and good, and intended to build us up. From the manner in which the whole congregation, in one united "aye" expressed their approval of the resolution endorsing the sentiments of the President, I judge that they were in possession of the Spirit of God, that they understood His servants who reasoned with them as a man reasoneth with his friend, face to face. 

I am glad that there is the disposition in the President of the Church and in God, Who speaks through His servants, to reprove the congregations of Israel when they need reproof, as well as to commend them, when their lives are worthy of commendation. We should receive reproof with the same spirit that we receive commendation. We are sorry, to be sure, that we have to be reproved because of neglect of duty, but if neglect does prevail among us, then we need to be reproved, and it is my belief that this people will be more faithful in keeping the Word of Wisdom than they perchance have been before. I believe we are willing to receive the word of the Lord and that we will repent of our sins and overcome these evils that we have allowed ourselves to Decome addicted to and which were prompted by the false spirits that have gone abroad in the world to deceive men. The Lord is absolutely opposed to all manner of sin, of evil, of wickedness, of vice, and . He has declared that He can look upon these things with no degree of allowance. He cannot wink at these things, because He has commanded that they shall be done away among His people. Yet, there are those among us who have been deceived and who have imagined that the committing of a little sin was not a great thing. But when sin is committed, in the face of the knowledge that it is sin, condemnation must follow just as surely as the sin is committed. 

There is no such thing as "necessary evils." When any man declares that prostitution or any other crime is a necessary evil, or that saloons are a necessary evil, we are inclined to ask him how he knows. He can not know it, other than by his personal experience; he can not know it for some one else; and if he knows it by his own experience he acknowledges that he is vile and corrupt and is unfit and entirely unworthy of the association, confidence, or trust of decent and respectable people. We know to the contrary; we know that these things are not necessary, because God has declared it, and the Lord knows. Nowhere has He ever said that sin and wickedness are necessary, but He has condemned all such. As was said yesterday, all Latter-day Saints ought to set their faces, as flint, against all manner of evil, and by that example prove to the world that it is possible to live above sin, and not yield to the seducing wicked spirits which have gone abroad in the world. The man who imagines that these things are necessary is one of those that the Lord referred to as having been deceived by those wicked spirits. The Latter-day Saints ought to be in possession of the Spirit of God, and be guided in  things by it. We ought to have tabernacles which are clean and pure, and which have never been defiled, and cannot be defiled, because they are controlled Ti)y the Spirit of the Lord. Our bodies should be temples of the Most High God, wherein may dwell the Spirit of the Lord, and our words and our acts should always be the fruits of the Spirit. We should never per^ form the evil works of the flesh, but subdue them, and control ourselves in all righteousness. Thank God we, both as individuals and as a people, have the power to resist evil and overcome it with good. Therefore, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice that the Lord can see when His chosen people in any manner or degree depart from strict obedience to His commands, and that He will, by His divinely constituted authority, in a spirit of love, chasten us and call our attention to our shortcomings, that we may repent and turn unto Him before it is too late. 

I believe in my heart that there is a disposition on the part of the whole people to receive the word of the Lord and to put it into practice in their lives. If we have been guilty in any way, we will repent sincerely, we will strive to do better in the future, and we will exert our influence, with those over whom we preside, or with whom we can possibly have influence. I will say for my brethren of the general authorities of the Church, we ought to receive the instructions given in this conference. They apply not only to us as individuals, but as families. It is our duty to bring to bear on our families, our wives and children, that influence which shall also make them believe and rejoice to obey the word of God. These presidents of stakes and bishops of wards should not only be free from every manner of sin, themselves, free from every degree of evil, but they should set their houses in order; and their wives and their children should be obedient unto them, as thev are obedient unto the servants of God and unto our Father Himself. Their wives and children should obey the commandments of the Lord, walk in the paths of righteousness, obedience, and peace, and set an example that would add strength to those who preside. If it is possible for us to avoid it, none of us should be found in the condition of Alma of old. He had to say to his son : Because of your wickedness, because of your evil ways, my efforts in the preaching of righteousness have been neutralized, and I can do no good among the people who know you, because of your evil life; for they say : Go and set your own house in order, call your own son to repentance, correct his life, then come and teach us. That is the way I feel about it. I want those over whom I have influence, or authority and jurisdiction, not to obey me because of any coercion or force brought to bear upon them, but to obey me in the same manner that I feel to obey the servants of the Lord, and the commandments of God. Because it is right and the requirements are just. I want them to be possessed of the good Spirit, that they will not only obey gladly, but that they will know for themselves what spirit the instructions are of, so that when the servants of the Lord speak by the power and influence of the Holy Spirit, they will know and understand because they themselves have the same spirit. They will obey because they love the Lord and they love the Lord's . They will rejoice and, of their own free will and choice, will serve God and keep His commandments. That is the condition that should exist in the families of all the authorities of the Church, both general and local. Their families are or ought to be, in this condition; and then, as with the Priesthood, so with the people; we will have greater power, we will have greater influence to overcome the evils that obtain in our midst, and be better able to resist these wicked and seducing spirits which preach to us the doctrines of devils and have deceived some. May we have power to reclaim those thus deceived and call all evil ones to repentance; and if they will not repent, as we have read, leave them to the judgment of God. Our hope and feeling is that all may repent, and that sin and wickedness and evil of every name and nature may be done away. It cannot exist in a community which loves only purity and virtue and righteousness and whose every act proves that they love God with all their heart, might, mind, and strength, and that they love their neighbors as themselves. May the Lord be merciful to His people, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer, Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Benediction was pronounced by Bishop David A. Smith. 
