Second Overflow
06 10 1912 

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Anthony W. Ivins presided. The Seventeenth ward choir again furnished the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Grant us peace, O Lord.*' This anthem, and the jther selections rendered during this service, were composed by Prof. Evan Stephens; solo parts were sung by James H. Neilson, H. J. Christiansen, Amer i lansen, and Sisters Barnes and Smith. 

Prayer was offered by Elder James H. Martineau. 

A male quartet sang the hymn : 

Oh, give me back my Prophet dear, And Patriarch, O give them back, 

The Saints of latter-days to cheer, And lead them in the Gospel track! 

Elder Anthony W. Ivins presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church; each and all were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Gospel restoration." 

ELDER DAVID H. CANNON. 

(President of St. Goerge Temple.) 

I am very much gratified with the opportunity afforded me of addressing you for a few minutes this afternoon, and I trust that while I shall  this that I may have an interest in your faith, that such things as may be suggested to my mind may be of mutual benefit to us. The Gospel, with which we have become identified, is the power of God unto salvation to every man and woman who render themselves strictly obedient to its requirements; and I want to bear my testimony to the truth of that gospel, as revealed in this day and age of the world in which we live. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, inspired to do that which he accomplished in his day, and this gospel as restored through the Prophet has come to the earth never more to be taken from it, or given to another people, but is destined to accomplish that which God has designed should be brought about for the redemption of His children. 

I remember the Prophet Joseph Smith very well, though but a small boy at the time of his martyrdom; but I was impressed as a lad that he was a Prophet, a man superior to his fellows, and that God had raised him up to accomplish a great work. I have been acquainted with the other leaders of trie Church, President Young, President Taylor,  President Woodruff, President Snow, and President Smith. I bear testimony to their integrity to the truth and to the influence they have had upon the world, gathering many people from various nations where the gospel message greeted their ears, and caused them to come to these peaceful valleys, where they have the privilege of worshiping God according to the dictates of their conscience, and have not been made afraid. When these glad tidings reached the ears of our fathers in the lands of their nativity, they rendered obedience to the require of the gospel. It did not require a manifestation of any great mysterious power to convert them to the gospel, yet they faithfully adhered to the principles thereof, believing that they were principles that God had revealed. No matter how dark the day, or how lowering the clouds seemed to be that hung over the people, and, discouraging the conditions ' by which they were surrounded, they were unfaltering in their fealty to God and the principles that they had espoused. Driven from their homes, they sought refuge in some other part of the country, not knowing where they were going. They were always cheerful, making camp fires, sitting by them, and singing the songs of Zion, apparently as happy as it was possible for people to be, though deprived of everything they had possessed on the earth. 

I was talking the other day with some of those people who have recently been driven from Mexico. They said "A person cannot realize the feeling that possessed us in being forced from our homes, with nothing but what we stood up in, not having time to take our clothing or anything but the few things that were necessary for our immediate use. Nobody could understand our feeling, unless they had passed through a' similar experience." I can truly sympathize with them, because I remember the time when the people were driven from their homes' in Nauvoo, when the end apparently had come, everything seemed dark. They did not have friends that they could go to after being driven from their peaceful homes in Illinois, but thev crossed the Mississippi river, and journeyed in the wilderness, not knowing where they were going: but they were cheerful, and the Lord guided them, and brought them to these mountains. I 'remember very well the distressing conditions of the people. I remember the power of the Lord being manifest in many instances in their deliverance. I remember coming to Winter Quarters and remaining there, and that many of the people scattered from there into the surrounding regions to work and obtain outfits to enable them to come on to the valleys of the mountains; and others went on to locate an abiding place for the people. 

I remember when we entered these mountains, the forbidding aspect, the dreary appearance of the country and the conditions by which we were surrounded. We come here today and see the contrast. This sight that we behold today, the people surrounded by the comforts and conveniences that the Lord has conferred upon them, and the peace and quiet that surround them, are sufficient to convince the most skeptical of God's power having been manifest in behalf of the people. Settlements . have sprung up east and west, north and south, until the then Territory and now the State of Utah, is filled almost to its capacity, and the people have had to find place in the adjacent states, and are becoming a mighty people in the midst of this nation, of which we form a part. If we continue faithful, obedient to the requirements of the gospel, living in conformity thereto, God will continue to manifest his power, and the people will prosper, and increase in a knowledge of the truth. 

I heard a man a short time ago predict the conditions which are coming upon our sons and daughters. He said: "Mr. Cannon, in  with your young people, I find that they are not taking to religion, they are drifting into infidelity, and they have not the confidence in the leaders of the Church that you older men have had." I replied, "It may appear to you that way, but I am satisfied that these young men and young women, who now appear inactive in regard to spiritual affairs, if conditions should require it, you would find them as strong and as willing to defend the principles of eternal truth as their fathers ever were. The faith of the gospel is in their hearts, but, in our ordinary moving about, there is nothing connected with the gospel that requires us to wear a long face or appear sanctimonious." We believe that God is our Father, that His Son Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, and that through Him and by Him, and through obedience to the requirements that He has made of us, we will gain eternal lives in His presence. Every principle that is true, or that is calculated in its nature to raise mankind in the scale of human intelligence, is a part of the gospel, no matter where it comes from. When we approach the Lord in prayer, as has been done on this occasion, we go to him in faith, nothing doubting, because we know that He is our Father and will hear our petition. As we embrace the gospel, and conform strictly to it, God gives us a knowledge regarding its divinity, and we increase in faith until we have become thoroughly imbued with the spirit of the work of the Lord, and it only requires the occasion to make us stand forth firmly and valiantly in its defense. 

I rejoice in this great work. I rejoice in it from the fact that it is '  to every condition in which man may be found. The gospel requires the same degree of obedience from the man that is found in a palace as of the man who is found in a cottage. All men must render strict obedience to the requirements of the gospel. As the fruits of the spirit are manifest in man's life, he grows in intelligence, and in understanding of the things that pertain to God and godliness, and he becomes convinced and confirmed so that nothing can turn him from the truth, or rob him of the testimony of the spirit that is within him. You know sometimes people feel that in order for them to become converted to the gospel, it is necessary for them to have some kind of a miraculous manifestation; but the genuine Latter-day Saint will learn the truth by obedience, the conviction thus comes to them, and they realize that they are accepted of God. 

Ask a man the question how he knows the gospel to be true. Ask him, "Did you ever see an angel?" "No." "Did you ever see any one raised from the dead? You speak of the resurrection of the dead; have you ever seen anybody that was resurrected?" "No." "How do you know that this gospel is true? What demonstration have you had to satisfy you?" I never have had any miraculous manifestation, but I will tell you what I have had : I have endeavored to render myself obedient to the requirements of the gospel, and as I have done so the Spirit of God has testified to me of its divine authenticity. Any principle that has been revealed from the earliest times until the present, as I have tried to render myself obedient to its requirements, God has given me a tes regarding it, and my heart and my soul have been satisfied. The hope that is firmly implanted in my heart becomes brighter and stronger as I proceed to render obedience to the requirements made by the gospel through the servants of God. 

When we receive the gospel, we are not satisfied to sit down and say in our hearts we have received it, and we are satisfied; but we begin to desire to extend this knowledge that we have received to our fellows, and we begin to see what we can do to improve the condition of mankind. When the spirit of the work comes upon us we are not satisfied to look just alone to the interests of the living, and to bear testimony to them of the divine truths that we have received, but we also desire the eternal welfare of our progenitors, and we endeavor to see what can be done in their interest, to ameliorate their condition. At the time that the Lord commanded His servants to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, He said, "he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." So, we believe that those who did not render this obedience in their lifetime, and died without having the opportunity of obeying, that it is necessary for them to have the ordinance of baptism performed in their behalf, vicariously. As we become possessed of the genealogical data that will enable us to do so, we go into the houses that the Lord has caused to be erected, and we seek to perform the work that is necessary for the redemption of our kindred dead. The matter forces itself upon our understandings that we without our dead "can not be made perfeet," nor can our dead be made perfect without us, so we find that there is something good that we may do, every day that we live in the earth. 

A man said to me: "How is it that I have been identified with this Church so long and I have never been called upon to do anything?" "Well," I said, "the only reason that I can give is that you were never there when there was something to do." A person that is always ready and willing can easily find plenty to do, every day. No man is justified in sitting down and idling away his time, simply because he is not asked to go and do something. He can engage in no grander work than in the interest of his dead. He can go to the temple and be baptized for them; then he can receive other blessings on their behalf. He can place in the hands of his dead kindred keys, and power, and authority by which they may have the privilege of entering into celestial glory, and enjoying that which the Lord has to bestow upon the faithful. He can impart to them authority and power without which they never can pass to their exaltation. 

There are plenty of people drifting about the country, and the streets, that the man who bears the holy Priesthood has ample opportunity to bear his testimony to, who have not yet found the path to eternal life. Thus we have no surplus time, of spare time, and there is no occasion for any one to say that he has not been asked to do anything, or to ask the question, "How is it that I have never been asked to do anything?" The servants of the Lord should not have to ask people to do their duty, the people should be ready and willing. 

It is my desire to bear , my testimony to the people. I know, as I know that God lives, that this is the work of God. I know that the work that is done in our temples for the redemption of the dead is essential; and I know, furthermore, that those who go to the temple and do the work as far as they have genealogical data that will enable them to do it, the Lord will open the way for them to receive further information. The greater the amount of work they do the greater their desires will be to do it, and more information will be placed in their hands to enable them to continue the great work for the redemption of the dead. 

May God bless us, pour out His holy Spirit upon us, and enable us to be diligent in carrying out and assisting to accomplish His purposes in the earth, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

Many times when we are preaching in the mission fields, well meaning and good people say : "Why do you 'Mormons' give a place to Joseph Smith as one of the Prophets of God 5 " And we answer, we do not do that; God gave Joseph Smith his place, and he is just as indispensable as an instrument in the hands of God to execute the purposes of the Almighty as Adam, Moses, Abraham, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Peter or Paul. You know, the very first words that the Angel Moroni said to Joseph Smith were these, "God has a work for you to do;" and in that work we are associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and with him, as the Apostle  Paul declares, we are "fellow work with the Lord." What a glorious comfort, what a splendid privilege! A historian declared that "unless something new is born in America with power to save, that America will differ but little from the other parts of Christendom." That something new has been born; the gospel, which is new to this dispensation, but which is the ancient everlasting gospel, hath been restored, and it is the "power of God unto salvation" to every man and woman. 

A great preacher was asked the other day these questions : "Do you believe' that God is a personal being? Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ ?" And the great preacher declared that if he should answer "yes" to these questions that his answer might be taken in a dozen different ways. Has it come to that, that the people have been spoiled by vain philosophy, that a preacher cannot answer in the words of Peter, "Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God" ? Joseph Smith received that glorious vision, in which were shown to him the Father and the Son, whom to know is life eternal, the greatest gift that God can give to man. And it was his work, the work of that prophet, to declare the great truth to the world, that men were made in the image of God, and they are His children. This same preacher declared that the belief that "there is no hope beyond the grave" is a mistake, that he believed in it, that there is hope beyond the grave. Since when did this people that sit in darkness see a great light? Why, since in that stand in Kirtland, the Prophet Elijah, in fulfillment of prophecy, appeared to Joseph Smith and conferred upon him the Priesthood and the power to administer  to save the souls of those who have separated from the body and gone into the world beyond. This meant, you know, that there is hope beyond the grave; but that is as far as that minister can go. Where is the power to put this belief into practice? 

Items of truth there are in every creed, but Joseph Smith came with the bow that shot the apple to its core. He came with the power, with the Priesthood, with the means. God had made and designed in the heavens, by which the dead could be saved, and through which they with us can be made perfect in the kingdom of our Father. And so God revealed to his prophets that, in the temples of God, sacred ordinances could be performed which would save our dead, and in which holy places we could be united to our loved ones for time and all eternity. This is the distinction, apparent to me, of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He came not only to tell the truth, to announce God's word, but he came with the power, with the authority to put it into effect, and to give inspiration to all the commandments of God. 

One of the happiest moments I ever spent in my life, one of the greatest privileges I ever had, was to sit in that big Tabernacle and hear the Prophet of God announce that it was deemed advisable to build another temple. I say when he announced that, and asked for the vote of the Priesthood of the Church to sustain him and the Church authorities in that undertaking, and in that splendid work, I say it was one of the happiest moments of my life to raise my hand to sustain the Prophet and his brethren in the accomplishment of that splendid work. Let the world say what it may of Joseph Smith, he was a Prophet of God. 

"He gazed on the past, the present too, And opened the heavenly worlds to view." 

He came as God's ambassador. He did this work well, and in that work God grant that you and I may ever be with him, and with our leaders be blessed thereby. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Hosannah!" 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

In contrasting the sermons that I have heard during this conference with the spirit of the world, I am strongly reminded of the statement in the scriptures wherein it says that it shall be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man as it was in the days of Noah, that the people shall be indifferent, not knowing the way of life,- not certain of anything, and not particularly interested. Noah was unable, after 120 years' teaching, to induce more than his own family to go into the ark. In this day it seems to be the same. The members of sectarian churches of the world do not know they are right, neither do they know that they are not right. The people belonging to each church are willing to go on in their way, generally speaking, and willing to let all other churches do the same. The Baptists, Methodists, Congregationalists and all others concede that ministers of all the so-called Christian churches have the right to make their living by preaching. In doing this they feel that they  doing some good, and, in a general way, the Christian world certainly has been benefited, for we know that all Christians are elevated much above those who have not accepted Christianity. The Christian sects have not accepted all the truth, but they have accepted a great deal of it, and we know that those who have accepted a part have been made better and elevated to a higher standard. 

In my short experience, I can remember when sectarian ministers preached the awful doctrine of damnation of infants, and that if people did not accept Christ in this life they were lost forever, and many other similar doctrines. But, today they have grown more liberal as they call it, and more broadminded, even willing to leave the hereafter to the Lord, while they now preach that men should repent and live a holy life, and walk the straight and narrow path. I believe that the Christian world has done a great work for the uplifting of the human family. They have fought the restored gospel, and been unwilling to accept it as a whole, but they are now accepting it little by little, and it is marvelous how much of the revealed gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ the Christian world now believes, compared to a few years ago. I have been told, in the last year, by a number of ministers, that they believe in the restoration of the gospel; that is, since the days of Luther, Calvin, Knox and other great religious reformers, there has been a restoration of the light of the primitve gospel of Jesus Christ, not a restoration of it as taught by the Latter-day Saints, but a restoration of it little by little, or as fast as they are prepared for the same. 

I rejoice in the knowledge my brethren and sisters, that they are beginning to believe in the restoration. I rejoice to see them accepting principles which were revealed by the Lord of heaven to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I have rejoiced in the spirit of the testimonies that have been borne by the speakers during this conference, in their positiveness, and in their assurance that they know what the Church and people are doing, and where they are going. People of the world are growing tired of having leaders that are not certain of their path. Therein is the beauty of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for in it is revealed to us the true character of our Father and His earth-born Son. We are not in doubt as to who they are, what they look like, the purpose of Christ's mission in the world, and their supervision over the human family. This restored gospel has heen leavening the whole lump, and the world is being prepared to accept it, not in part, as at present, but as it was revealed from heaven, as to doctrine as well as to authority and organization. 

Last spring I heard two sermons on the resurrection which were almost a counterpart of the teaching on this subject found in the Book of Mormon. When I think that, in the United States, in the last eight years, the seven missions have distributed nearly 200,000 copies of the Book of Mormon, it is no wonder that the truths in the book are spreading among the people. The simplicity and beauty of its teachings, like the revelation of the Father and the Son, are affecting the world. People are beginning to believe in the restoration of the gospel. They are beginning to be that the God of heaven is our Father, and that He loves His children. Still they are lukewarm, they are not positive in the way that they are going. They are too easy in their religion. They are like some that we have among us — they are Christians, but are not doing much at their religion. And so in the Christian world, there are millions that are not doing much at it. In fact, the men folks of the world, in a very large measure, have withdrawn themselves from churches and are taking part in lodges, because the lodges give them something to do, if it is no more than to sit in a special chair, carry banners, march in line, and in turn be the head of the organization for a little time. But the women still attend the churches, and are doing the greater part of the family religion. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, at home, we find some men that are not taking very much part. As Brother David H. Cannon said, they have never been called upon, because they have never been in the way of work. If there are any at home that feel sorry they have not been called, I wish to state that I hope they will be called upon to come into my mission field. We are at least fifty short in our field of the number we have had, and one hundred short of what we would like to have. There is plenty of work for them to do. If they will come out and do it, trusting in the Lord, the Spirit and power of God will come upon them, and they will be able to come home, as thousands have done, saying it is the happiest time of their lives, and the sweetest work they have ever performed. A testimony will grow in their hearts that the revelations of God through the Prophet Joseph Smith are true. The heavens will open to them, and they will rejoice in bearing testimony of the truth upon the public streets and in public and private meetings. I have heard hundreds of them bear that testimony, and none who heard them doubted what they said. There is joy in the. service of the Lord. The world has grown hike warm because of the nature of the doctrines taught to them, and the uncertainty of the self-appointed leaders. There has been no positiveness in their preachers, no certainty in their declarations, no knowledge concerning the true character of God; and, as was said in the Tabernacle this morning, how can they impart more than they have received ? On the other hand, the positive testimony of the elders is sweet to the hearts of the honest people of the earth, for they bear witness that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that He has restored the gospel to the earth, the gospel of faith, repentance and baptism. All men and women who will repent and be baptized for the remission of their sins shall know of the doctrine, and know that it is of God. That kind of preaching stirs the hearts of those who love God and would like to know the way to go. Hundreds of them are touched in their hearts, and some day they will bear witness of it by being baptized in water for the remission of their sins. 

The world has not yet, by their .own wisdom, found the way, neither have they found any one who can tell them the way. I wonder sometimes that there should be any Latter-day Saints not doing anything at the religion that has been given to us in this day. The gold  silver of the world is nothing compared to the great gift that God our Father has given to us. We are not destined by our own efforts and tact, nor by our own intelligence to win the wealth of the world, but we have been promised the riches of the world, after we have sought and found the kingdom of God. The Lord gave the elders of this Church positive instructions that we should not seek the riches of this world, but seek to bring to pass the righteousness of God, and to bring about the salvation of the souls of men, and if we do that, and continue faithful all our days, we shall be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of our Father. 

Two of our elders in the Minnesota conference, about three weeks ago, were accosted by a lady at her door, who said: "flow is it you come to my door? Why, I entertained two of your elders a year ago. Won't any of my neighbors keep you?" They were two young men who had not been there very long, and one of them, who was the spokesman, said: "My good woman, we were turned away about ten times in this neighborhood after holding street meetings, so we knelt down and asked the Lord if there was an honest heart in this neighborhood or within our reach that He would lead us to such. We arose and have come straight to your door." She was so touched, because the Lord had led those two elders to her door, that she took them in; that statement of a common practice of the elders was sufficient to interest her in the restored gospel. 

The work of the Lord is certainly increasing in the earth, and the 

Spirit of our Father is taking hold of the hearts of the people. I doubt not it will be but a short time till thousands of people will go futher than to manifest only belief. To their belief they will add the works of repentance, baptism and the laying on of hands. They will understand that the Lord of heaven has indeed established His Church, and given men authority to bear witness in His name, and to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel of the Lord Jesus. Even today some are inquiring: "Who ordained our minister?' "So-and-So." "And who ordained him?" And going further back they discover that no one ordained the first minister of their church, and so they find there is a broken link in the history of their authority. They wonder why and how it is that the authority has not continued down since the days of Christ upon the earth; and, if there has been a partial restoration of the gospel, has there been also a restoration of authority? 

My brethren and sisters, we should not only sing in our Sabbath services, but in our souls, we ought to rejoice that we are made partakers of the glorious gospel, this gift and power by which we can be saved in the kingdom of our Father, and that will bring eternal life to each one of us, if we continue faithful to the end. The early elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were given a commandment to seek after righteousness and to bring- to pass the glory of God. So also are the elders of today under the same admonition from our Father, to seek first the kingdom of God, and the promise is that, afterward, the riches of heaven will be given unto us, that is, in the end, if faith, we will be given the greatest of all blessings that can be bestowed upon the human family, the gift of salvation. It is worth our most earnest effort, my brethren and sisters, and no Latter-day Saint who has received the testimony of the gospel ought to be lukewarm in that testimony. To be a "Mormon" and not doing much at it, is beyond my comprehension, T can not understand such inactivity on the part of any young man or woman in whose heart burns the testimony of Jesus. 

Let us go forth among our neighbors clothed upon with the armor of truth, depending upon the Spirit of God, and teach them the gospel. I think there will be as much joy in a convert at home as one abroad. If you convert a man at home, you are able to live together in the pure love of a missionary and a convert. You have heard the elders say it was the saddest day of their lives to leave the mission field, not that they did not wish to come home to their loved ones, but, under the influence of the Spirit of God, they have seen men and women yield to their teachings. They have gathered around them friends and converts that are very near to them, because they have taken part in their salvation; they have taken part in bringing light and truth into their lives, and learned to love them dearly. If we could bring light and truth to the hundreds of people who have gathered to the valleys of the mountains, to acquire gold and silver we would give them something greater than they came for, and in doing so feel the joy of a missionary with no parting sorrows, as they would always be near us. I am firmly convinced that the same effort, together with the same love and consideration, given at home as in the mission field would convert many. For such a work they would love us, and we would love them, and with them we would rejoice in the work of God when we finish our labors upon the earth. May it not be in Zion like it was in the days of Noah. 

Let us not be lukewarm. Let us go forth in the spirit and power of the Lord, and the spirit of the counsel given us by the Prophets and apostles of the latter days, and work for the salvation of our fellow men. May God bless us and raise us up as ensigns to the world, that the honest among men shall see the light and come to Zion, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I realize that our time is pretty well spent, so I shall be brief in my remarks. 

One thought expressed by Brother David H. Cannon has impressed me very much. There will not be many years pass until such men as Brother Cannon will not be upon this earth among us. He has lived about seventy-five years, and as a boy he knew the Prophet Joseph Smith. Such a testimony as this will not be given many more years by persons who knew Joseph Smith, for it will not be long until all those brethren and sisters who are among us now shall no longer be with us, and we shall have to take the words of men who have listened to them. I never saw the Prophet Joseph Smith, but I believe, my brethren and sisters, with all my heart, in fact I know, that  was a Prophet by the name of Joseph Smith who lived in this day and dispensation, and I know that the same testimony that I have, which was given to me by the Holy Spirit, I might say was inherited by me, undoubtedly will be obtained by millions in this world. I believe that same testimony shall be declared to every nation in all the world, until all shall have a chance to receive or reject the testimony of Jesus. 

The Savior said that the gospel should be preached unto every creature under heaven. I believe that He meant just exactly what He said, and that men or women, whether in the flesh or out of the flesh, in this world or out of it, before they shall be judged and called to give an account of the deeds done in the body, that this gospel, the law of liberty, the principles which govern and control men upon the earth or anywhere, shall be made manifest unto them. The Lord shall never pass judgment upon a man until he shall be given an opportunity to fully understand the gospel of the Redeemer of the world, and unto this end the gospel shall be proclaimed unto men that they may become partakers of its blessings. Men may be led to investigate the gospel, through the influence of an elder traveling in their midst; or by some other agency. Individuals may hear a "Mormon" Elder preach, and receive some of the literature that we are delivering from day to day, by the thousands of pages. Every man and woman may not have the opportunity to hear, in the flesh, the testimony of men, but they have the privilege of reading the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. I believe that this message will be carried to the sons  daughters of men in many ways; they shall be warned through their neighbors, and when one is warned he shall in turn warn his neighbor, Joseph Smith received divine light, divine principles of truth and of justice, and these shall enter into the hearts of men and the truth shall make them free. Men who preach perverse doctrine shall be driven from the pulpit, and stand on common grounds with others; they shall have to abide the truth, confess that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living Lord. The work called "Mormonism" is true, and these principles of truth, revealed just as we- have them today, shall make free all men and women who obey them, and shall release captives from the captivity of death. Men shall come to an understanding that the work of God, the Eternal Father, is everlasting, and that it shall never cease until every son and daughter of His shall have the privilege of saying, "Yes, I will serve Thee," or "I will not serve Thee." All men and women have free agency, and the power of intelligence, and they may know for themselves what they are doing. The Lord shall never take "snap judgment" upon His, sons and daughters, for He loves them. The testimony that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet, that the work called "Mormonism" is true, shall continue to go into the world until the sons and daughters of men shall yield obedience, or shall say, "We do not desire to obey." 

I pray God to bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the people who come to conference and those that do not, that you may be able to send your sons and daughters into the mission field,  only for the testimony that they shall bear but for the good that it shall do them. That this work may grow, and that this people residing in the valleys of the mountains, who have been led here by the hand of the living God, shall be the power which shall take into the world the leaven which shall "leaven the whole lump," and bring joy, happiness and eternal life unto the sons and daughters of God who are yet in darkness, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHONY W, IVINS. 

Signs of present times foretold by the Savior. — Endless progression result of obedience to Eternal laws. — -Fundamental doctrines of United States Government divine and everlasting. 

The time has come, my brethren and sisters, when we are to adjourn this conference for another six months, to go to our homes and assume the responsibilities which devolve upon us in magnifying our calling in the Church, and performing the duties that devolve upon us as citizens of this Republic. I can think of no word of admonition or counsel that I could more profitably call your attention to before we dismiss than the words of the Savior which He spoke to His disciples just before His crucifixion. He was talking to them of the latter days. He was talking to them of us, who are assembled here this afternoon. He was talking of the time when He should come in the clouds of heaven to reign in power and dominion on the earth. And when they asked Him to give them a sign by which they might know that this period was near, He warned them, among other things, that those times would be perilous, that it GENERAL CONFERENCE.  be a period when there would be wars and rumors of wars, when there would be confusion; but more than that, when many men would come in His name and would deceive many, when some would cry, Lo here, and others Lo there, false prophets would arise, and . false Christs, and their works would be so convincing that they would deceive, if possible, the very elect. He warned the people to stand fast to the doctrines which He had taught. And in emphasizing this, the Apostle Paul in his Epistle to the Ephesians warned them to be "not like children, moved hither and thither by every wind of doctrine" that blew, but to stand fast in the doctrines which had been taught to them. 

That doctrine, briefly stated, was faith in God, our Eternal Father. It was that Jesus Christ of whom they bore witness, was the Son of God; that he was God manifest in the flesh, that He was the Redeemer of the world, and had been crucified for the sins of the world; that He had been raised from the dead, being "the first fruits of the resurrection," and that in time, to come He should reign in power and dominion over this earth, and His kingdom become supreme. Christ Himself declared, and His disciples taught, that this gospel of the kingdom must of necessity first "be preached as a witness" unto the inhabitants of the earth before that time should come. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I do not need to enter into any argument to convince you that we are living in these very times. Go out on to the corners of these streets tonight, or if you were there last night, you would have heard doctrines of every shade and color,  of redemption that probably would appeal to some, which promise great blessing to human kind. It is a day of confusion, a day of religious unbelief. It is a day when demagogues seek to lead you into strange paths in civil and political economy. All I have to say to you is that we believe in progression, we are a progressive people, and we believe that there will never be an end to it, that we shall continue, and must continue, in this life and in the life to come, to go forward, for water that stands still of necessity becomes stagnant; but as we progress this one fact we must recognize, that there is no progression from these fundamental principles of truth upon which this Church is builded. The "Law of Carnal Commandments" was completed, was done away with in the coming of Christ. It was no longer necessary to slay the male lamb without blemish and offer up living things as a sacrifice to God in similitude of the Only Begotten of the Father. But in doing away with that ordinance there was no change to that commandment of God which had been given to His children in the very beginning, that they should not lie, that they should not steal, that they should not commit adultery. These truths are eternal. These doctrines of morality last forever. They will always be in the Church. That doctrine which seeks to lead us away from it beware of, for God will have us do just as He did at that time. Jesus is the Redeemer of the world just as He was at that time. He is God made manifest in the flesh. He has opened this gospel dispensation. Joseph Smith, through His instrumentality, established this work. Authority came to the earth, through the message of John the 101 

Baptist and the disciples of Jesus Christ, to administer in the ordinances of the gospel. Those are the fundamentals; those are the essentials. Those are the truths upon which this Church is builded, and we never can progress away from them, because they will stand forever, just as they were in the beginning. I am wedded to them. My conscience is a captive to them. I know them to be true. I know them to be essential to the welfare of this congregation of Latter-day Saints. So I admonish you that you hold fast to them, let come what may. 

Just as I believe in these doctrines, so in my heart and soul I believe in the fundamental doctrines of civil government, which were given to . us by the fathers of our country that before God men are created equal, that governments are instituted among men for their protection and happiness, and that all just governments must derive their powers from the consent of the governed. The government belongs to us; it is ours. Now there may be differences of opinion as to the best methods of administering it. We may not always adhere just to the policy of the fathers, because, as conditions change different policies are necessary. But these fundamental doctrines to which I refer are just as true to us, they are just as true as are the fundamental doctrines of the gospel, because they are eternal, and there can be no government except they are based upon these principles. If you will remember that, keep it in mind, and live close to those divine doctrines of civil government, the Latter-day Saints will be the men  women that God wants us to be. 

I am reminded of the words of J. G. Holland, who spoke them a long time ago, but it seems to me there never was a time when they were more applicable: 

"God give us men. A time like this requires great minds, 

Strong hearts, true faith, and ready hands; 

Men whom the lust of office does not kill; 

Men whom the spoils of- office cannot buy; 

Men who are honest, men who will not lie; 

Men who can stand before a demagogue, And damn his flattering treachery 

without winking; Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above 

the fog; 

In public duty and in private thinking, For while the rabble, with their thumbworn creeds, Their large pretensions and their little 

deeds 

Mingle in selfish strife, lo! Freedom weeps, 

Wrong rules the land, and waiting Justice sleeps." 

If we will adhere to these principles, my brethren and sisters, to which I have referred, every man and woman in the Church will be that kind of man and woman. That is what the gospel has done for us, that is what every one needs, and must have, that shall ever be redeemed and saved from the perils which are impending — that kind of men and women. 

The Lord help us to be faithful, keep us in the truth, lead us back, eventually, into His presence, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Overthrow of Gog and Magog." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder George C. Lambert. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 


