Outdoor
06 10 1912 

Thousands of people gathered on the Temple grounds, unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle or Assembly Hall, and an outdoor meeting was held for their benefit, at 2 p. m., near the Bureau of Information building. The services were presided over by Elder Benjamin Goddard. Music was furnished by Prof. Wm. C. Clive's orchestra. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer — 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Joseph L. Stott. The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, listen to a Prophet's voice, And hear the word of God. 

And in the way of truth rejoice, And sing for joy aloud. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(Supt. Bureau of Information.) 

Brethren and Sisters, we are very gratified and pleased to welcome such a large number to our open-air meeting, and we trust that you will give the same attention and observe the same order that is expected to prevail in the Tabernacle. 

We regret very much that our buildings are not large enough, but I venture to say that when the Tabernacle was built, those who planned it did not realize that the time would come when it would not accommodate the people. Today, however, we need several such Tabernacles at conference time as the one that is now crowded to its ut capacity. I surmise that in the Tabernacle now, standing and seated, there must be nearly 11,000 people. Our Assembly Hall is filled to overflowing, and still the people are coming. 

It must be an impressive sight, it must be a matter for rejoicing among the Latter-day Saints that this condition prevails, and that each conference indicates the increased growth and development of the work of God. I believe that you all feel to rejoice over this fact. I do not know of anything that has given me more pleasure at this conference than to observe the evident growth of the Church. The decision at the General Priesthood Meeting, in response to the pleas of the people, that a Temple to the Most High God should be built in Canada, indicates how the people are craving for blessings, for the true path of life and salvation, and I trust that this spirit will continue to increase. 

Our Church members have been recognized as builders from the beginning. No sooner had the Church been organized than the men and women of the Church commenced to build upon that sure foundation. In Kirtland the Saints were builders. They endeavored to establish themselves there where a Holy Temple was built, and they helped to bring together the honest in heart, though few in number at that time, but they were willing to gather and help build up the Church of God. , Subsequently the Saints went to Independence, Mo., and from thence to Nauvoo where, in a beautiful location on the Mississippi, they built up a new city. 

When driven from Nauvoo by mob violence, they crossed the plains and the Rockies, and no sooner had they arrived in these 103  than they commenced to work. They plowed* the barren land, they planted seed, they built their houses, and commenced to erect school houses and churches throughout the land. And now our magnificent Temples here and in the north and south, indicate to all people that the Latter-day Saints are builders. They are workers, the Saints are glad to be thus engaged. 

There are those who come among us sometimes whose delight it is to attempt to tear down. You find them on the street corners, at times they come upon this block, they enter our Tabernacle and their sole purpose in life appears to be to destroy or ridicule the Word of God. Call them what you please, they are not worthy of the name "Joseph," for Joseph was the Founder of the Church and a true prophet of the Lord. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints may be judged by its fruits, and by their works may the people be judged. We hope to continue in this work until the admiration of the world is called forth by the earnest labors of the people. 

We welcome you again to this meeting. I have the honor to announce that brethren have been called to whom you will be pleased to listen. Elder Melvin J. Ballard, President of the North Western States Mission; Elder John L. Herrick, formerly of Ogden, an energetic worker and President of the Western States Mission; the President of Pioneer Stake, in this city, who has always been a valiant, true member of the Church, William McLachlan; also the ex-President of the Scandinavian Mission, and Assistant Historian, Andrew Jen. I know you will be glad to hear them all and I bespeak for them your faith, your prayers, and your best attention. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President Northwestern States Mission.) 

My heart rejoices in the growth of the work of the Lord. I am always happy to see the souls of the children of men brought within the fold of Christ, through the waters of baptism. I am happy to be able to tell you that the work of the Lord is growing in the missions of the Church. The increase in baptisms has been steadily advancing from year to year. While I am always glad to see the Church growing in numbers, I am more interested in seeing it grow in faith and in good works. I am not satisfied with the standard that I have attained, for I yet lack that perfection which the Gospel teaches. As each one of us shall consider our own life, and examine ourselves, I am sure that we all shall find room for improvement. 

I desire to read to you from the revelation of the Lord" some verses on a familiar subject, which has been brought to the attention of mankind from the beginning of time. Reference is found to this subject in various of the books of the Old and New Testament. I read from the revelation to the Prophet Joseph, because it seems to me more explicit and forcible than the words we find recorded in the Bible. I read to you. therefore, from the nineteenth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with the fourth verse : 

"And surely every man must repent GENERAL CONFERENCE.  suffer, for I, God, am endless; wherefore I revoke not the judgments which I shall pass, but woes shall go forth, weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth, yea, to those who are found on my left hand; nevertheless it is not written that there shall be no end to this torment, but it is written endless torment. Again, it is written eternal damnation; wherefore it is more express than other scriptures, that it might work upon the hearts of the children of men, altogether for my name's glory; wherefore I will explain unto you this mystery, for it is mete unto you to know even as mine apostles. I speak unto you that are chosen in this thing, even as one, that you may enter into my rest; for, behold the mystery of Godliness, how great is it? for, behold, I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless punishment, for endless is my name; wherefore — eternal punishment is God's punishment. Endless punishment is God's punishment. Wherefore I comand you to repent, and keep the commandments which you have received by the hand of my servant Joseph Smith, fun., in my name; and it is by my al mighty power that you have received them; therefore I command you to repent— repent, lest I smite you bv the rod of my mouth, and by mv wrath, and by my anger, and your sufferings be sore — how sore you know not! how exquisite you know not! yea, how hard to bear you know not! for behold I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent, but if they would not repent, thev must suffer even as I, which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit; and would that I might not drink the bitter cup and shrink— nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and _ finished my preparations unto the children of men- wherefore I command you again to repent, lest I humble you with my almighty power, and that you confess your sins, lest you suffer these punishments of which I have spoken, of which in the smallest, yea, even in the least degree, you have tasted at the time I withdrew my Spirit. And I command you, that you preach nought but repentance, and show not these  unto the world until it is wisdom in me." 

I presume that nearly all of those whom I am now addressing have gone into the waters of baptism, following repentance; for we were taught that it is essential and necessary that we should repent of our sins in order that baptism may be effectual in washing away the transgressions of the past. I fear that some of us members of the Church have failed to realize the necessity of retaining with us the spirit of repentance after we have entered the waters of baptism. That man or woman who ceases to repent, when repentance is necessary, ceases to grow, or progress. The advancements that have been made in science, in the arts, in the medical profession, or in the laboratory, all have been wrought by reason of men leaving the old things which were proven wrong, and instead thereof adopting new methods, new truths taking the place of old errors, and the things that are needed to make life's work a success adopted. Every man and woman has to progress in like manner. A young man came to the Savior and asked what good thing he might do to gain salvation; he was told of many things, not one only, that he must do, and then after he had accomplished these, that he should follow the Master — not that he should walk near the Sea of Galilee, or over the mountains, following in the footsteps of the Master, but that in his life he should follow the example, and thus walk in the footsteps of the Master. 

The Latter-day Saints have learned that those who will be saved must be faithful to the end, must be possessed of the spirit of repent105 . There is a thought in the minds of many of us that, once having repented of our sins, prior to entering the waters of baptism, we had then completed our repentance, and we have felt, Well, we have attended to that business, and we are now prepared to go on to perfection. We have been looking at the big mistakes we have made in our lives, and are not altogether conscious of the seriousness and importance of watching the little things. 

I stood by a great vessel not long ago, one that had crossed the sea again and again, a vessel that had been a target of shot and shell of the enemy, and was proof against the assaults that had been directed against it, yet it is now helpless, condemned, and not fit to go to the sea, because the innumerable barnacles, little, insignificant insects, had eaten into the hull of the vessel and rendered it unseaworthy, it could no longer withstand the storms of the ocean, much less shot and shell. You have seen the mighty oak standing against the hurricane's blast, withstanding fierce winds and storms, but after the insidious work of a small insect that bores into the tree, and leaves it perforated with holes so small that they cannot be detected by the natural eye, it becomes weakened and liable to fall with a light wind. So we have seen in the lives of men and women, who are unconscious of the little vital things that are eating and sapping the foundation of their individual lives, which may ultimately so weaken them that, when the tests are made, they fail. 

The conception which the Lord has given to the Latter-day Saints with reference to their earthly bodies is one that should cause us  honor, respect, and revere the body as a sacred instrument trusted into our hands for the purpose of making it submissive to the law of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We are told in the revelations that, before we came into this mortal life, we existed irj a spiritual world, and that the intelligence that dwells in each of us inhabited a spiritual body. How many ages we had that experience we know not, but it was long enough, evidently, for our intelligence to attain control over that spiritual body, and we yielded to the law that was supreme in the spirit world; that law was the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We are told that we are upon this earth because we did accept the Master, and agreed to stand by the decision rendered in His favor, when He was selected to be the Lamb to be slain for the redemption of mankind. We are here because we obeyed law there, and we have been sent into the world to see if we shall keep this, our second, estate. We knew and understood, before we came here, that it was only possible to obtain that progress which we sought for by obedience to law. We agreed, when we left the spirit world, to obey that law which we then acepted, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That law is eternal. Numberless intelligences have been saved and exalted to kingdoms of glory before our clay and time, through obedience to that law. When we look out on the starry heavens at night, we see innumerable suns that, are centers of solar systems like unto ours, some undoubtedly older than ours, greater, ' mightier. Our sun is superior to the earth we inhabit, greater in dimensions and power, but it, too, is under the influence of another GENERAL CONFERENCE.  one that rolls above it; on and on they rise until men are lost in the contemplation. We have learned that upon those planets our Father's children dwell in all stages of perfection and advancement. There are those who are infinitely beyond us in eternal progress, who have reached their present degree of perfection by obedience to everlasting and irrevocable law. God Himself can not change that law, no more than He could obliterate the consequence of Adam's fall. He could not be God and violate a law which is eternal, and by obedience to which He became God. We came into the world and received this mortal tabernacle for the purpose of perfecting it, making ourselves subservient to the law by which we may be raised to perfection and be worthy of the companionship of our heavenly Father. 

There is in every human heart the consciousness of two forces working. Every act that a man or woman undertakes to do is usually influenced by two suggestions, the one to do good, and the other to do evil. The spirit of truth will influence us to yield obedience to the gospel law. The flesh is of the earth, and the earth is not yet redeemed, it is under the bondage of the curse, and the flesh has to be mastered. The earth itself has to undergo the process of redemption, it has to obey the law, as the prophet said it would, and it will eventually become a celestial earth, the home of celestial beings. We are to master and control our fleshy bodies, we must make them submit to the Good Spirit which asserts what is right,' and detects what is wrong; that Spirit does not speak audibly to the physical ears, but is the "still, small " that speaks to the spirit of man. 

There is a warfare, a conflict between good and evil in every human soul. How sad and pitiful' it is to see some of our Father's children yielding to the temptations that are set before them, the boy to taking the cigarette, drinking the forbidden glass, debauching himself, and then declaring that he is free! How pitiful it is to look upon those who might have been saved and exalted, wallowing in the gutter, so to speak, and almost lost to redemption! There are those who- feel that they cannot be free unless they take the liberty to participate m wrong and sin. I remember some of my own experiences, the temptation of the boys who wanted me to smoke, to drink liquor, get on a horse and raise a great disturbance, and because I would not do it, being influenced by the counsel of my parents, they said, "He is tied to his mother's apron strings and daren't do it." That was pretty hard for a boy that wanted to be free, and wanted to let others know he was free. I thank God I did not take the course they followed to obtain freedom! I remember two of those boys, who drank and smoked, deserted school, went from petty to grand larceny, and were caught finally and brought to the county jail. In the consciousness of the terrible condition in which they were, with a possibility of years of solitary confinement before them, deprived of the liquor and tobacco to which they had been addicted, they said, We cannot live and endure this punishment. One of them committed suicide, and the other went insane. 

In the State penitentiary of Idaho a few years ago, a young man who had committed a theft, in one of our 107  cities, said he could not stand fifteen years of prison and be denied the stimulants he desired and so he sought to escape. He walked back and forward behind the gate of the jail, waiting for a chance to break for liberty. The moment came, and he ran past the armed guards, but was shot down, with one limb almost torn from his body. Some time afterward he climbed upon the unfinished wall of the building, forty feet above the ground, and leaped in the hope of ending it all in death, but, as it happened, he was only slightly injured. He was discouraged to such an extent that, the last I knew of him, he was in the insane asylum. 

There are men who cannot endure the afflictions that come to them, and they seek to drown their sorrows in the glass, or morphine, or in death itself. Is that freedom ? What a pitiful thing to see a man made in the image of God, with the possibilities of rising to all that our Father is, allow the appetite of the flesh to overcome the spirit, master it, drag it down, and saturate it with everything that is contemptible, mean and low. I read of some morphine fiends confined in jail in this city, who desired the drug so intensely that they begged to be killed if they could not be given the drug. One of the officers said, "Stand over against that wall and I'll shoot you." And they said, "Shoot." The officer said, "I did not think you meant it." "We do," they said, "and would rather die this minute, for we must have it." Such is the terribly enslaved condition caused by yielding to the passions and appetites of the flesh until they are not servants but masters. 

The body that has been given to us was for the purpose of allowing  spirit to exalt itself to a nobler condition. The lightning that is seen flashing from cloud to cloud, from mountain top to mountain top, is an electrical force that may tear down buildings, set fire to property, and destroy life. Conduct electricity through the dynamo wire, and motor, and behold its wonderful, results working for the service of man, accomplishing something under the control of a physical instrument, it thus becomes a power for good. So with steam, if allowed to evaporate freely it does little good, but restrain it in the boiler, send it through the engine, and under its power you may travel across the continent or sail from shore to shore. And so, too, with this highest, most potent of all spiritual forces, the intelligence that is in man; enshrine it in a spiritual body, that it may have the experiences of spiritual life; and then give it a physical body, that it may enter into and obtain the joy and experiences of physical life, and you have enlarged its powers immeasureably. Read this wonderful statement in the ninety-third section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Every man is spirit, saith the Lord. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receiveth a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fullness of joy. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple." 

So we discover that it is essential and necessary, according to the law of the Lord, that the spirit shall be united with the flesh, for the purpose of redeeming that flesh and making it a fit companion for the spirit. I say the warfare goes on, and the end of that warfare will be GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the man or woman says to the flesh, "You cannot violate the law of God, you cannot give loose rein to passion, you cannot have carnal appetite gratified, for it is against the law of life and of happiness; thus far you can go but you cannot go any further." The man who successfully carries on the warfare during his earth life, notwithstanding he is constantly being tempted by the flesh, when he takes his body up, in the resurrection from the dead, the warfare will cease, the flesh will yield absolutely to the spirit, and there will be no more conflict nor struggle. But woe to that man who lays his body down with passion unconquered, with appetite and desire running rampant, and with a temper unrestrained in such vicious streaks that he almost becomes a candidate for the insane asylum! Woe to him, for he shall not receive his body in the resurrection from the dead freed from such evil things. No, he shall have to overcome the evils he has acquired in this earth life, and he may find, too, that it will be harder to overcome in the next life than here, for everything there, hate, love, desire, all are intensified. Life here is in the clay state, we sometimes complain because it is so slow, it does not respond quickly, it seems plodding, the body does not acquire habits quickly. No man is a good, clean, virtuous man today and an immoral, depraved, wicked man tomorrow. These changes do not come rapidly; we should be thankful that we acquire them slowly, because thereby they may be arrested before they have developed to our serious injury. The body is as clay in the hands of the potter; when the clay is moulded, given its shape, and allowed to stand, it be hardened, then, O, how difficult it is to remodel it, to recast it. So, if we mould and create evil habits, it will be exceedingly difficult to reconstruct our characters after we have left this mortal life. After we have gone out of the flesh, and come to an understanding of the folly we have committed, we shall long for a chance to get back into that body, that we might bring it into subjection. 

While it is possible that men may repent and overcome in the life that is to come, this is the better time, this is the hour. We may not, in our future experiences, find opportunity to repent, and make the flesh yield to the gospel as readily as in this present life. That man who has not conquered his temper, who flies in a rage at his wife or children, must master himself; he cannot come into the presence of God in such a condition as that. That man or woman who has not overcome the sin of avariciousness, and do not respond in this life to God's law of tithing, cannot be trusted with the greater riches of eternal life. That man who covets the wealth of the world, and steals that which does not belong to him, must repent, master himself, and make restitution, for no man that is dishonest can come into the Kingdom of God. That man who has not controlled his passions, and mastered himself, until he has full sway and power even over the thoughts of his mind, will not be allowed to associate with those that are pure and holy. That man who thinks he can escape the torments and afflictions of life by drinking intoxicating liquors, eating morphine, or committing suicide, is sadly mistaken, he will have a terrible awakening. As Job said, "If I go to the 109  of hell, Lord, thou art there." We will have to look upon ourselves just as we are, and fashion ourselves as we desire to be. There is only one way by which any man or woman can get away from those things that afflict their lives, because of their transgressions, and that is every day to fill their life with acts of goodness, master self, and yield complete obedience to the laws of the Gospel. Remorse will then be blotted out, it will be displaced by the flowers that will blossom in the mind and heart by reason of the mastery that has been accomplished. /The Lord has said, "Blessed is he that overcometh, for unto him shall all things be given, and I shall be his God and he shall be my son." 

The gratification of the desires of the flesh is devoid of sweetness and joy, it gives only transitory pleasure, and leaves a lasting sting. The man or woman who masters self, who overcome evil, shall obtain their reward in the celestial kingdom of God, and receive glory and exaltation, while they who neglect the opportunities of this life may have to wait ten thousand or a million years trying to overcome the sad effects of their neglect. Brothers and sisters, we all have weaknesses that we must overcome. While I say this, I believe with all my heart that I am speaking to the best people on earth. I believe there are no people in the world who have mastered and overcome mortal weaknesses quite so well as we have. But, T want to see that mastery more complete. I want to see the children of those who have forsaken the sins of the world, who have left off the use of tea, tobacco, coffee and liquor, take advantage of the example of the fathers and , thus each generation shall become more perfect, until we shall attain unto that which God has designed we should. 

God help us not only to be the best, but a perfect people, acceptable in the sight of God, that the day when the Son of God comes, to dwell among men on the earth, shall find us and our posterity living in complete accordance with the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then shall we see His face and dwell in His presence. God grant that this may be our happy lot, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 

A baritone solo w as sung by John Keddington. 

ELDER WILLIAM M'LACHLAN. 

(President of Pioneer Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am here this afternoon in obedience to call, not with a desire to talk, for I feel incompetent and unable to do so. I want to tell you, after an experience of between fifty and sixty years in the Church, I enjoy a confidence and satisfaction in relation to the truth of this work that gives me a great deal of joy. Each year adds to my confidence in the truth of this work. The knowledge of it gradually grows upon the mind through obedience to God's law, and in obedience to the counsels and instructions of His servants that preside over us. f am glad to have the confidence of our people, my brethren and sisters, with whom I labor and associate from day to day, and from year to year. Ninetytwo years ago our Savior, accompanied by His Father, came to earth, in compliance with the earnest prayer of Joseph Smith, then a boy of fourteen and a half years of age, in the Springtime of the year GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

1820. A true knowledge of God was not on the earth, and had been absent for generations in the past, but on that occasion, the commencement of 'this great and glorious work in which we are engaged was inaugurated, although the Church was not organized until ten years later. This was the commencement of a great and glorious work, that could not be established without a perfect knowledge of the true character of God, the Eternal Father, and of the Redeemer who made atonement for the children of men. Joseph Smith on that occasion asked the question, which one of all the religious sects was right. It had never dawned on his mind that they were all wrong. I will read from the Pearl of Great Price just one section in relation to the purpose for which he went to ask the Lord : 

"My object in going to inquire of the Lord, was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I aske'd the personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right (for at this time it had never entered into my heart that all were wrong), and which I should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong, and the personage who addressed me said That all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt, They draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but thy deny the power thereof." 

Is it intolerant, is it uncharitable to declare to the people of the world the word of God, as it was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1820? I say no, but the opinion of the world is very different. When we go into a Christian community and tell them the experience of Jos Smith in going into the woods to pray, and the announcement that the Son of God made to him when he asked the question which he should join, I know that you, my brethren and sisters, feel like I do, that it is not intolerence, that it is not uncharitable to tell the people the truth as it has been given to us in the day in which we live. 

I believe in being obedient to the word of the Lord. I believe in giving heed to the man who stands at the head of this Church today, who, if he sees danger ahead and fails to warn the people of it, comes under condemnation. But, when he warns the people, and gives them time to change their course, and turn away from the evil that is approaching, then if the people do not give heed to his word, they are under condemnation, and his skirts are clear. Some of the people of the world, many of our outside friends, say "You have no mind of your own; you are willing to be led by somebody else." Well, I want any man who thinks so to try me and see if he can lead me. I know what is good for me. I have the right to judge. I have my agency, and I intend to exercise it. I have found it profitable all through my life to give heed to that man who stands at the head, and, so far as God will give me help in the furture, I want to be found true to God, true to His work and to all the interests thereof, and to His people, men, women and _ children. 

I know that in "Mormonism" there is life eternal for every man and woman that will embrace it, and conform to it in their daily lives. Even boys and girls who have been properly taught in the homes, at the age of eight, when they are baptized into the Church of Ill 

Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, are entitled to a testimony and knowledge of the truth of this work, just as much as I was at the age of 18 or 19 years, because they are innocent, pure and clean before God, far better than the great majority of men and women that enter into the Church through repentance and baptism. I contend that if the boys and girls are properly taught in the home they can have a knowledge of the truth of this work before their baptism; I have known boys less than eight years of age who have testified that they knew that this was the work of God. 

Brethren and sisters, let us try and reflect the truth in our lives, and live it in the home, that our sons and daughters may get the benefit of our example and teaching in their youth, and grow up full of faith, virtue, energy and power to serve the Lord and keep His commandments, and our Father will be delighted with our work. 

May God bless the people of the Latter-day Saints. I love men and women that are true. I respect them with all my soul, because of their integrity and devotion to this great and glorious truth that our Father in heaven has revealed. May His blessing and peace be upon the Latter-day Saints in all their dwelling places, in all their settlements and abiding places, that they may be true to God, our heavenly Father and His Son Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Late President of Scandinavian Mission.) 

I have been away from this beautiful land for over three years and a half, and during that time I have sojourned in Europe, mostly in the Scandinavian countries. I have , during my absence, visited Germany a number of times, made one visit to France, Holland and Belgium, and have gone as far north as Iceland, near the Arctic circle. In returning home, I had occasion to go over the TransSiberian railway, and I imagine that I and my traveling companion were the first Mormon Elders who ever traveled home from Europe that way. On my return trip I had the privilege of seeing Siberia, visiting part of China, passing through Japan and visiting also, for the second time in my life, the beautiful Hawaiian Islands. 

During my absence abroad I have tried my best to be diligent and faithful. I have endeavored to labor with those talents and that physical and mental strength which God has given me for the advancement of the work of the Lord, and, in doing so, together with my brethren, who have stood faithful by my side, we have seen good fruits of our labors in those northern countries, and it gives me great satisfaction to say that during the three and a half years that I labored there we added about thirteen hundred persons to the Church by baptism. During the same length of time we distributed about two and a half millions of books and tracts. 

To show what diligence can do, by the assistance of God, (who will always sustain those who will do His will and keep His commandments,) I may add that I traveled nearly one hundred thousand miles while on my late mission, and I delivered something like eleven hundred sermons or public addresses, including nearly one hundred illustrated lectures. We had considerible opposition in both Denmark and Norway, though there is religious liberty in the northern countries. Next to America and England, we think that in Scandinavia we have the most liberal insitutions and the greatest individual freedom; and when I say Scandinavia in this connection, I speak of Denmark, Sweden and Norway. The mission that I presided over, however, does not include Sweden at the present time, but only Denmark and Norway; hence, when I speak of the additions to the Church, as I have done, it means only Denmark and Norway. Sweden is not included. 

The opposition that we met with in those lands was mostly on the ground of our bearing testimony of new revelation. In our preaching we can not refrain from speaking plainly about the revelation of God, given in these the last days to the Proohet Joseph Smith. The people in Scandinavia are like the people in nearly all other parts of the so called Christian world : they will believe in old revelations, though they do not make effort to live according to them, but they will almost invariably reject new revelation. The moment we tell them that God has spoken in our day, thev will harden their hearts and exclaim : "Sav anything but that; preach about Christ and Him crucified, but don't mention Joseph Smith; don't mention the Book of Mormon; don't mention the fact thpt angels have visited the earth in this day, for we will not believe it." On that ground we have met most bitter opposition, and we have had to contend hard against many odds in order to make headway, and in trying to break down superstition and to counteract the many accusations and lies that have been circulated against us in these lands of the North. We have ever been subject  such opposition from the begining, and up to the present time. 

My brethren, and sisters and friends, I have a word to say on this occasion in regard to revelation. I have traveled and preached somewhat extensively in my life time, and if there is one thing that I like to speak about especially, it is the necessity of revelation. Here we stand under the great canopy of heaven, and in looking up toward the blue sky, we feel as though heaven was near above, that God is above and that He looks down upon us, and He is truly our God and our Father. He loves His children. It was said by the Prophet Isaiah, "Though a woman may forget her suckling child, yet God will not forget His people," addressing Himself to Zion, the chosen people in olden times, as well as in our own day. Now I am a strong believer in revelation from God. I feel that I cannot prosper or be safe without it. There is nothing in the world, in the shape of religion, that I can cleave to execpt that which comes from God. 

A few years ago I traveled considerably in the southeastern part of Utah and also through parts of New Mexico and Arizona. I passed through the canyons and defiles along the San Juan river and other mountain streams. I saw, high up on the cliffs, the remnants of the old cliff dwellers, and I saw many peculiar inscriptions on the walls. The question naturally arose, "Who made those figures on the walls? Who were the people that lived there in days gone by ?" The voices of those who once inhabited those regions are no more to be heard among the children of men; but there is a God in heaven who has revealed something in regard to 113  people, and that is contained in the Book of Mormon. But the Book of Mormon does not do full justice to the history of those people. It does not tell all about them that we would like to know, hence, we want more revelation concerning them. 

I went down on the Tongan islands, some years ago, and in going through those islands, I discovered that the natives there knew something about the Law of Moses. In fact they kept the Law of Moses in their way; and the question naturally arose in my mind : How did those people learn anything about the Law given on Mount Sinai. The learned men of the world do not know anything about it, and there is no man upon the earth that can tell by the aid of mere human learning. The Rev. William West, who wrote a book entitled, "Twenty Years in Polynesia," could not solve the problem. He was at a loss to understand, and he says, "We must have some more intelligence before we can believe that these people are of Israelitish origin." But new revelation states in part who the Tongans are, and again, the Book of Mormon help us out; yet we want more revelation before we can fully understand who the Tongans, the Maoris, and kindred peoples are. We have an idea or a theory concerning them, and it is no doubt a correct one, to the effect, that they came from the land of America. But the. full history of those people can only become known by new revelation. 

Years ago I visited the Great Pyramid of Egypt, that grand stone structure standing so bold and beautiful in the Valley of the Nile, and as I stood upon that great structure, looked clown upon the site of  ancient city of Memphis, and took in the view up and down the Nile valley, these thoughts came to me. "Who built these great pyramids? Who were the first people in this land?" The Pearl of Great Price tells us a little in regard to this matter, but not enough. We want more revelation before we can know who built the Great Pyramid of Egypt. Learned men may write books like the "Miracle in Stone," but it is not sufficient; God shall in His own due time open the heavens and tell us more about it. At present we are at sea, figuratively speaking. 

I sojourned for a short time in Jerusalem in 1896. I also went up on the Mount of Olives, journeyed up and down the River Jordan and the Dead Sea, visited the Sea of Galilee, and saw many of those places that are mentioned in the history of generations gone by. But what do we know about these places and the scenes enacted there? Very little. New revelation however can clear up the mystery, and to some extent it has done so; but we look for more revelation to come. 

I traveled further and came over to Italy. I went to Rome, that "Eternal City," where I visited the greatest church building in the whole world — the magnificent St. Peters. I saw many people worshiping in there, but their mode of worship did not please me. I thought I beheld more fanaticism there than real worship, and I believe that the people of Rome, the Roman Catholics, sincere as some of them may be, do not know how to worship God, nor how to pray to Jesus Christ in that great church in a way that is acceptable to our Heavenly Father. What do the people need? They want revelaGENERAL CONFERENCE. . One word from God would be worth more to mankind than all the bishops and popes of Rome have said for the last sixteen hundred years. 

In passing through Siberia and Russia I noticed an unusual number of fine churches and chapels, and while the Saints in Utah deserve a great deal of praise for erecting four beautiful temples, a number of large tabernacles, and about seven hundred beautiful meeting houses or churches — and we certainly have done well in erecting so many houses of worship, and they are an honor to us — yet in passing through Russia, I found in the great cities of St._ Petersburgh, and Moscow, thousands of fine church buildings erected for the worship of the Greek Catholics. In the city of Moscow alone there are nearly one thousand churches, including cathedrals, chapels, monasteries and smaller houses of worship; most of them are beautiful structures, with gilded spires and costly ornamentation, both inside and outside. Yet what are the people of Russia ? What do they know about true worship? They only know what their priests have told them for many generations, and that which the Czar of Russia compels them to believe, or at least accept openly. One word from God, or a few sections such as those that have been read to us this afternoon, would be worth more than all the Patriarchs of Constantinople and all the Czars of Russia have said from the beginning down to the present time. We want revelation, the only thing that can make the people wise unto salvation, and tell them about the true worship of God. 

I visited the Parliament of Re in Chicago, when the Tabernacle Choir first went there in 1893, and I saw and listened day after day to the learned theologians of the world. There was gathered on that occasion the cream of the whole earth, because that Parliament of Religions had invited, so to speak, all the learned men of the world to participate in its deliberations; every denomination, save the denomination known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was given access to that Parliament of Religions, and I think I can safely say that all who attended the meetings of that Parliament listened with the greatest interest to the reading of the many well prepared documents that were presented; but what were my feelings when I sat in the midst of that august body of learned men. "O! I thought, if God would only open the heavens and speak to those people five minutes, He would tell them more truths during those five minutes, and convey more intelligence leading toward the right worship of God, than all those learned men did in the three weeks' meetings held day after day at that great Chicago gathering. 

These are. still my convictions, my brethren and sisters. I believe in revelation from on high. I firmly believe that in the acceptance of old and new revelations lies the only safety for us, the children of God; and I believe that God, our heavenly Father, is kind enough, and good enough, and loves us enough to answer our prayers and petitions, if we only seek Him in faith and sincerity. The Son of God said, "He that will do the will of my Father shall know whether the doctrine is of God, or whether I speak of myself." I want to bear this testimony 115  you, that in my travels abroad, and also in my associations with my brethren and sisters here at home, and particularly in associating with my brethren of the Priesthood, I have always been able to receive revelations from God. 

It has been said in this conference that every member of the Church is entitled to revelation. I want to testify to you, that I have repeatedly sought God in the woods and hills of Scandinavia, in the wilds of Asia and Africa, upon the high seas, and in many places when I have been far away from my brethren who were entitled to give me advice; and I have always received sufficient revelation in answer to my prayers to lead, guide and direct me in my movements, and I have never been led astray when I have sought God in the proper way. This is my testimony. Even in the midst of political revolutions I have always known where I stood. I have never had to take counsel direct from my brethren on political matters. There is a God in heaven who reveals His secrets to His servants the Prophets, and we are all Prophets in a certain sense, if we are under the influence of the Holy Ghost, so far as that is concerned; the most humble man or woman in the Church can get down upon his or her knees in prayer, and the heavens will be opened in such a way that we will understand the will of God. Our prayers will ascend to God, and, if we are sincere and honest in our supplication, we will receive an answer through the still small voice which will guide our footsteps through life, and which will cause us to do the right thing at the right time, and to take such steps as we shall not subsequently have occasion to regret. 

I pray God, our heavenly Father, to bless the Household of Faith, both at home and abroad. We have over in the Scandinavian countries about four thousand Latter-day Saints. I again speak of Denmark and Norway. Including Sweden we would have between six and seven thousand members of the Church. They are, as a rule, a good and devout people. We find already tens of thousands of the sons and daughters of the North in this land, right here in these mountain valleys; and though there was a time when some of us scarcely knew whether we should rejoice or weep because we were of Scandinavian origin, I thank God that that time is past, and all that Brother McLachlan (who is a Scotchman) can say is that he is an improved Scandinavian. (Laughter.) We have nearly all come from the northern countries, directlv or indirectly; and when the God of heaven, among the manv revelations that He in His mercy shall give unto us in the future, will reveal our genealogy, we will find some good reason why the 'Scandinavian, the American, the English and the German peoples amalgamate so beautifully, with scarcelv any effort at all. We are all of Israel, and the history of our Church, so far, proves that when we preach the gospel to the different nations, kindreds, tongues and people, those people who are of Israel, or highlv pregnated with the blood of Israel, embrace the gospel more willingly than those who are not. In fact, the preaching of the gospel in our day has been done, principally, up to the present, for the purpose of gatheriner Israel from the North, from the Islands of the Sea, and from all countries whence the chosen seed GENERAL CONFERENCE.  been driven; for God remembers His promise to the Prophets of old : "He that scattered Israel shall gather them again." 

In conclusion I want to bring you a greeting of love and good will from your brethren and sisters in Denmark, Sweden and Norway, and I will here say that there are many good, honorable people in those countries. We have some noble and faithful sons of Utah over there now, and many who have labored there as missionaries in the past, putting forth their effort early and late to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to their countrymen, or in the lands where their parents first saw the light of day. 

May God bless you. May we ' always be the recipients of revelation to lead and guide us in all things, pertaining to our spiritual and temporal welfare, and may we always listen to the voice of the true Shepherd, and ultimately be saved in the Kingdom of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A violin solo was rendered bv Prof. W. C. Clive. 

ELDER JOHN L. HEREICK. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

I will detain you but a very few minutes endeavoring to elucidate one thought, and I trust to have your assistance, your prayers, while I speak to you. This idea : The religions of the world, all Christian denominations, if they are not openly opposing "Mormonism," they are secretly doing so. 

"For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him might not perish but have everlasting life. For God  not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth in Him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the Only Begotten Son of the Father. And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the werl'd, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light that his deeds may be made manifest that they are wrought in God." 

In the light of conditions as they exist today, it seems to me that these words of the Savior are pertinent to us and our conditions. I saw, a few days ago, a dispatch purporting to come from the Rev. Charles B. Mitchell, pastor of St. James Methodist Episcopal church; and this is what the minister said : "O God, send us another Bob Ingersoll to arouse the people. They sit in the pews with dull, dead indifference that breaks our hearts. It would be better if they threw bricks at us as they did at Wesley. But they don't even talk back. This is an age of doubt. We ministers need more than an apostolic succession. This scoffing, indifferent, and Godless age. The pendulum I believe will soon begin to swing back." Quite an admission, my friends, it seems to me, when a minister of a great church will admit that they need something more than apostolic succession in order to get to the people of the world the principles of Tesus Christ. 

You cannot appreciate it at home what it means to preach religion to those that do not want it, for they reallv do not want it. You cannot appreciate what it costs to bring ^onl^ into the Church of God. But T will undertake to say that in mon117  cost each one that joins our Church through baptism, in the world, costs at least $1,000 to $1,500 in missionary work. Some of them are worth it, and much more, and others are not worth the breath that we spend to preach a fifteen-minute sermon to them. But we have to put up with all. We have to give our testimony to the world. We have to say to them that there is a living, guiding faith that will lead men to eternal life, give them a salvation in this world, if they will but obey it. 

I say to you, my friends, it is not only the Protestant churches today that oppose "Mormonism," but the great Mother Church, which has heretofore apparently kept her hands off, is now joining hands with Protestants, trying to come, some of them, to. one common platform on which they all can stand. Stand against what? let me ask you. It is, stand against the Church of God; that is what. You will find that the Church of Jesus Christ won't be asked to join with them when they get their platform fixed up. You say, "Well, what can you do?" We can do nothing, but con-* tinue to preach the principles of faith in God, in His Son Jesus Christ, and in the ordinances that He taught while He was in the earth. This thing, however, we may bear in mind, my brethren and sisters : "Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and shall persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great shall be your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets who were before you." 

May God's blessing be with you, nv brethren and sisters, and with all Israel. I testify to you that 

God's work is in the earth, and that He is seeking to redeem mankind through His gospel which He has established by divine revelation. And this light, this revelation, this living faith that is in the world today will redeem mankind, if they will listen unto its teachings and the voice of the servants of God. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Do what is right; the day-dawn is breaking, 

Hailing a future of freedom and light; 

Angels above us are silent notes takings 

Of every action; do what is right! 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Heber J. Romney. 


