Afternoon
04 10 1912

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. The congregation sang the hymn : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as strangers on earth 

need we roam; Good tidings are soundir- to us and 

each nation, And shortly the hour of redemption 

will come. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Joseph E. Robinson. The congregation sang the hymn : 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that Prophet and SeerBlessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I feel very much, my brethren and sisters, the need of your sustaining faith and the blessings of the Lord, to the end that our time may be occupied profitably during the time that I may stand before you this afternoon. 

I thought, while President Smith was talking, of an expressive remark in the Doctrine and Covenants, a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith : "Remember, the worth of souls is great in the sight of God;" and it occurred to me that this truth is interwoven with the very fabric of "Mormonism," that it is one of the corner stones of the Gospel, that it is a part of the very genius of socalled "Mormonism." For many years the thought was prevalent that man was created for the principal purpose of giving praise to His Maker, that the purpose of the Lord in the creation of man was that he might render praise unto His Maker. While that is a very pleasing and profitable occupation for mankind, yet we are given to understand in modern revelation, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that praise and prayer are not the chief purposes in the creation of man. We are told, by the Lord : "Behold, this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." We learn in modern revelation of the dignity of the human soul, of its immortality; also that intelligence, an attribute of spirit, "was not created, neither indeed can be," to use the language as recorded in the ninety-third section of the Doctrine and Covenants. We learn that we are the spiritual children of God the Eternal Father. Jesus makes this plain in His answer to Mary, who was first at the sepulchre, when He said, "Touch Me not for I have not yet ascended to My Father, but go to My brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto My Father and your Fafher, to My God and your God." He proclaims there, the Master does, the brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God; that we are the children, the 'spiritual children of our Heavenly Father, just as He was the spiritual Son of the Eternal Father. We are told in Psalms that He was the first-born of every creature, meaning, of course, the first-born spiritually, because it would not be true that He was the first-born in the flesh of all the children of our Father, or of all creatures. As He was the spiritual Son of the Eternal Father, so are we the spiritual children of the Eternal Father. We had a birth before coming to this earth-life. Element is now added to spirit, and we are told that "spirit and element inseparably connected receiveth a fulness of joy," and this is one of the purposes of our earth-life, that we might have joy. "Adam fell that man might be, and man is that he might have joy," and that he might eventually have immortality and eternal life. There was no lack of appreciation in the value of human life or in the value of a human soul in that the Savior was permitted, as a part of the divine program, to lay down His life for the redemption of mankind. Some — not of our church and who have not partaken of the light of modern revelation — discuss the question of  that divine sacrifice might have been dispensed with, and whether it might not have been so ordered by the Father that the earth life of the Son would not have to be sacrificed. But it was necessary to have the Son lay down His life for the redemption of mankind, to bring about a restoration from the fall that came through Adam. There is significance in the expression of the Savior, "And I, if I am lifted up from the earth will draw all men unto me." It was necessary, no doubt, that He should suffer just as intensely as He did suffer, that His agony should be such that He sweat great drops of blood. That was an unusual occurrence. There are only a few recorded instances in the annals of history of men so suffering that they actually sweat blood; but there are a few such instances in addition to that of the Savior where that phenomenon has occurred — men actually sweating blood. Those who hold that it might have been possible, that it might have been just as well for some other program to have been carried out for the redemption of mankind, fail to recognize the fact that God is a God of law and justice. They think because the Father is all-powerful, having the element of omnipotence, that therefore at His will He could have dispensed with the necessity of an atonement; but we must take into account the fact that the Lord is a Lord of justice, of order and of law, as well as a God of mercy, and that mercy can not rob justice. It is necessary to recognize the harmonies in the attributes of deity. It was by reason of these harmonies existing in the attributes of Deity that it became necessary for the atonement to be made. We realize, as I said a moment ago, how men were drawn to the Savior by reason of that sacrifice, just as the people have been drawn to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to the testimony for which his blood was shed. It was through no lack of appreciation of the value of life that the Prophet Joseph laid down his life, but it was a necessary and an important event in the development and growth of this work that he should seal his testimony with his blood. He did it cheerfully, and drew men unto him and unto his testimony by that act. The reason for the introduction of the gospel in this dispensation was because of the love the Father has for His children, the fact that their souls are very precious in His sight. The organization, teachings and doctrines of the Church, are to the end that these precious souls, these sparks of divinity, may be brought up aright and saved. 

The auxiliary organizations and the various efforts put forth through them recognize the great worth of souls. Our missionaries realize the truth of the revelation to the Prophet Joseph, that "if it so be that you should labor all your clays in crying repentence unto this people and bring save it be one soul unto Me, how great shall be your joy with Him in the kingdom of our Father." If such great joy come by bringing one person only unto Christ, how much greater will be the joy where many souls are brought unto Him. Recognizing the truth of that principle, we are spending each year in our foreign missionary work hundreds of thousands of dollars, — I believe it runs into the millions, counting the value of the time of these two thousand or more missionaries who are abroad proclaiming the truth. 

Our Church school system and our work in the temples, recognize the great worth of the human soul, the necessity for its growth, and its progress along right lines. When you consider what it has meant in the Church to convert but one single soul, when we consider the life's work of some of these single converts to the Church, and the great stream of posterity that is ever widening as the years come and go, to be traced to one of those single converts, we realize then how very precious to mankind is a human soul, and how important it is for him to be taught the gospel — faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance from evil, turning away from all sin and entering the Church by baptism and the laying on of hands by one who has authority, that his sins may be wiped out, and that he may become a member of God's Church. I feel, my brethren and sisters, that this work of salvation both at home and abroad is a work that is worthy of the best efforts of all of us. Our temple work, I might add, is based upon the same great truth that the soul is of great worth. Although the person has departed this life, this temple work recognizes the glorious truth that there will be a resurrection, a reuniting of the spirit with the body, and an opportunity given for repentence hereafter. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and enable use to be zealous in this work of saving souls; may we realize the truth of the revelation to the Prophet that souls are of great worth in the sight of God, and that the thing which will be of most worth unto us will be to declare repentence unto this generation that we may bring souls unto Christ that we may have rest with them in the kingdom of our Father. I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDEE JOSEPH W. M'MTJBRIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters': I suppose a g-ood many of the people who are in this congregation this afternoon are somewhat surprised that members of the First Council of Seventy have been called upon to occupy this position at so early a stage in the proceedings of this conference. I am satisfied the brethren of that Council were sitting in comparative ease in their feelings — with no thought of being called to speak but expecting to hear from other brethren of the Presidency, and of the Council of the Apostles. Elders of the Church are never sure as to who will be called upon, and are supposed to be ready always to give a reason for the hope they have within them. I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, to speak such words as shall in a measure give a reason for the hope that I have, as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I certainly feel that it is a very great privilege and honor, as well as a great responsibility, to have the opportunity of bearing testimony concerning the things of God in a general conference of the Church. There are thousands and tens of thousands of men who by the light of the Holy Spirit have been converted to the doctrines of the gospel. Such men have loved those doctrines with all their strength, and have devoted their time and means for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, have never had an opportunity of this sort. 

It has been my privilege, during the months that have passed since our last general conference, to travel quite extensively in the various stakes of Zion. I have appreciated the opportunity of being in the companionship of the members of the Council of the Apostles and in the companionship of the members of the First Council of Seventy in these travels. I feel that I have been very greatly benefited by the counsels of my brethren, and by the example that they have constantly set before me. I have also been benefitted and blessed, in coming in contact with the people, and with the presiding brethren in the various stakes of Zion. My testimony is that there are a host of good and capable men occupying positions of responsibility in the Church of Christ. Whether one goes to the north or to the south, to the east or to the west, he finds men whose hearts are set upon the things of the kingdom of God, and who are bending their energies, and giving the very best there is in them, for the blessing of the people, and for the accomplishment of the work that God has set His hand to perform in this latter dispensation. 

It is a very pleasing thing to know that the blessings of the Lord are resting in very rich abundance upon the people in a temporal way. Wherever I have been I have heard expressions of gratitude concerning the blessings that are coming to the people. They seem to be in a most prosperous condition. The earth has been blessed and is yielding of its strength in much abundance, for the sustenance of the people. The parched places, in a manner of speaking, have become in many localities springs of living water. "The desert places have been made ," and happy and comfortable homes have been established over a wide extent of country, in fulfillment of the promises that have been made by our Father in heaven. Ancient prophets and prophets, who have lived and spoken in our own times have declared that just such blessings would characterize the latter days. We should all be very grateful that we are privileged to live in an age of inspiration, that under the providences and loving kindness of our Father in heaven, our hearts have been touched by the testimony of the Lord Jesus, and that we have been made, by the power and inspiration of God, to comprehend the truth, and to know that God our Father has indeed spoken, and that He has revealed as of old, that form of doctrine that is able to make us wise unto salvation. 

I hope, my brethren and sisters, that we are all anxious to recognize, and honor, and be guided by the inspiration of the Lord. The word and counsel of God will always be made manifest through the channels of the Holy Priesthood, for this is God's way of working among the people. God has raised up a ministry by sending holy beings who in their time as noted men upon the earth had been clothed with His power and authority. These holy angels have by the commandment of God conferred that authority upon men in this dispensation, and once more the Lord reveals His mind and His will to His chosen servants the Prophets, as He has always done, when He has had a ministry among men. The responsibility rests upon this people to hold up the hands of the servants of the Lord. The responsibility rests upon the people also to so  their lives that they can be in the companionship of the Spirit of the Lord, that they may be able to recognize the voice of the Good Shepherd as it is made manifest through the authority that God has established, that they may not be led away by the voice of strangers, but may be able always to discern the truth and to give their hearts to the truth, and their time and ability for the spreading of that truth among the children of men. 

We are under obligation, my brethren and sisters, to make mankind acquainted with the marvelous things that have been revealed in this dispensation. One of the old apostles taught the people in his time that as a result of his calling necessity had been laid upon him, he did not feel that he had anything to glory in of himself as "a man, but that very serious obligations had come to him, and that he was under necessity of making known the things of God that had been communicated to him. He declared that woe would be unto him if he did' not preach the gospel, and that same manner of obligation and necessity has come to the people of the Latter-day Saints. It was so taught by our Father in heaven to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the beginning. The great responsibility that the people are under is the preaching of the word of the Lord as it had been revealed, the carrying of glad tidings of great joy to the inhabitants of the earth. We have not been given authority simply that we may be honored of men, or that we may be exalted among men. We have been given authority that we may be made the servants of men, that we may be ready and willing to forget self, and to give our time and whatever ability God may have endowed us with, for the benefit and blessing and salvation of our fellow beings. 

I represent, my brethren and sisters, one branch of the great organization of the Church, the Seventies of the Church of Christ. T feel that it is a very great honor indeed to be a representative of this body of men, for they have been spoken of in the revelations of the Lord as the ministry of the Lord, men specially called to be preachers of the gospel of Jesus Christ. T don't know how much time we give as Seventies to a contemplation of the responsibilities that pertain to our calling, as they are outlined, in the book of revelations, but if we will take that book and read the word of the Lord we will discover that God has said that our calling is different, in a sense", to the calling of other men who bear the authority of the Holy Priesthood. We are expected to be preachers of the gospel continually; there is no period of time when we can lay off this responsibility. There is no time when we can hold our peace, and when- we can refrain from delivering the testimony that has been communicated to us by the power of God. The Lord rather indicates in this revelation, the 124th Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, that other men may preach the gospel as they may have opportunity, but that this order of the Priesthood are expected to be in readiness at all times, and to be in the exercise of the authority conferred upon them constantly. I don't suppose that we can imagine that the Seventy are to be constantly away from home, or that they are always to be absent from their families. It is a part of the gospel plan that men shall give attention to their families, and shall  for them. The gospel teaches that he who will not provide for his family is worse than an infidel, and has already denied the faith, so that we cannot come to the conclusion from the revelation that we are to be constantly away from home in foreign missionary service. It' would be much more reasonable to decide that in addition to our missionary work abroad there must also be a missionary work at home. When we retunp from the missionary field we are not to feel that we can lay off the harness of the Holy Priesthood, or the responsibility that pertains to our calling, and the magnifying of that calling, but we should continue at home, as we may have opportunity, the same line of work to which we have given our attention in the missionary field. 

We are very glad to say, as a council, that some' of the presidencies in the stakes of Zion have been impressed during recent months, possibly for a little more than a year, with the advisability of exercising this great body of men in the preaching of the gospel here at home. We are very glad that this feeling has come to some of the stake presidents, and that they are planning for the use of this body of men in the preaching of the word of the Lord here at home in the stakes of Zion. There is a very great need for the preaching of the gospel, the first principles of the gospel, those principles that are necessary to the salvation of the human family, right here in our own midst. We have large numbers of young people who, through their own neglect, in a measure, and then it may be possible that through the neglect of others who should teach them, they have not been made as fully acquainted with these important  that are so necessary to the salvation of the human family as they ought to be. In my judgment there needs to be in the wards and stakes of Zion much more of the preaching of these doctrines than we have the privilege of listening to as a general thing. We are glad that large numbers of Seventies in one of the Salt Lake City stakes, two hundred of them, were recently called upon to take up a missionary labor, to go among the people who were indifferent, and there was a large number of such people, two or three thousand in one stake, — to labor with them in their homes to see if they could not be aroused to the necessity of doing their duty, the necessity of attending the meetings of the various wards, of- partaking of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, the necessity of contributing of their means, through their tithings, for the building up of the work of God, the necessity of having prayers in the family, the necessity of having children connected with the Sabbath Schools and with other auxiliary organizations of the Church. These Seventies were not only occupied in the teaching of duty, and the teaching of principles of the gospel, to members of the Church who had grown somewhat indifferent and lukewarm, but they were also called to preach to a large number of people, three or four thousand souls, who were not members of the Church. I fear that we are not magnifying our responsibility as it ought to be magnified in regard to this matter. We go far off, and many men appear to be perfectly willing to go abroad in the nations as representatives of the Church in the preaching of the gospel, but we seem to forget, to a  extent, the people who are right here — our neighbors who surround us on every hand, who are not of us, who are not interested in our faith, who do not come to our places of worship, and who consequently do not hear anything of the importance of the work planted by the Lord God of heaven through the revelation of His truth in these latter times. I believe these presiding men, stake presidents and bishops, should be very much concerned about these people who have come up from the nations, who have cast their lot with us, yet are not of us, and who do not have understanding concerning our mission and the doctrines of the gospel that have been committed into our hands which we have been commanded to teach to all that live. Therefore I say I feel that it is a good work, indeed, to call upon these Seventies, because of the Lord indicating that they should be engaged in the ministry constantly, that they may be kept in the harness when at home just as they are kept in the harness when abroad. Seventies are not in the missions abroad as much as they ought to be. There is responsibility resting upon the presidents of quorums of Seventy to teach the members of their quorums that they should be anxious to magnify their office and calling, whether it be at home or abroad. They should be taught that it is not proper to seek for excuses when asked to do missionary service, but that men should feel, when they are desired for this service that they are sought after by the Lord of heaven. He it is who wants them to lift up their voices in the nations, and they should feel that it is a high honor indeed and a very great and blessed privilege to cry repentance among the people, and bear testimony to the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

There is no greater truth in this world known to man than the truth that God has revealed. Tt is at the foundation of the peace ' and happiness and joy of all mankind in this life, and at the foundation of their eternal salvation and happiness in the life that is to come. Blessed is the man honored of God in holding authority to preach the word of the Lord. Blessed is the man who is clothed upon with the power of the Holy Ghost, and who has been made to know in his own soul that God has spoken, that He has revealed eternal principles that, if accepted, will lead men in the way of salvation. Men should be proud to engage in so wonderful a work, particularly when they have the promise of the living God that He will be their father and their friend, that He will ever be at hand to give them succor, and strength, and understanding, and power to accomplish the work allotted to them, if they will give their hearts to Him, if they will give their time and their attention to a study of the things that He has revealed. Men should be taught to honor and rejoice in this great responsibility. The Presidency of the Church should find in this army of men, when they seek after them, willing hearts, ready responses. Men should feel and say, "Yes, I am in the work of God; I have given myself to the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes; here I am; you can use me at home or abroad, wherever I am wanted, and I will be glad to do my part." That is our responsibility, and we recommend the Seventies of the Church of Christ to be in this manner of , ready, willing, obedient, anxious to be laboring for the planting of the work of God. We suggest to presiding men that the Seventies cannot set themselves to work in the stakes of Zion in a regular missionary effort, but the stake presidents can use these men, and of course other men as they see fit in the accomplishment of 'this labor, and there will be souls given for the hire of men who engage in the preaching of the gospel at home. Let us carry the word of God to those who are not of us here, just as cheerfully, just as earnestly, with just as much energy as we carry it abroad, and we will discover, perchance, that our Father in heaven has been working upon the hearts of many people and has planted them in the Zion of God that they may hear the word of the Lord. 

God help us to love the truth, and to be true to it forever, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The hymn, "Though deep'ning trials throng your way," was sung as a soprano solo by Sister Margaret Summerhays. 

ELDEK RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, when President Smith was addressing the congregation in this Tabernacle,, this morning, I felt a keen interest in the very much afflicted people of Mexico, and I thought, what a blessed privilege it is to live under the stars and stripes in our own beloved country. When I heard and saw, as it was pointed out and painted before us, the awful picture that prevails in that unfortunate country, I thought how happy  we who live under a government, the fundamental law of which was an inspiration unto the founders of this great country. I wonder to what extent the people of our own country appreciate the splendid blessings that we enjoy. To what extent do they appreciate our liberties ? 

We read in the Scriptures that the whole world lieth in sin, and under the bondage of sin, so, as President Smith pointed out, the true freedom that men and women ought to seek is to be free from the bondage of sin. I believe that there are a great many people who have very erroneous ideas regarding liberty and what is meant by freedom. There are some, no doubt, who think it means the privilege of doing anything they please, a class of people who object to having any restrictions placed upon them whatever. A person cannot be free who does not restrain himself, who does not live under wholesome restriction. Only those are really free who have a control over themselves, and who live in a community where a wholesome restraint is held upon the conduct of their fellow men. If a person felt, and acted accordingly, that he had the right to do whatever he pleases, no man's life would be secure, no one's property would be safe, and very few would have the privilege of pursuing happiness. I love the government of the United States for this fact, that it gives unto its citizens the greatest measure of freedom consistent with the rights of their fellow men, and consistent with right living. 

Not very long ago I was visiting one of the stakes of Zion, and we heard of a number of our young men who were about to go out, or  just recently gone out on an irrigation project, to engage in building a ditch. These boys had been brought up under the wholesome restrictions of the gospel, but they were not of the metal that our boys usually are, for these boys, when they went out into this camp life and came in contact with others who were not of our faith, and not under those wholesome restrictions, were influenced by their conduct. These men whom they found in the camp were engaging in the playing of cards, drinking beer, smoking cigarettes, profaning the name of the Lord, and divers other things of this character; and when our boys went out there they were invited: "Come, take a cigarette : have a glass of beer." At first they did not yield to it; they had not been accustomed to habits of that kind. But after a while these others began to taunt them and said. "Oh, take a cigarette. Don't be afraid. You are afraid to say that your souls are your own. Why don't you be free like me?" That was the spirit of the occasion, and, after a while, these boys — weaklings that thev were — yielded, and began to indulge in the same habits, because, forsooth, that a bully, with tobacco oozing out of his mouth, said, "Why don't you be free like me?" That was his conception of liberty— a veritable slave to appetite, and did not know it. He thought he was free, but he was under the bondage of sin, yielding to an unwholesome appetite. 

It has been pointed out, very truly, that the gospel, that the truth would make us free. The truth is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It has within it the power of God to save souls. It has the power to make us clean, to cleanse and purify our hearts, to rectify our habits, that we may not yield to those things that are harmful to the body; and, if we acquire the power to resist the bodily appetites, we also acquire the power to resist the tempter in whatever form he may come. We should acquire the power to resist sin, because only those are free who obtain this power, and the gospel has been revealed from heaven that men and women might be liberated from sin. We live in a land of liberty, and how I do rejoice and glory in it. But with all our boasted freedom this nation, in common with other nations of the world, is under the bondage of sin, and we think that we are free, but we are not free until we shall overcome sin, until we shall yield obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, until the truth will break the shackles of sin and make us free. That is the cry that goes out to the nations of the earth. Let them heed it and know this, that no man is free until he does overcome evil and yield obedience to the truth that has been revealed from heaven. I pray that the Lord will give unto us the power to overcome evil, that He will inspire us with a desire to overcome our own wrong habits, and teach us that we may take an active part in spreading a knowledge of this wholesome truth in all the world. 

I endorse with all my soul the remarks of my brethren who have preceded me, and hope that we may engage in the saving of human souls, that our voices may be heard in defense of the truth and in the proclamation of the fact that God has spoken from heaven and restored, in the day and age in which we live, His everlasting gospel, the only gospel that ever was proclaimed among the children of men  had within it the power of God unto salvation. This gospel lays hold upon the lives of the children of men. It teaches them to do those things that will cleanse and purify them and liberate them from this terrible bondage. It should incline the hearts of the children of men unto God. It teaches first and foremost faith in God. It teaches men and women to turn their hearts to Him, that they may derive wisdom and understanding and the inspiration of His Holy Spirit. It teaches men and women to put their trust in Him, and to acknowledge His hand in all things. "In nothing cloth man offend God, or against none is His wrath kindled, save those who confess not His hand in all things, and obey not His commandments," not only in our prosperity but in our adversity; not only in our fortune but in our misfortune; not only in life but also in death. What would we be if there was no such thing as sorrow in this world ? What would men and women be in character? They would be unsympathetic; they would not love their fellow men; they would not have those fine traits of character, those noble qualities of heart and of mind, were it not for the fact of the trials they have to endure, the adversity that they have to put up with, and the difficulties they have to encounter. We would not progress; we would not be progressive beings if it were so; but thank the Lord that His hand is in all these things. Those things which sometimes seem to be our greatest sorrows will be sanctified for our good, and often have the purpose in the wisdom of the Almighty of bringing us nearer to Him. The one thing for us always to remember is the Lord our God, and recognize His hand in all things, and if  will do that every misfortune, every difficulty that may come to us, every adversity that overtakes us, will be a blessing though it be in disguise, for nothing of our experiences in mortal life will be in vain; all will have its purpose and all will go to make up our character. 

After all, the success of this life is not measured at the end of it by what we have, but rather by what we are, and that is what we want to remember. This gospel teaches us to repent of sin <ind turn away from evil, to cleanse and purify our hearts. This gospel leads us to seek forgiveness of sin in the waters of baptism, that they may be washed away in the blood of the Lamb of God, that we may be approved of our Heavenly Father, and that we may be in a condition that His Holy Spirit may be conferred upon us through the laying on of the hands of His servants, duly appointed, duly authorized to act in His name. And this is the distinguishing feature of this gospel, that the ordinances thereof, that these performances are done by men who have been endowed with power from on high. This principle of faith is world-wide, is taught in every denomination that you can find throughout the land. Likewise is the principle of repentance; and although they may consider them in a different light from what we do, nevertheless in their general expression they believe in these principles. Many of them believe in baptism. They may not regard it as essential to salvation, but in a general way they will accept of that holy ordinance as being a part of their faivh. They, however, differ in this regard; it is the distinguishing feature of "Mormonism" that all these sacred ordinances must be  by men who have been endowed with power from on high. These men perform the ordinances, not in their own power, not by their own volition, not by their own appointment, but because they have been called of God and endowed with His- divine authority. Were it not for this distinguishing feature "Mormonism" would be no better than all the other 'isms of the world, but because of this it stands out as the work of God in contradistinction to all the other faiths of the world. That is not saying that there are not millions of good people in all the world; it is not saying that there may not be honest and. sincere souls in every denomination. It merely proclaims the truth that God has but one church upon the earth, and He has blessed and endowed that church with power from on high, and calls men to minister in His name, and that which they do by that divine appointment will be recognized of Him just the same as if He did it Himself. But when men call themselves to such holy and sacred callings, and perform these ordinances in their own authority and by their own appointment, they will not be recognized by our Heavenly Father, but only that shall be recognized which God Himself shall institute among the children of men. 

We do not say these things boastfully, but we merely bear witness to them because it is the truth revealed from heaven. ' It is true that Joseph Smith was a prophet sent of God, and that holy angels administered unto him; that they have conferred upon him the right to act in the name of the Lord. He was the mouthpiece of God unto this generation. Through him the gospel has been restored in all of its primitive purity. Through him the Church of Christ has been established again among the children of men, and all men should know it, and our messengers should go out to proclaim it to the nations of the earth, and let every man and every woman proclaim it at home as well as abroad, whenever they are called to minister in the name of the Lord. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful to these callings, and bear in mind that this gospel has the power to liberate us from sin and to make us free. I pray that we may eventually be saved in the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I will begin by reading a few words from the Prophet Joseph Smith's sayings. He said : "I want the liberty of thinking and believing as I please. It feels so good not to be trammeled." I don't know whether I am able to make myself clear. Not long ago 1 had one of my friends — he was a good friend, too, president of a stake — he said : "Brother Kimball, you don't make yourself clear." Well, I don't know of any man on earth that ever did, so all people could understand aright. The Savior seemed unable, sometimes, to get His children to understand just what He meant, although He was very clear in the doctrine which He. preached. I know I have some friends who do not believe in the way I get at it, but I am not trying to please all of them, because that is absolutely an impossibility, so I have given it up. My temperament is such that I cannot say anything inspiring, or bubble with enthusiasm, and be clear, happy, or joyous, if I have to wear  restraining collar and cater to popular sentiments. I would like my preaching to have color, thrill, feel homelike, and revive old memories, and myself feel free as a colt in a pasture. Now, if I can't feel that way among the Latter-day Saints, where on earth can I go that I will feel free ? 

For the past month or so, I have been reading political platforms, and promises, and pledges enough to last the people of these United States for a thousand years, if they are carried out. (Laughter.) I don't believe in making many promises or pledges, but when you do make them, and issue a platform, I say try and live up to it. I have a platform on which my feet are placed, and I hope they are planted on a rock foundation, so that when the storms come and trouble finds its way amongst us, that T can discern the difference between truth and error, between light and darkness. This is my platform : My faith is that God is the Father of all, and Christ is the Redeemer and Helper of all. I believe in Christ's religion as He taught it; and I discover that F : z doctrines never change. I further believe that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as revealed by the Savior and His authorized servants to the Prophet, Joseph Smith; that the Priesthood of God is the Constitution of the Church, and the present living prophets, and those associated with them, are true disciples of Christ, devoted to the interests of the people. I hope, brethren, you believe that this is my platform. I hope my long pilgrimage in this Church has impressed you that I am honest, earnest, and fervent in my convicGOLDEN KIMBALL. 

; that I have implicit and perfect confidence in God and in His Son Jesus Christ. God rises above men. We are like Him, but He is perfect and that is why 1 have faith in Him, knowing that I will be rewarded for all of my faithful labors, and for all of my mistakes I will have to be resposible. 

Brethren and sisters, I have been thinking for quite a while about certain things, and I have been boiling it down, like my father used to boil down the sugar cane juice, until I have got it down to about what I want to say to you today. Jesus Christ found a certain class of people when He came on the earth, a class who were doing a great deal of mischief among the children of men. If I were to put up an appeal to the Lord for the present generation, I would say, "Give us MEN, men like our fathers, and women like our mothers, men and women who had faith in God, whose religion was love and sacrifice, and who were willing to lay clown everything for God." They were men who were clean; who were pure; who were courageous, and who were not afraid to do right when they knew it was right. Now, that is the kind of men we. want. That is the kind of men we hope that our children will be. But, there is another class of men, T call them Half-Way Men; T pray God I may never be found among them. I would rather be dead than to be numbered among half-way men, persons who have plaster cast expressions on their faces, and are without hearts, without souls, without love and bigness. They are the hypocritical class, such as were found among men when Jesus was on the earth. They have the gall and nerve to want everything on earth as a reward for their assumed . They call it alms-giving or helping the poor; some call it religion, but that is a misnomer. That kind of people are a spineless class, self-righteous, intolerant, and the cause of endless mischief. They never fight in the open. "They are demagogues and place hunters. They are perched upon every anthill, croaking out their stump speeches for this or for that man to hold office. They never give it a thought whether such a man will do good for the people or not." They are parasites who fed and fatten upon the people. "They want us to beat in the brush while they bag the game." Some of this is not original, but it is mighty good. (Laughter.) When it comes to self-sacrifice, fighting for the truth, they are like the dying man who was asked by the minister, "Will you denounce the devil and all his workings?" The dying man looked up in a feeble and distressed way and said, "Please don't ask me to do that. I am going to a strange country, and I don't want to make any enemies." (Laughter.) "Rock-a-bye baby in the tree top" won't work out our problems. There is no use crying "All is well in Zion," because it is not true. The question is, who is for God and who is against Him? This puts me in mind of another story. In the midst of an election in Denver, a little girl sat in a church with her suffragette mother, listening to a minister who was preaching with much earnestness and emphatic gestures. When he had finished the little girl turned to her mother and asked: "Mother, was he for or against God?" 

Now, we want to know who you are for. When we speak to the present generation we ask : Are we to be molded by our environment and tainted with the money devil, besmirched with graft and commercialism, swallowed up body and soul with political questions? Are we to be vanquished like the red men, forced to the wall and crushed into bent-backed humility and dull-eyed apprehension, and accept such a fate with grim stoicism and cease to try to avert our impending doom ? 

The "Mormon" people are a valuable heritage to the race. We have had physical vigor, which must be one of the foundations for the mental strength of any lasting race of people. Our lives have been ruled by high impulses. There is only a generation or two between us and our pioneer fathers and mothers. It is physically impossible for this type of man to be produced in any other way than developing the possibilities of this splendidly endowed earth. Buckskin men are not developed indoors. We cannot evolve men like Washington, Boone, George Rogers, David Crockett, Joseph Smith the Prophet, Brigham Young, or the other pioneers, under the present environment and educational system. "We run our children through a course of, education covering from eight to twelve years, then they are turned loose and called educated." 

Our children need to be taught the great problems of the day, the schools should be ringing with the hammer strokes of the world's work shops, the children will thus become trained citizens of the republic. Our citizens will hereafter be studying and battling as heroically for their civic and industrial liberties as their forefathers, the war patriots, battled for war ideals. 

This generation has had too much ease, too much money, too much pleasure. They have lived  milk and honey when they ought to have been fed on bread, cresses, and cold water, and slept in the mountains. I am sorry my children have not lived on the kind of food I was brought up on; then they would have more backbone. We should adopt a policy to stiffen their backbones, if necessary, feed them on "raw meat, cayenne pepper and green cactus diet." This world was not made just to hold people imbued with selfishness and unhappiness, with no ambition beyond eating, drinking and begetting. We ought to plan ahead, have some purpose, that is truly living. "Life means opportunity. Life means development. Life well spent means knowledge, growth, simplicity of life and complexity of thought." 

"The day of the Laodicians is past, because they are lukewarm and neither cold nor hot," said the voice that spoke on the Isle of Patmos, "I will spue thee out of my mouth." "There are whole men whose mere bodies are in shameful service," because of the character of their employment they do not have freedom; they do not have liberty like the "Mormon" people do who as a rule, own, and work the soil, but are half-men, like the Laodicians, servile souls, and I sometimes feel they are an encumbrance to the earth. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, with the help of the Lord, let us endeavor to uplift the present generation, that they may have breathed into them the spirit of their forefathers, that they may have courage to resist evil,live a better and cleaner life, find out what is right and then stay with it. Unless this generation will get the spirit of our forefathers, what can God do to preserve the Constitution? Unless the  of this nation rise up and get away from the bondage and serfdom of luxury, of ease, of comfort — you can't evolve true men with that kind of environment — it can't be done. That is the appeal I make to the present generation; I tell you, God can do nothing with a "half-way man." You never saw one of them in your life that gave evidence of a yellow streak in him that ever amounted to anything. I sent one of my sons to do a certain thing. He did not get what he went after, but he held up his colors and fought to a finish. There never has been a time in my life when I was so proud of my boy; he did not show the yellow streak. That is the way I feel towards the kingdom of God. I don't know of a man in all the world that I could sustain easier than he who has fought his way up these mountains and over the valleys, through hardships, sufferings and privations, like the President of this Church has. If any man on this earth has a right to his position today, and has earned it, he is the man; and there are others with him. I was conversing with a prominent stranger yesterday, and he told me he was prejudiced when he came here, and I said: "I wish you had known our leading men, I  you had been acquainted with Brigham Young, and Heber C. Kimball, you would have liked them." He said, "Do you think so ?" I replied, "I know you would or else you are not a man like I am." (Laughter.) 

I pray God to bless you, my brethren and sisters. I may be near the finish of my labor, but let it come and let come weal or woe, life or death, if God will give me His Spirit, and I retain the courage of my convictions, I will be true to God and defend the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

President Joseph F. Smith made announcements, including a notice that members of the Church attending Conference, who need lodgings, or board, could receive entertainment by applying to the committee acting under direction of the Presidents of Salt Lake City Stakes. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform; He plants His footsteps in the sea. 

And rides upon the storm. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 


