Afternoon
06 10 1912 

In the Tabernacle, at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

Fred Graham, and the Tabernacle choir, sang the hymn : 

O Zion, when I think of thee, I long for pinions like the dove, 

And mourn to think that I should be So distant from the land I love. 

Prayer was offered by Elder C. E. Middleton. 

A duet and chorus, "Christ Is Risen," was rendered by Rose Smithen, Carl Samuelson and the choir. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

"Get the Spirit of God, and Keep It."— Testimony of the truth of latter-day revelations. 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon, in the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that we enjoy of meeting in this sacred building, in conference assembled to receive the word of the Lord. I endorse, most heartily, the truths that have been taught from this pulpit during this conference, and I take to myself the admonition of our beloved president with reference to the conditions that maintain in our beloved country at the present time. I desire to repeat his admonition to us, that our Father is the source of inspiration in all things, both spiritual and temporal. We may petition the throne of grace in faith and our prayer will not be unanswered. 

In the language of a great prophet of Israel I would say to the Latter-day Saints, "Get the Spirit of God in your hearts and keep It; it will guide us into all truth; it will be a panacea for all our ills; it will enable us to look forward to the coming- of the risen Redeemer confident that He shall come again in the clouds of heaven." Possessing that Snirit, our ambition will not be a selfish one. but with charity in our hearts for all mankind, love for all our Father's children, we will mingle with them dav by dav, and the influence we radiate will be one of love and kindness that will have its influence for good upon every child of our Father with whom we come in contact. 

Mav the Lord add His blessing; nipv His peace be upon all Israel. T desire to add my testimony to *"ho?p already borne. I know that the Book of Mormon contains the «-ord of God. and that it supplements the other sacred scrintures of T°wish Israel. I know that the "Hnetrine and Covenants is the word "f the Lord to us in this day; and I Wiow that the S"ne Power that gave the instructions contained in  volumes still is supreme. He will continue to feed us the bread of life as we need it from time to time, if we will but live in accordance with the teachings we have already received. God grant that we may evidence our faith and devotion to the cause with which we are identified, by lives of purity and righteousness, doing good to all men, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

Young people admonished to shun existing evils. 

In the presence of this vast congregation, and in the presence of men much older than I, both in experience and in years, I certainly feel my weakness in standing before you, my brethren and sisters, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord will continue to be with us. 

I have enjoyed this conference above all others that I have ever attended. This to me is the first privilege of standing before so great a number of people. Without 'the Spirit and blessings of our Father in heaven, I feel that I will be unable to magnify the calling and position that has come to me. I desire an interest in your faith and prayers continually. 

I know that this is the work of the Lord, and that we are His chosen people in these the last clays. Where much is given much is expected; and I do earnestly pray that both young and old will take to heart the instructions that have been given by our prophet, and by those who have followed him, in teaching and warning us concerning these trying times, and in regard to our lives as Latter-day Saints. I 119  hope, and pray, that the young people especially will take the advice of those who are older, and not go into by and forbidden paths, and partake of the evils that exist in our midst, by following bad examples set before us by those who are not of us. Let us look to our leaders, those who hold the Holy Priesthood, and take their advice, and, in the spirit of humility and prayer, I feel sure that if we take this admonition we shall not go astray spiritually, but be raised up by the power of the Lord and made equal to the responsibilities as they come to us from our fathers. 

Again I say, that in the presence of this vast congregation and those of experience in the work, I feel my weakness, but I testify that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us and we have been blessed. I pray that His spirit will go with us, and help us to put into practice the teachings given at this conference, and that when we go away we shall not say, "What a splendid conference we have had," and then in a few days forget it. May the teachings given burn within our hearts that we may be given courage, and strength of mind and body, to serve the Lord and keep His commandments, that we may be His children in very deed, and be worthy of the blessings He has in store for us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I would like to say for the information perhaps of a great many of the Latter-day Saints who are present here today, that the last speaker is the great-grandson of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and who now  the position of Presiding Patriarch in the Church. 

ELDER DAVID 0. JTKAT. 

Strength of the Church is individual testimony. — Obedience the key to knowledge of truth. — Benefit of Church to individuals. — Church members advised to restrain contention. 

I pray , for the inspiration of the Lord, that I may speak those things that will be in harmony with His will — that is the prayer of my heart this afternoon. 

"Be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by Him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders which has become the head of the corner; neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved." 

So spake Peter, the chief apostle when he was arraigned before the judges for having healed the impotent man. He bore a strong testimony to those people who but a short time before had participated, directly or indirectly, in the crucifixion of the Savior. They warned Peter and John not to preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified, but when they perceived the boldness of Peter and John, and saw the impotent man standing before them whole, they counseled among themselves what to do. Then they returned and cautioned the apostles not to preach Jesus Christ to the people. At that point Peter and John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, answered, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to harken unto you more than GENERAL CONFERENCE  God judge ye, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard." On several different occasions the prophet Joseph Smith was asked by non-members, curious visitors to Nauvoo and other cities in the early history of this Church, what was the secret of the strength that seemed to be manifest in the Church in the early days. On one occasion, to be specific, he was asked how he governed this people and his answer was, "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." People today wonder wherein lies the secret of the growth, stability and vitality of the Church of Christ. Those who are prejudiced when they come in our midst are convinced that there is something within the Church that those not of us do. not comprehend. Recently a young lady from the East spent a few weeks amongst us, visiting friends. Evidently her mind was previously filled with prejudice against the people of Utah, particularly against the Church. But she went around with some of her friends who were actively engaged in Religion Class work, some who were actively engaged in primary and others in Sunday School. One day when they returned from some of this regular work, she made this remark: "Well, there must be something in this Church or so many intelligent men and women would not be so actively engaged in it. Why, I almost feel that I want to enter in the work myself." You, no doubt, have met people who, seeing perhaps some such demonstration as this of the strength of Israel, wonder how it is that this Church manifests such vitality and growth. The secret is this, that every true Latter-day 

Saint possesses individually the assurance that this is the work of God, the same power that gave Peter and John strength to stand before their accusers and declare openly and boldly in the Sanhedrin that "Jesus whom ye crucified is the power by which this man was made whole," that His name is the only name given among men by which they can be saved. 

The secret lies in the testimony possessed by each individual who is faithful in the membership of the Church of Christ, that the gospel consists of correct principles. It is that same testimony that was given to Peter, which he expressed when Christ* asked His disciples "whom do men say that I am?" "Some say thou art this prophet, some say thou art that; some say thou art Elias." "But whom do ye say that I am?" And Peter answered, "Thou art the Christ the Son of the living God." "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but my Father which is in heaven; I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock will I build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." This testimony has been revealed to every sincere man and woman who has conformed to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, obeyed the ordinances and become entitled to and have received the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost, to guide them. Every individual stands independent in his sphere in that testimony, just as these thousands of incandescent lamps which . have made Salt Lake City during the last week so brilliant at night, each one of which stands and shines in its own sphere, yet the light in it is produced by the same 121 , the same energy, from which all the other lights receive their energy. So each individual in the Church stands independently in his sphere, independently in the knowledge that God lives, that the Savior is the Redeemer of the world and that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Now it is given unto some, says the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants, to know by the Holy Ghost that Jesus is the Son of God and that He was crucified for the sins of the world. It is to these I refer who stand firm upon the rock of revelation in the testimony that they bear to the world. But the Lord says further there are others to whom it is given to believe upon the testimony of others' words, that they may also receive salvation if they continue faithful. To all these however, there comes the testimony also of daily experience. The Latter-day Saints throughout the world find confirmation of their testimony in every performance of duty. They know that the gospel teaches them to be better individuals; that obedience to the principles of the gospel makes them stronger men, and truer women. Every day such knowledge comes to them, and they cannot gainsay it; they know that obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ makes them better and truer husbands, true and honored wives, obedient children. They know that obedience to the principles of the gospel makes them in every respect ideal home-builders; the ideal is there, they sense it in their minds, they cannot gainsay it, they know it, and they know that transgression of these principles will have the opposite effect upon their individ lives and upon their home lives. They know that obedience to the gospel fosters true brotherhood and fellowship among mankind; they know that they are better citizens by virtue of obedience unto the laws and ordinances. So, as they go through their daily acts, and apply religion in their vocation, the truth of the Gospel becomes exemplified in their lives. Thus, with the testimony of the Spirit, the testimony of reason, and the testimony of daily experience, the Latter-day Saints throughout the world must stand impregnable. 

I was strongly impressed the other day in reading a book written by a man who is looking for a church that will eventually dominate the world. This is the church he describes, and I want to read it, having in mind the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: 

"The church that can say to the unchurched, Our way is best because it works best, our people are efficient, prosperous and happy because we are a body who aid one another in the productive life; we waste none of our substance in vice, luxury or ostentation; we do not dissipate our energy in brawling, gambling or unwholesome habits; we conserve our resources of body and mind and devote them to the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, which is not a mystical, but a real kingdom; it is a body of people dominated by ideals of productivity, which is mutual service. We do not strive for the things that satisfy but for the moment and then leave a bad taste; we strive for the things which build us up and enable us and our children to become strong: to flourish and to conquer. We strive to make ourselves worthy to receive the world by fitting ourselves to use the world more productively than others. We believe that obedience to God means obedience to the laws of nature, which are but the uniform manifestations of His will, and we try by painstaking study GENERAL CONFERENCE.  acquire the most complete and exact knowledge of that will, in order that we may conform ourselves to it. We believe that reverence for God is respect for these laws; that meekness is teachableness and willingness to learn by observation and experience; by practicing this kind of meekness or teachableness we believe that we shall inherit the earth, whereas, the unmeek, the unteachable, who are dominated by pride of tradition shall not. We offer you hard work, frugal fare, severe discipline, but a share in the conquest of the world for the religion of the productive life. Such a church is founded upon the rock of economic efficiency and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 

My testimony and yours is that this church of Christ can offer to the unchurched all the good things which this author is looking for, and more; because God has revealed more in the government and conduct of His church. 

Now brethren and sisters, the testimony of the gospel is an anchor to the soul in the midst of confusion and strife. Cannot we afford, then, possessing that testimony, to manifest to the world another attribute of the Church of Christ, which is love? Knowledge of God and His laws, means stability, means contentment, means peace, and with that a heart full of love reaching out to our fellow man offering the same blessings, the same privileges. Love will beget tolerance and kindness. Now I bespeak that during the next month or so, when our little towns and cities, and states will be more or less stirred up by political contention, that we remember to have charity and love for one another. Oh, let us not deal in personalities and tear down a brother's reputation and hurt his feelings. We are striving to establish the kingdom of God; let us hold to that fact as  anchor of our soul and then breathe forth charity and love to those who may not see just as we do. I mean that while we are urging our particular political belief, that we avoid dealing in personalities; we cannot afford to hurt a brother's feelings and wound him. I believe, with a western poet, that it isn't worth while : 

"Ts it worth while that we jostle a brother, 

Bearing his load on the rough road of life? 

Is it worth while that we jeer at each other — 

In blackness of heart, that we war 

to the knife? God pity us all in our pitiful strife. 

"God pity us all as we jostle each other; 

God pardon us all for the triumph we feel 

When a fellow goes down 'neath his 

load on the heather Pierced to the heart: Words are 

keener than steel, And mightier far for woe than for 

weal. 

****** "Is it worth while that we battle to humble 

Some poor fellow down into the dust? 

God pity us all! Time too soon will tumble 

All of us together, like leaves in the gust, 

Humbled, indeed, down into the dust." 

Then, in conclusion, let us stand with our hearts centered and our minds firmly fixed upon this eternal truth — that the gospel of Jesus Christ is among men for the redemption and salvation of the human family. Let us go forth in the spirit of that, dealing with our fellows in the spirit of love and kindness. Let us work in our councils, in our quorums, guided by that same spirit, for the Church in the midst of political strife and so123  unrest will stand, to use Goldsmith's words, 

"As some tall peak that lifts its awful form, 

Swells from the vale and midway 

leaves the storm, Though round its base the rolling 

clouds are spread, Eternal sunshine settles on its head." 

God grant that we remain true to this Church; that we may ever be found defending the men whom God has called to guide us and realize that harmony with them means that we are in harmony with God for He sustains them. Amen. 

The hymn, "O, give me back my Prophet dear," was sung by James Moncar, Hyrum J. Christiansen, Howard Anderson and Walter Lamoreaux. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

John Taylor's hymn a loving tribute to the martyrs. — The Church continuously guided by a Prophet. — Counsels of inspired men should be heeded. 

I have been deeply impressed and edified during the sessions of this conference in listening to the remarks of the brethren, and I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the counsel and instructions that have been imparted unto us by those who stand at the head, who are possessed of the Spirit of the Lord, and whose right it is to teach Israel. I have also been impressed this afternoon by the singing of this hymn, sacred to me, composed by President Taylor, who dearly loved the Prophet Joseph Smith. I never read this hymn or hear it sung without being touched in my soul and I shall take the liberty this afternoon, in my weak arid imperfect way, to read it. for I realize  in the singing we do not always get the full comprehension of the words, which may not be impressed upon our souls, especially in a large gathering such as this, as we would like to have them : 

O, give me back my Prophet dear, 

And Patriarch, O give them back, The Saints of Latter-days to cheer, 

And lead them in the Gospel track! But, O, they're gone from my embrace, 

From earthly scenes their spirits fled, Two of the best of Adam's race, 

Now lie entombed among the dea'd. 

Ye men of wisdom, tell me why — No guilt, no crime in them were found — 

Their blood doth now so loudly cry, From prison walls and Carthage ground : 

Your tongues are mute, but pray attend, The secret I will now relate, 

Why those whom God to earth did lend, Have met the suffering martyrs' fate. 

It is because they strove to gain, 

Beyond the grave a heaven of bliss, Because they made the gospel plain 

And led the Saints to righteousness; It is because God called them forth, 

And led them by His own right hand, Christ's coming to proclaim on earth, 

And gather Israel to their lan'd. 

It is because the priests of Baal 

Were desperate their craft to save, And when they saw it doomed to fail, 

They sent the Prophets to their grave. Like scenes the ancient Prophets saw, 

Like these the ancient Prophets fell, And, till the resurrection dawn, 

Prophet and Patriarch, farewell. 

My heart is always touched when I hear this beautiful hymn, or when I read it. I understand the spirit that rested upon President Taylor when he wrote it; but I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this fact — although the prophet who stands at the head of the dispensation of the fullness of times, and the patriarch who stood with him have been taken from us, the Lord has not left us GENERAL CONFERENCE. . There has never been a time since the restoration of the Gospel when we have not had a prophet, some one to lead us, to direct us, to teach us the commandments of God that we might walk in the straight and narrow path. We are not without leaders; and the time shall never come when the Lord will not find some one that He can trust; in whom He has confidence, and who will be qualified to stand to represent Him among the people. This is my testimony and I rejoice in its truth. I do not feel that because the Prophet was taken and the Patriarch; because President Young was taken, or President Taylor and other leaders were taken, that the time has come when we have not an inspired leader to teach us the truth. The time will never come when we will not be able to put confidence and exercise faith in the teachings and in the instruction of those who lead us. I am satisfied of this for I know the promises of the Lord are sure. I know that these things are true; the Lord has not forsaken His people, and will be with them even to the end. Therefore it behooves us, as Latter-day Saints, to put our trust in the presiding authorities of the Church, in the Priesthood of God; and accept of their teachings. 

No man ever went astray by following the counsel of the authorities of the Church. No man who ever followed the teachings or took advice or counsel from the one who stands as the representative of the Lord ever went astray; but men who have refused to accept counsel have gone astray and into . forbid-, den paths, and in some instances have even denied the faith. Others who went astray because they failed to understand and to heed the coun that were given unto them for their eternal good, have humbled themselves and come back to the Church acknowledging their error. In connection with this I desire to read just a word or two from the revelation, known as the preface that the Lord gave to His book of commandments : 

"Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear : Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; and the anger of the Lord is kindled, and His sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth; and the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the 'day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of His servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people; For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; they seek not the Lord to establish His righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own Go'd, whose image is in the likeness of the world, , and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall." 

Therefore, we must put our faith in those whom the Lord hath called, if we want to have a standing before the Lord, and none of us desire, if we have the proper spirit, to be cut off from among the people. But this punishment will befall those who do not prove faithful and will not pay that heed or give that attention to the counsel of those who are called and appointed and inspired of the Lord to teach and direct us in all things. 

We should be first and foremost, as it has already been expressed, for the kingdom of God and His righteousness. Let us be true and faithful always, with a desire to 125  the commandments of the Lord and honor Him and remember the covenants we have made with Him. This is my prayer in behalf of all Israel in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

Modern revelation essential.— The latest news eagerly awaited. — The Bible not the only book of scripture. — Irrational to believe that God has not spoken to man since the Bible record closed. — The Church is truly progressive and up to date. — True and false progressivism. — This nation a nation of promise. — This land a land of liberty. — True liberty and its spurious imitations. — Many counterfeits and adulterations on the market today. — Satan a clever imitator. — True liberty distinguished from license. — The right to seek advice. — False liberty is selfishness. — The present is built upon the foundation of the past. — The Constitution of our nation an inspired document. — The coming of the Christ near at hand. 

In common with many thousands present, I too have rejoiced in the words to which we have listened during this conference, and more than in the words have I found joy in the spirit that has been manifest in the utterances of the speakers and in the receptive condition of the hearers. We cannot be oblivious to the fact that there has been manifest amongst this vast assembly this afternoon and in the assemblies that have marked the preceding sessions of this conference, a spirit of unanimity and harmony that testifies to the presence of the Spirit of God. I have never had any fear that discord would be preferred by the Latter-day Saints to harmony, and I know that the people are standing as a whole true to the faith, true to their covenants, true to their duty and obligations as 

Latter-day Saints, — that is to say, holy ones of the latter days. I am glad to have been present, to have heard the latest word, to be informed as to the most recent news in this great kingdom of the Lord, for it is characteristic of the spirit of this work and of this people that we are not content with the news of the past but are ever listening for the ' latest and the newest news if you please. 

Doubtless you were impressed as was I by the manner in which the article of faith relating to continuous revelation was read to you or quoted to you this morning. That is one of the fundamentals, one of the essential features of the Church of Christ, that we believe not only in what God has revealed, but in that which He does now reveal; and moreover we are living in confident assurance that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God. These bound volumes of scripture are necessary and essential to us, — the Bible, the Book of . Mormon, and more modern records, — absolutely essential for our instruction and guidance, but we want in addition something later and more nearly adapted to the times. This book known as the Holy Bible professedly ends as a historical record about one hundred years after the birth of Christ, and there be some who say that God hath not spoken since that time, that for nearly nineteen hundred years He has never uttered a word by way of direct instruction unto His people. I cannot believe it; I cannot accept any such creed, nor have I room in my heart for any such belief, for in every other field of human thought we are ever on the alert for the new. Not content with bound books we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  eagerly for the issues of monthly magazines, weekly journals, and moreover we would not know how to get along without our daily papers, each one telling in part what God hath wrought since the last issue left the press : Nor are we content with such, for here day after day I see great crowds about the bulletin boards too eager to rest contented until the next issue, too eager to know what has been done — aye, what God hath done in forwarding His plans and purposes among men during the last few hours. And yet in spite of that, as the prevailing spirit of the times, I say there be some who say that God hath not spoken concerning the affairs of the kingdom since about one hundred years after the birth of His Son. He has spoken much in the realm of science and discovery; He has made known many great truths through His servants, the inventors, but He has not spoken concerning the way in which His people should walk to find their way back into His presence. I say again, it is unfitting, it is unsuited, such a belief as that, to the spirit of the times, to the modern day in which we live, and I rejoice in belonging to a church that is in a measure up, to date, and down to date, that gives me news of the present and that gives me the Word of God concerning the affairs of my life and the duties that lie immediately before me. I rejoice in the progressivisrn of this Church and more particularly in the fact that its orogressivism is of the right kind. It is not that so-called progressivisrn that seeks to belittle or destrov the achievements of the past; it is not a progressivisrn that seeks to tear down, that says our fathers were wrong and we know  than they did; that they laid a foundation which in its way was good but not sufficient for> us to build upon. We have no such spirit of progression as that, for that is destruction. The spirit of advancement and progressivisrn in the Church of Christ is that which marks the progression from the seed to the blade and from the blade to the ripened ear. It is a constructive progressivisrn; the past is added to, and every new revelation doth but make the revelations of the past plainer and reveal their sanctity and their sacred origin the better. I ask you, have you yet discovered in this volume of modern scripture, the Doctrine and Covenants, one utterance that is in any manner opposed to the spirit of the scriptures of the past? It will be time to raise objection to modern revelation when w'e find that such revelation is in opposition .to the spirit of the Word of God of past times; but when the'modern utterances are plainly but later works of the same author, why need we complain? I rejoice, too, in the measure of liberty which is assured to us as members of this Church and I have been greatly edified and pleased in listening to what has been said respecting liberty and freedom. I believe that . we should give thanks unto God for our privileges of citizenship in this great nation, for mark you, this is a nation that shall stand for liberty, for it hath been so predicted. It has been prophesied and the prophecy has been proclaimed through the modern prophet, Joseph Smith, that centuries ago — aye, dating back five hundred years or more before the meridian of time, — it was declared that this land should in the latter days be a land of liberty and 127  king should rule here. I take it that means no king by name or by pretension; no one shall exercise imperial powers among the citizens of this great nation, until Christ, the King, shall come to rule and reign. But as I listened to my brethren expressing their joy and gratitude at this full measure of liberty which we seem to enjoy, I asked myself if we are always sure that we do not accept the imitation for the real. You know this is a day of imitations, a day of adulteration and counterfeits, a day when shoddy is palmed off for all-wool cloth, and gilded brass passes too often current for genuine gold; aye, a clay when glass paste does duty as diamonds of the first water. Of all the imitators, of all the counterfeiters, Satan is the chief, for he has had the greatest experience and the longest training and he is a skillful salesman; he not only knows how to manufacture his spurious goods, but how to put them upon the market. And it is wonderfully attractive — the way in which he does up those little packages in brightcolored paper, tied with tinsel string to attract; and we are very apt to pay the price asked before we open the package. And do you know of all the counterfeits and of all the imitations that the devil has put forth on sale, I know of none that is more dangerous than his spurious brands of liberty and freedom, such as are being offered on every hand. Some of them are so rank as to be a stench in the nostrils of a normal man. How shall we distinguish between the genuine and the imitation, you may ask? Is it necessary that we get expert advice and call in a professional chemist to make the analysis? Oh. there are simple tests by which  can determine. You can always tell after consumption whether it was the genuine or not, for the imitation leaves a wretchedly bad taste in the mouth, but that test may not be as serviceable as one that may be applied before taking. Well, you will find that true liberty always works both ways, it never works one way alone, but is of universal application. For example, I hear some men say that they claim the right to speak out and say just what they like. They make that claim that they have the right to speak out and say just what they like to say. I grant you that is true if you will let it apply the other way as well. I have the right to be safeguarded against utterances which are offensive to hear. If a man says that he under the guise of his rights as a free citizen may swear and use vile and obscene language, and may profane the name of God, I say to you that is not liberty, that is a license that is illegal. I hear some men say that they are free citizens and they are not going to be told what to do. I grant them that right, but by the same token T claim the right to seek advice if T want it and to go to whomsoever I choose for the advice and counsel which I desire. Now the men who say that they don't want to be told, usually find fault with their brothers who are willing to be told, usually criticise them because they are willing to be advised and guided. I claim the right to give advice to my brother if I do it in a manner to cause him no offense. I claim the right, if I so choose, to publish my views in magazine or newspaper or book if I can make arrangements with the publishers, I have that perfect right as long as I say nothing in my publication inimical to GENERAL CONFERENCE  rights of men nor contrary to law and order, ana you have the right to read my writings or not just as you choose. I cannot force them upon you, but if there be some who do choose to read them and who are willing to be influenced and guided by them, what business is that of others who refuse so to do? I believe that we are too apt to apply these so-called rules of liberty and of freedom in a one-sided way. There are men who say that they have the right to smoke tobacco' if they want to, and in this State if they be of age they have that right legally and I know they exercise it (laughter), but I long to see the day when I shall have some rights too in that matter, and when I shall not be forced to breathe the foul emanations that come from smokers' mouths. 1 hope to see the day when women will no longer be offended as they board or leave street cars or as they pass along the streets, by having clouds of tobacco smoke blown into their faces. I believe we shall improve in the matter of liberty and come to see that there are rights that others have as well as rights that we claim for ourselves. The spirit of the Gospel safeguards the right of no man to the injury of another, but provides for the liberties of all; and I hope that I will never become so lifted up in egotism that I shall feel that I am the people and that I know it all. I hope that I shall ever be led to seek for those to whom I feel I can look with confidence for advice, for counsel, for guidance, and if I choose to follow the counsel and advice of those in whom I have respect, T claim that I have the right so to do as a citizen and a free man. 

I trust that the spirit of charity  manifest itself in our souls and that we will be willing to allow unto others those privileges and rights that we ask for ourselves; that we may in very truth be worthy of the measure of liberty which belongs to the Church of Jesus Christ, for if it be what it professes to be, the repository of truth, there must be in it the elements of true liberty and not that false freedom of the spurious kind which is being put forth in an unceasing stream from the devil's factories. We have to scrutinize very carefully the goods that are offered in the markets today lest we be deceived. I rejoice in the fact that this people stand for the Constitution of the nation and I call to mind that the declaration of the people to that effect was made in a very early day and was reiterated at a very critical time. It was just when the Overland Telegraph wire from the east was approaching the end of the wire that was coming from the west, for you know it was within the boundaries of this state that those two ends were joined and the nerve of steel that connected the east with the west was made complete. It was just at that time that the great unpleasantness was at its height between the North and the South, when brother was rising against brother, and it was rumored that Utah had seceded from the Union, or, as represented by some, Utah was to become a separate and independent government, the seat of a separate power, and that in addition to a North and a South, which had already been declared, there was to be a West also. You know the first message that was sent through that metallic nerve, went from the West to Washington, from Brigham Young to the President of 129  United States and this was the purport of the message, "Utah has not seceded but is firm for the Constitution and laws of our country." That declaration has never been changed; it is as true in its application today as it was when it was flashed as the initial message across the overland telegraph wire. We stand for the Constitution and do not believe in any false notions of advancement and enlightenment and progressivism such as seeks to undermine that foundation of our liberties, for as a document we know that it was inspired and we believe that the men who framed it were raised up, as truly as was ever prophet raised up in Israel in ancient or modern times, to frame that instrument and thereby provide for the fulfilment of prophetic utterances regarding the freedom and the liberty that should prevail in this choice land. I am pleased to add my testimony to the many to which you have listened. The testimony which I bear to you is one of knowledge and assurance beyond doubt, that God has spoken in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times, and does speak today as of old through His servants, the prophets; that in very truth Christ the Redeemer of mankind lives and that His coming is near at hand. The cry is given today as in the wilderness of old, "The kingdom of heaven is at hand, therefore repent." May the spirit of earnestness, devotion, integrity, freedom, liberty ever prevail among the Latter-day Saints, and throughout the length and breadth of the land occupied by this great nation, the nation of promise, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder James E. Talmage presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles. Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 

Auditing committee, William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Jos. S. Wells. 

Tabernacle choir : Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, librarian; and all the members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Emmeline B. Wells, president; Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor; Julina L. Smith, second counselor; Olive D. Christensen, secretary; Amy B. Lyman, assistant secretary; Emma A. Empey, treasurer. Members of the Board: Sarah J. Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant. Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phoebe Y. Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice M. Home, Priscilla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Susa Young Gates. 

Edna May Davis, Sarah McLelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon, and Jennie A. Hyde. Lizzie T. Edward, musical director; Edna H. Coray, organist. 

General Board of Deseret Sunday School Union : Joseph F. Smith, superintendent; David O. McKay, first assistant superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, second assistant superintendent; George D. Pyper, secretary; John F. Bennett, treasurer. Members of the Board : Joseph F. Smith, David O. McKay. Stephen L. Richards, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman. Heber J. Grant; Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Anthon H. Lund, George M. Gannon, James E. Talmage, Horace^. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton. Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, Charles B. Felt. George H. Wallace, Howard R. Driggs, Robert L. McGhie. Sylvester D. Bradford, Nathan T. Porter, Milton Bennion, Charles W. Penrose, Edwin S. Woolley. Jr., and Hyrum G. Smith. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; Heber J. Grant, assistant superintendent : Brigham H. Roberts assistant superintendent : Moroni Snow, general secretary : Aids : Francis M. Lyman, J Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Rudger Clawson. Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin. Bryant S. Hinckley, B. F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Tr., Lewis T. Cannon, Benjmain Goddard, George Albert Smith, 131 

Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John 

A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund, George F. Richards, Nephi Anderson. John H. Taylor, Charles W. Penrose, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Frank W. Penrose, Nicholas G. Morgan, and Claude Richards. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association : Martha H. Tingey, president; Ruth May Fox, first counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom, second counselor; Joan M. Campbell, secretary; Alice K. Smith, treasurer; Margaret Summerhays, musical director; Mattie Read Evans, organist; Elizabeth T. Sardoni, assistant organist. Aids: Maria Y. Dougall, Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett. Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Estelle N. Caldwell, Emily C. Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy W. .Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Letitia Teasdale, Edith R. Lovesy, Laura Bennion, Rachel Grant Taylor, Clarissa A. Beesley, Sarah E. Richards and Lucy M. Smith. 

Members of the General Board of Primary Associations : Louie 

B. Felt, president; May Anderson, first counselor; Clara W. Beebe, second counselor; Frances K. Thomassen, secretary; Ida B. Smith, librarian; Isabelle S. Ross, physical director; Ann Nebeker, assistant physical director; Emma Ramsey Morris , chorister; Ivy Allen, organist. Advisors to the Board : Hyrum M. Smith and George F. Richards. Aids : Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, 

Aurelia S. Rogers, L. L. Greene Richards. Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza S. Bennion, Margaret C. Hull, Edna H. Thomas, Alice L. Howarth, Emma Romney, Rebecca N. Whitney, Zina Y. Card, Amy Lyman, Laura Foster, Edith Hunter. Erma Bitner, and Myrtle B. Shurtliff. 

General Board of Religion Classes : Anthon H. Lund, superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, second assistant superintendent; Edwin S. Sheets, secretary. Members of the Board : Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, Heber. J. Grant, Anthonv W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall," Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jenson, and Willard Young. 

General Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah: Anthon H. Lund, president; Charles W. Penrose, vice president : Joseph F. Smith, Jr., secretary and treasurer; Toseph Christenson, librarian; Anthony W. Ivins, D. M. McAllister and Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH P. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Counsel to men and women holding responsible positions. — Indecent fashions in dress denounced. — Leaders should be examples of righteousness. — Missionaries who have died during last nine months. — Caution against being over-zealous. — Blessings invoked upon all good people. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I desire to thank the good brethren and sisters who have attended this conference, and if the time would permit, without interfering too much with your desire to return to your homes, I would like to make a simple suggestion or two to our Relief Societies, to our Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations, Primary Associations, and our Sunday School, and Religion Class teachers, the presidents of stakes and their counselors, and the high counselors throughout Zion, and the bishops and counselors, and ward teachers throughout the Church, that they set their faces like flint against every spirit of apostasy, every kind of evil, intemperance, the violation of the Sabbath day; and hold in reverence that which is sacred in the eyes of the Lord, and should be held sacred by all Latter-day Saints; to hold sacred also all and every divine and human right; to do unto all men as we would that they should do unto us, and set an example, as members of the Church that will be worthy of emulation by all men and women in the world. I want to say to our Relief Societies, our Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations and' our Primary Associations that I desire and sincerely hope they will set their faces like flint against every immoral thing, including the prevailing habit of card-playing, of unbecoming fashions in dressing, of indecent exposure of the human form divine to the lecherous gaze of men; that they clothe themselves in decency, both in public and in private, and that they keep sacred those things which have been conferred upon them in holy places. I ask this, and I would suggest to our Relief Societies, Young Ladies' Improvement Associations, and Pri Associations, that when you find members of your boards indulging in things which are not right, call them to order, admonish them; be gentle and kind, of course, and forbearing and patient; but unless they will conform to the rules of these associations to give out a moral and wholesome influence to the young people of Israel, let them be dropped and others who will be more exemplary chosen and put in their places. I expect that my sisters will listen to this counsel, for it is not mine; it is the counsel of the spirit and letter of the word of God as we have it in the divine records; it is God's will, and those who are entrusted with these imporant duties in the Church should be vigilant in guarding the welfare, the happiness, and good name and character of the daughters of Zion. I want presidents of stakes and their counselors to so live their religion that they can say, consistently, to the people of their stakes, "Come and follow me." I desire that the bishops in all the wards will set an example before their people that they will feel proud to emulate; and that when a man having authority in the Church stands up to teach his people that the people will know, "He practises what he preaches; and, therefore, his example and precepts are in force." We would like this: and we hope that vou will honor the Sabbath day and keep it holv, that vou will reverence the authority of the Priesthood, and magnify it by good works; that you will observe the covenants you have entered into in sacred places and keep them inviolate; that you will be Latter-day Saints in verv deed : that you mav be indeed the light of the world, that is not and cannot be hidden under a bushel, nor in 133  dark corner, and the salt of the earth. We are coming out in full sight of the world. The eye of God, and the eye of man, is upon this people. We cannot hide ourselves from them. It behooves us to speak right, to think right, to do right, and to work righteousness in every capacity in which we are called to act, in private and in public, that it may be said of us, "They are worthy of their standing and name, as members of the Church of Jesus Christ bf Latter-day Saints, the highest honor that can be given to man. 

We regret exceedingly that our beloved brother, George F. Richards, is prostrate on a bed of sickness, and has not, therefore, been able to attend this conference. We invoke the faith and prayers of the Saints in his behalf, that he may speedily recover and resume his duties as an apostle of Jesus Christ. 

I will try not to take any more of your time than I can not help. I would like to mention the names, here, of some of our missionaries who have fallen in the mission field within the last six months, or since January 1, 1912 : 

Elder Mons P. Larson, of Spring City, died in the New Zealand mission, April 26, 1912, of typhoid fever; 

John Leonard Hill, of Mapleton, Utah, killed by a train, at Dickson, West Virginia, January 8, 1912; 

Nephi Robert Olsen, of Lovell, Wyoming, died in the Swedish mission, February 13, 1912; 

George O. Blake, of the twentysecond ward, this city, died at Hamburg, Germany, April 18, 1912, of typhoid fever; 

Joseph W. Maynes, of Waterloo ward, this city, died in the British , June 16, 1912, of heart failure; 

Thomas J. Cove, of Thatcher, Arizona, drowned in Buchannan, Georgia, Southern States Mission, July 4th, this year; 

Royal P. Oldham, of Paradise, Utah, drowned, at Charleston, West Virginia, October 2d, this month. 

I am sorry to say it, but if these two boys, recently drowned, had kept away from those rivers, where they had no special duty, or calling, they would not have been drowned as they were. I would like it to be understood by the presidents of missions, and by the elders, that are out in the world, that it is not a good thing, neither is it at all wise for our elders to go out on excursions, on dangerous lakes, or streams, or bodies of water, just for fun. They had better keep away. The Lord will protect them in the discharge of their duty; and if they are more careful of their health, there will not be so many of them become a prey to disease. We know of some of the incidents that were the cause of the death of some of our brethren who have passed away in the mission field. They lacked caution. They did not exercise the best wisdom and judgment. They went too far for their strength, and were not as careful of themselves as they ought to have been. I do not speak this to blame these brethren. I have not the least doubt but they have done according to the best wisdom they possessed; but there is such a thing as overdoing. A man may fast and pray till he kills himself; and there isn't any necessity for it; nor wisdom in it. I say to my brethren, when they are fasting, and praying for the sick, and for those that need faith and GENERAL CONFERENCE. , do not go beyond what is wise and prudent in fasting and prayer. The Lord can hear a simple prayer, offered in faith, in half a dozen words, and he will recognize fasting that may not continue more than twenty-four hours, just as readily and as effectually as He will answer a prayer of a thousand words and fasting for a month. Now, remember it. I have in mind elders now on missions, anxious to excel their associates, each wants to get the most "red marks" of credit, and so he will exert himself beyond his strength; and it is unwise to do it. The Lord will accept that which is enough, with a good deal more pleasure and satisfaction than that which is too much and unnecessary. It is good to be earnest, good to be diligent, to persevere, and to be faithful all the time, but we may go to extremes in these things; when we do not need to. The Word of Wisdom dictates that when we become weary we should stop and rest. When we are threatened with exhaustion, through overexertion, wisdom would caution us to wait, to stop; not to take a stimulant to urge us on to greater extremes, go where we can retire and rest and recuperate according to the laws of nature. That is the best way to do. 

Now. I do not blame my dear brethren who have met with death abroad; yet, I wish that they could and would escape it. 

( Notice respecting German meeting read by the President, after which he spoke as follows : ) 

I sincerely hope and pray that my German brethren and sisters' will maintain the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, in humility, and faith, that it will help them to keep in good standing before the Lord,  the efforts of some of their brethren to mislead them from the truth. 

I thank God for our conference, for the good words that have been spoken, and for the honor that has been shown the cause of truth and the presiding authorities of the Church, on the part of the people who have attended; the good spirit that has pervaded our meetings, the joy that we have felt in looking upon your faces, and the pleasure that I trust you have also felt in being present during the conference. God bless this people and all the good of the earth, and overrule all the acts of men to praise Him and to ultimately bring to pass glorious results and His righteous will, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

An anthem, "The nations bow to Satan's thrall," words by John Nicholson and music by Joseph J. Daynes, was sung by Mrs. Delia Daynes Hills and the choir. 

Benediction was pronounced by Presiding Bishop Charles W. Nibley. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and published by the Church 

SIX VOLUMES NOW READY 

Completing the First Period. 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. \o 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per vol $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco — Gilt Top, per vol. 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per vol 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, vol. 4.00 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

6 MAIN ST., SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

THE RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, A. M., Principal of the Latter-day Saints' High School. With an introduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Twelve. 

Adopted by L. D. S. Correspondence School for Missionaries. 

Bound in cloth, 75c post-paid. 

HOIV TO TEACH RELIGION 

By JOHN HENRY EVANS, A. B., Instructor in English at the L. D. S. High School, Salt Lake City, Utah; Author of "One Hundred Years of Mormonism," and P. JOSEPH JENSEN, A. B., Head of the Department of Education at the L. D. S. High School, Salt Lake City, Utah. Endorsed by the Quorums of Priesthood through their committee. Cloth binding, 75c, postpaid. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, postpaid, 75c. 

Deseret News Book Store 

6 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 
