Afternoon
05 10 1934

The second session of the Conference commenced at 2 o'clock, Friday afternoon, October 5. 

The Singing Mothers (Relief Society Chorus), under the direction of Sister Charlotte O. Sackett, furnished the music for this meeting. 

The Singing Mothers' Chorus and the congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Zach J. Oblad, President of the South Summit Stake. 

A sacred anthem, "God is my Shepherd," (Schubert) was rendered by The Singing Mothers. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

For more than a quarter of a century it has been my good fortune and cherished privilege to labor with President Anthony W. Ivins, President Charles H. Hart and Judge Franklin S. Richards. I sincerely hope and pray that when my work is finished in this sphere I shall be worthy to continue to labor with them. 

During the past month it was my pleasure to accompany the tabernacle choir on an historic venture. After some weeks of negotiations and feverish days preparing for the trip, days that those who accompanied us little realized were trying, for to make the selection of those who were to go and try to pacify those who could not go gave to me and some of my associates sleepless and restless nights, and days filled with concern — on the 8th of last month the train with more than three hundred people left for the East. The joy of that group was increased when they found that we were to be accompanied by President Heber J. Grant and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. I believe that the first interesting incident occurred when an order was placed by the dining car service for 750 bottles of milk. It was an unusual order, and I think the largest that has ever been let by the dining car service for one train. It was a tribute to the teaching of the Word of Wisdom. 

Our trip was uneventful until we reached Chicago, where we quickly boarded buses and were taken to our hotel and then to the Fair grounds. We were about twelve minutes late with our first concert. It was not altogether our fault; the proper arrangements had not. been made and suitable dressing rooms had not been provided for such a large group. 

After the choir began its concert I took my position outside where I could see and hear, accompanied by the representative of the Ford Exposition, with whom we had carried on our negotiations, this company having assisted in paying the expenses of the trip. He said nothing until the concert was over, and I turned to him and asked what he thought of it? 

"It is more than I expected. We did not even dream that we were getting anything like this," was his answer. 

Each day, during the time that we were there, their statement of appreciation was more pronounced. On the first day they invited Presidents Grant and Clark and their party to a luncheon in the Ford offices on the Fair grounds. 

It was an inspiring sight during that week to see the people come into the great Ford Gardens, two thousand or more at nearly every performance. At night nearly every seat was taken. Several nights every seat was taken, and one night nearly a thousand, as near as I could reckon, sat for more than a half hour in a rain storm to hear the balance of the program. 

During the week we were invited to sing on the street in Chicago. We left the hotel where we were staying, in a fleet of Ford cars as the guests of the Ford Motor Company, and were escorted through the streets of Chicago to the plaza between the Daily News and Chicago Civic Opera buildings, where the concert was given. It was a wonderful sight. As far as we could see the streets were filled with people anxious to hear. And as the choir began to sing the windows of the buildings thirty and forty stories high were filled with people. As I stood there and listened I thought of the contrast when about ninety years before our fathers had been driven from a city in Illinois by mob violence, and now we, their children, had returned, and on every hand found the spirit of kindness, and words of encouragement and praise. 

After the concert we were taken to the Fair grounds, where our afternoon concert was given, and afterwards from there to the Ford executive offices in their exhibition building, which had been cleared of office furniture, and the entire group were seated at tables and served a delightful luncheon. 

To my mind, the trip was a most wonderful event. We started on it with the spirit of the Psalmist of old : 

But I am poor and sorrowful : let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high. I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving. 

This also shall please the Lord. 

The humble shall see this, and be glad : and your hearts shall live that seek God. 

For the Lord heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners. Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and everything that moveth therein. 

For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah : that they may dwell there, and have it in possession. 

The seed also of his servants shall inherit it; and they that love his name shall dwell therein. 

On the Sunday before we left on our return trip, through the efforts of the Chicago branch presidency, we were permitted to hold services in the Rockefeller church on the campus of the Chicago University. The  was filled. During the service President Grant addressed the congregation briefly, referring to the Articles of Faith of the Church and the Prophet's statement on government. His clear voice carried to all parts of the building and was very impressive. It was not the most pleasant place to sing in, because of the high ceilings and hard walls, which caused the sound to come back at the singers and interfere somewhat with the tone. But it was a delightful experience and we were happy to be welcomed in that way. 

On our return trip we stopped at Independence, Missouri, and other places from which our forefathers had been driven. Upon arriving in Independence we gathered at the new auditorium of the Reorganized Church. We were received in a spirit of great friendliness. As President Grant and Frederick M. Smith, president of the Reorganized Church, made their way from their seats in the body of the house to the platform there was great applause. This, too, was not a pleasant place to sing in, for the unfinished condition of the building was such that it was difficult for the singers to hear the accompaniment, and the steep incline where the seats were placed made it impossible to develop a satisfactory tone quality. But the warmth of our welcome I am sure caused all to forget the unfinished condition of the building which interfered so much with the music. Again we were impressed with the remarks of our President as he stated the belief of this people and referred to the revelations of Joseph Smith, which should' also be believed in by his descendants, our kinsmen, who were entertaining us at that time. In all it was a choice occasion, and we came away feeling that it was good to have been there. 

The last stop was at Denver, where Brother Daynes had arranged with one of the newspapers for our appearance in the large Denver Civic Auditorium. This was an inspiring sight. The place was filled, even the gallery back of the drop curtain being fairly well filled with people, and the chairs on the stage surrounding the choir also. As the President made his appearance on the platform to acknowledge their greetings and welcome, there was great applause. He spoke for only a few minutes, expressing appreciation, and they applauded him as he left, as they also applauded the choir for their singing. It was a most wonderful trip, not primarily a missionary trip, but we hope, through the service rendered, to draw to the attention of those who were unacquainted with us, something of the ideals and purposes of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints; and I am sure that the fifty or sixty thousand people who came to hear us, and the untold numbers who listened in over the air during each concert were well pleased with what they heard. We feel that the trip was worth while. 

The choir members had with them the spirit of the Gospel; they were exemplary. At times I thought I became a nuisance to them, for it was my task to keep them on the job and to see that their concerts started on time. They were enthused over the privilege of going and each felt that the success of the whole venture rested upon him or her. 

As we left the hotel and were settling our accounts, the hotel manager said: "I hope you will come again. We have never before had such a gathering in this hotel. The maids have had very little to do. We have found no cigarette stumps, no; cigars, no burnt furniture or linen, and no whiskey bottles. Your group have been orderly; iwe have hardly known that they were here. It was a pleasure to have you with us." 

I think that through our actions we preached the Gospel. 

On the Fair grounds we were given reduced rates for the choir members. Their badges took them into many of the concessions and many invited them in without cost. We found a friendly attitude wherever we went and came away feeling that we had performed a wonderful missionary service. We had in mind constantly the saying of the Lord : "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing on their heads." We wanted a blessing. We felt the Lord was fulfilling his promise upon our heads, and we pray that his blessings shall continue to be upon us, that we may continue to serve him in song, in faith, and in a desire to be worthy of the blessings which he has bestowed upon us and which he has promised to bestow upon us all through our faithfulness. May he so bless us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the privilege of again attending conference. Since I was here before I have undergone a serious operation, but the blessings of the Lord brought me through. Through my own carelessness I have contracted a cold which makes me hoarse. 

During the past six months we have had the pleasure of having with us in the Canadian Mission Brother James H. Wallis and his wife, he acting as a patriarch in the mission for the purpose of giving blessings to the worthy Saints therein. He has been with us now a little over three months, and has nearly completed his work there. He is now working on the recording of the blessings he has given, that they may be mailed out to the respective members. It has been a spiritual blessing to us; we do appreciate the inspiration that came to the brethren to send Brother Wallis into our midst. I think that from there he will go into the Northern States, the North Central States, and the Southern States missions for the same purpose. 

In visiting with the members, talking with them, and going confidentially into their lives, much good has been accomplished by Brother Wallis in bringing the Saints to a realization that the blessings of God can come only from living his commandments. All kinds of blessings may be conferred upon us, but to make them a reality in our lives depends upon how we live. Many who have never thought of it in that light have discovered that, in our Church, activity is life and inactivity is spiritual death. Wonderful promises have been given, depending upon their living nearer to  Lord, keeping his commandments, observing the Sabbath day and having prayer in their homes, living the Word of Wisdom and keeping the law of tithing. Some of them were under the impression that when they were in debt they owed no tithing, and there are hundreds of our people who are in debt; so, of course, comparatively little tithing has been paid under those conditions. But they have now become convinced that the Lord expects one-tenth of all that he gives unto them, whether or not they are in debt, and that leaves them the ninety per cent with which to take care of their own affairs, which includes their indebtedness. I think it will mean much to the spiritual life of our mission. 

I do not know of any time since I have been in the mission when our missionaries were more united, nor do I know of a time when they have better understood the responsibility of the position they occupy and what is required of them. I feel that to a great extent they are working because of their love of the work rather than merely measuring up to the regulations, and in so doing they are naturally keeping the missionary regulations. 

I pray God that he may bless us, that we may realize that he has given unto us the Gospel of his dear Son; that it is given unto us to be lived, not to be stored away as something that is merely beautiful and grand, but something that we should live, that it may be exemplified in our lives, that we might eventually be fitted for an inheritance in his celestial kingdom. 

I bring greetings to you from the missionaries of the Canadian Mission. They love their work, they dread sickness and anything else that interferes with their work. They are having an enjoyable time together. We love the work in the mission field. To me there is no more glorious blessing that has come into our lives than has come to Sister Bluth and myself in missionary service. We rejoice in it, we thank the Lord for the privilege of being in the mission field. May his Spirit attend us continuously in our labors, that we may serve him faithfully all the days of our lives, that we may realize in our lives the things for which we hope and aspire, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I have been encouraged this morning and this afternoon with the advice, counsel and testimony, and the remarks of my brethren concerning our departed dead. The thought occurred to me, what a toll has been taken during the last three or four years from among the General Authorities of the Church : President Anthony W. Ivins, President Charles W. Nibley, Elder Orson F. Whitney, Elder James E. Talmage, President B. H. Roberts, President Rey L. Pratt, President Charles H. Hart, and Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith — almost one-third. But while I have missed them and shall miss them and their tremendous influence for good, and the power of their example, what a blessing it is for those on the other side where they will labor with the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associates, in carrying on the great work of redemption in the spirit world, where millions are waiting for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

And so our loss is someone else's benefit — the law of compensation still applies. 

I have been thinking very much lately concerning our service, one to another, and to the world. 

On the last day of the Master's public ministry he left Bethany accompanied by his disciples and made his way to the temple. The usual crowd, including those who were opposed to him, met him in the temple courts. The Pharisees and Sadducees plied him with questions, after which a lawyer or Scribe inquired of him, "Master, which is the greatest commandment of all?" The Savior quoted verses 4 and 5 of the 6th chapter of Deuteronomy and part of the 18th verse of the 19th chapter of Leviticus. It was required of every Jew to repeat the words contained in these verses twice each day. Therefore, his critics well knew the source of his answer. This is the answer the Master gave to the lawyer's question : 

The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord: 

And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength; this is the first commandment. 

And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. 

And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he: 

And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. 

And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the Kingdom of God. 

Thus the Master made clear to his audience and to the lawyer and to future generations that the first commandments are to love God and to love our fellow men. Love translates itself into service. The Master himself exemplified his doctrine by service to his fellow men. Again and again did he show that love, indeed, it can only be evidenced by service. On another occasion he said to his disciples : 

Whosover will be great among you, let him be your minister; and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. (Matt. 20:28.) 

The Master himself performed the greatest possible service to humanity, for he spent three years of his life teaching men how to live and how to obtain eternal life, and he laid down his life that the resurrection and eternal life might be brought to pass. 

To love God means that we will not only keep his commandments, but that we will qualify ourselves for the duties and responsibilities required of all who accept the Gospel to proclaim the restored Gospel and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph 

Smith. I like the symbol found on an old Roman coin which bore the design of an ox standing between a plow and an altar, thus signifying its readiness for either service or sacrifice. No symbol could more beautifully represent the attitude of the true servant of the Master — ready, when the Master wills, to toil in his service; and just as ready, when a call comes, to sacrifice everything, if necessary for the Gospel's sake. 

As to our neighbor, I like the thought expressed by King Benjamin in the 2nd chapter of the book of Mosiah : He who is in the service of his fellow men is in the service of his God. Today, men see more clearly than ever before that we are our brothers' keepers. How great, therefore, is the need of keeping constantly before us the second great commandment, and how far we are from observing it as the Lord requires, and we should frequently ask ourselves, What manner of men and women are we? 

The Lord has said this in Section 58 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

Verily, I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. 

If we are profitable servants, we will go beyond the routine requirements of our membership in the Church, and we will devote ourselves more than ever to the service of our fellow men. 

Where shall we look for service? We must not repeat the experience of the knight in the ancient tale, who left his home when a young man to find the Holy Grail, or cup, out of which our Savior drank, and came back an old white-haired man, only to find the grail in his own house, where it had been all those years. 

As Latter-day Saints, there are many avenues for service in the organizations of the Church. We can be better neighbors and help the poor, the unfortunate, the aged, the feeble, the widow, and the orphan, who live around us. Fortunate are we if we have learned the great truth that happiness is not determined by how much we get out of life, but what we put into life in the way ofj helpfulness and service for others. For there is a richness in life that will come to every Latter-day Saint once he has experienced the joy that is to be found in helpful service to others. The happiest people on earth are those who contribute to the welfare of their neighbors and friends. 

The General Authorities of the Church, those who preside in the stakes and wards and missions, use their time and talents in the service of God and their fellow men and for the establishment of the Church of God for the preaching of the Gospel and for the dead. 

There is a wonderful field for all officers and members of the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood to increase the faith of their members and to see that every person holding this Priesthood is giving service to the Lord and to his fellow men. 

The Presiding Bishopric deeply appreciate the untiring labors of the bishops of wards and those associated with them in developing and training the youth of Zion who hold the Aaronic Priesthood. The result of their labors is already being noticed in the improved standards of the members of this Priesthood. There are also under the direction of the bishopric approximately 30,000 men holding the Priesthood whose duty it is to visit the homes of the Latter-day Saints monthly. They go in the true spirit of neighborly help to the members of their flock. 

On this Temple Block thousands of men and women hear the message of the Gospel, in addition to those who are reached by the labor of the missionaries who are out in the world proclaiming the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. By this means the Church is exalted and advanced in its great purpose due to the devotion and labors of faithful men and women. 

The question might be asked, Is there recompense for all this labor? I say, Yes, for the Lord has said: 

And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father. 

No person can be happy in this Church unless he is working for it, praying for it, and living for it. Service in the Church is a safeguard to youth. It is a blessing and protection to those of middle age. It is a crown of satisfaction to the aged. Our testimonies and appreciation of this Latter-day work will grow in proportion to the service we render our Master, for service in the Church will bring joy, satisfaction, happiness, contentment, and appreciation. 

I pray that we may keep these two great commandments constantly in mind and in the spirit and intent of the Master's answer to the lawyer on that fateful last day of his ministry. Let us look around us for further opportunities to be useful in the communities where we live, that we may become more profitable servants in the cause of our Master. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is my meat and drink. I love to serve; I want to serve; I want to labor as long as I have the ability to do it in the cause of the Master and of my fellow men. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is true; it is the power of God unto salvation. God lives. Jesus Christ is our Redeemer. Joseph Smith came in these latter days to restore the Gospel and establish the holy Priesthood preparatory to the coming of the Son of God, when his kingdom shall be established, and he shall reign in God's name upon the earth. 

I pray that we may be blessed with this deep sense of service and appreciation of our opportunities in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Singing Mothers sang "He shall feed His Flock," (The Messiah.) 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

A year ago while occupying this position I advocated patience, — forbearance in reaching hasty and ill-considered conclusions respecting the efficacy of the new plans which had been put into operation to relieve our distresses and a patient compliance with their requirements. I believed then as I believe now, that the quickest and surest way to determine the real worth of any newly enacted policy is to give it a fair trial. I believe still that patience is necessary in the appraisement of the forces which have been set in action for the country's deliverance. However, I am equally well convinced that some things other than patience are requisite if we would make any real contribution to the ultimate end that every one desires. 

PHASES OF RELIEF PROGRAM CAUSE CONCERN 

I have had a limited opportunity to observe at rather close range, some of the operations of the great relief program which our government is seeking to carry out. There are phases of it which give cause for much concern. Some of these items would not be appropriate for discussion here, but there are one or two things which I feel can be mentioned with propriety and I hope with profit. The expenditures for relief, both direct and indirect are enormous, and the numbers of recipients almost go beyond the believable. In our own state, according to the latest figures obtainable 21.99% of the entire state population is on the relief rolls and in some counties the proportion of the population receiving relief runs as high as 46%. Where these figures prevail, it means that nearly one-half of all the people have demonstrated to the satisfaction of those in charge that they are fit subjects for relief and are actually in receipt of the charities bestowed. I have not included in these statements vast numbers of people who have been beneficiaries under certain governmental emergency measures which have been calculated to save to the owners, homes and properties by the extension of extraordinary credit facilities, I am limiting the number only to those who are on the relief rolls of the counties and municipalities. When I mention the percentages in our own state I wish it known that our numbers are but representative of other states of the union. 

INDICATION OF SUFFERING AND DISTRESS 

I do not see how any thoughtful person can contemplate this situation without grave concern. I feel that concern very deeply, because this astonishing information indicates such a large measure of want, failure, suffering and distress among the people. No one can think of it without having his sympathies touched. My first desire would be of course, that the cause of these distressing conditions might be removed, that we might immediately have such industrial recovery as to give all opportunity for work and a good livelihood. This is the desire of all, but how to bring about such a recovery is the subject for some of the hottest debates and contentions we have witnessed in this country for many a year. 

Into these I will not enter. Suffice it to say the conditions are here. How long they will last no one knows. We hope not for long. While they do last they are the immediate and pressing concern of every citizen of the country. No conscientious man nor woman can ignore them, for even from a selfish point of view they affect him. 

I take it for granted therefore, that everyone would like to do something to help. I am going to take the liberty of making some suggestions which I think can be adopted by almost every one who does desire to help. I am not going to speak now of the giving of financial aid. I hope to mention that later. 

MAINTAIN SELF-RESPECT 

It is my first suggestion that every man, woman and child adversely affected by this "depression" be encouraged to maintain self respect. I earnestly hope in what I am about to say I shall give no offense. I assure you none is intended. I desire only to be kind, but I know it is necessary sometimes to be frank and seemingly cruel in order to be kind. I know that there have been many hundreds of self-reliant, self-respecting, proud people who have been humiliated to the dust by the hard circumstances which have been forced upon them. My heart goes out to them. I pity them for the humiliation they have sustained, but strange as it may seem, for their own good, I want them to continue to be humiliated in their own feelings so long as they continue to be the recipients of charitable relief. I said, mind you, in their own feelings. I ,want no undue embarrassment heaped upon them, but I want them to be so manly and so womanly in all those terms imply as to be grieved in spirit when they cannof be self-reliant and reasonably independent. 

FACTORS IN ECONOMIC AND SPIRITUAL WELFARE 

There is a pride in vanity "that goeth before a fall," but that pride in a man which makes him cherish his own good name and gives him the courage to work to sustain it, that pride which makes him shun the bondage of undischargeable obligations, that pride which keeps his head high even in poverty, conscious that he has always been honorable and has given the best that was in him, that pride I admire. I think too it is essential for the preservation of some of the best things within our civilization. Self-respect, selfreliance, and the pride of achievement I look upon as highly prominent factors in our economic welfare and in our spiritual as well. 

CHARITY SEEKERS 

Unfortunately there has been another class of our citizens who have not had so much pride and self-respect and who have not been greatly humiliated, perhaps not humiliated at all in the receipt of those benefactions which have been bestowed upon them. They have been eager to receive. I suppose some of this class will always be with us. I am sorry for them too because they lack an element of character which is essential to success and enduring happiness. 

"sponging'" on the government 

Now without mitigation in the least of our sympathies toward those unfortunate ones actually in need, the observing cannot help but note that there is an ever-growing and deeply regrettable tendency to "sponge" on the government and take every gratuity possible to obtain and this too, sometimes by representation and connivance, which will not bear the light of truth. It is true also that this disposition to "sponge" on the government is not confined to those only who are on the relief rolls. 

In the obtaining of benefit loans and crop allocations with other concessions so lavishly bestowed it has been manifest in such degree and in such people as to be greatly astonishing to those who have the inside information. Not infrequently does one hear in pseudo justification of these regrettable actions, expressions such as these — "Well everybody's getting it, I might as well get my share" — or "The government brought on these conditions they should get us out." I have been informed of men making application for home loans under representations of distress whose regular income for one month would be regarded by many families as ample support for an entire year. 

CONTEMPT FOR IMPOSTORS 

I am not pointing out these things in criticism of the administration of the government's remedial plans, although I suppose it is possible to detect errors. I make allowance for the faults and abuses which almost of necessity must creep into the operation of such extensive schemes so quickly set up and manned. Nor do I particularly criticize the plans themselves, not because I do not see deficiencies in them, but because I find it most difficult to discover in my thinking or from the suggestions of others, any satisfactory substitute measures to take their place. Here is where I feel to exercise patience, but I am not patient with impostors on the government's generosity. I tell you these professional charity seekers, these "spongers" on public beneficence are a menace to the morale of our country. They have lost self respect, they have lost their honor and their influence is pernicious. Any public official or administrator who connives with them or tolerates their practices is even more deserving of our contempt. FAR-REACHING RESULTS 

I am not willing to take it for granted that these abuses must be. They are too serious and their results too far reaching to go unchallenged. I fear them, not only because they are costly to the public treasury, the drain on which is a matter of deep concern to every American, but for the more important reason which I have heretofore indicated, that the practice of "sponging'' on the government is perverting the finest virtues of American citizenship — self-respect, self-reliance and integrity. Furthermore, I cannot but conclude that this distortion to the morale of our people makes fertile ground for the seeds of disloyalty and anarchy which those inimical to our form of government are ever seeking to sow. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINT ATTITUDE 

I said everyone could help. I believe everyone can. I believe our Church can help as can every other good agency. That is why, my brethren and sisters, I bring this matter to your attention here today. No Latter-day Saint can tolerate for a moment an imputation against his honor and integrity . No Latter-day Saint can afford to be other than self-respecting and as self-reliant and independent as the circumstances will possibly permit. We have been taught all during our history the gospel of work, of self-support and freedom from debt. It so hurts me to see a man lose the pride of selfrespect and self-reliance that I could wish that it were feasible to take an evidence of obligation for every gratuity bestowed, in order that the recipients might say that they had borrowed the money and would pay it back and thus not be humiliated by the taking of alms. 

TO RESTORE OUR MORALE 

Morale is made by public opinion and public opinion is the composite of individual opinions. We can maintain our morale and if we have lost it in measure, we can restore it as can the country at large by each and every one firmly and definitely resolving: first, that uniler no circumstances will he be guilty in the least degree of the abuses which I have mentioned, and secondly, that to the full extent of his ability he will see to it that such abuses are not tolerated in others. The cost of administration of the relief program is already so enormous (it seems excessive to us who administer relief without cost) that there must not be added to the cost any additional funds for more supervision; so it is indispensable to the success of the program that everyone assume responsibility. By so doing, everyone can help. I do not know how long we shall retain our present methods. Whether they should be changed is a matter scarcely suitable for discussion here, but I do know that so long as we have them, we have a duty to get out of them the best obtainable. That is possible only by full co-operation. 

I earnestly hope that my plea here today will not be misunderstood. It may sound harsh and unfeeling, but I know that in my own heart I am not without charity and sympathy and I know that my people are generous and kind. When I think of what we give for charity and for the support of unselfish and noble causes, I am grateful and encouraged. 

LATTER-DAY SAINT LIBERALITY 

I noted the other day from information issued by the Federal Department of Internal Revenue, that the deductible charitable contributions of the rich men of America as shown by their income tax returns, did not exceed 2% of their net incomes. We who pay our tithing give 10% and to that we add many additional items, so that „ when we make our income returns to the government, if we are fortunate enough to have incomes sufficiently large to report, it is not infrequently the case that the 15% of net income which is deductible for tax purposes is not sufficient to cover all our contributions and we sometimes pay a tax on our gifts. I am glad of this because it indicates our generosity and our truly Christian desire to help our fellow man. I feel that desire. I want to continue to give, not only because of continued need, but because giving is the best remedy in the world for contraction of the heart. I recommend it to all who suffer from that malady. 

OUTLOOK FOR COMING WINTER 

There is little prospect that the coming winter will not present enlarged demands on our sympathies and our resources. It has been indicated from Washington that the state and local communities may be obliged to bear a larger portion of the burden. I hope we will do our utmost and I pray that no worthy person who is honest and deserving may be permitted to suffer. I pray with equal fervor that no person may become so dishonest and disloyal as to be an impostor on the generosity of our great merciful government which is seeking so diligently to relieve our distresses. 

BASIS OF MUTUAL CONFIDENCE 

Common honesty is the basis of mutual confidence. If we lose confidence in each other we are lost. We can't trust those who cheat the government. It is as dishonest as it is to cheat the Church or each other. No one can deceive and cheat and be a Christian. He may be called a Christian, but he is not one. Misrepresentation, hypocrisy and deceit are as repugnant to the Gospel as is error to truth, for the Gospel is truth. 

THANKFUL FOR CHURCH 

I thank God for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Within it I find the true philosophy of life with all the virtues, the encouragements, the restraints, the hopes and the satisfactions that my soul can desire. I thank God for the Church of Christ with all its agencies, facilities and powers to make the Gospel effective in the lives of men and women. I look forward with confidence to the fulfilment of the promises of the Lord. In the face of many problems I am not discouraged — the truth will prevail. We must be patient in all things, but we must also be vigilant. Patience and vigilance and integrity will see us out. I pray for the blessings of God on the Church, on the Government and on all men, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I humbly pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will bless me during the few moments that I am before you, that I might say correctly the things that I have a desire to say to you this afternoon. 

Our Heavenly Father has greatly blessed us by giving to us many books that we might learn of his ways and his desires concerning us; that we might be able to find our way safely back into his kingdom after finishing our work here. In addition he has also given to us his prophet and his servants that they might give us, from time to time, additional word and counsel and instruction to that which we find written in the standard works of the Church. 

The scriptures have not only been given for our benefit but they have been given for the good of all of the children of God here upon the earth. They are encouraged to read them that they might better understand God's purposes towards them and towards life; to make the present finer and more beautiful so that the future might bring increased joy and happiness. 

At times it seems to me that because of the many scriptures available, they have become very common to us. When problems of life come before us we are prone to look to other sources for comfort, knowledge, and instruction, rather than going to the word of the Lord, where we might be guided rightly in the things that he wants us to do. 

We are always having problems of religion before us, and I am sure that we always shall. This word of the Lord which has been given to us helps us to tread the straight and narrow path and keep close to our Heavenly Father. It is interesting, and I am sure profitable, that we should be up-to-date; but it is more important that we be right, even at the expense of up-to-dateness. 

As I meet people I find there is a tendency to so interpret the scriptures that they will fit into all of the new theories, especially the so-called learning and intelligence that has not been established. Very frequently people in trying to fit these theories into the word of the Lord make the interpretations of our scriptures silly, and in many cases dangerous, leading men and women astray  their new interpretation is not what God meant when he wrote and spoke to his prophets and gave his words to us in the holy scriptures. 

We sometimes wonder why more people are not coming into the Church nowadays, and we refer back in kindly remembrance to the many people who joined the Church in early days. I think I can name one reason. In the early days people of all the earth — I mean those who were Christians — were readers of the scriptures. They tried to find comfort and knowledge in this holy book, the Bible. They believed sincerely in the revealed word of God and when the missionaries came to them in their kindness and with their explanation of the additional word of God, they could see and understand their mistakes and readily adjust themselves to the new interpretation that had come in relation to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. And so, many people came into the Church. 

Nowadays we are getting away from that. It is not the custom to read the word of the Lord, and while we may find testimony, I believe that testimony would come quicker if we would be firmer in the foundation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; if we would be frequent readers of God's word to us, and really believe the things which he has said and does say to us. 

I believe many of these religious problems that come to us can be solved. For example, we have the question of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. We know that Adam was an intelligent man. How do we know it? By the written word of God; there is no question about it. Mark you, I said an intelligent man, and not a man who was just evolving from a crude state into one of intelligence. All of our reading and all of of our contact with God and his prophecies give us to understand that Adam was an intelligent man and was the father of our race. We read of him in the Bible, and we read of him again in the Pearl of Great Price, where practically the same story is reiterated. We read about him again in the Book of Mormon and in the Doctrine and Covenants. 

It seems to me that this question should not bother us as a people when we have so much of the revealed word of God concerning this matter. In the Book of Mormon, Lehi makes the statement : "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy." 

There is no question about it, you see, as far as we are concerned. And the continual argument and debate about a subject like this it seems to me would be displeasing to our Heavenly Father. 

We have the question of the Christ, his virgin-birth, and his resurrection. W T e find it contained in all of our books. Yet there are men and women and young people who do not believe, and they argue the question back and forth as to who he really was, whether or not he was in reality resurrected from the dead, and stands at the right hand of God. 

Perhaps you remember the occasion when Jacob was debating the question with Sherem concerning the Christ, and Jacob said to him, "Believest thou the scriptures?" Do you not see the first test — the prophets' test, God's test? It was right there — "Believest thou the scriptures?" And when Sherem said, "Yea," Jacob said: 

Then ye do not understand them; for they truly testify of Christ. Behold, I say unto you that none of the prophets have written, nor prophesied, save they have spoken concerning this Christ. 

When the Lord was speaking to the Jews he said : 

Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me. 

The Jews, with the books before them could not understand. Paul said that we can not understand the things of God without the Spirit of God. And so even with the scriptures before us; if we will not show the signs of humility and of repentance, and a desire to know, we can not understand the things which are written in these books for us. 

In the Book of Mormon we have a challenge, as we have in the Bible. The Prophet Moroni said that if the Book of Mormon was read with a certain purpose, with the proper attitude towards the book, then God, by his Spirit, would enable the reader to understand whether the book was the word of God or not. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, that we will commence to pay more attention to the holy scriptures, that we may go to them to solve the problems as they come into our lives, because I am confident that within the books of God, in addition to what comes to us from our prophet, we can ascertain what God wants us to do, how far we shall go, and how we can please him from day to day. May he bless us to this end, that we might obtain additional light and comfort and blessing and eventually find our way into his kingdom, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My beloved brethren and sisters, as I stand before you this afternoon I desire an interest in your faith and prayers. I hardly know what I shall be able to say, but I thank the Lord for the faith that he has given me in the Gospel, of which we are participants. I thank him that I can look into the future with reliance and faith, believing that he stands back of the purposes of this Church, and that he will guide it through, that he will give those of us who are faithful and rely upon him the power and the capacity to carry on. 

I believe that there exists in this body of Priesthood that we have before us today, a peculiar power and virtue, a reservoir of power, from which we derive our authority in doing the things we do as representatives of this people. I believe that it is by virtue of that authority which is vested in the people that the officers of this Church conduct its affairs in all this world. 

I believe that you have authorized them to do so, and I believe that that authorization is borne 'out by God himself. 

There is a principle existent in the Church that the right to govern is derived from the common consent of those governed. That extends to all the offices of the Church. The bishop is appointed and approved by his ward; the stake president is appointed and approved by his stake; an apostle is appointed and approved by the Church; and the President of the Church is appointed and approved by the Church. And when he is so approved as a prophet, seer and revelator, he has the right to stand at the head of the Church and determine its policies and practices. 

We have before us the scriptures, to which reference has been made this afternoon; I am thinking especially of the Doctrine and Covenants. When the revelations in that wonderful book were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, they were not all at once compiled and bound into their present form. The time came when that was done, and to make them effective and binding upon the body of the Church they were approved and accepted as the revelations of the Lord to the Church, and from then on we have deemed them as binding upon us. 

We must not forget, in this day of trial and tribulation and criticism that we are going through, that we have now at the head of the Church the very same authority that we had in those days, and that when the prophet of the Lord dictates a policy unto this people and that policy is approved by the body of the Church, it is just as binding upon .the Church today as at any time in its history; and no minority — no matter how interested it may be in certain other practices that are not approved by these policies — has the right to set itself up in direct opposition to this body of Priesthood, the representatives of which we are who .are gathered here today. 

We are the Priesthood, and together with the Authorities who are placed over us, we control the destiny of this Church, and it is the duty of the rank and file of the Church to remember this one thing, that the Priesthood vested in the President authorizes him, when we support him, to dictate the policies that the time demands. 

I for one propose to stand back of the Authorities of the Church as long as God will give me power; and to support every righteous thing that they propose, especially when it is approved by the body of the Priesthood. 

There are certain changes that have been authorized and approved by the body of the Priesthood, which are meeting with opposition at this time and, it is my testimony to you that there is no legitimate ground for this opposition. 

I trust that the Lord will give us strength to see our duty, to see the right, to sustain and uphold the policies of this Church when they are founded upon this principle that I have enunciated, for I believe that is the principle that should govern the Church. The Lord has told us so in the Doctrine and Covenants, and the leaders of the Church have reiterated it from time to time; and in promulgating these policies they stand upon that principle, and no other. To me that is justice and right and common sense. 

I hope that the Lord will bless me with the power that I may carry on, that I may see my duty properly and correctly and be able to fulfill it completely. I trust that the same blessing may be meted out to every man who holds the Priesthood in this Church, that he may realize the tremendous responsibility that rests upon him when he accepts that Priesthood, for it is no idle thing to permit a servant of the Lord to lay his hands upon your head and ordain you to the Priesthood. You accept the responsibility and the duty, and it is your obligation to magnify that calling. 

We have different orders in the Priesthood, and the callings of all are not the same, but be they great or small, when we accept those callings we have no right to refuse to discharge the duties that devolve upon us under them. 

I hope that the Lord will bless us, that he will pour out his Spirit upon us, that he will give us the power to carry on properly. 

I was especially pleased with what Brother Richards said this afternoon about the conditions of the time, and I wish to say amen to his suggestion. In going out among the people I have learned that, almost without exception, those people who have obeyed the instructions that have so many times been given from this stand, who find themselves free of debt, are not suffering in this crisis. 

We are ambitious, it is true, and many of us desire the power that comes from large property holdings, and to get that power we have shouldered upon our backs obligations that we are now unable to fulfill; but I find that those people who are content with less, who were out of debt when this thing broke, are not suffering now like the people who found themselves heavily involved. 

I wish to bear my testimony of the truth of the work in which we are engaged, and to take my seat, praying that the Lord will bless me always with his Holy Spirit, and you as well. And I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I desire to read my remarks made at the funeral of Brother Charles H. Hart, so that they may be in the Conference Pamphlet. They are as follows : 

"From my personal association during all the years that Brother Hart was one of the General Authorities of the Church I am able to bear witness to all of the splendid things that have been said here today regarding his character. There was no one of the General Authorities with whom I traveled from stake to stake, in fulfilling the duties devolving * upon us of attending quarterly conferences, that I enjoyed traveling with more than I did Brother Hart. The sincerity and honesty, the integrity and devotion of the man always impressed me. He was a man whom to  was to love. Love begets love. He was a man who loved the people, loved to mingle with them, loved to gather evidences, as has been said here, of the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged, and to be in a position to defend it. 

A RIGHTEOUS JUDGE 

It is a wonderful thing to be a judge and to have the reputation among all those who knew him that his decisions were absolutely true and straight, and what they ought to be according to the evidence presented. To my mind the greatest tribute that could be paid to a man is that those who know him best love him most, and I am sure that this tribute can be paid to Brother Hart and that he is worthy of it. 

ENGAGED IN A NOBLE CAUSE 

There are many of us who make friends and sometimes make enemies. If Brother Hart had an enemy I have never heard of it. I have always heard people speak of him in the highest terms. To have a perfect and abiding knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and to devote the best that is in us to carry that knowledge to others and to inspire others to try to obtain it, is the highest labor I believe in which any of us can be engaged, and this was the labor of Brother Hart during the latter part of his life as one of the General Authorities of the Church, and it was a labor thatihe took pleasure in performing. 

RICH BLESSINGS EARNED 

I rejoice in all the splendid things that have been said here today. I commend to his wife and his children that they read the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, telling of the marvelous and wonderful blessings that shall come to those who embrace the Gospel and live it, and of the promises that are made to them concerning the life to come. 

I have no hesitancy whatever in assuring the beloved wife and splendid family that all of those marvelous blessings promised to those who shall endure to the end and keep the commandments of the Lord, that they shall inherit celestial glory, shall come to Brother Hart. There is nothing I can urge upon* the family more than to follow in his footsteps and walk in the narrow and straight path that he walked in during his entire life. 

NOT IN THE GRAVE 

I can never think of my loved ones, my, dear mother and those who have passed away, as being in the grave. I rejoice in the associations they are enjoying and in the pleasure they are having in meeting with their loved ones on the other side. 

May God help each and all of us to so order our lives that they will be a proclamation of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. And may that sweet and peaceful influence that comes from our Heavenly Father in times of sorrow be given to the wife and her children. May they be comforted, encouraged and blessed in their time of sorrow, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in humility in the name of our Redeemer. Amen." 

A sacred anthem, "Gloria," (Buzzi-Pucia) was sung by The Singing Mothers' Chorus. 

Elder W. Heber Wilde, President of the Summit Stake offered the closing prayer. 


