1
Morning
04 10 1908
Pbesident Joseph F. Smith. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

The Saints should manifest gratitude for the Lord's blessings. — Large expenditure by the Church for meeting houses, etc. — Futile efforts of the enemies of Truth.— Complete observance of the Word of Wisdom obligatory. — Suppression of saloons strongly advocated. — Evil doers must not be fellowshiped. — Saints should be consistent examples of righteousness. 

My brethren and sisters, it is indeed a cause for congratulation, joy and great satisfaction, to see the large number of members and officers of the Church who have assembled here, at the opening of our seventy-ninth semi-annual conference, notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather. It is remarkable, to say the least, to see so many here as are present this morning, and I feel grateful, in my heart, to the Lord for the feeling and interest manifested by those who are present, for your attendance here today is evidence of your interest in this work. I am glad to see you and to welcome you to this conference of the Church, and I sincere^ ly hope and pray that the true spirit of the Gospel of the Son of God, may pervade all our meetings in this hall, and in other places where we shall be met together. I hope that, at the conclusion of our coniferqnce, every soul possessing a knowledge of the Gospel, and a  of truth, will feel amply repaid for attendance here; and tc this end I invoke the blessing of the Lord upon every individual who has come here today, and who will attend the conference for the love of the truth and for his or her devotion to the cause of Zion. The Lord has blessed us in a remarkable degree, throughout the past season, with the exception of here and their a partial failure of late crops by frost; generally the season has been fruitful, and the people have been blessed, so far as we have been informed, throughout the length and breadth of the land. We desire that the Latter-day Saints will always, and especially at this time, remember the Lord for His goodness and mercy to them and for Hi.-' blessings upon their labors; for we do acknowledge the hand of the Lord — or should do — in every thing that we possess and enjoy in the world. It is written that the Lord is displeased with those who will not acknowledge His hand in ail things. All Latter-day Sainti acknowledge in their hearts that every good and perfect gift comes from God, "from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness neither shadow of turning." We do not arrogate to ourselves the power to secure blessings, to mlultiply and increase our possessions and our wealth in the land without the assistance of Him from whom all blessings flow. We should keep in mind that law which makes it our duty to remember the Lord with the first fruits of all our increase, and that He is the giver of all good, not forgetting the duty we owe to Him and to His cause in the world, to provide our part of the means necessary for the carrying on of His work and for the building up of Zion in the latter days. Much  been done during the past season toward the building of houses of worship throughout the land — not only in this state but in Arizona, in Idaho, and throughout the missions of the Church. Much has been done by the Latter-day Saints, and much assistance has been rendered by the Trustee-in-Trust in the erection of houses of worship, schoolhouses, and in the purchase of places that were necessary to the welfare of the Saints. We are continually doing, as far as it is possible, what we may do consistently to assist God's work throughouv all the land. It will not be necessary nor perhaps consistent for me to enter into details in relation to the labor that is being performed in these directions. We have the records of these things, and any of the Latter-day Saints who desire to be posted in relation to what is being done for the building up of the Church can come to the head and obtain all the information that they need. Since our last conference, however, we have succeeded in obtaining most excellent headquarters for the British mission, in the City of London. We rejoice exceedingly that, after the lapse of years, we have at last obtained a foothoic in that great metropolis where so many have been gathered into the covenant of the Gospel. We have also obtained headquarters, elsewhere, but I will not enter into an account of these things. 

The Lord has been prospering Zion, and we rejoice exceedingly in the many and glorious manifestations of His kindness and mercy unto His people. We are grateful for deliverance from those who wilfully and wickedly and without a cause seek our hurt. We arc grateful in the belief, aye in the knowledge that notwithstanding  efforts they have made to injure this people and to thwart the purposes of the Almighty, they have but been the means, indirectly, of forwarding the work in the world. They have called attention of the world toward us, and that is just what we want, though they have done it with wicked intent. We want to be known as we are. We want to be seen in our true light. We want the world to become acquainted with us. We wain them to learn our doctrine, to understand our faith, our purposes, and the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We would like them to know something about the origin of this work, but we desire thai they shall see this work in the true spirit of it, and the only way this can be brought about is by the inquiring, intelligent world coming in contact with us — those indeed who are disposed to love truth and righteousness and whose eyes are not so blinded that they can not see the truth when it is presented' before them. There are those who having eyes see not, and having hearts do not and will not understand. There are none so blind as those who will not see, and none so deaf as those who will not hear; and there are none so heartless and so wicked as those who knowing the truth and seeing the light will close their eyes and their ean, against it. 

We are living in a momentous age. The Lord is hastening His work. He is at the helm, there is no mortal man at the helm of this work. It is true the Lord uses such instruments as will be obedient to His commandments and laws to assist in accomplishing His purposes in the earth. He has chosen thost who, at least, have shown a willingness and a disposition to obey Him and keep His laws, and who seek to work righteousness and carry out the purposes of the Lord. It is for the Latter-day Saints to judge the standing of these men. They have no occasion to sound their own praise, to bear testimony of their own works; their lives are open books to all the Latterday Saints and to all the world. You know these men; you understand them:; you have seen their labors; you understand the desires of their hearts, for you are familiar with them. The Lord has sustained these brethren in the positions to which He has called them, and He will continue to sustain them in these positions so long as they continue to be faithful before Him. It one of them should cease to be faithful and turn away from the right path, the consequences of hh own evil acts will fall upon him sooner or later, and the fruits of his works and the desires of his heart will be made manifest. 

When I arose to my feet, I had in mind the thought of presenting before this conference one of the revelations that has come to ua through the Prophet Joseph Smith, a revelation with which you are ail familiar, which has been the text, perhaps many a time, of every officer in the Church. It is a revelation which has been sounded in the ears of all the people for the last seventy years, and yet it is a new theme, practically, for there is still great necessity for it to be held out to the Latter-day Saints and to all the world. We see great reasons for the principles contained in this chapter of the book of Doctrine and Covenants being taught to the world, and especially to the Latterday Saints. It is nothing more nor less than that simple Word of Wis that was given in 1833, for the benefit, the help, and the prosperity of the Latter-day Saints, that they might purify and prepare themselves to go nearer into the presence of the Lord, that by reason of keeping this law they might fit themselves to enjoy the blessings that He is more than willing to bestow upon them, if they are worthy. I propose to read this revelation to you and, perhaps, make a few remarks upon it: 

Revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27th, 1833 : 

A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and Church; and also the Saints in Zion. 

To be sent greeting — not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days. 

Here we are informed that it wa> not given, at that time, by way of commandment or . restraint but by revelation, "a word of wisdom showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days." Subsequently, years afterwards, from this stand, it was proclaimed from the mouth of the Prophet and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Brigham Young, that the time had now come when this word of wisdom — then given not by commandment or , constraint — was now a commandment of the Lord to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the Lord required them to observe this word of wisdom and counsel, which is the will of God unto the people for their temporal salvation. 

Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and  weakest of all Saints, who are or canbe called Saints. 

Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation, 

That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him. 

And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make. 

And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. 

And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man. 

Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; 

And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. 

All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; 

And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger. 

All grain is good for the food of* man, as also the fruit of the vine, that which yieldeth fruit, whther in the ground or above the ground. 

Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all  animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain. 

And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones. 

And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; 

And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen.
