12
Third Overflow
04 10 1908
Elder Thomas B. Evans. 

(President of Ogden Stake.) 

Brethren and sisters : I have very much enjoyed the spirit of this meeting, as also the spirit of this morning's session of |our Conference. When Brother Nephi Pratt stood before you, bearing his testimony of his knowledge- of the divinity of the work in which we arc engaged, it took my mind back to the time when I was about twelve o» thirteen years of age. Brother Pratt at that time was filling a mission in Wales. He was a man that devoted his time and his talents to the spreading of the Gospel of Jesus Christ among the people of my country. He was an instrument in the hands of the Lord of bringing many to a knowledge of the truth. The people of that principality loved Brother Piatt bf.cause of his faithfulness, because of his devotion to the cause of God. 

We have \ery much to be proud of, I believe; we are indeed blessed above all other people upon the face of the earth; and I sometimes  as to whether or not we appreciate the blessings that are conferred upon us. 

When President Joseph F. Smith was speaking to us this morning upon the Word of Wisdom, I wa;> reminded of the people known as ancient Israel. On either side of a valley two great armies were met. for the purpose of giving battle. One man, a giant, stepped forth, and issued his challenge, saying to the people who should have been serving God, "Send out a man that I may fight him." This he did for forty days, and none dared go out and fight that giant. A young man happened into the camp. He hac' been sent thither by his parents to take food to his brothers, who were serving in the army. He overheard Goliath issuing his defiance, and it came into his mind that someone ought to go and meet the giant. He proffered himself to do so. He was laughed at; but he was ushered into the presence of the king. The king instructed his officers to put on this boy a coat of mail, and also give hjm a sword, and put upon his head a helmet. After attempting to walk in this new garb, this shepherd bo> David, said, "Nay, I cannot do any efficient work in this garb. I have not proved them." So he took off these garments, and put on his shepherd clothing, and he went out in the name of the Lord. He said that when he was attending his father's sheep, a lion and a bear came, but God made him equal to the occasion of destroying theso* wild beasts, and he now felt quite sure that his Maker would make him equal to destroying this man who defied the armies of the living God. Brethren and sisters, there are no Goliaths today, there are no giants that we may fight, but the  of Goliath ie among us, and we ought to arm ourselves with a view of fighting that spirit which crops out in the saloons and in the electric theaters, baseball parks, and other places of amusement which are thrown open on the Sabbath day, enticing our young men and young women to go there and thus forget to serve their Maker. Brothers and sisters, let us put on the armor of righteousness. Let us go forth and defy these vile elements. Let us, in the name of the Lord, go forth and fight this spirit of Goliath, in order that our young people may be established beyond question in the paths which lead back to the presence of our God. 

May God bless us and make us equal to this great work which 'is before us, that of saving souls, my brethren and sisters, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
