13
Third Overflow
04 10 1908
Elder Joseph S. Wells. 

(Of the Presidency of Ensign Stake.) 

Brethren and sisters : I have felt very much edified and instructed, as I am sure all of vou have, in listening to the testimonies that have been borne by the brethren who have spoken this afternoon. It is a great blessing to be identified with the Church of Christ, and to have a testimony that the principles which we advocate, which we have embraced, are the principles of truth, calculated to save all of God's children. We are fighting in the world today for the principles of truth and righteousness, and it is a great blessing to us to be able to bear testimony, to bear witness, that God lives, and that He has restored His 

Gospel again to earth; and we have the privilege of bearing it to the world of mankind who lie in darkness; and it makes no difference unto us, who have this testimony, how the world may fight against it. They cannot stay the arm of God. They cannot prevent Him from' accomplishing His purposes. And we know that the principles of truth have been restored again for the last time; that they are not to be given to another people, but that in fulfillment of the prophecies of old, the Kingdom of God shall be established in the last days, never more to be thrown down. 

We can look back upon the history of this people from the time of the organization of the Church,and, notwithstanding all of the trials and persecutions, and mobbings, and drivings that our people have had to go through, the Church today is stronger in numbers, in property, in material growth and wealth, than it has ever been before, although the prophet of God who was His instrument in restoring the principles of truth aeain to the earth, was martyred. The world thought that his death would be the end of "Mormonism." but could it kill the testimony that had been declared by these prophets of God? No. While the people were called upon to leave their homes and their property, and were driven to these valleys of the mountains, God was with them, the principles of truth were still being preached in the nations of the earth, and the honest in heart were being brought to a knowledge of the orincioles of the Gospel. Honesthearted men and women embraced the gospel and gathered to these vallevs of the mountains, in great numbers. The progress of Church has not been stayed. Our enemies have not ceased to worry us, to persecute us, to falsify against us in all this time; but notwithstanding all of this, the work of God is growing and increasing in the earth. There are more missionaries in the field today than ever before, and the true Gospel is being preached by them to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, as a witness unto all nations. It is a pleasure to those who bear the priesthood of God to fulfill this mission which God has given unto us as the army of Christ, to spread the truth in these latter days. 

I am glad to be able today to join with the other brethren in bearing testimony of the truth of this work. God has given me a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, His humble instrument in restoring the Gospel again to the nations of the earth; that Brigham Young, whom I was acquainted with in my boyhood days, was his legal successor; and that all of those who have followed him are men of God, chosen by revelation and inspiration, to guide and direct the Church of Christ in this day and age. May God bless them, and bless all of the Elders who are proclaiming His word, who are defending the truth, who are living the lives of Latter-day Saints; and may He bless all of the people who have named His name, and who have taken upon themselves covenants to keep His commandments, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
