17
Morning
05 10 1908
Elder John Henry Smith. 

Kind treatment at Irrigation Congress.— Utah victories at New Mexico Territorial Fair.— Music and religious services on passenger train. — Moral elevation of mankind the mission of the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy in the privilege of being present here this morning, and sorely regret that it was not quite possible for me to be with you here yesterday, that I might have participated in the spirit of the opening session of the conference, and been in communion with you during the entire day. 

It has been my privilege, within the past few days, to be in attendance at the Irrigation Congress held at Albuquerque, New Mexico. There were present about nine hundred delegates from various sections of the Union, and the spirit of the congress was a very satisfactory one. Some of us, however, were compelled to leave before its close, as also we were delayed in reaching and being in attendance upon its first meetings, owing to conditions along the lines of the railways. The spirit of that gathering was the improvement, so far as practicable, of this western land, the reclamation of the arid sections, and establishment of such enterprises as tend to the betterment of that section of the world we love so much. 

We were also happy to be in attendance, though briefly at the Territorial Fair of New Mexico. Utah was in competition with other sections of the country for a cup or trophy, given by Mr. Hearst 01 New York; and I am pleased so say to you that Utah was successful in carrying off that trophy, valued at one thousand dollars. In addition to this, there was a contest between four or five bands. The band from Utah, led by Mr. John Held, was in competition for another cup, presented by Mr. Hearst, valued at $100.00. There was a band fron Chihuahua in Mexico, said to stand very high in the knowledge of music and there were several other bands, One, I believe, from Denver, and others from the Territory of New Mexico, and possibly one from Arizona, though I am not certain in regard to this latter statement. The result of that competition was that the band from Utah secured the cup valued at $100.00, given by Mr. Hearst; and they returned home in jubilation over their success. 

We were kindly treated, as we always have been among that body of gentlemen who congregate at these congresses; and the fairest possible action was taken, in every sense of the word, by all concerned, looking to the good of every section. We find that we are gradually becoming more widely known, and that the ill feelings that have sometimes existed are being eliminated from the hearts of men and women, as they become conversant with the nature of our work. 

I desire to say, in addition, that yesterday the band gave something of an entertainment in their car, to which the people upon the train were invited, and they gave us some very fine music indeed. It was also our privilege to sing hymns, and to offer prayer, and we had the further privilege of speaking to that body of people from many sections of our country, to express our regard and love for our country, and to proclaim our purpose to aid in its advancement and upbuilding, and in the betterment of its citizenship. After 1 had spoken, a motion was made, by Brother Richard W. Young, tendering a vote of thanks to the band, and this was unanimously carried. Then they played "My Country 'Tis of Thee," and the Doxology was sung, "Praise God From Whom aii Blessings Flow," after which Bro ther George Austin offered a closing prayer. Quite a number of the people who were in that company expressed themselves as very happy indeed to have been invited to be in attendance upon that occasion. 

I presume it is possible that some of them may be present here today, with the purpose in view of hearing our choir, as well as seeking to become acquainted with the conditions that exist in this part of the world, and for the purpose of listening to the voices that may bt raised from this platform, in speaking upon the principles of the Gospel. 

My brothers and sisters, I regret to say that owing to engagements that have arisen with me, I shall be under the necessity of leaving this city today at one o'clock, for California. I trust you will tolerate my absence, as I have been entangled in the meshes of some business connected with these congresses, that requires the fulfillment of my word to be in attendance. 

With you, I want to endorse the resolutions that it is said you passed here yesterday. I did not read them, but I take it for granted that the common sense of the Latterday Saints, and their faith in the Supreme Being, lead them to decide upon their movements and purpose in harmony with such suggestions as may come from our presiding authorities, looking to the betterment of the human race — not alone the problems of our own advancement, the uplifting and upbuilding of that system we love so Well, but the betterment of our great country, that its citizenship may be improved by our aid and suggestions. We desire, also, that we ourselves may be improved by the application of the principles of temperance and morality; and that we may be inspired with a thorough and determined purpose that the best elements of pure manhood and pure womanhood shall be awakened also in the souls of our fellows, to the best of our ability. This is our , and our mission. The work we have accepted came from God, and it comprehends within it all things that are noble and good, all things that are pure and right. They who drink at the divine fountain, and are impressed with the Holy Spirit and enjoy its direction, will be found in their struggles and efforts seeking to enhance the well being of their countrymen. When I say "01 untrymen," I am in harmony with the view that was held by the fathers of our country, in regard to this land, that it was indeed choice above all other lands; and that- it was indeed the purpose of our government to open the door of liberty, peace, and happiness to the human race. While I do not anticipate that the downtrodden people of all the world can find a home under the flag of tne United States, it being impossible for this land to care for and protect them all, yet I do believe that the principles of liberty announced by the fathers of this republic, and upon which this government has builded, will modify, and change, and "leaven the lump" until every land and clime under the sun will, in greater or less degree, receive the principles enunciated by them, and make the effort to so overcome false traditions of the past that ail nations will eventually be found in the way of the accomplishment ol good. 

My brethren and my sisters, with this mission and purpose in view, appreciating the glorious land in which we live, the truths of thr Gospel that has been re-established, the visitation of heavenly messengers, the presence of God Himself and His Son, their declaration of truth, and the bestowal of the graces and gifts so essential to the well-being of the human race, we  led to think more cautiously, and to act more considerately. When we reflect upon these things, we should feel disposed to act more wisely and more kindly in the conduct of our lives, in obedience to the principles of temperance and morality, the principles of justice,, mercy and love, reaching out the helping hand to the unfortunates of the world, pointing to them the way of life and the enjoyment of liberty, freed from the trammels of evil into which so many have drfted. 

My brethren and my sisters,I bear my testimony to the truth of the Gospel of the Redeemer, and I say to you; obey its behests, keep the commandments of God, stand upright in the majesty of the Spirit that comes from on high, and when His jewels are clustered, in the eternities, upon your brow will rest the crown of life, and you will receive the approval of God. Disobedience to these principles, disregard of the Divine will, and disregard of the laws of this glorious country of ours, means trouble, tribulation, and sorrow; while, on the other hand, if we are true to these principles and keep the commandments of God, happiness and peace will be the result, and the blessings of God will come to His children. May God bless you Amen.
