2
Morning
04 10 1908
President John R. Winder. 

Conditions here fifty years ago and today contrasted. — Continued growth of the Lords' work. — In full accord with President Smith's purposes. — Determination to continue devoted to the cause of truth. 

My brethren and sisters, I am delighted to have this opportunity of meeting with you once more in general conference. I have been listening, with much pleasure and satisfaction, to the remarks of our beloved President, and I propose, my brethren and sisters, to aid anc! assist him, to the extent of my ability, in carrying into effect every proposition that has been mentioned here this morning. 

I am thankful that the Lord has spared my life to see one more general conference. This morning, when I awoke, my mind v^nt back to the general conference of fiftyyears ago, and I was contrasting the many changes that have taken place, and the difference between our situation today and then. Jus I prior to that time the people had been in exile; they had moved away from their homes, and they were now returning. Within a few miles of this city a large army of the United States was stationed, as a menace to the people here in the valleys of the mountains. As 1 compared conditions now and ther? I thought, what a change has come over us! At that time the foundation of our Temple was covered up; since then it has been uncovered and that beautiful edifice erected; and thousands, yes, tens of thousands, of Latter-day Saints have been permitted to enter that building and receive blessed ordin ances for themselves and their dead. In addition to these changes that I have mentioned, I thought of how the work of the Lord has spread abroad in the world. At that time there were only a very few stakes of Zion, but they have been multiplied until now there are between fifty and sixty stakes of Zion. The foreign missions have also been multiplied in many nations of the earth. The Lord has preserved and protected His people, notwithstanding $he fact that, at many times, they have been menaced by opposition, all things have been overruled for the good and benefit of the work of the Lord, and for the advancement of His work upon the earth. I do not know of any time when my heart has felt to rejoice more than at the present, in the extent of the work of the Lord and the progress that it is making upon the face of the earth. 

It is my pleasure, my intention, and my determination to snstai:;  President with all my might, mind, and strength, to assist him to carry out his wishes, as he has expressed them here this morning, in every department, both temporal and spiritual. My life has been a busy one, it has been work, work, work from my childhood until the present time; and I do not propose to discontinue, so long as the Lord shall permit me to live upon the earth. I intend, during the remainder of the time the Lord is willing to give me life, to uphold and sustain His work. Every day that I live I have renewed assurances that this is the work of the Lord, and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the Most High God. This testimony gives me joy, and strength, and satisfaction. 

Now, by brethren and sisters, you do not expect me to speak long, but I am thankful to have the privilege of bearing my testimony to you this morning in relation to this great work, and to express my determination to stand by it so long as the Lord shall permit me to live upon the earth. God bless you all, is my prayer. Amen.
