24
Morning
06 10 1908
Elder Ben E. Rich. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that no one needs the prayers of the people of God more than I do, in  this position, this morning. It has pleased the authorities of the Church, and, I believe, it has pleased my heavenly Father  — because I believe the authorities of the Church act under the inspiration of God — to transfer me from my old field of labor, in the Southern States Mission, to the field recently vacated by Brother McQuarrie, who has just spoken to you. I believe I will find a great deal of happiness, pleasure and satisfaction in doing missionary work in that historic country. I said, in the Assembly Hall yesterday, that to me it is sacred ground, on account of the marvelous things which our Father in heaven has accomplished in that part of our country. I called attention to the fact that it was there the boy prophet went out into the woods and prayed for light and knowledge, and did not call upon the Lord in vain. It was there the angel Moroni appeared to the prophet, and delivered to him the sacred records containing the history, both religious and civil, of one-half of the world. It was there this prophet and his brother, the patriarch, were born. It was there the Church was organized, and where the Lord raised up three men to bear witness unto all the world that they had beheld the plates, had seen the angel, and heard the voice of God bearing record of the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon. It was there that the priesthood of God was restored, and that John the Baptist came and gave authority to lead mankind into the waters of baptism. There, also, Peter, James and John came and restored the holy apostleship. Not only that, but, as I said yesterday, it was in that section of the country that God caused the Government of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  United States to be formed. That was the work of God just as well as the restoration of the Gospel. 

There is no church organized upon the face of the earth today whose members have such religious devotion to the Government of the United States as have the Latter-day Saints, because we believe in the statements I have made. We believe an angel was sent to earth, that he delivered a record unto a young man raised up by the Lord, and gave him the power and authority to translate that record into the English language, which gave to the world the history of prophets who had lived upon the earth centuries ago, and who had been brought by the power of God from the tower of Babel and afterwards from Jerusalem. God had shown to one of their prophets, as he took him up on the top of a high mountain, what would take place in the future; just as the angel of the Lord said to an apostle of Jesus Christ, on the other hemisphere. "Come up hither, John, and I will show you things which must be hereafter." So it was with Nephi, when he was taken up on the mountain, and the visions of the future were opened to him. This book, given to us by the power of God, relates the vision, or an abridgement of the vision that God gave to that prophet. As He parted the curtain of time and permitted him to look into the future, he saw the power of God resting upon Columbus, moving upon him to cross the mighty waters and visit the land upon which were dwelling a remnant of His people. God showed him in vision how others would cross that water, and how, eventually, the Spirit of God would move upon  and cause them to break loose from their mother country. And in that vision it was revealed to the prophet that, in the war between the people who had gathered upon this sacred land, and the people of their mother country, the power of God was with the people here in organizing an independent government upon the land of Zion. We believe, as part of our religion, that the contents of this book came from God, and, therefore, that the organization of the government of the United States was accomplished by the power of God is also a part of the "Mormon" faith, and they cannot be untrue to it. They do more than any other church upon the face of the earth for the United States government; they are making many sacrifices to keep an army of two thousand young men out in all the civilized nations of the earth, trying to convert men of every government upon the earth . to believe in the divinity and sacredriess of the Book of Mormon, and therefore to believe that there is an earthly government upon the face of the earth that God Himself had a hand in organizing. No man is baptized into the "Mormon" church, whether it be in the United States, England, Germany, or any other country, who does not accept as a part of that faith these truths that I have uttered concerning the government of the United States. This is the reason that we love the government. This is the reason that our aged President, a few years ago, one who has now passed behind the vale, when the government stood face to face with war with Spain the venerable Prophet of God advised the youth of Israel to stand for the flag, and offer their lives in defense of the government 103  the United States. It was on account of this portion of their faith, this portion of their religion, that when they were driven from . the confines of the United States, they clung close to and cherished the banner representing the government, and brought it with them to what was then a part of Mexico. 

It is too late in the day for people to organize themselves into a party on the false basis that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is antagonistic to the government of the United States; and it is also too late in the day for them to taunt us by saying that we dare not disobey the men who stand at the head of the Church. I want to place myself on record that I have never heard a particle of counsel coming from a man who has stood at the head of the Church, that is not just and right. It is always good and safe counsel; and every individual who has membership in the Church can look the enemies of these men in the face and say: Yes, I stand solidly for our leaders in every way, shape and manner, and I propose to have my children do so, for in standing by them I find more safety than with those who fling vilifications at them. It is true that we may have a testimony of the Gospel today and, by our own acts, we may lose it tomorrow, but as long as we cling to the light, we will vote not only twice a year, but three hundred and sixty-five days in the year to sustain the men who stand at the head of the Church. I said yesterday that their enemies are the enemies of this people. What their enemies would do to them, they would do to you, if they had the power; and that has been demonstrated. I do not know whether I am  upon dangerous and forbidden ground or hot; no one has warned me. I remember the time when Brother Roberts was elected to a political office on the Democratic ticket. There were members of this Church who went from one end of the state to the other trying to defeat him — I was one of that number; that may be the reason he was elected — but when the enemies of this people got ready for the attack it was not on B. H. Roberts, it turned upon the Church. The fight ended in the House of Representatives of the United States. So it was when the Republican party elected Senator Smoot; the fight was not on him, it was on you just as much as it was on him. 

God has restored His Priesthood to the earth. Sometimes the evil one selects one man and sometimes another, but always he demonstrates that it is the Priesthood of Almighty God he is fighting. Probably I feel this keenly because I am kept out in the missionary field free from political strife, not mingling in your political quarrels. As long as a young man does his duty in the missionary field, he prays with all earnestness for the prophets, seers and revelators who stand at the head of the Church. 

I have heard men, sons of prominent men in the Church, bear solemn testimonies that they knew Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; I have heard them give counsel and advice to youn^ men in the missionary field, whom they incidentally met, counseling them, by the spirit they then possessed, to stand by the authorities of the Church. Then I have seen them, when their fathers — who seemed to be the anchors of their faith — passed to the other side, turn, with GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the hideousness of a rattlesnake, against the very men that they pretended to support before. I have often wondered whether, if their fathers had continued to live, they would have continued to bear_ the former testimony. Perhaps it is good to take men's fathers away from them, at times, so the children can exercise their own free agency, that God may know how a man is for himself. 

There is not a young man in this audience but has the right, if he lives for it, to know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, to know that this work is true, just as well as these brethren on the stand. God is no resoecter of persons. I do not bear testimony to the truthfulness of the work of God because some of these authorities or all of them bear that testimny. I knew it before I ever saw a majority of these brethren; I know it as well as they know it, and that is the privilege of every member of this Church. When God does give us that testimony, and we are living under the influence of the Spirit that comes from on high, we will sustain the men who are at the head of the Church, with our lives, if necessary; and we would be anxious for all the world to know that we sustain them, and that we are willing to stand between them and danger, because of the position they occupy. This is where I hope every man and every woman in this Church stands. 

I pray that God may give you the light and influence of His Holy Spirit that you may receive a testimony of the Gospel, that you may know the object God had in placing you here upon this earth. This was not the beginning of your lives. 

I have heard it said, often, that man is a dual being — I say, he is a trinity. Man is a representative of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. When a human body comes into the world,there is a light from another sphere placed within it. The spirit that God places within this tabernacle was not created in this sphere, it was created yonder, in the presence of our Father and our Mother in heaven. When that spirit tabernacle was born unto them, there was a light, there was an intelligence placed within it that existed from everlasting. So that man was created in the image of God, and, like unto God, he is from' everlasting to everlasting, and is thus a representative of the Trinity in heaven. Try to live under the influence of that Spirit which comes from Them, and be true to the covenants that you have made with God. Remember the words of the Prophet Joseph, that, in all your flounderings be careful to stand by the brethren whom God has given to us as prophets, seers and revelators; whether it pleases the world, or not, it will please God. May His blessings be upon you, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
