27
Afternoon
06 10 1908
President John R. Winder. 

Endorsement of the temperance resolution. — Blessings follow payment of tithing. — Testimony that tithing has been carefully guarded, and rightly used. — "Rustling" seventy-five years. 

I am very thankful, my brethren and sisters, to have this privilege of standing before you a few moments. I wish to express to you my appreciation of the good things that we have heard during this conference, and to say that I can heartily endorse all the sentiments that have been uttered by all the brethren who have spoken to us. I am sure, my brethren and sisters, if we will carry them out in our lives, that we will all be benefited by them. I propose, myself, to us& my best endeavors to aid and assist in carrying them out in the future. 

One thing that I endorse with all my heart is the resolution that was passed in relation to temperance. I heartily endorse that proposition, and say to you that I will give to that principle my aid and assistance to the best of my ability, to see that it shall be carried out amongst the people. I believe that the people will receive this proposition and that, as a general rule, it will be carried out by them. There is no doubt in my mind that there was a necessity that this matter should be brought up before this conference, and I am very glad that it has taken the shape that it has GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

There are many other good things that have been said, to which our attention has been called, and I have no doubt, my brethren and sis" ters, that you have concluded iii your minds, by this time, that you propose to carry out these instructions. 

There is one principle that comes to my mind that has not been very much talked about during this conference, that is the principle of tithing. It has been alluded to, but there has not been very much said about it. This is a principle that I believe in with all my heart. I believe it is the duty of all faithful Latter-day Saints to pay their honest tithing and donations. I am sure from past experience, that it is a safe proposition, although I do not think we should be prompted to pay tithing from the mercenary consideration that we are to receive a reward, or have returned to us a portion of what we pay. However, I believe that we do receive blessings from the Lord by paying tithing; I know I have been blest by so doing; I can testify to that. 1 remember what Malachi says about it: "Bring into my storehouse your tithes and your offerings, and I will pour you out a blessing." You are all familiar with what is said in relation to this. I know it is a true principle, brethren and sisters. One other thing in relation to it; Never mind what is said about the use of the tithing and how it is appropriated. 

I testify to you here, this afternoon, that I know that during the last six or seven years that I have been associated with the Trusteein-trust every dollar of tithing that came into his hands was carefully guarded. Every dollar is accounted for; every dollar that is appropriated is properly registered, and the  are just as carefully kept and the funds just as carefully accounted for, as in any banking or mercantile institution in the country. I want to say this much to you this afternoon; because this is a matter with which I am familiar, and I can speak positively about it. You need have no fears in relation to what is done with your tithing, it is carefully appropriated. When requests for appropriations come in. the question arises : what is the condition in each case ? Let us consider what the conditons are. What is the condition of that ward or that stake which asks for this appropriation? All these matters are carefully con. sidered,and then the question comei up, how much can we appropriate for this, that, or the other, as the case may be. So it is in all these matters, my brethren and sister:,. The Twelve are associated with us; they are consulted, and they take part in the appropriation and care of tithes and offerings. 

I know what I have said, my brethren and sisters, to be the truth. I do not know how much longer I shall live and how many more conferences I shall be permitted to 'attend. There is a limit to the life of man, it is said, and we know there is. How long my life will be extended I know not; but I did want to make this statement to you this afternoon, whatever my future may be. I want you to bear it in mind that such is the fact, no matter what may be said from any other source. 

Now, for the remainder of my days, so long as the Lord shall permit me to live among you, I propose that every day of my life shall be devoted to the interests, and welfare, and upbuilding of the kingdom of God upon the earth Mine has been a busy life; I com115  to labor and rustle for myself from the time I was about ten years of age, which is more than seventy-five years ago, and I have been rustling ever since. It is too late for me to lie down now; i propose to continue in this work just as long as I am permitted to live. 

May God help you, my brethren and sisters, to carry into effect the good things you have heard here today. If you will do this, you will be taking a step higher up; you will go on and advance, and increase and multiply upon the earth. May the Lord help us all to be faithful and true to the end, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
