28
Afternoon
06 10 1908
Elder Seymour B. Young. 

. My brethren and sisters, I desire very much that you will assist me by praying for me, and that I may be enabled to make you hear, during the short time that I shall occupy. President Smith has invited me to say a few words, and I will endeavor to do so. I wiil begin by saying that I endorse, very heartily, the vote that was taken for the suppression of the drinking habit and the sale of alcoholic drinks, in the communities of the Latter-day Saints. To show that I am not illiberal at all, I wish the same unanimity of spirit could be shown in every communit} wherever there is a Christian settlement established. I am willing that the Catholic Church, the Methodist Church, the Episcopal Church, the Quakers, the Shakers, the Congregationalists, the Campbellites and all other ites, and all other denominations claiming to have the Christian religion and faith, I am willing that they should show their loyalty to the cause of right and to the spread of the prin121  of temperance, and vote as you voted here, day before yesterday, for the suppression of the vice of the drunkard; and also for the establishment of more definite rules enjoining upon this people, and every other people, the observance of the Sabbath day. I have seen, with a very great deal of dissatisfaction, for the last two or three years, in this our beloved city of Salt Lake, the teams and men employed by the City of Salt Lake, working, driving, plowing and scraping, placing down pavement in these streets on the Sabbath day. working as vigorously on that day as on any other day in the week. I am also reminded now that I have seen the saloons, that have been licensed by other influences than the "Mormon" people, running night and day, Sunday and week days alike, ready to receive the wayward man or foolish person within those drinking dens, and there administer the cup that inebriates, and that destroys the soul. When I voted with you on this question, and lifted my voice as loud as. I could, that I might at least hear my own expression on the subject, I believed with all my heart that you voted as I did, sincerely, and with the hope that your influence, from this time, would be felt from' one end of the land to the other. As it is a fact that you brethren and sisters here assembled on that day, and on the days subsequent, are a representative body of this great people, I am satisfied that the influence of that vote will be carried to all of our organizations. 

I rejoice today, my brethren and sisters, when I remember the opening remarks of President Smith; and I hope we will all follow his instructions. He called our attention to the extensive neglect of the  to observe that law, that commandment which the Lord gave for the preservation of His people, that will give them length of years, and spiritual as well as physical strength; for in the act of obedience to this great commandment we are insured these blessings of the Lord. I know by my own experience that when I have endeavored, with what little ability I have, to exemplify His word and keep His commandments, I have realized a direct answer to my prayers, and have felt within my soul that the Lord had been kind and merciful to me, because I had shown a willingness to do His will; and I know that is the experience of the Elders as they go out into the nations of the earth. They speak with power and with strength because they feel that they are on the Lord's business, that they are preaching His Gospel, that they are exemplar? of the life thai He has designed they should live. While I apply this word of commendation to our Elders, I apply it likewise to our brethren in their local capacities, as presidents of stakes, as bishops of wards. The most successful officers in the Church are those who live closest to the Lord. This we see exemplified in these great gatherings,for we do know that our brethren who preside over us are devoted to the work of the Lord, and are determinea to magnify the holy calling which has been laid upon them. They are exemplary in their lives, and we see it evidenced. When they stand before the people to proclaim the word of the Lord unto us, we know that it comes from their hearts which are pure and clean before Him. 

I rejoice to be able to bear this testimony to you today, my brethren and sisters. I rejoice in being GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in this great congregation of the saints. These are gatherings long to be remembered; they will be historic forever. The words that come from our President, and other leaders, will be remembered; they wdl be recorded for us and our children to read in the future. I refer to the record of these great gatherings of annual and semiannual conferences. 

My brethren and sisters, there are many things that need reforming. There is a very good chance for every Elder in Israel to preach the Gospel, not only abroad in the nations but at home, by the firesides of the people, in the streets, upon the sidewalk. Wherever we travel we generally find an opportunity to correct evil, and we should do so in a mild spirit, even the spirit of our Lord and Savior; not rail against evil but kindly call the attention of the trespasser to the fact that he is not alligned with the Spirit of the Gospel. As Jesus taught, let us forgive our enemies, and always lend a helping hand to our neighbors. He said: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and thy neighbor as thyself." Sometimes we find it difficult to love some of our neighbors' actions. During the history of this people, we have seen times and experiences wherein we could not endorse the actions of our neighbors; yet if they will repent of their sins, and receive the Gospel;wewill gladly offer them, in the name ofjesus, salvation and redemption. This is the duty and calling of every Latterday Saint Elder. 

I pray the Lord to bless our leaders, and to bless the people all the. day _long\ that He will give us hearts to understand and a determination to carry out the will of the 

Lord, and to fulfill His purposes in our creation, that we may inherit eternal life, with our loved ones and with all the saints, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
