29
Afternoon
06 10 1908
Patkiarch John Smith. 

It is with peculiar feelings, my brethren and sisters, that I stand before you on this occasion. I have listened attentively to the remarkr which have been made during this conference, and I can indorse every sentiment, every word, and bear testimony that the sayings we have listened to have come from the right source; they have been grtei; to us through the whisperings of the Good Spirit with which owe Father in Heaven has inspired those who have spoken to us. I say to the people I trust that these instructions will sink deep into their hearts, and that they may profit thereby. 

I can bear testimony to the truth of this work. I bear you my testimony that Joseph Smith was the prophet of the living God, and that through his labors and the gifts which came from the Father, this work has been thus far established, and that his successors have been in the true path, that they have worked and labored for the furtherence of the cause of truth. They have been men of God, prophets, seers, and revelators and their teachings have been just and true, I can also bear testimony to the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord in many ways, for myself individually. On 123  or two occasions, from overwork, exposure, and so forth, physically I have been broken down, but through the faith and prayers of the saints, I have been restored. I can bear testimony that the Lord has heard my petitions, not only in my own behalf but also in behalf of many of the people. I often meet individuals who have received blessings under my hands, promises and so forth, and they have borne testimony that the words which I have spoken, under these circumstances have been prophetic, that the promises I have made havt come true, every word. 

Although I am not, probably, living in the full sense of the word up to the revealed law in all respects, I have striven to do my duty; I have tried to do that which the Father has called me to do. A-; a rule, there are many people more guilty of sin of omission than sins of commission, and I trust that this has been my lot. I admonish the people to try to understand their duties, to try to live in obedience to the laws of God, and to keep His commandments. If we as a people will listen to the whisperings of the still small voice we will not often err in judgment; and if we call upon the Father, in humility, in a proper way, He will hear our petitions and answer them. I often admonish the people when they get their blessings under my hands, and say to them they must first learn to listen to the whisperings of the still small voice; and if they will seek for the gift of discernment, they will be guided by the Spirit of Truth. 

I pray God, the Eternal Father,, to let His blessings rest upon all Israel, and guide us in the true path, that when we have finished our work here, we may be worthy  His blessings. May Father add His blessings unto us, qualify us for every duty, that we may fill the missions whereunto He has called us. If we will strive diligently to do this, His blessings will be with us and make us equal to every task. May the Lord help us to fill the mission whereunto we are called, and thereby be worthy of His continued favor, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.
