3
Morning
04 10 1908
President Anthon H. Lund. 

Obedience to Word of Wisdom should be regarded as a requisite of Church fellowship. — Saints should be examples of temperance and purity. — Careful guardianship of the young advised. — A law advocated enforcing Sunday observance. 

I have been much pleased to listen to the testimony of Brother Winder, and with him I feel to say that I will try to carry out the instructions given unto us by our President. I endorse his sayings with all my heart. I feel that it would be for the best good of the 

Latter-day Saints to  study the revelation on the Word of Wisdom, which he has read to us, and to determine to obey it. The Lord gave this revelation to our Church in the early days, and those who are called to lead the people have felt how important are the instructions given in that revelation. Our brethren who are traveling among the Saints, organizing wards and quorums of the priesthood, insist upon those who accept positions in the Church that they will obey the Word of Wisdom. Some of the people have thought that the brethren were too strict in making such a request, but at the very time when this revelation was given, in Kirtland, the same instructions . were given. At a High Council meeting held in Kirtland, February 20th. 1834, over which the Prophet pre sided, he rendered the following decision; "No official member in this Church is worthy to hold an office, after having the Word of Wisdom properly taught him, and he, tho official member, neglecting to comply with, or obey it." This decision the Council confirmed by vote (History of the Church Vol. 2 

page 35)In May, 1837, the Presidency of the Church at Far West called a general meeting of the Church. Among those present were the High Council, two of the Twelve, ten of the Seventies, the Bishop and one counselor. At this meeting it was resolved unanimously: "That we will not fellowship any ordained member who will not or does not observe the Word of Wisdom according to its literal reading/' (History of the Church, Vol. 2, page 482). 

We have listened this morning to our President laying it down as  law unto Israel. Shall we hold this word lightly, or shall we, wSth Brother Winder, say we are determined to carry out the instructions given unto us? While he read and explained the Word of Wisdom, I thought of the words of Paul, written to a young missionary in Crete, and I will read them. He says to Titus : 

"But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine : 

"That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience." 

"The aged women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things : 

"That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children. 

"To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. 

"Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded. 

"In all things showing thyself a pattern of good works : in doctrine showing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, 

"Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you." 

These instructions, given by the Apostle formerly, are very appropriate to us today. The President has spoken "things that become sound doctrine" to us this morning, and the advice here given to ail who labor in the priesthood is ^hat they shall speak sound doctrine. Do not hanker after mysteries. Ther? is enough in our standard works for texts upon which to speak unto the people. The Church is guided by revelation. Some have wondered why we do not receive revelation upon revelation, as they did m the early days of the Church. What blessing would it be to receive the word of the Lord in greater abundance than we do at present, if we do not obey His commandments unto us ? We have had this Word of Wisdom these many years; have we improved in keeping it? I hope we have. I believe the Latter-day Saints are growing and increasing in good works, but a spirit of carelessness in regard to this Word of Wisdom has manifested itself in our midst. If it were not so would we see many saloons in settlements that are nearly all composed of Latter-day Saints ? I suppose that the traveling public may help to sustain them, but I consider it a shame tc see such institutions in settlements largely composed of our people. 

I hope that this movement of temperance will continue until it shall be a success, and temperance be a vitrue possessed by all our people. Paul says we shall teach the old men to be temperate and to be sober, and the young men likewise. You know how harmful are the effects of drunkenness and that it leads to a great many other crimes. When a person indulges in strong drink he partly loses his reason, and is easily tempted to violate the commandments of God and do things that lead downward, hence, when a man knows what the effects of strong drink are, he ought not to indulge in' it. Th: court may judge an act committed in drunkenness less severely, considering that the man did not have full control of his faculties, yet when he wilfully goes and indulges in that which he knows makes him weak and exposes him to the dangers of violating the commandments of God, he will be held guilty and responsible before the Lord. What a disgusting sight it  to see a man under the influence of liquor! I will not say a woman because it is so very seldom that such a sight is seen in these valleys, but I have seen such in other countries, and it is a most hideous sight. A Latter-day Saint should never be known to indulge in strong drink. We are told by Paul that we should set an example before all worthy of imitation. That kind of sermon we can all preach; it is within our power to do thai Persons may become slaves to habit, and some have indulged so long in strong drinks, or perhaps have appetites which have come to them from their fathers, that it has become very hard for them to overcome this degrading habit, but it can be done by the aid and assistance of the Spirit ot God. When persons are weak in such respects, the tempter will assail therm on their weak side, and they should therefore try to guard against these things. Young men should never go where intoxicating liquors are dispensed. The law forbids minors to enter saloons. I say unto you that the law of God forbids men to indulge in these things and to enter such places. Even men who do not want to partake of the drinks dispensed in a saloon should not go there. It irnot a place where anything good is taught; it is a place where language most filthy can be heard, and idle and vain talk which may cause our young men to lose sight of the greater objects of life and to take the downward road. It is said that the old Egyptians would get their slaves drunk in order that then sons could see what a disgusting spectacle men make of themselves when they are under the influence of drink. If a person has indulged to such an extent, especially if he  is a man of faith, I know tha'. his conscience will upbraid him ani he will desire to leave off this hab it. To such a man I would say, do not stop with having the desire only, but make the resolve that you will not be conquered by nor yield to this habit. 

In speaking about the works of the flesh, Paul lays strong emphasis also upon works of impurity, adultery, fornication, uncleanness and lasciviousness. He enumerates other vices and then adds drunkenness, revelings; and he declares that those who indulge in these things cannot inherit the kingdom of God. He puts it very strongly. 

Brethren and sisters, are we looking after our young people as we ought to do? I am pleased with the work of a number of Elders who have been appointed in the different stakes to look after our young people at night; I believe that a great deal of betterment has taken place. In a large city like this there are many temptations, and the parents ought to be on their guard, and know where theii young people are when they are not at home. 

There is also much evil in having theaters open on Sunday evenings. I hope that the legislators who shall be elected this fall will feel to pass a Sunday law. In a Christian community I think a Sunday law ought to be passed and ought to be enforced. When I was a missionary in England, I was pleased to observe how well the Sunday was observed there. When walking the streets I was glad to see how quiet the cities were, and that the people, many of them, went to their churches. I wish that in all the towns of Zion there may be a marked improvement in keep the Sunday holy. I do think that something should be done in this respect, because if people are permitted to keep theaters open on the Sunday, perhaps after a while they will have dances on the Sunday evening. I believe that this can be stopped, and that a law to that effect can be passed. Why, it is said that sometimes young people, after they have been to Sunday meeting, go to be .entertained and amused at some of the theaters. I should think that when they have been to meeting and received spiritual food that that should suffice. To keep the Sunday holy is a commandment given us by the Lord, and we must observe it. See how strict He was in regard to this commandment in olden times. He has given it for our good. It is certainly best for man to have one day in seven to rest from his labor and to devote to the worship of God. Now, this commandment ought to be observed in all the wards and stakes of Zion. Profanity should not be heard and everything that violates the commandments of God must be avoided. We have taken upon us the name of Latter-day Saints. Let us show to the world that that means to be men of God, that we propose to keep His commandments and to spread that influence throughout the world. We call upon men to repent, to accept the Gospel of Christ, and to live such "lives that may bring unto them salvation hereafter. 

May God bless the Latter-day Saints; may He -help us to overcome all our weaknesses and prove ourselves worthy to be His children in spirit and in truth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
