6
Overflow
04 10 1908
Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 

(President of California Mission.) 

I most sincerely desire your prayers of faith in my behalf, my brethren and sisters, for I feel a little indisposed this morning and not much like speaking. However, I have a testimony of the Gospel. I know that God lives, that He hears and answers the prayers of faith. Every fiber of my being responds to this thought, that Jesus is the Christ, the begotten son of the Father, and our elder brother with whom we are joint heirs to all the powers and prerogatives of our Father's kingdom,if we but keep the faith. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Most High God; and I bear testimony to what my brethren have said this morning, that this knowledge is not entertained or had only by the saints, but some men who have not become members of the Church of Christ are convinced in their souls that this man was raised up of God, and given wisdom and knowledge and light far beyond his years and the day in which he lived. I have met men of letters, men of politics, men who are philanthropists, who have concurred in that thought; and some have expressly stated to ljie that no man in view of the limited advancement in the day of Joseph Smith, with the little education that men had in that day, but particularly what he did not have, could have announced such doctrines as did he, unless he received them from some higher source, or God inspired him. One gentleman in particular, in dwelling upon these things, in reviewing the life of Joseph, in reading the Book of Mormon and in reading the Prophet's address to the American people at the time he was a candidate for the presidency of the United States, said of him: "The greatest testimony and proof that Joseph Smith was what he says he was, that he received what he said was given him, is the very fact that no man, much less he, could have advanced such ideas and given such truths unless what he said is true and God revealed those things to him." I rejoice in this, for the Master tells us that "they who are not against us are on our part." 

I had occasion to remark yesterday, and I believe it fully, that there are some things in relation to religion and pplitics that I would feel more secure in trusting to honorable men of the earth than I would to give them to some of our people at home, for they are more liberal toward us in this land than are some among ourselves. I find, that in common with the generality of American people, we are prone to criticise those who sit in the seats of judgment, those who are appointed to high office. Wc elevate heroes t<5 exalted positions, men who have earned their laurels by courage, fidelity, honesty and virtue, and yet as soon as we have lifted them to some point of eminence, it is an American trait that we begin to pull them down, criticise and berate them, and I was going to say, bury them in the slime and mud of filthy politics, and mean jealousies, and I don't know but I am entitled to say it, so  it stand. It is so, and history proves it in the case of Abraham Lincoln,who was so foullv maligned, vilified and traduced by th every men who owed to him their pre-eminence among the American people. Subsequently great regret came in the hearts of the whole nation when he was stricken, then he was honored as one of the greatest of Americans. The same may be said of William McKinley. There are men in our midst today whom we have lauded to the skies because of their courage and fidelty on the battlefield or upon the battle-ship, who have helped to make secure the rights and privileges of the American people, that we have borne high upon our shoulders a little while only to pull down and belittle afterwards. This propensity of fault finding, that is so prevalent among American people, has besmirched their good names and trailed them in the dust, and we forget sometimes the very things that we owe to these men and almost forget their names; and that is why I said what I did with relation to the fact that some honorable men of the earth, I believe, are more liberal to us in politics, in domestic relationship, and in our efforts to build up and colonize in these mountains, and accomplish that which God hath ordained that we should do, than we are sometimes. 

What Brother Ellsworth said in relation to the work of the ministry and the excellency of the work done by elders, and their very excellent characters, doubtless may be said of every mission established by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There are times when some men lack faith, there are times when they fail to feel or sense the weight of the position that they are called to; but in the main the  and the men who engage in the work of the Lord take upon themselves the armor of righteousness and gird it about their loins, and they are humble and faithful. God magnifies them, and they grow in favor with Him and men, and have a rich harvest of souls and of testimonies to the truthfulness of the Gospel, and their hearts are filled with praise and adulation to the Most High God. ' They are full of integrity and courage to defend His principles and honor His priesthood that is now upon the earth. This may be said of the California mission, in which I have the pleasure of laboring. I want to say that people grow more liberal in their views of religion, and more liberal to us as a church, and yet upon that west sea-board there is such a spirit of indifference and of pleasure making and pleasure loving that it is very hard indeed to convince men of the necesssity of belonging to any church. They sense with some of our great educators, who announced this principle at the last National Educational Association that met in Los Angeles a year agp, "that to serve the interests of our country, to perpetuate its institutions, to best conserve the liberties of the peoples of this world as well as of our own country, there must be a deep-seated religious conviction in the heart of every man." There must be a Christian training, for all that is good in man tends towards worship and devotion. This spirit of "religiosity," as Carlyle has called it, augments the very best that there is in man, let him be white or black, bond or free. And so men who think and who have watched the current of events, are convinced of this fact that we cannot drift far away from the principles of Chris* the ideal life which Christ lived for men, and hope to achieve success, and hope that the name of our country shall long obtain in the world's history, or hope that our children or children's children shall find peace and prosperity in the land. But, O how few of those who possess these ideas are willing to concede the fact that there must be a Church, that men if they belong to the Christ, must take upon them His name, repent of their sins, have them washed away in the grave of baptism and be born anew from the womb of waters unto newness of life. They cannot see the philosophy of it. 

One man told me not long since : "I can't see the philosophy of faith, nor the philosophy of repentance. Baptism may be all right, but I can't see the relationship of this principle with that which is spiritual." He, too, had been taught from his youth up, these very principles. But when he came into the field, he said: "I find there are devout people in other churches; I find there are people who pray to God our Eternal Father in the name of Christ as do we; there are people who try to render that which is just and true to their fellows as do we, so far as I can understand, and I am not prepared to teach these first principles. I believe in the life and mission of the Prophet Joseph. I believe that we had an existence before we came here." But these first and cardinal virtues or principles of the Gospel he did not comprehend or find the necessity of. Yet there i» not a philosopher, aside from those whom we may look upon as converts to Christianity, but who knows that "faith is the underlying principle of all intelligent action," that faith impels men to do and dare. Faith it is that has prompted every man that has achieved any great result — to strive in his particular field for the accomplishment of the purpose he had in view. It is true there have been certain discoveries made b> accident, they were not the result of faith and labor, but when we look upon what the world has done, and the great men of our world it has been as a rule the result of persistent and intelligent action which sprung out of the hope that such things could be accomplished, the faith that it could be realized. It was not chance nor accident that led Franklin into the field with his kite and string. It was not for pleasure and play that Watt and Stevenson labored with the giant steam, and dreamed out the dreams that were their prophets in the creation of the engine, of the locomotive, nor of Fulton with the steamboat, but faith, that those things would result as the end of their efforts. And the same faith hath actuated the minds of Edison and Marconi and other great inventors, and of the Wright brothers who have achieved so wonderful a feat as flying in the air. It is the faith that is persistent in the minds of men leading them  to delve and seek after and accomplish these things, and, as I have said, it underlies all intelligent action as the Prophet Joseph declared. It underlies religion, and science, and philosophy, and politics; a faith in government, a faith in statesmanship, a faith in rule that will best subserve the interests of the commonwealth. So it seems to me that when a man says that he cannot see any use in the principle of faith, he has not thought at all, but he esteems it as something merely esthetic, dealing only with morbid religion. 

Repentance too goes hand hi hand with faith, and is its concomitant part which must follow it as the night the day. Repentance, according to Carlyle, is the grandest trait there is in mankind, turning away from sin, from error, striving after the light, after the good, after the pure, after the perfect, and perfecting our lives thereby. Every business man applies this principle to his business; and whenever he learns by his experience or by what he observes in the experience of others that he had made a mistake, he repents of that, if he is sane, and seeks a better way. Whenever the scientist has made a mistake in his workshop or his laboratory, he turns from that mistake, as soon as he discovers it, and applies other laws or methods to achieve his end. And so it follows faith, that principle of progression, and is a principle of true religon, for the religion of God the Eternal Father, the theology that deals with Him and His attributes and laws, underlies all the sciences, and they with their philosophies are all built upon it. And so repentance is as broad in its application and in its saving power as faith, and therefore no wonder it is taught as one of the principles of religion, for religion, properly understood and applied, is the plan of God, and is for the salvation of the souls of men. If men persist in error, in mistakes, if men persist in doing things that are hurtful to their bodies and to their spirits, how can they be saved. 

When it comes to the ordinance of baptism, that men and women in the world so commonly claim is non-essential, after accepting these other principles, it is sufficient to me, aside from its symbolism and from the virtue that there is in the spirit of obedence that God com it; upon the principle of obedience all blessings are predicated. It is only by observing- the law of their creation that plants and animals grow and have life. The Master when he called the attention of his apostles to the lily of the field said, "Behold, how it grows." It was not the glory of the lily, or its beauty that he had in mind, but how it graeyntelligently following the order of its creation and being, and answering the laws of its growth and development. And so with everything that we see in the universe that is harmonious, that is beautiful and progressive. It answers the law of its growth, obeying the law thereof for its development. So it is sufficient for me to obey the law which the King of Heaven hath said is essential in order that man shall see and enter into His kingdom; and as He is the King, the Lord of Lords, and the law giver,surely we will concede to Him the' right of saying how citizens shall be initiated into that kingdom, and we will comply with that method, because He ordained it and Himself set the pattern. 

If we comply with it, by brethren and sisters, or my friends, if all men and women would comply with it, then they would have shed into their souls such light, and peace and joy, that the riches of the world would sink into insignificance beside it. So long as they bask in the light of the Spirit, there is nothing on earth would tempt their feet to stray in forbidden paths. Then would they know the virtue of newness of life, then would they feel the freedom that comes when men accept the truth, and their sins have been forgiven and stripped from them. Then would they realize the promise which Christ made when He said:"This gospel is not Mine  His that sent Me; and if any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of Myself." When men have that assurance and testimony, they are strong in their hearts to do the bidding of God, and pity the sneer of the skeptical. They would pity those who do not see and understand, and would give all that is theirs to bring them to the knowledge of the truth; and they are rich in the possession of this truth, beyond the riches that the world can conceive or give. Sometimes men and women say: "I do not understand it; it is beyond me. I cannot apprehend it; I do not know where you get it from. It sounds reasonable, it appeals to my mind, it moves the very emotions of my heart and soul." I have had many a man and woman tell me, "If I could believe as you do, Elder Robinson, I would be the happiest being on this earth, but I can't see it, I can't understand it." Why? Because they have not complied with the conditions of growth and knowledge, and they have no right to understand it, and no man has the right to expect that he will know all about this Gospel, or understand even the primary principles thereof, until he hath complied with the conditions, and then the truth makes him free and error drops from his mind, and he comes into the knowledge of the truth and can bear testimony that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. 

May the peace of the Gospel be in your hearts and homes, my brethren and sisters. May the desire to keep inviolate the pledges and covenants which you have made in the waters of baptism, and when you have named the name of God in holy places, actuate you, so that you will live the lives of Latter-day Saints, that we who bear the ensign of tiuth in the world, who are your representatives, we who proclaim your virtues to the ungodly and unbelieving, shall never have cause to blush because of what may be done or said at home, so we shall not feel we have presented to the world something that is untrue, and that they will not find when they come, as we call it, to Zion. May you perform deeds and live lives of probity, virtue, courage, and sacrifice, that you too at home shall "make good," and that together we shall accomplish that which God has designed, that the little leaven shall leaven the entire lump, that the reign of righteousness shall be ushered in, when every man shall know thai Jesus is the Christ, and shall fear and worship the Lord God of heaven and earth. That He may hasten this day, that His Son may speedily come to rule and reign in the earth, that the honorable of the earth may come to the brightness of the rising of Zion is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
