7
Second Overflow
04 10 1908
Elder Hugh J. Cannon. 

(President of Liberty Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, there are doubtless in this congregation  and women who have traveled many miles, several hundred miles perhaps in some cases, to attend this conference; and they have come here, no doubt, with a desire to be strengthened in their faith, and built up in their determination to more faithfully serve the Lord in the future than they have done in the past. It seems to me, under these circumstances, that they have a claim upon the blessings of the Almighty, and any speaker who attempts to address them should certainly have the benefit of their faith and prayers. No man, no matter what his qualifications may be, who has the spirit of the Gospel in his heart, ever attempts to address a congregation upon the vital principles of the Gospel without feeling a desire to have the guidance of the Holy Spirit, and certainly I am in that position myself this afternoon. 

I have been led to think during the last few weeks of the importance of having a testimony of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. It has been impressed upon my mind more strongly than at any time before in my life, that we should have a knowledge that God lives, the knowledge that we are engaged in His service, the knowledge that the authority, the Priesthood, is in our midst, and that we have among us those who are qualified, and have the authority to point out to us the way in which we should walk. Now, we hear a great deal concerning the outward ordinances of the gospel. The Latter-day Saints, in my opinion, are pretty well posted as to the Scriptural proof. Of course we are not as well acquainted with the Scriptures as we might be; but still it seems to me we are better equipped with proofs of the divinity of the Gospel that are contained in the Scriptures than we are with the inward testimony. We know what the Scriptures say about our duties, and about the religion in which we believe. We see the outward manifestations of the Spirit of the Lord. We see the sick healed. We know that the signs follow those that believe. But important as this is, it is not the only testimony which we can have, and I believe it may be said with perfect truth that it is not the most important testimony that can come to our hearts. Every person who belongs to this Church should inquire into his own condition and see whether there is in his heart strong and abiding faith, and a testimony of the divinity of this work outside of any Scriptural proof, because it is stronger and more enduring than any written word or any outward manifestation can possibly be. If we will look into our hearts, as I have said, look down into the depths of our own souls, I am sure that every man and woman will discover an abundance of reasons why we should maintain our standing in the Church, and why we should go on in the path which has been pointed out for us to follow. There is no Latter-day Saint who has reached the age of accountability, or at least has reached the age of manhood, but would find in the depths of his heart sufficient reason for his standing in this Church, and sufficient reason for him to labor diligently and faithfully to maintain that standing. 

For my own part, when I examine myself and my own life, my own hopes and aspirations, I need go no further to find evidence enough to justify me in the pursuit of my present course; because, weak and frail and incompetent as 

I am, I still see that I am better and higher, more advanced, than would have been the case without the teachings of this gospel of Jesus Christ. I see where it has made me better, where it has held me back from committing sin, and from going in wrong directions. It has taught me by the whisperings of the Spirit, that when I depart from the straight and narrow path, I may return and get into line. I need no better indicator as to my duty than the teachings which are contained in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Savior said, "By thenfruits ye shall know them." When we apply this test to the Church and to its members, individually and collectively, we find sufficient proof to convince any reasonable man that our claims are well founded. We need not be ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ when we apply this test, which the Savior gave, to the lives of those who have joined tjhe Church, and who arc carrying on this work, because the} will compare very favorably with any other people upon the face of the earth, according to my experience. We are imperfect, and do things which we should not do. We grieve, no doubt many times, the Spirit of the Lord, by our weaknesses and our folies; and still there is no better people throughout the world, I am fully convinced, than can be found in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When this test is applied it furnishes a satisfactory answer to me for the hope which I have, for the faith which is in my heart, that this is the truth, and that through this Gospel I may be saved in the kingdom of our Father in Heaven. 

Now, we are not perfect. We do not pretend to be. We do not want to think we are perfect, but it 't hurt us any to think that we are as good as other people, as long as we are humble and prayerful. There is a higher standard set for the Latter-day Saints than for any other people upon the earth. 1 remember once having a conversation in the mission field with a young lady who had been born and raised in Utah, although she was not a member of the Church, and never had been. She was studying music in the city of Berlin. We had a number of gospel conversations with her. While she was very friendly, and frequently helped us in our meetings with her musical talent, she did not have any faith in the Gospel, at least not very much. On one occasion when I was present she got into an argument with some of the missionaries. She said : "Well, I know Catholics, and Methodists and Presbyterians that live their religion better than the Latter-day Saints do." "Why," I said to her, "that is easy. It is not difficult for a Catholic to live his religion." It is easy for any person belonging to these various denominations to live their religion, because it does not require anything special of them; but you take a religion that sets perfection as its standard, that requires perfection of its members, and it is a little more difficult to live that religion. With all due respect to other denominations, it is possible for their adhierents to go along with the stream, living as the world lives, and still live their religion , but with the Latter-day Saint it is vastly different. He must cast aside all these weaknesses which men in the world have, must walk in that straight way, deviating neither to the right nor to the left, in order to live the religion of 

Jesus Christ; he must not smoke, must not drink tea or coffee, must not profane, must not break the Sabbath, must be virtuous, clean in every act and thought of his life. In order to fully live up to his belief, he must live a perfect life, and who can do it in this mortal state? Very few, if any at all. None, perhaps, can live this Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as it should be lived. No wonder that people may say the Catholics or persons of other denominations can live their religion better than we Latter-da\ Saints can. Why, it is further proof that the religion which we have, and which we claim is the plan ol salvation is better and higher than anything else in the world. 

I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart for the testimony of the divinity of this work, which He has given«ne. I thank Him that 1 know that He lives, that I know that Jesus is the Christ, and I thank Him still more that I know that divine authority is upon the earth today. I appreciate that testimony more than the other, if possible. There are plenty of men in the world who have a knowledge of Jesus Christ, who believe firmly, and who are sincere in that belief, that He was the Son of God, and that He did redeem the world. And still they have not got the knowledge that He has spoken in this day. They know nothing about the authority which He has delegated to mankind in the generation in which they live, and they are deprived of the great blessings whicli come to the Latter-day Saints, as partakers of the New and Everlasting Covenant; and therefore I say that, if possible, I am more thankful for the testimony which I have that prophets live upon the earth now, that the Lord has spoken today, than I am for the other knowledge. Of course we can never have this testimony without having the other, but I am reminded of the number of people there are in the world, and the number there are in our own community who know that Christ lives. At least, they profess to have that knowledge. Some of them go a step further, and profess to believe implicitly that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the Almighty, that Brigham Young was his legal successor, and that John Taylor, Wil' ford Woodruff and those who have succeeded them as presidents of the Church were duly authorized to lead this people; but some of those remind me of the saying of the Savior, they honor the dead prophets but would kill the living prophets if they had the power. There are men in our community who do that very thing, who have that very feeling in their hearts, because they have grieved the Spirit, and they are living in the dead past. I thank God that to some extent I can live in the present, and in the future. 

All that I have, all that I ever hope to have is tied up in the Gospel. I pray that the Lord may bless us and enable us to walk in the path set for our feet. That we may see the light, and that we may know it when we see it, that we may not be left to wander in darkness; that our faith may be strong and perfect, and that we may go on to perfection, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, 

"Memories of Galilee" was rendered by the Temple choir, including the quartet, Florence Grant, Maria B. Winder, Charles S. Martin, and James Maxwell. 

BISHOP HEBER C. IVERSON. 

I have greatly rejoiced in the spirit and instruction of this conference and I sincerely trust that during the few moments I occupy this important position I may be inspired of the Lord to say something that will be of value to us, and that will redound to the honor and glory of our Father's work and kingdom. 

I have listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks that have already been made, and especially have been impressed with the statements made by President Cannon, who preceded me. Some time ago I attended a meeting at which he spoke, and his testimony was similar to the one borne to us this afternoon, and it made upon my mind a lasting impression. He .spoke of his gratitude unto our Father in heaven for imparting unto him the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, "but more important," said he, "than the other is the fact that I know that he who stands today at the head of the Church is likewise a prophet, inspired of the Almighty, chosen of Him to lead Israel and to guide His people." This last expression — possibly not in these words exactly — found an echo in my heart, and as I have stated, made a lasting impression. I believe it to be of vital importance, my brethren and sisters, that we should know that Joseph F. Smith, who, today stands at the head of God's cause upon the earth, is His chosen servant, that he is inspired of God. Thanks to .the Lord, we may enjoy this testimony, and need not grope in darkness. The Lord, in His wisdom, His infinite love and mercy, has indeed made plain the way, and made the provision, whereby each  all of us may know for ourselves whether our President speaks of the Lord or of himself; whether he speaks as one having authority, and whether the work that he is endeavoring to advance in the earth, and the instructions he gives unto us from day to day, are the Lord's work and His will concerning us. 

I remember reading from that learned Professor Drummond, these words : "Obedience is the organ of spiritual knowledge, a most remarkable association," says he, "that has been made by the Master." Jesus Himself made this declaration, "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me; if any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine,whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." In other words, he who is in the line of duty, keeping the commandments of God, obeying His requirements and receiving His instruction, upon him will rest the inspiration of the Almighty, the light of heaven and of truth, and he will know it is true, darkness is not in his path. Prof. Drummond, commenting upon this says, "It is a most remarkable association, where we associate obedience, which is considered purely spiritual, with knowledge, which is considered entirely intellectual." But yet the association has been made by the great Master and Teacher. Along this line of thought let me illustrate the importance of the principle of obedience by calling your attention to a circumstance with which you are familiar. The Lord directed the prophet Samuel to say to Saul that he and his army should go forth and slay all the Amalekites, and bring nothing with him on his return home. Saul went out and fulfilled part of the commandment, but saw that  seemed to attract him, and he spared part of that which he had captured, to the displeasure of the Lord and Saul's own destruction. When Saul returned to the Prophet Samuel and declared he had done the will of the Lord, and had kept His commandment, the prophet asked him, "What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?" and Saul undertook to make apology. You are all acquainted with the story, and you remember the words of the Lord through the Prophet Samuel : "Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice as in obeying the voice of the Lord ? Behold to obey is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams." Returning to the sentiment expressed by Prof. Drummond, that "obedience is the organ of spiritual knowledge," just a word of comment on that thought. In the wisdom of the Almighty it has thus been ordained, were it otherwise than that "obedience is the organ of spiritual knowledge," and that to know God, to find out Him and His ways, were left to the learned and the wealthy, how should the humble and unlearned, the poor of the earth receive the gospel? The Lord, in His mercy and love, has made plain the way and easy the path that the most humble and unlearned can find if they seek after Him; they may know Him, if they will, without a college education.great wealth or affluence. They can come unto Him and receive of His bounteous blessings and His love. The Lord has made these provisions, and we as Latter-day Saints should be grateful that the gospel has been preached to the poor of the earth. You remember the Lord said that this was one of the evidences of His divine mission when they who were sent by John the Baptist came and asked Him in reference to His identity, whether he was the Messiah or whether they should look for another. Jesus told them to go and tell John that the lame are made to walk, the blind to see, and the gospel is preached unto the poor; that the gospel was preached to the poor was cited as a strong evidence that He was indeed the Lord. 

In order to enjoy the blessings of the Lord we must yield obedience to His will. I was thinking along this line this morning, while listening to the remarks of President Smith, in relation to a vital principle, one of the fundamental principles of the gospel. Obedience to the Word of Wisdom I regard as of very great importance to us as Latter-day Saints, for that word contains a great deal that is of temporal and spiritual value to us, and to the youth of Zion. I consider that every father and mother should set his and her children examples worthy of emulation. When children are taught in the Sabbath schools, the Primary associations, the Religion classes, and kindred institutions, and taught by the elders of the Church that it is the Lord's will that we abstain from those things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom, and then they see their fathers and mothers, whom they regard as the most nearly perfect beings in the world, on whom they rely absolutely for guidance, whose instruction and example is more potent in the formation of their character than any other agency in the world, if they see them in open violation of this Word of Wisdom, what think you is the result upon the minds of those children? I believe that if I  inherited an unholy appetite that is difficult to control, and I am conscious of it, that if I give way to it I will possibly destroy or darken my soul, and drive from me the Spirit of the Almighty, which it is my privilege to enjoy, I should lose no time in doing all in my power to control and root out, if possible, that inherent disposition; or, if I have an appetite, the gratification of which is worth more to me than my children's interests and welfare, I feel and believe that I am an unworthy parent. Every child that comes into my home is not only a child of mine but a child of my heavenly Father, and unto Him I am responsible for the instruction I give to that child, for the example I set and possibly for the result of those instructions and examples; for them I shall stand amenable to Him. I remember now the words of the Apostle Paul, who said : "We have had fathers of the flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence; should we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of our spirits and live ?" The essential part of man, nay, the being himself, the spirit, is a child of God; man is a dual being. We have had fathers of the physical organism; these physical beings were created, begotten by our earthly parents, but that which thinks and wills, the ego, self or spirit, if you please, the enduring part of man, that which existed in the presence of the Great Eternal One, and came to earth to pass through this mortal probation, this school of human experience so necessary in the providence of the Almighty, that I say is a child of our Father. When He sends a child of His to earth He gives to the parents that which is more precious to Him than all the wealth of the worlds 

He has created. Sacred, indeed, is the trust, and great is the responsibility that is placed upon those who receive a child of His. I say, then, if my precepts and example are not in keeping with His will and in harmony with His law, and that child of His shall go to destruction, because of my failure to keep the commandments of the Lord, woe be unto me. And if I shall, through my own wrongdoing, transmit an unholy desire or soul destroying appetite, to any child of mine (for I am a believer in pre-natal influences) I shall thus place around that child's neck a millstone, as it were, and possibly that millstone may drag him into the depths of degradation, and I, because of selfish gratification of my appetites, am responsible for his destruction, what think you shall be my condemnation? I regard these things seriously, my brethren and sisters. I consider as one of my most solemn duties and responsibilities, that I shall set before the children that God gives me examples worthy of emulation. Recognizing my own weaknesses as I do, asking God's help constantly in the battle of life, I desire that I may indeed impress upon my children, if possible, the thought that I am at least sincere in my profession. If I can lay deep in their hearts the fountain of faith, make them feel I truly believe that which I am teaching them, that my life is consistent therewith, and I can go to my grave having established in the hearts of my children abiding faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ, His revealed will and commandments, I will feel that I have done more for them than though I had bequeathed them untold millions, or .eriven to them any or all the perishable things of this world. 

I feel that the Word of Wisdom is an important law unto this people. If the father and mother in the home feel that they can violate this commandment of the Lord with impunity, they are mistaken. Supposing you teach your children that these forbidden things, set forth in the Word of Wisdom, are hurtful to them, and then you partake of them'; suppose you teach your children that tea, coffee, tobacco, or liquor are hurtful, and you partake of any one of these, in so doing do you not give your children the opportunity to think and to feel that, while you do not partake of the other things mentioned that the law is not so important in your mind as it might be? These things are all in the same forbidden class, included in the same commandment, therefore, do you not give to your children a license, and do you not set before them this example, and impress them with this thought, that the law, after all, cannot be very important, otherwise my parents would not violate it? Either that, or the children will say to themselves, "My parents believe in it, but they are too weak to live up to the requirements of the Lord." Truly you would be humiliated if you were compelled to acknowledge before your children your inability and weakness. It would indeed be humiliating for you to say to your children : "This is the Lord's will; these things are hurtful, but I am not strong enough, I am not capable of controlling myself sufficiently, and I yield to my appetites." Besides, it would lessen your influence with your children, and lessen the respect they entertain for you, very materially. We should be consistent in these matters; we should deny ourselves for our children's sake, our own sake, and because of the reverence we have for Him' who is the father of the spirits of our children; and for the sake of being obedient to the will of the Lord, that we may be possesed of that knowledge to which President Cannon referred, and of a knowledge of the truth of the gospel. 

I am delighted to know, as President Smith said this morning, that there is a temperance wave sweeping the country. I sincerely hope that we shall feel its force, and that we shall be found in the stream of its onward progress; that we shall do our utmost to assist in the accomplishment of the end for which it aims, and that we and our children may derive benefit from this important movement. 

In conclusion, I desire to bear testimony that I know that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God, that he is now the one chosen of God to lead this people. We can do no better than to seek his counsel and advice, and follow therein. It is no sacrifice »of manhood for us to resolve that we will be obedient unto the Lord, that we will be submissive unto him; for I take it that obedience is one of the strongest attributes of the noblest men in the world. It was one of the pre-eminent features or qualities in the life of Him who died that men might live. None have been quite so obedient as was He, obedient to the will of His Father. Let us remember His orayer : "Father, if it be possible, let this bitter cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will,, but as thou wilt." I believe that before him passed, in panoramic view, as it were, that which he would have to endure; in the depths of. woe and bitterness of suffering, He felt that  it were possible that His great mission could in any other way be accomplished than that He should thus suffer, that it might be so; "nevertheless, not my will, but as thou wilt; not my will, but thine, be done." He is our example in obedience. He was implicitly obedient to the will of his Father, yet He was the greatest Man that ever lived in the world, and, by the way, the most maligned, abused and persecuted Man that ever lived. From' His childhood, yea, from His birth, His life was sought by the powers of darkness. Remember how Herod, the king, sought His life, for fear that he, Herod, would be deprived of his throne by the King Child, if Jesus were permitted to live. Hence, I say, from the day of His birth until He was cruelly suspended between heaven and earth, He was hounded, persecuted and maligned, slandered and abused by those who were in darkness, and by those whose hearts were full of bitterness and prejudice. If He was thus misunderstood, driven from pillar to post, maligned and slandered, He was the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, the sinless One upon whose lips was found no guilt, if He was thus ill-treated and misunderstood — and I believe there were those so full of corruption, so comoletely given over to the power of the adversary, that they claimed they did God service in thus persecuting- and putting to death the Redeemer of the world — I say if this be true of Him who was sinless, could it not be true likewise that His servants who, though not sinless, are men after God's own heart, that they, too, might be mis' understood, maligned, slandered, and put to death by those who are  by the powers of darkness ? I say to you that JoseDh F. Smith is a prophet of God. Under God's inspiration he will lead this people aright. My greatest desire is that I may be ever worthy of his confidence, willing to receive his counsel and follow therein; if I can do this I feel sure of salvation in the kingdom of God. 

May the Lord add His blessing, and help each of us to secure an inheritance in His kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
