Morning
04 10 1908


PBESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

The Saints should manifest gratitude for the Lord's blessings. — Large expenditure by the Church for meeting houses, etc. — Futile efforts of the enemies of Truth.— Complete observance of the Word of Wisdom obligatory. — Suppression of saloons strongly advocated. — Evil doers must not be fellowshiped. — Saints should be consistent examples of righteousness. 

My brethren and sisters, it is indeed a cause for congratulation, joy and great satisfaction, to see the large number of members and officers of the Church who have assembled here, at the opening of our seventy-ninth semi-annual conference, notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather. It is remarkable, to say the least, to see so many here as are present this morning, and I feel grateful, in my heart, to the Lord for the feeling and interest manifested by those who are present, for your attendance here today is evidence of your interest in this work. I am glad to see you and to welcome you to this conference of the Church, and I sincere^ ly hope and pray that the true spirit of the Gospel of the Son of God, may pervade all our meetings in this hall, and in other places where we shall be met together. I hope that, at the conclusion of our coniferqnce, every soul possessing a knowledge of the Gospel, and a  of truth, will feel amply repaid for attendance here; and tc this end I invoke the blessing of the Lord upon every individual who has come here today, and who will attend the conference for the love of the truth and for his or her devotion to the cause of Zion. The Lord has blessed us in a remarkable degree, throughout the past season, with the exception of here and their a partial failure of late crops by frost; generally the season has been fruitful, and the people have been blessed, so far as we have been informed, throughout the length and breadth of the land. We desire that the Latter-day Saints will always, and especially at this time, remember the Lord for His goodness and mercy to them and for Hi.-' blessings upon their labors; for we do acknowledge the hand of the Lord — or should do — in every thing that we possess and enjoy in the world. It is written that the Lord is displeased with those who will not acknowledge His hand in ail things. All Latter-day Sainti acknowledge in their hearts that every good and perfect gift comes from God, "from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness neither shadow of turning." We do not arrogate to ourselves the power to secure blessings, to mlultiply and increase our possessions and our wealth in the land without the assistance of Him from whom all blessings flow. We should keep in mind that law which makes it our duty to remember the Lord with the first fruits of all our increase, and that He is the giver of all good, not forgetting the duty we owe to Him and to His cause in the world, to provide our part of the means necessary for the carrying on of His work and for the building up of Zion in the latter days. Much  been done during the past season toward the building of houses of worship throughout the land — not only in this state but in Arizona, in Idaho, and throughout the missions of the Church. Much has been done by the Latter-day Saints, and much assistance has been rendered by the Trustee-in-Trust in the erection of houses of worship, schoolhouses, and in the purchase of places that were necessary to the welfare of the Saints. We are continually doing, as far as it is possible, what we may do consistently to assist God's work throughouv all the land. It will not be necessary nor perhaps consistent for me to enter into details in relation to the labor that is being performed in these directions. We have the records of these things, and any of the Latter-day Saints who desire to be posted in relation to what is being done for the building up of the Church can come to the head and obtain all the information that they need. Since our last conference, however, we have succeeded in obtaining most excellent headquarters for the British mission, in the City of London. We rejoice exceedingly that, after the lapse of years, we have at last obtained a foothoic in that great metropolis where so many have been gathered into the covenant of the Gospel. We have also obtained headquarters, elsewhere, but I will not enter into an account of these things. 

The Lord has been prospering Zion, and we rejoice exceedingly in the many and glorious manifestations of His kindness and mercy unto His people. We are grateful for deliverance from those who wilfully and wickedly and without a cause seek our hurt. We arc grateful in the belief, aye in the knowledge that notwithstanding  efforts they have made to injure this people and to thwart the purposes of the Almighty, they have but been the means, indirectly, of forwarding the work in the world. They have called attention of the world toward us, and that is just what we want, though they have done it with wicked intent. We want to be known as we are. We want to be seen in our true light. We want the world to become acquainted with us. We wain them to learn our doctrine, to understand our faith, our purposes, and the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We would like them to know something about the origin of this work, but we desire thai they shall see this work in the true spirit of it, and the only way this can be brought about is by the inquiring, intelligent world coming in contact with us — those indeed who are disposed to love truth and righteousness and whose eyes are not so blinded that they can not see the truth when it is presented' before them. There are those who having eyes see not, and having hearts do not and will not understand. There are none so blind as those who will not see, and none so deaf as those who will not hear; and there are none so heartless and so wicked as those who knowing the truth and seeing the light will close their eyes and their ean, against it. 

We are living in a momentous age. The Lord is hastening His work. He is at the helm, there is no mortal man at the helm of this work. It is true the Lord uses such instruments as will be obedient to His commandments and laws to assist in accomplishing His purposes in the earth. He has chosen thost who, at least, have shown a willingness and a disposition to obey Him and keep His laws, and who seek to work righteousness and carry out the purposes of the Lord. It is for the Latter-day Saints to judge the standing of these men. They have no occasion to sound their own praise, to bear testimony of their own works; their lives are open books to all the Latterday Saints and to all the world. You know these men; you understand them:; you have seen their labors; you understand the desires of their hearts, for you are familiar with them. The Lord has sustained these brethren in the positions to which He has called them, and He will continue to sustain them in these positions so long as they continue to be faithful before Him. It one of them should cease to be faithful and turn away from the right path, the consequences of hh own evil acts will fall upon him sooner or later, and the fruits of his works and the desires of his heart will be made manifest. 

When I arose to my feet, I had in mind the thought of presenting before this conference one of the revelations that has come to ua through the Prophet Joseph Smith, a revelation with which you are ail familiar, which has been the text, perhaps many a time, of every officer in the Church. It is a revelation which has been sounded in the ears of all the people for the last seventy years, and yet it is a new theme, practically, for there is still great necessity for it to be held out to the Latter-day Saints and to all the world. We see great reasons for the principles contained in this chapter of the book of Doctrine and Covenants being taught to the world, and especially to the Latterday Saints. It is nothing more nor less than that simple Word of Wis that was given in 1833, for the benefit, the help, and the prosperity of the Latter-day Saints, that they might purify and prepare themselves to go nearer into the presence of the Lord, that by reason of keeping this law they might fit themselves to enjoy the blessings that He is more than willing to bestow upon them, if they are worthy. I propose to read this revelation to you and, perhaps, make a few remarks upon it: 

Revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27th, 1833 : 

A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and Church; and also the Saints in Zion. 

To be sent greeting — not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days. 

Here we are informed that it wa> not given, at that time, by way of commandment or . restraint but by revelation, "a word of wisdom showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days." Subsequently, years afterwards, from this stand, it was proclaimed from the mouth of the Prophet and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Brigham Young, that the time had now come when this word of wisdom — then given not by commandment or , constraint — was now a commandment of the Lord to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the Lord required them to observe this word of wisdom and counsel, which is the will of God unto the people for their temporal salvation. 

Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and  weakest of all Saints, who are or canbe called Saints. 

Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation, 

That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him. 

And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make. 

And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. 

And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man. 

Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; 

And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. 

All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; 

And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger. 

All grain is good for the food of* man, as also the fruit of the vine, that which yieldeth fruit, whther in the ground or above the ground. 

Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all  animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain. 

And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones. 

And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; 

And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen. 

Now, it may seem altogther unnecessary and out of place, peihaps, to many, for me to occupy the time of this vast congregation in reading this revelation, inasmuch as it is presumable that every man and woman present has access to this book and is more or less familiar with all its contents. I am sorry to say that I do not believe there is another revelation contained in this book, or another commandment given of the Lord that is less observed or honored than this "Word of Wisdom," and that, too, by members and officers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, male and female. Go where you will, you see a lack of appreciation of the counsel given in this revelation to the Latter-day Saints, by some of them. Some of our best men disregard in part this law; many do not fully observe it; some of our leading women do not keep the commandment of the Lord that is given here, and they excuse themselves in various ways, and for various reasons, for not observing the law of God. I simply want to say to you. my brethren and sisters, that there is no other way — no other course that we can take in the world, in relation to our temporal welfare and health, better than that which the Lord God has pointed out to us. Why can we not realize this? Why will we not come to a perfect understanding of it ? Why will we not deny ourselves that which our craven appetites desire? Why can we not observe more closely the will of the Lord as made known to us in this revelation? If we would observe this law or commandment of the Lord, — first given not as a commandment nor by constraint, but afterwards declared by the mouthpiece of the Lord to be in force as a commandment thereafter to the Latter-day Saints — if, I say, the people would observe the principles of this revelation, there could not exist in their midst that most obnoxious institution known as a saloon; it can not exist where only Latter-day Saints dwell. If this commandment were observed by the whole people, the vast amount of money that now goes out to the world for strong drink and these other things forbidden in the word of wisdom, would be saved at home, and the health, prosperity and temporal salvation of the people would be correspondingly increased. No man can violate the laws of God with reference to health and temporal salvation, and enjoy those blessings in the same degree that ht could do and would do if he would obey the commands of God. Don't you believe that? Can not Latterday Saints accept that truth in their hearts? Can there be any room for argument in relation to that proposition? I say to you, my brethren and sisters, that God knows better than we do what is and will be for our best good, and when the Lord speaks to us, as He has spoken to us in this revelation which I have read to you, we should  it attention. We should accept it in our hearts; we should live closely to it; and then, we are promised, we should find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge even hidden treasures; we mighl run and not be weary, walk anu not faint, and when the destroyer should come he would pass by us, as he passed by the children of Israel anciently. If we fail to observe this law of God, we are not entitled to these promises. Those individuals who do not live up to these principles, conveyed to them through this word of the Lord, wul fail in rightfully claiming the fulfillment of the promise that is made to them that keep the law. The Lord has said, "If ye will do the things I require at your hands," it ye will do my will, "then am I bound; otherwise there is no promise," for every promise is made on condition that we will observe the law upon which that promise may be justly and righteously fulfilled. We go into the outer settlements of the Latter-day Saints where there are a few non-believers, a few apostates from th; Church, probably, and a few whe have never belonged to the Church at all, but the majority of the people are members of the Church; and we see planted, here and there, in the midst of these communities, saloons and other places of ill repute, and they are sustained by somebody. In some instances, at ijeast, we know that the outside element, the non-Mormon element is not sufficiently large or wealthy, nor are they so numerous in their patronage of these institutions as to keep them alive or to sustain them. The conclusion, therefore, is that there are some who are members of the Church who arc also frequenters of these places. 

This is all wrong — all wrong. No member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints can afford to do himself the dishonor or to bring upon himself the disgrace, of crossing the threshhold of a liquor saloon or a gambling heii, or of any house of ill-fame of whatever name or nature it may be. No Latter-day Saint, no member of the Church can afford it, for it is humiliating to him, it is disgraceful in him to do it, and Goci will judge him according to his works. The man or woman who truly believes in the doctrines of the Church or professing to have membership in the Church, who believes and practices the principles contained in this "Word of Wisdom," will never be numbered among those who will bring this disgrace upon them, upon their neighbors or upon the Church to which they belong; they will never do it. 

Now there is a great movement on foot throughout the land; its waves have struck us here and arc flowing over our state — a wave of temperance. Even t'he wprld is moved upon by an irresistible influence and spirit to advocate and to establish among communities in states and counties and cities the principle of temperance. I am in favor of this movement, I endorse it with all my heart; I know that it is in the right direction, and I believe that the Lord Almighty is moving in that direction upon those who are willing to devote their labor and time to this portion of His good work in the world. The Lord does not delight in intemperance, in drunkenness, nor can He have pleasure in the poverty, in the degradation and ruin that such practices bring upon their votaries and upon those who are dependent up them, the ruin of manhood, the ruin of family organizations and the degradation of those that are engaged in it and that bring poverty, destruction, and death upon themselves and upon their families. Every member of the Church, male and female, ought to set his or her face as flint against intemperance and against anything that is in violation of the laws of God, that they might never be overcome or yield to the temptation of evil. We ought to have purer communities, communities that are not ridden by vice, by pernicious habits and practices. One cannot walk up and down the side-walks of our streets, but he will meet young men and boys with tobacco pipes in their mouths, or cigars or cigarettes, smoking in the streets. Perhaps those who are accustomed to these habits think this is a very trivial or very unimportant thing to talk about to a vast congregation like this, but I never see a boy or a man, young or old, addicted to this habit and practicing it openly but ' am forced to the conclusion to the conviction in my mind that he is either ignorant of God's will concerning man or he is defiant of God's will and does not care anything about the word of the Lord, and that alone is sufficient to bring sorrow to the heart of any man who has any regard or respect for the word or will of the Lord and would like to see it obeyed. We go occasionally to the theaters, and ot late years we see it has become very fashionable,or very common, for the actors to puff away at their cigars, pipes and cigarettes on the stage; and they light cigarette after cigarette, and cigar after cigar, right on the stage before their audience. To me such a practice is an insult to the Latter-day Saints at least, and should be to all decent people; and if I had little boys growing up who would be susceptible to the influence of such practices I should not want them to go to our theaters at all, where they would sec things in open practice as if it was something commendable. I think it is reprehensible, to say the least; and if I were managing a theater, and could do it, I would have it stipulated that there should be na smoking on the stage nor in the auditorium. Aside from the folly of smoking in a theater, lighted matches, cigars, and cigarettes are dangerous to property. There are other things however, in theatric*,, performances that are about as disgraceful as smoking on the stage. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the subject that I had in view in reading these words is simply to emphasize, as far as it lies in my power, the Word of Wisdom, given to the Latter-day Saints to ail that are or can be called saints to the weakest of the weak, for it is adapted to them, and the weaker they are, if they will observe this principle, they will become stronger by the observance of it. If we will observe this law, we will gain strength, we will have health in our bodies and marrow in our bones; we may run and not weary : walk and not faint; and this is most desirable for those that are feeble, or weak, who need strength, and health; they should observe this principle in order that they might obtain the very thing they desire and need most and that they arc destroying most by not following the word of the Lord but by practicing those things that are forbidden of Him. We pray God to heal us when we are sick, and then we turn round from our prayers and partake of the very things that 

He has told us are not good for us! How inconsistent it is for men to ask God to bless them, when they themselves are taking a course to injure and to bring evil upon themselves. No wonder we don't get our prayers answered more than we do, and no wonder our health is no better than it is, when we are addicted to practices that God has said are not good for us, and thereby entail evils upon otu life and physical being; and then to turn to the Lord and ask Him tc heal us from the consequence of our own folly, and pernicious practices; from the effects of the evil that we have brought upon ourselves and that we knew better than to do. How foolish it is! 

The Lord bless you my brethren and sisters. We endorse any movement looking to temperance, looking to virtue tending to purity of life and to faith in God and obedience to His laws; and we are against evil of every description; and we are, in our faith and prayers against evil doers — not that we would pray for evil to come upon evil doers, but that evil doers might see the folly of their way3 and the wickedness of their acts and repent of them and turn away from them. If they will not hearken and repent of their evil ways, then let them pursue their course of evii to the end, and let the judgment of God come upon them and they receive their reward according to their works Let God judge ail men. He will reward them fot good or for evil according to their works. We are not here to execute judgment or to impose punishments upon our fellow men except the punishment of withdrawing from those who are unworthy our fellowship in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We  it necessary, sometimes, to withhold fellowship from those who have turned away from the truth from the love of God and the cause of Zion — that they might no<be regarded as having membership and standing with us. It is an injury to the cause of Zion for any fcommunity organization, ward, stake or branch of the Church to permit men or women to retain their membership in that ward or stake or branch, when it is known that their practices and habits are vicious and that their manner of life and unbelief are calculated to sow the seeds of apostasy corruption and evil in the midst of the people where they dwell. It is right and proper that the line of separation should be drawn distinctly between them and the Latter-day Saints. Withdraw fellowship from them cut them- loose, let them go to the world, and let the people of the Church understand that they are not held in fellowship and that their conduct is not countenanced by the authorities of the Church. 

Now, the Lord bless you, and in the name of the Lord I bless you — this congregation, the covenant people of the Lord, just as truly as ancient Israel were the covenant people of God, for you have entered into the solemn covenant of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that you will keep the commandments of God, that you will eschew evil and wickedness. You know what you have done; you know the nature ot the covenants you have entered into before God and witnesses and before the angels of heaven; and, therefore, you have entered into the bond of the new and everlasting covenant and are indeed the covenant people of God in the latter days. Therefore, what man of people ought we to be; whal manner of individuals should we be? Should we not set an example worthy of our profession? Should we not live pure lives? Should we not be upright, virtuous, honest, God-fearing and God-loving in oui souls every day of our lives and in every position in which we ma> be called to act; ought we not to set an example for good? Ought we not to be Christ-like, manly true to every principle of the Gospel, and honorable out in th; world and at home so that no man can justly point at us the finger of scorn or of condemnation? Thai is indeed the kind of people we ought to be. God help us to be such is my prayer, in the "name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Rouse, oh ye mortals." 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Conditions here fifty years ago and today contrasted. — Continued growth of the Lords' work. — In full accord with President Smith's purposes. — Determination to continue devoted to the cause of truth. 

My brethren and sisters, I am delighted to have this opportunity of meeting with you once more in general conference. I have been listening, with much pleasure and satisfaction, to the remarks of our beloved President, and I propose, my brethren and sisters, to aid anc! assist him, to the extent of my ability, in carrying into effect every proposition that has been mentioned here this morning. 

I am thankful that the Lord has spared my life to see one more general conference. This morning, when I awoke, my mind v^nt back to the general conference of fiftyyears ago, and I was contrasting the many changes that have taken place, and the difference between our situation today and then. Jus I prior to that time the people had been in exile; they had moved away from their homes, and they were now returning. Within a few miles of this city a large army of the United States was stationed, as a menace to the people here in the valleys of the mountains. As 1 compared conditions now and ther? I thought, what a change has come over us! At that time the foundation of our Temple was covered up; since then it has been uncovered and that beautiful edifice erected; and thousands, yes, tens of thousands, of Latter-day Saints have been permitted to enter that building and receive blessed ordin ances for themselves and their dead. In addition to these changes that I have mentioned, I thought of how the work of the Lord has spread abroad in the world. At that time there were only a very few stakes of Zion, but they have been multiplied until now there are between fifty and sixty stakes of Zion. The foreign missions have also been multiplied in many nations of the earth. The Lord has preserved and protected His people, notwithstanding $he fact that, at many times, they have been menaced by opposition, all things have been overruled for the good and benefit of the work of the Lord, and for the advancement of His work upon the earth. I do not know of any time when my heart has felt to rejoice more than at the present, in the extent of the work of the Lord and the progress that it is making upon the face of the earth. 

It is my pleasure, my intention, and my determination to snstai:;  President with all my might, mind, and strength, to assist him to carry out his wishes, as he has expressed them here this morning, in every department, both temporal and spiritual. My life has been a busy one, it has been work, work, work from my childhood until the present time; and I do not propose to discontinue, so long as the Lord shall permit me to live upon the earth. I intend, during the remainder of the time the Lord is willing to give me life, to uphold and sustain His work. Every day that I live I have renewed assurances that this is the work of the Lord, and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the Most High God. This testimony gives me joy, and strength, and satisfaction. 

Now, by brethren and sisters, you do not expect me to speak long, but I am thankful to have the privilege of bearing my testimony to you this morning in relation to this great work, and to express my determination to stand by it so long as the Lord shall permit me to live upon the earth. God bless you all, is my prayer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Obedience to Word of Wisdom should be regarded as a requisite of Church fellowship. — Saints should be examples of temperance and purity. — Careful guardianship of the young advised. — A law advocated enforcing Sunday observance. 

I have been much pleased to listen to the testimony of Brother Winder, and with him I feel to say that I will try to carry out the instructions given unto us by our President. I endorse his sayings with all my heart. I feel that it would be for the best good of the 

Latter-day Saints to  study the revelation on the Word of Wisdom, which he has read to us, and to determine to obey it. The Lord gave this revelation to our Church in the early days, and those who are called to lead the people have felt how important are the instructions given in that revelation. Our brethren who are traveling among the Saints, organizing wards and quorums of the priesthood, insist upon those who accept positions in the Church that they will obey the Word of Wisdom. Some of the people have thought that the brethren were too strict in making such a request, but at the very time when this revelation was given, in Kirtland, the same instructions . were given. At a High Council meeting held in Kirtland, February 20th. 1834, over which the Prophet pre sided, he rendered the following decision; "No official member in this Church is worthy to hold an office, after having the Word of Wisdom properly taught him, and he, tho official member, neglecting to comply with, or obey it." This decision the Council confirmed by vote (History of the Church Vol. 2 

page 35)In May, 1837, the Presidency of the Church at Far West called a general meeting of the Church. Among those present were the High Council, two of the Twelve, ten of the Seventies, the Bishop and one counselor. At this meeting it was resolved unanimously: "That we will not fellowship any ordained member who will not or does not observe the Word of Wisdom according to its literal reading/' (History of the Church, Vol. 2, page 482). 

We have listened this morning to our President laying it down as  law unto Israel. Shall we hold this word lightly, or shall we, wSth Brother Winder, say we are determined to carry out the instructions given unto us? While he read and explained the Word of Wisdom, I thought of the words of Paul, written to a young missionary in Crete, and I will read them. He says to Titus : 

"But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine : 

"That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience." 

"The aged women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things : 

"That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children. 

"To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. 

"Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded. 

"In all things showing thyself a pattern of good works : in doctrine showing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, 

"Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you." 

These instructions, given by the Apostle formerly, are very appropriate to us today. The President has spoken "things that become sound doctrine" to us this morning, and the advice here given to ail who labor in the priesthood is ^hat they shall speak sound doctrine. Do not hanker after mysteries. Ther? is enough in our standard works for texts upon which to speak unto the people. The Church is guided by revelation. Some have wondered why we do not receive revelation upon revelation, as they did m the early days of the Church. What blessing would it be to receive the word of the Lord in greater abundance than we do at present, if we do not obey His commandments unto us ? We have had this Word of Wisdom these many years; have we improved in keeping it? I hope we have. I believe the Latter-day Saints are growing and increasing in good works, but a spirit of carelessness in regard to this Word of Wisdom has manifested itself in our midst. If it were not so would we see many saloons in settlements that are nearly all composed of Latter-day Saints ? I suppose that the traveling public may help to sustain them, but I consider it a shame tc see such institutions in settlements largely composed of our people. 

I hope that this movement of temperance will continue until it shall be a success, and temperance be a vitrue possessed by all our people. Paul says we shall teach the old men to be temperate and to be sober, and the young men likewise. You know how harmful are the effects of drunkenness and that it leads to a great many other crimes. When a person indulges in strong drink he partly loses his reason, and is easily tempted to violate the commandments of God and do things that lead downward, hence, when a man knows what the effects of strong drink are, he ought not to indulge in' it. Th: court may judge an act committed in drunkenness less severely, considering that the man did not have full control of his faculties, yet when he wilfully goes and indulges in that which he knows makes him weak and exposes him to the dangers of violating the commandments of God, he will be held guilty and responsible before the Lord. What a disgusting sight it  to see a man under the influence of liquor! I will not say a woman because it is so very seldom that such a sight is seen in these valleys, but I have seen such in other countries, and it is a most hideous sight. A Latter-day Saint should never be known to indulge in strong drink. We are told by Paul that we should set an example before all worthy of imitation. That kind of sermon we can all preach; it is within our power to do thai Persons may become slaves to habit, and some have indulged so long in strong drinks, or perhaps have appetites which have come to them from their fathers, that it has become very hard for them to overcome this degrading habit, but it can be done by the aid and assistance of the Spirit ot God. When persons are weak in such respects, the tempter will assail therm on their weak side, and they should therefore try to guard against these things. Young men should never go where intoxicating liquors are dispensed. The law forbids minors to enter saloons. I say unto you that the law of God forbids men to indulge in these things and to enter such places. Even men who do not want to partake of the drinks dispensed in a saloon should not go there. It irnot a place where anything good is taught; it is a place where language most filthy can be heard, and idle and vain talk which may cause our young men to lose sight of the greater objects of life and to take the downward road. It is said that the old Egyptians would get their slaves drunk in order that then sons could see what a disgusting spectacle men make of themselves when they are under the influence of drink. If a person has indulged to such an extent, especially if he  is a man of faith, I know tha'. his conscience will upbraid him ani he will desire to leave off this hab it. To such a man I would say, do not stop with having the desire only, but make the resolve that you will not be conquered by nor yield to this habit. 

In speaking about the works of the flesh, Paul lays strong emphasis also upon works of impurity, adultery, fornication, uncleanness and lasciviousness. He enumerates other vices and then adds drunkenness, revelings; and he declares that those who indulge in these things cannot inherit the kingdom of God. He puts it very strongly. 

Brethren and sisters, are we looking after our young people as we ought to do? I am pleased with the work of a number of Elders who have been appointed in the different stakes to look after our young people at night; I believe that a great deal of betterment has taken place. In a large city like this there are many temptations, and the parents ought to be on their guard, and know where theii young people are when they are not at home. 

There is also much evil in having theaters open on Sunday evenings. I hope that the legislators who shall be elected this fall will feel to pass a Sunday law. In a Christian community I think a Sunday law ought to be passed and ought to be enforced. When I was a missionary in England, I was pleased to observe how well the Sunday was observed there. When walking the streets I was glad to see how quiet the cities were, and that the people, many of them, went to their churches. I wish that in all the towns of Zion there may be a marked improvement in keep the Sunday holy. I do think that something should be done in this respect, because if people are permitted to keep theaters open on the Sunday, perhaps after a while they will have dances on the Sunday evening. I believe that this can be stopped, and that a law to that effect can be passed. Why, it is said that sometimes young people, after they have been to Sunday meeting, go to be .entertained and amused at some of the theaters. I should think that when they have been to meeting and received spiritual food that that should suffice. To keep the Sunday holy is a commandment given us by the Lord, and we must observe it. See how strict He was in regard to this commandment in olden times. He has given it for our good. It is certainly best for man to have one day in seven to rest from his labor and to devote to the worship of God. Now, this commandment ought to be observed in all the wards and stakes of Zion. Profanity should not be heard and everything that violates the commandments of God must be avoided. We have taken upon us the name of Latter-day Saints. Let us show to the world that that means to be men of God, that we propose to keep His commandments and to spread that influence throughout the world. We call upon men to repent, to accept the Gospel of Christ, and to live such "lives that may bring unto them salvation hereafter. 

May God bless the Latter-day Saints; may He -help us to overcome all our weaknesses and prove ourselves worthy to be His children in spirit and in truth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. President Smith made announcements, and recommended the sisters to leave small children in care of the efficient attendants at the Day Nursery, during meeting hours. Visitors who have been unable to find lodgings were advised to confer with the committee that has been specially appointed to look after their welfare. He stated that conference overflow meetings will be held this afternoon, in the Assembly Hall and in Barratt Hall. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Praise the Lord, all ye nations." 

Benediction was pronounced by Bishop Orrin P. Miller. 
