Overflow
04 10 1908


ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Purpose of gathering to Zion. — Study of Scripture enjoined. 

I earnestly pray, my brethren and sisters, that the spirit of the Lord may attend our services here this morning, that the same influence may be here which we know will characterize the meeting in the tabernacle, where that large congregation of Latter Saints are met together. We are here to learn the will of the Lord, to be taught In His ways, that we may better learn to walk in His paths. Nearly all, and perhaps all of us who are here are converts to the truth, with faith in God and in the redemption wrought out by His Son Jesus Christ, having yielded obedience to the principles of the gospel, having repented of our sins and been baptized by immersion for the remission of them. We have gathered up here to Zion that we might better learn our duties, that we might better learn the will of the Lord, that we may be better able to serve Him and to keep His commandments, in order that His spirit may continue with us, and that we may be instructed, that we may review ourselves, that we may also review the condition of the Church, and thus be able to reach proper conclusions as to its development, to be better able to judge ourselves, that our faith in the Lord may be increased, that our determination to do His will may be greater. That we may have greater power over the weakness of the flesh, we meet together from Sabbath to Sabbath, and twice during the year the whole Church comes together, that we may be taught, that, in fulfillment of the words of the Prophet, we who have gathered up here to the Mountain of the House of the Lord may learn His ways and be able to walk in His path. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, exercise your faith, pray to the Lord that His blessing, that His Spirit may attend the services that we are holding here this morning, and I promise you we shall go  from this building blessed, we shall go out rejoicing in the Lord, and with greater faith in Him and greater determination to serve Him and keep His commandments, that we may magnify the calling to which we have all been called who are members of His Church. You know it is only him who has kept the faith, who has fought the good fight, who has finished his work, remaining true to the covenants made with God the Eternal Father, that shall attain eternal life. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters. I bear witness to you that we are engaged in the work of the Lord, that we are not in error, that this work is not delusion, but that it has come in the Dispensation of the Fullness of times for the redemption of the world, that Israel may be gathered, that the words of the prophets may be fulfilled, that His covenant people may hear the truth and be gathered into the fold of Christ preparatory to His kingdom and coming. It is all in harmony. I do not desire to take time to enter into any discussion with you, my brethren and sisters, to undertake to show you by the scripture or by any lengthy argument that what I have just said is true; but I exhort you all to study, I exhort you all to understand better the word of the Lord, that you may know the harmony which exists. It is not enough that we become acquainted somewhat with the cardinal principles of the gospel. It is not enough that we understand only the dispensation in which we live. But we must go back to the beginning we must understand the written word of the Lord as we  it in these sacred books, even from the beginning until the day in which we live. We must understand the harmony that exists between all these gospel dispensations, and then we Will begin to understand how admirably our work fits in the time, and the place, and the manner in which the Lord has decreed that it should come about. The work that He has decreed, that He has accomplished is all in harmony with the words of the prophets which have been spoken since the beginning. 

Now may the Lord bless you, and bless our brethren who shall address us, with His Spirit, that the truth may be impressed upbn our hearts this morning, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER, GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I certainly appreciate the privilege that I have of attending conference, and partaking of the influence that is in these general assemblies. I feel renewed in spiritual strength, and I go away from these meetings refreshed, and with a determination in my heart to labor, if possible, more diligently for the spread of truth, and for the building up of the Lord's kingdom in the earth. 

I can say to you that in the Northern States, where it is my privilege to labor, there is a spirit among 'the people that is much more favorable toward the truth than has been manifest in the previous four or five years that I have been there; and there is greater diligence among the elders. Many times have I heard the elders say when they were about to be released, "Well, I am just learning how to do missionary work, and I was just converted to' the work when I was released to return home." I presume you have heard elders say that they were just getting' interested the last few months of their missionary experience. It has been my pleasure this year to see the elders favorably change in feeling, many of them, the majority, in fact, have seemed to partake of the spirit of Nephi. When his father told him of his vision concerning the future of his people, he had a desire to know likewise, first-handed, concerning the subjects of that vision, and the Lord favored him with the same vision; he then became imbued with zeal for the work of God, and followed in the footsteps of his father, not because of what his father said but because of the knowledge received by himself, directly from the Lord. 

We take our missionaries when they first come into the field and say to them : "Brethren, we have a good many elders here, and you do not know the policies we have adopted in our conference; you do not know anything concerning the plans we have laid out for the accomplishment of our work this year. We do not want you to wait weeks or months to be converted to it; take our word for it, for it has been agreed to by all the elders in conference assembled, to be the plan of our missionary work in the coming summer months," (or the fall, or winter months, as the case may be). "You young men must go to the Lord, get His Spirit, and give us your sympathy and best efforts from the beginning, and when we form different plans in future you  be a party to it." And it is marvelous to see the young men, within a few days, equal in the distribution of books and tracts, and the holding of meetings, with those who have been months in the mission field. In a few weeks they are in full sympathy with every move that is made, and we receive their support from the very first. 

Counting those who have been released this year, we have had about two hundred elders in the mission field where I am privileged to labor, and the great majority were most true and loyal, their hearts beat in unison with the conference president, and the mission president. I believe there has never been a period during the eight years I have been there when so great an amount of missionary work has been accomplished as in the past five or six months. 

Where last year our elders were successful in placing copies of the Book of Mormon, they are this year welcomed by the best men in the community, and are taken to their homes. The people are glad to receive them, and pleased to learn more of the truth. They have been told: "We have not only read the Book of Mormon, but we have handed it to our neighbors; and we are surprised that a book so full of truth and good teachings, and wonderful examples of faith in the Lord Jesus, has been printed so long and yet we have never read it, nor heard anything of it except the untruth that it was a book peculiar to you people, and not for general distribution." 

I am very proud to labor with so many true and loyal men. I believe that out of the 200 we have had this year, there has not been one but who has been true to the  and true to his birthright, as true as Nephi of old was to his. They have struggled hard to maintain unsullied their Rocky Mountain honor, and the faith which brought their fathers out to these mountain valleys. In our district we have wonderful testimonies of the splendid spirit of our parents, for we meet in every state the sons of men and women who had not courage enough to join in the migration of the Saints, but who remained behind. Observing their lives, their homes and surroundings, their present spirit and stage of development, we find occasion to rejoice that our parents had the strength of faith in God to follow the pioneers across the plains. This is an incentive to us to emulate the faith and integrity of our fathers, the pioneers. Though our labor is not like theirs, as pioneers, yet our elders have a desire in their hearts to emulate the fathers in performing missionary labor among the people of the world, distributing the written word, and calling them to repent and be baptized. They courageously emulate their fathers in all the great work they are called upon to perform. 

I rejoice in the truth, and in the missionary work that is being accomplished. My heart burns in seeing the faith and courage that is manifested by the young men who are laboring with us. Their character is exemplified in this illustration : I wrote to a young man about four weeks ago, reminding him that he had been laboring nearly thirty months, as long as we generally keep missionaries in the Northern States, and that he could now be released to return home with a company that was returning on the 28th of September. I told him I did not  his circumstances, but I knew that he had done a good work, and that he was entitled to an honorable release, and I asked the Lord to bless him; and in closing my letter I added this postscript: "Dear brother, I am impressed to invite you to stay another six months, if you feel like it." This was something that had never been done before in that mission field, that I know of. In about three days we received a letter back, in which he thanked us for our confidence in him, and said : "Brother Ellsworth, I am mostly impressed with the postscript to your letter, and I feel that I would like to stay another six months. I feel also that my parents would like me to stay, therefore, if you will accept my services, I desire to continue with you, for I never enjoyed any period of my life like I have the last two years, and especially this last summer. The people are yielding to our testimony, and are opening their hearts to the truth, and I would like to remain longer, if you will accept my services." That is only one of many. 

The testimony of all our elders is that the people are opening their hearts to the truth, they are being softened in their feelings toward the religion of the Latter-day Saints, and thev are finding new truth and new beauty in the gospel that we proclaim to them, something they never dreamed of before. So, our elders are glad to remain, and have the hearts of the people turned unto them'; and they are powerful in their testimony of the truth that the Lord has given them. As you all know it is hard to battle forever and have no encouragement, but when you see the day-dawn, when you find people yielding to the truth, when good men open their hearts and homes to you, you feel encouraged in the work. So we feel to rejoice in the wonderful work the Lord is accomplishing in softening the hearts of the people; and we take delight in bearing witness that God has established His Church in this, the last time, and are encouraged in the favor with which the people are receiving our literature. 

Five years ago our year's record in the distribution of literature was something like 5,000 books and 109,000 tracts. In the nine months closing with September last, we have succeeded in distributing 62,000 books and 469,000 tracts. Five years ago our record was 100 Books of Mormon, this year we have disposed of 12,000 in the Northern States, and apparently we have not given as much effort to the sale of Books of Mormon this year as we did last year, but it has been more . readily received. We have calls for it on every hand, both through the mails and by orders from our elders, and we greatly rejoice in this marvelous increase. People tell us, "It is wonderful how long you have stood the misrepresentation, and the misinformation that has gone abroad in the world. We received a wrong impression of you and your message. You have labored long and faithfully, and we doubt whether we could have borne what you have so patiently." 

May God bless the Latter-day Saints. May we emulate the men who have been true and faithful in the work of the Lord, and may we ever have such as examples before us. The men who have been true to the faith, true from the beginning, are the men whose sons and daughters today feel proud of their parentage. We feel proud today  our leaders in the church and kingdom of God; while the names of the men who were weak in the faith in the beginning, who turned traitors, have been blotted out from our remembrance. I pray that God will give every one of us power to stand true to our brethren who are called to lead and direct this church and kingdom' in the earth. May the Spirit inspire each and every one of us to feel and know what God desires us to do, both temporally and spiritually, without being told, that we may receive in our hearts things that we do not hear spoken, and know how to walk and how to act in this church and kingdom. That we may preserve our rights and liberties, and that God may bring freedom to Israel, both spiritual and temporal, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENS0N. 

(Assistant Historian.) 

At the present time, my brethren and sisters, Zion in her gathered condition is represented by 58 stakes, and in her scattered condition by 21 missions. Over each of these stakes, as we know, there are presidencies; and there are also presidents over each mission as they are now established throughout the world. From these presiding officers we often hear reports, as we have here today. In looking broadly upon the work of the Latter-day Saints we realize that we have indeed a great labor to perform on the earth. Our special mission is to preach the gospel in all the world, for which purpose missionaries have been sent out from the very . In some countries . these missionaries have been more successful than in others; and particularly among the Englishspeaking people have the Elders been blessed in making a greatnumber of converts. These converts, when baptized in foreign lands, or in different parts of our country, are usually organized into branches and into conferences of the Church, and these are grouped into missions. Most of the missions in the different lands where our Elders have preached have been somewhat permanent, but the conferences, and particularly the branches in these missions, have not always been continuous, because the members who constitute them usually emigrate to Zion, after the lapse of a short time, sometimes only months, sometimes years. 

The principle of gathering is being taught by the Elders of the Church; and if it has not been taught much in public at times, the Spirit of God, nevertheless, whispers to the members that the dispensation of the fulness of times is a gathering dispensation, and that it is proper and profitable for the Saints to gather to Zion, as Brother Ivins remarked, to learn more of the ways of the Lord and to walk more perfectly in His paths. For that reason we have been gathering the Saints together almost from the beginning, the Lord making-known to us that he would call upon the elect from the four quarters of the earth to assemble together and be organized into Zion, or stakes of Zion. Thus the Lord, in an early day, revealed the location of the main city in Jackson county, Missouri, and from that time until the present  have understood that we should, as a part of our labors for the redemption of mankind, build up stakes of Zion throughout the land until both North and South America are filled with such stakes. In fact, the Prophet Joseph, in the last conference he attended before his martyrdom in Carthage, Illinois, declared that all of North and South America was the land of Zion itself. 

We have been quite successful in our missionary labors abroad, and we have also been quite successful in our home enterprises. For a number of years after trie organization of the Church, say 17 or 18 years, we labored under great difficulties and trying circumstances, in our endeavors to build cities, towns and villages in the East, as persecution arose against us because of our peculiar faith, and our neighbors would not let us alone. They robbed and plundered us,, drove us from place to place, killed a number of our people, and made it very unpleasant indeed for the survivors. At last we found ourselves driven beyond the borders of civilization into these valleys of the mountains — an event that took place in fulfillment of predictions made by the Prophet Joseph Smith during his life time. Had his life been spared, he would undoubtly have led us here himself; but as he was taken away while yet a young man, President Brigham Young became the chosen instrument in the hands of God to lead Israel to these valleys of the mountains. And I will venture to say here, my brethren and sisters, that since we settled here in these valleys, we have had the best opportunity that we ever had, as a people, or as an organized community, to demonstrate, to an unbelieving world, what the fruits of "Mormonism" are, or might be, or can be, when the people who believe in the restored gospel are let alone. Our enemies gave us a bad name in Missouri and Illinois; they claimed that we were dishonest; they claimed that we had blacklegs among us, who were doing all kinds of mischief; there were, they would have it, even counterfeiters in our midst, as well as horse thieves and other criminals, and on this ground they sought a pretense to drive us all away from them. But it was proven most beautifully and conclusively, after they had driven us out in the wilderness, and after we had got a foothold here in these mountains, that we were not composed of such elements as our enemies accused us of. If we had been that kind of a people we most surely would have built up a sort of a Robbers' Roost in these mountain fastnesses, as there was nothing here to prevent us from so doing. We had no laws at that time except those that we brought with us, which were practically the very laws that guided our actions in Nauvoo, when they accused us of so many crimes; and in addition to these we had, for many years, no other laws here except such as we passed ourselves. This was absolutely the case for a number of years after our arrival in these mountains, say from the year 1847 until we became the territory of Utah. That territory was, as you all know, created in the latter part of 1850, but the federal officers who were appointed to take hold of the local government here  not properly installed until the beginning of the next year, . 1851. 

During the past few months I have had a better opportunity, than ever before in my life, to look into the pile of letters and documents that accumulated in the hands of the historians and the Saints generally during those early years when the Saints first settled in the Great Salt Lake Valley. Many letters passed between the people of this valley and the people of other lands and climes, where we had missionaries and friends; some of these letters were published at the time and are known to those who are familiar with the early files of the "Deseret News" and "Millennial Star." But a great many important and characteristic communications have never been published and have never been known to the public generally. Besides the communications written by our own people here, many letters were written by strangers who passed through or who sojourned temporarily "within our gates." For instance, in 1849, when the great influx to the California mines took place, and thousands of people passed through our chief city on their way from the Missouri river to the gold diggings of California, there were many liberal and fair-minded men among them — men who were not afraid to tell the truth about the "Mormons" in the Rocky Mountains. Many of these overland travelers had friends in the East to whom they would report by letters or otherwise what they had seen and experienced in these mountains as they journeyed through. Some of these were, prior to their arrival,  afraid of Salt Lake valley that they did not know whether they dared pass through or not, because they imagined, judging from what they had heard, that the "Mormons" would steal their cattle and wagons, and thus make it impossible for them to rea-.h Cahfornia, the goal of their ambition. But a number of these same writers were, according to their own statement, almost dumbfounded and utterly astonished, when, instead of outlaws, they found a Godfearing people in the Great Salt Lake Valley — a good people, a people who were, as they wrote to their friends, "friendly to us, and instead of stealing from us what we had, they were kind, honest and accommodating to us; for they exchanged commodities with us and gave us things which we wanted for what we had and could spare; and thus they made it easier for us to reach California than it would otherwise have been. In fact, in many cases, it would have been impossible for us to reach California that year, had it not been for the assistance rendered us by the 'Mormons.' " And, speaking of our morals, these travelers said they had never known a more moral, chaste and temperate people than those they found in Salt Lake Valley. They describe these early pioneers of Utah as God-fearing, honest, and possessing all the virtues that could be expected in a Christian community; and even went so far as to say that they excelled the Christians in the eastern states in virtue, not to speak of the western states, -where the people at that time were not supposed to be as good as they were in the east. Such were the reports of these strangers who passed through the settlements of  Saints in 1849. I call your attention to these things to show you the fruits of "Mormonism," for Christ said in His great sermon upon the mount, "By their fruits ye shall know them. Men do not gather grapes from thorns or figs from thistles." 

I am proud, as one of your historians, to refer to these facts, and to know that at the time our people could have been very wicked, they chose to be good; at the time they could have been robbers and outlaws and morally corrupt, they chose to be an honest people; at the time they could, without fear of punishment, have stolen from their neighbors who passed through their midst, they helped these in every way possible. This is a matter of record; and our nation and the world will- some day acknowledge that these conditions were the natural fruits of "Mormonism," because the "Mormons" had a much better opportunity then than thev ever had before, or have Had since, to exhibit what the fruits of their religion or their own natural inclinations were. So on this ground there is no reason why we should be persecuted or be rejected as God's people. 

Coming down to the present day we find that conditions have somewhat changed with us. After the Lord had blessed this land, in which we dwell, others — not of our faith — came to dwell with us, the same as strangers did in the land of Palestine in days of old. When the Lord made that land in the orient a good country, strangers came to sojourn and dwell with Israel, and, in some instances, these ied away the hearts of the chosen seed from the path of duty and caused them to bow the knee to Baal, or worship strange gods. This called down the displeasure of the God of Israel and His people were made to suffer accordingly. Now, we are of Israel, just as much as the inhabitants of Palestine were in those days, only we live in a different dispensation and in a different country. We are visited continually by men and women who realize that our climate is good, that our mountain air is balmy and pleasant, and who like to live in the shades of these great Wasatch mountains and partake of the blessings that we already enjoy here. The consequence is that we today are a mixed community, and some of the evils that exist in this city now, and in other cities of Utah, are positively not the fruits of "Mormonism." On the part of the Saints they are, rather, the fruits of their contact and association with the outside world. When the Children of Israel, in the days of Elijah the Prophet, bowed the knee to Baal to such an extent that there were only a few thousand who had not worshiped idols, this condition did not exist because of the teachings of the Prophets of God. On the contrary, it was the consequence of their rejection of these holy men and their coming into contact with the people surrounding them. So it is also with us. Our wrong doings as a people and individuals today are not the fruits of "Mormonism," but we are doing wrong, in many instances, because we bow to those things which have been introduced into our midst by those who are not of us, and because of the influences that have been brought to bear upon us; and that has caused sorrow and much grief to come upon many of our people. 

When we think of our success in  mission field, and hear such splendid reports as we have heard today, we grieve sometimes in contemplating that our converts, who are making their way to these valleys for the purpose of becoming identified with a ward and a stake of Zion, will naturally come in contact with the influences of wicked people in our own midst; for, in some cases, the Saints have, in the past, been drawn away to worship the "gods of the strangers," and to do things that are not acceptable in the sight of our heavenly Father. 

Let us try to remember,my brethren and sisters, that we are God's people, and that we live in a land that God has given us, and that we should continue to make this land a land of Zion — a pleasant abode for the pure in heart; and if our fathers and mothers did so well in the earlier days of the Church, even in troublous times, we should endeavor to the fullest extent of our powers and abilities to do as well as they did, notwithstanding the fact that we now have neighbors all around us who do not serve God, and who do not desire to keep His commandments. Remember that the redemption of Zion is yet in the future and that a great preparatory work for the second advent of Christ is expected of us. When we speak of the redemption of Zion in the sense that I now allude to it, we mean that the time will come when some of the Saints will go back to Jackson county and build up the greatest and best city that we have ever been called upon to build, and also to build a Temple to the name of the great and true God — such a one as has never before been erected by men; and it will require a people that have done well and have served God faithfully in the stakes  Zion to do this work. Zion's chief city must be built by a people who are true to their God, and true to their brethren and their religion. It will most assuredly fall to the lot of such only to go and build up that center place, and erect that greatest Temple of all. 

Let us try, my brethren and sisters, as we live in these mountains, with Prophets and Apostles of Almighty God among us, to worship, in spirit and in truth, the God of our fathers, the God of Israel that our fathers obeyed so zealously in years gone by, the God of our fath-' ers in New York, Ohio, Missouri and Illinois, and in the early days in these valleys of the Rockies, and the God of our fathers in days of old, even in the land of Canaan. Let us remember that the God of ancient Israel is also our God, and that He looks upon sin and iniquity in the same light that He looked upon it thousands of years ago. What was sin then, is sin now; what was displeasing in the sight of God then, is displeasing in His sight now, for God never changes. Circumstances surrounding the people of God may change, but the eternal principles of God never do, and God accepts on common ground His people in all ages and in all lands and climes who serve Him and keep His commandments; and He will be pleased to multiply blessings upon all that merit His blessings. It is for us to nreach the gospel in all the world, gather the elect from all lands and climes, build up Zion and perform the preparatory work which must necessarily be done before Christ will come to reign upon the earth as the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. 

May God help us to be faithful  true in the accomplishment of this great and glorious mission entrusted to us by our heavenly Father, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

I most sincerely desire your prayers of faith in my behalf, my brethren and sisters, for I feel a little indisposed this morning and not much like speaking. However, I have a testimony of the Gospel. I know that God lives, that He hears and answers the prayers of faith. Every fiber of my being responds to this thought, that Jesus is the Christ, the begotten son of the Father, and our elder brother with whom we are joint heirs to all the powers and prerogatives of our Father's kingdom,if we but keep the faith. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Most High God; and I bear testimony to what my brethren have said this morning, that this knowledge is not entertained or had only by the saints, but some men who have not become members of the Church of Christ are convinced in their souls that this man was raised up of God, and given wisdom and knowledge and light far beyond his years and the day in which he lived. I have met men of letters, men of politics, men who are philanthropists, who have concurred in that thought; and some have expressly stated to ljie that no man in view of the limited advancement in the day of Joseph Smith, with the little education that men had in that day, but particularly what he did not have, could have announced such doctrines as did he, unless he received them from some higher source, or God inspired him. One gentleman in particular, in dwelling upon these things, in reviewing the life of Joseph, in reading the Book of Mormon and in reading the Prophet's address to the American people at the time he was a candidate for the presidency of the United States, said of him: "The greatest testimony and proof that Joseph Smith was what he says he was, that he received what he said was given him, is the very fact that no man, much less he, could have advanced such ideas and given such truths unless what he said is true and God revealed those things to him." I rejoice in this, for the Master tells us that "they who are not against us are on our part." 

I had occasion to remark yesterday, and I believe it fully, that there are some things in relation to religion and pplitics that I would feel more secure in trusting to honorable men of the earth than I would to give them to some of our people at home, for they are more liberal toward us in this land than are some among ourselves. I find, that in common with the generality of American people, we are prone to criticise those who sit in the seats of judgment, those who are appointed to high office. Wc elevate heroes t<5 exalted positions, men who have earned their laurels by courage, fidelity, honesty and virtue, and yet as soon as we have lifted them to some point of eminence, it is an American trait that we begin to pull them down, criticise and berate them, and I was going to say, bury them in the slime and mud of filthy politics, and mean jealousies, and I don't know but I am entitled to say it, so  it stand. It is so, and history proves it in the case of Abraham Lincoln,who was so foullv maligned, vilified and traduced by th every men who owed to him their pre-eminence among the American people. Subsequently great regret came in the hearts of the whole nation when he was stricken, then he was honored as one of the greatest of Americans. The same may be said of William McKinley. There are men in our midst today whom we have lauded to the skies because of their courage and fidelty on the battlefield or upon the battle-ship, who have helped to make secure the rights and privileges of the American people, that we have borne high upon our shoulders a little while only to pull down and belittle afterwards. This propensity of fault finding, that is so prevalent among American people, has besmirched their good names and trailed them in the dust, and we forget sometimes the very things that we owe to these men and almost forget their names; and that is why I said what I did with relation to the fact that some honorable men of the earth, I believe, are more liberal to us in politics, in domestic relationship, and in our efforts to build up and colonize in these mountains, and accomplish that which God hath ordained that we should do, than we are sometimes. 

What Brother Ellsworth said in relation to the work of the ministry and the excellency of the work done by elders, and their very excellent characters, doubtless may be said of every mission established by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There are times when some men lack faith, there are times when they fail to feel or sense the weight of the position that they are called to; but in the main the  and the men who engage in the work of the Lord take upon themselves the armor of righteousness and gird it about their loins, and they are humble and faithful. God magnifies them, and they grow in favor with Him and men, and have a rich harvest of souls and of testimonies to the truthfulness of the Gospel, and their hearts are filled with praise and adulation to the Most High God. ' They are full of integrity and courage to defend His principles and honor His priesthood that is now upon the earth. This may be said of the California mission, in which I have the pleasure of laboring. I want to say that people grow more liberal in their views of religion, and more liberal to us as a church, and yet upon that west sea-board there is such a spirit of indifference and of pleasure making and pleasure loving that it is very hard indeed to convince men of the necesssity of belonging to any church. They sense with some of our great educators, who announced this principle at the last National Educational Association that met in Los Angeles a year agp, "that to serve the interests of our country, to perpetuate its institutions, to best conserve the liberties of the peoples of this world as well as of our own country, there must be a deep-seated religious conviction in the heart of every man." There must be a Christian training, for all that is good in man tends towards worship and devotion. This spirit of "religiosity," as Carlyle has called it, augments the very best that there is in man, let him be white or black, bond or free. And so men who think and who have watched the current of events, are convinced of this fact that we cannot drift far away from the principles of Chris* the ideal life which Christ lived for men, and hope to achieve success, and hope that the name of our country shall long obtain in the world's history, or hope that our children or children's children shall find peace and prosperity in the land. But, O how few of those who possess these ideas are willing to concede the fact that there must be a Church, that men if they belong to the Christ, must take upon them His name, repent of their sins, have them washed away in the grave of baptism and be born anew from the womb of waters unto newness of life. They cannot see the philosophy of it. 

One man told me not long since : "I can't see the philosophy of faith, nor the philosophy of repentance. Baptism may be all right, but I can't see the relationship of this principle with that which is spiritual." He, too, had been taught from his youth up, these very principles. But when he came into the field, he said: "I find there are devout people in other churches; I find there are people who pray to God our Eternal Father in the name of Christ as do we; there are people who try to render that which is just and true to their fellows as do we, so far as I can understand, and I am not prepared to teach these first principles. I believe in the life and mission of the Prophet Joseph. I believe that we had an existence before we came here." But these first and cardinal virtues or principles of the Gospel he did not comprehend or find the necessity of. Yet there i» not a philosopher, aside from those whom we may look upon as converts to Christianity, but who knows that "faith is the underlying principle of all intelligent action," that faith impels men to do and dare. Faith it is that has prompted every man that has achieved any great result — to strive in his particular field for the accomplishment of the purpose he had in view. It is true there have been certain discoveries made b> accident, they were not the result of faith and labor, but when we look upon what the world has done, and the great men of our world it has been as a rule the result of persistent and intelligent action which sprung out of the hope that such things could be accomplished, the faith that it could be realized. It was not chance nor accident that led Franklin into the field with his kite and string. It was not for pleasure and play that Watt and Stevenson labored with the giant steam, and dreamed out the dreams that were their prophets in the creation of the engine, of the locomotive, nor of Fulton with the steamboat, but faith, that those things would result as the end of their efforts. And the same faith hath actuated the minds of Edison and Marconi and other great inventors, and of the Wright brothers who have achieved so wonderful a feat as flying in the air. It is the faith that is persistent in the minds of men leading them  to delve and seek after and accomplish these things, and, as I have said, it underlies all intelligent action as the Prophet Joseph declared. It underlies religion, and science, and philosophy, and politics; a faith in government, a faith in statesmanship, a faith in rule that will best subserve the interests of the commonwealth. So it seems to me that when a man says that he cannot see any use in the principle of faith, he has not thought at all, but he esteems it as something merely esthetic, dealing only with morbid religion. 

Repentance too goes hand hi hand with faith, and is its concomitant part which must follow it as the night the day. Repentance, according to Carlyle, is the grandest trait there is in mankind, turning away from sin, from error, striving after the light, after the good, after the pure, after the perfect, and perfecting our lives thereby. Every business man applies this principle to his business; and whenever he learns by his experience or by what he observes in the experience of others that he had made a mistake, he repents of that, if he is sane, and seeks a better way. Whenever the scientist has made a mistake in his workshop or his laboratory, he turns from that mistake, as soon as he discovers it, and applies other laws or methods to achieve his end. And so it follows faith, that principle of progression, and is a principle of true religon, for the religion of God the Eternal Father, the theology that deals with Him and His attributes and laws, underlies all the sciences, and they with their philosophies are all built upon it. And so repentance is as broad in its application and in its saving power as faith, and therefore no wonder it is taught as one of the principles of religion, for religion, properly understood and applied, is the plan of God, and is for the salvation of the souls of men. If men persist in error, in mistakes, if men persist in doing things that are hurtful to their bodies and to their spirits, how can they be saved. 

When it comes to the ordinance of baptism, that men and women in the world so commonly claim is non-essential, after accepting these other principles, it is sufficient to me, aside from its symbolism and from the virtue that there is in the spirit of obedence that God com it; upon the principle of obedience all blessings are predicated. It is only by observing- the law of their creation that plants and animals grow and have life. The Master when he called the attention of his apostles to the lily of the field said, "Behold, how it grows." It was not the glory of the lily, or its beauty that he had in mind, but how it graeyntelligently following the order of its creation and being, and answering the laws of its growth and development. And so with everything that we see in the universe that is harmonious, that is beautiful and progressive. It answers the law of its growth, obeying the law thereof for its development. So it is sufficient for me to obey the law which the King of Heaven hath said is essential in order that man shall see and enter into His kingdom; and as He is the King, the Lord of Lords, and the law giver,surely we will concede to Him the' right of saying how citizens shall be initiated into that kingdom, and we will comply with that method, because He ordained it and Himself set the pattern. 

If we comply with it, by brethren and sisters, or my friends, if all men and women would comply with it, then they would have shed into their souls such light, and peace and joy, that the riches of the world would sink into insignificance beside it. So long as they bask in the light of the Spirit, there is nothing on earth would tempt their feet to stray in forbidden paths. Then would they know the virtue of newness of life, then would they feel the freedom that comes when men accept the truth, and their sins have been forgiven and stripped from them. Then would they realize the promise which Christ made when He said:"This gospel is not Mine  His that sent Me; and if any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of Myself." When men have that assurance and testimony, they are strong in their hearts to do the bidding of God, and pity the sneer of the skeptical. They would pity those who do not see and understand, and would give all that is theirs to bring them to the knowledge of the truth; and they are rich in the possession of this truth, beyond the riches that the world can conceive or give. Sometimes men and women say: "I do not understand it; it is beyond me. I cannot apprehend it; I do not know where you get it from. It sounds reasonable, it appeals to my mind, it moves the very emotions of my heart and soul." I have had many a man and woman tell me, "If I could believe as you do, Elder Robinson, I would be the happiest being on this earth, but I can't see it, I can't understand it." Why? Because they have not complied with the conditions of growth and knowledge, and they have no right to understand it, and no man has the right to expect that he will know all about this Gospel, or understand even the primary principles thereof, until he hath complied with the conditions, and then the truth makes him free and error drops from his mind, and he comes into the knowledge of the truth and can bear testimony that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. 

May the peace of the Gospel be in your hearts and homes, my brethren and sisters. May the desire to keep inviolate the pledges and covenants which you have made in the waters of baptism, and when you have named the name of God in holy places, actuate you, so that you will live the lives of Latter-day Saints, that we who bear the ensign of tiuth in the world, who are your representatives, we who proclaim your virtues to the ungodly and unbelieving, shall never have cause to blush because of what may be done or said at home, so we shall not feel we have presented to the world something that is untrue, and that they will not find when they come, as we call it, to Zion. May you perform deeds and live lives of probity, virtue, courage, and sacrifice, that you too at home shall "make good," and that together we shall accomplish that which God has designed, that the little leaven shall leaven the entire lump, that the reign of righteousness shall be ushered in, when every man shall know thai Jesus is the Christ, and shall fear and worship the Lord God of heaven and earth. That He may hasten this day, that His Son may speedily come to rule and reign in the earth, that the honorable of the earth may come to the brightness of the rising of Zion is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Lord, dismiss us with Thy blessing." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles J. Thomas. 
