Afternoon
06 10 1908


PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Endorsement of the temperance resolution. — Blessings follow payment of tithing. — Testimony that tithing has been carefully guarded, and rightly used. — "Rustling" seventy-five years. 

I am very thankful, my brethren and sisters, to have this privilege of standing before you a few moments. I wish to express to you my appreciation of the good things that we have heard during this conference, and to say that I can heartily endorse all the sentiments that have been uttered by all the brethren who have spoken to us. I am sure, my brethren and sisters, if we will carry them out in our lives, that we will all be benefited by them. I propose, myself, to us& my best endeavors to aid and assist in carrying them out in the future. 

One thing that I endorse with all my heart is the resolution that was passed in relation to temperance. I heartily endorse that proposition, and say to you that I will give to that principle my aid and assistance to the best of my ability, to see that it shall be carried out amongst the people. I believe that the people will receive this proposition and that, as a general rule, it will be carried out by them. There is no doubt in my mind that there was a necessity that this matter should be brought up before this conference, and I am very glad that it has taken the shape that it has GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

There are many other good things that have been said, to which our attention has been called, and I have no doubt, my brethren and sis" ters, that you have concluded iii your minds, by this time, that you propose to carry out these instructions. 

There is one principle that comes to my mind that has not been very much talked about during this conference, that is the principle of tithing. It has been alluded to, but there has not been very much said about it. This is a principle that I believe in with all my heart. I believe it is the duty of all faithful Latter-day Saints to pay their honest tithing and donations. I am sure from past experience, that it is a safe proposition, although I do not think we should be prompted to pay tithing from the mercenary consideration that we are to receive a reward, or have returned to us a portion of what we pay. However, I believe that we do receive blessings from the Lord by paying tithing; I know I have been blest by so doing; I can testify to that. 1 remember what Malachi says about it: "Bring into my storehouse your tithes and your offerings, and I will pour you out a blessing." You are all familiar with what is said in relation to this. I know it is a true principle, brethren and sisters. One other thing in relation to it; Never mind what is said about the use of the tithing and how it is appropriated. 

I testify to you here, this afternoon, that I know that during the last six or seven years that I have been associated with the Trusteein-trust every dollar of tithing that came into his hands was carefully guarded. Every dollar is accounted for; every dollar that is appropriated is properly registered, and the  are just as carefully kept and the funds just as carefully accounted for, as in any banking or mercantile institution in the country. I want to say this much to you this afternoon; because this is a matter with which I am familiar, and I can speak positively about it. You need have no fears in relation to what is done with your tithing, it is carefully appropriated. When requests for appropriations come in. the question arises : what is the condition in each case ? Let us consider what the conditons are. What is the condition of that ward or that stake which asks for this appropriation? All these matters are carefully con. sidered,and then the question comei up, how much can we appropriate for this, that, or the other, as the case may be. So it is in all these matters, my brethren and sister:,. The Twelve are associated with us; they are consulted, and they take part in the appropriation and care of tithes and offerings. 

I know what I have said, my brethren and sisters, to be the truth. I do not know how much longer I shall live and how many more conferences I shall be permitted to 'attend. There is a limit to the life of man, it is said, and we know there is. How long my life will be extended I know not; but I did want to make this statement to you this afternoon, whatever my future may be. I want you to bear it in mind that such is the fact, no matter what may be said from any other source. 

Now, for the remainder of my days, so long as the Lord shall permit me to live among you, I propose that every day of my life shall be devoted to the interests, and welfare, and upbuilding of the kingdom of God upon the earth Mine has been a busy life; I com115  to labor and rustle for myself from the time I was about ten years of age, which is more than seventy-five years ago, and I have been rustling ever since. It is too late for me to lie down now; i propose to continue in this work just as long as I am permitted to live. 

May God help you, my brethren and sisters, to carry into effect the good things you have heard here today. If you will do this, you will be taking a step higher up; you will go on and advance, and increase and multiply upon the earth. May the Lord help us all to be faithful and true to the end, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. Marvelous character of work done by Joseph Smith. — Convincing effects of reading the Book of Mormon. — Wonderful perfection of the Church organization. — Succession in Presidency of Church after the crucifixion. — Church not disorganized, no need to be re-organized. 

I believe we all feel pleased to hear the remarks of Brother Winder. Think of his being eightyseven years old, and yet is able to talk with such vigor as he did. He is in full possession of all his faculties; his memory is strong; he is an encyclopedia on everything pertaining to the Church. I know he is a man who fulfills the duties of his office to the acceptance of our heavenly Father, and we feel pleased to be in his company. 

I rejoice in what has been said in this conference. I endorse the instructions that have been given. I feel that the Lord has given unto  His word, and I hope, when we leave for home, we will take with us the good influence of the spirit that has been present, and remember the teachings that have been given us. 

I was just thinking of the words that the Lord revealed to his servant Joseph Smith, a year before the Church was organized. He says : "Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." 

You remember, it was fourteen months before the Church was organized, that this revelation was given to a young man only twentythree or twenty-four years old. He was told that a marvelous work was about to come forth among the children of men. Reading these words now, so many years since the revelation was given, can we say that they have not been fulfilled? Has not a marvelous work been brought forth among the children of men ? Certainly, it has been a marvel to many. When you contemplate and investigate the principles of the Gospel, as brought forth through the instrumentality of that young man, you marvel at trie consistency of every principle with the holy scriptures. All the Prophet taught was indeed sound doctrine, and he himself proved to be a prophet of God. The Lord fulfilled his prophecies on subjects both relating to this people and to the whole nation. The Prophet Joseph spoke and prophesied of things that, apparently, were not likely to come to pass, but we have seen them fulfilled to the very letter. As a prophet, he is sustained by his prophecies; as a teacher, he is sustained by the doctrines he taught, for they are true and consistent with the teachings of the prophets of old; and as a man GENERAL CONFERENCE.  was loved by those who were acquainted with him'. Those who went in and out of his home, who saw him daily, loved him better than any one else! When you meet these people, you are delighted to hear them talk about him, about his kindness, and the pleasant intercourse they had with hirn, how they love to tell about sitting- under his voice, and hearing him instruct the people! They will testify that they know he was a man of God. And every one of us who have received the gift of the Holy Spirit, can bear the same testimony, for the Spirit has testified unto us that he spoke the truth. The marvelous work was inaugurated by him; and how quickly the early Elders commenced to labor; for it was said in the same revelation that the field was already white for harvest. They accepted this work, and they went out and preached unto men, and laid before them this wonderful message. 

It took men of moral courage to receive that testimony, for already, at that time, and even before then, persecution had started. The adversary wanted to stop this work, and if ever there was a time that it could have been stopped, it would seem to have been then, when there were so few in the Church; but the One who had established the work was greater than the adversary, and He had power to protect it. Even in its infancy, although the Church met with such strong persecution, it still prospered. The Book of Mormon was published, in an edition of five thousand copies. We had no other pamphlets or tracts to spread among the people, but that book contained the word of God, the Gospel in its plainness, and it did a good missionary work. It was sold to the people, and loaned or given to; men read it, and many received a testimony of the truth of the principles it contained. President Joseph F. Smith has a copy of the first edition which was the means of bringing such men as Joseph Young, Brigham Young, Phineas Young, Lorenzo Young and John Young into the Church. They read it; they were convinced; and they joined the Church. You know what strong men they were — not easily persuaded, but when the light of the Spirit of God illumined their hearts they were willing to accept the truth, and they became strong defenders of the faith — especially such a man as President Young, and also Joseph Young, the good and kind leader of the Seventies. The Book of Mormon was indeed a work that carried with it convincing power. There was a time when we thought that argumentative works were better to scatter among the people, and then afterwards let them read the Book of Mormon; but our brethren have been directed to try to disseminate or to spread the Book of Mormon among the people. I hear that the last edition printed in the Northern States, consists of one hundred thousand copies, and they are selling very fast. One firm sent an order, the other day, for five hundred copies, and they were wanted at once; this shows that the book is a seller. Now, we want to get the book into the homes of all men, that they may have a chance to know what it contains, and they will have the opportunity to either receive or reject it. Our mission is to reach all men. and I believe that the Book of Mormon will show the people what are the principles of the Gospel, and teach them so plainly that if they 117  it, they will do so because they let prejudice govern them. This book has been translated into many languages; it is read from the North Cape, in Norway, to the southern point of the Cape of Good Hope; and in nearly all parts of the world. Yet we want it distributed still more among the people. 

It was said that knowledge should cover the earth as the waters cover the deep. This seems to be fulfilling in our day. Bibles have been printed in every language — as early as 1861, this claim was made. Men of liberal means have done what they could to have editions of the Bible circulated among the pagans as well as among civilized peoples. I consider that they have done a great deal of good in doing this, for the Bible contains the word of God. It is true that it has passed through many translations, but the Lord has had His hand over it and has preserved His word, so that it has come down to us in nearly perfect shape, though we believe that in some parts, through the translators' ignorance or, perhaps, wilfulness, it may not have been translated correctly. We believe in it; we are glad to find that it has been distributed among all people. I pray that the Book of Mormon may have the same destiny, that it may be known among all people. 

A. couple of weeks ago I heard with pleasure President Richard W. Young give a concise statement of the organizations in our Church. When you examine the organization of this Church you find that it is wonderful in its perfection. And it has not been the product of experimentation, for it has not been added to year by year. The organization of the Priesthood was  in the very beginning. On the very day that the Church was organized, the revelation on Church government was given. Before the Church was organized it was made known that there should be Apostles in the Church. Nearly a year before, the Three Witnesses were called by revelation to select the Twelve. On the 6th of April, 1830, when the Church was organized, there were but nine, or thereabouts, in the Church. We know the names of the six who took part in the incorporation of the Church, and there were very few others. There were not enough members then to fill all the offices in the Church; but the revelation was given; an outline of what it should be was already understood by the prophet and his brethren, and they knew what officers should be placed in the Church. It took some time, however, to complete the organization. Elders were the first officers ordained. There are two divisions in the Priesthood : the Aaronic and Melchizedek. An Elder holds the Melchizedek Priesthood. Joseph Smith presided over the Church, first as an elder; but when the time came and the Church had grown more numerous, other and higher offices in the same priesthood were conferred. The leading elders were called and ordained High Priests, and then Joseph Smith presided over the Church as a High Priest. For nearly a year after its organization the Church was ministered to by elders. Then bishops were called and ordained, at that time from the Elders' quorums, and afterwards the High Priests' quorum was instituted. Then it was revealed that bishops and presiding men in the Church should hold the office of a High Priest. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Some have wondered that the Prophet was ordained an Elder on the 6th of April, 1830. He held the Melchizedek Priesthood before, but the offices in the priesthood did not exist until the Church was organized and gave its consent; then he was ordained an Elder.. Afterwards he was ordained to be a High Priest, and he ordained other High Priests. In 1832 Joseph Smith was called by revelation to be President of the Church, but the First Presidency was not organized until March, 1833, when Sidney Rigdon and F. G. Williams were chosen to be his counselors; and the three took charge of the affairs of the Church. In 1835 the quorum of the Twelve Apostles was organized. It had been indicated before the Church was organized who should select them and ordain them. Then, shortly afterwards, the Seventies were called, and again other Seventies, until we have an army of Seventies today. The Lesser Priesthood was also organized early in the Church, and has continued as first started. 

I thought I would draw your minds to these points, showing that the quorums were organized as the Church needed them, and it was not by men suggesting that now it would be good to' have such and such a quorum. The Lord indicated before the Church was organized, what quorums would be needed in the Church, and the organization was proceeded with as rapidly as the needs of the Church required it. 

We come to the time of 1844, when the President of the Church, the Prophet, and Seer, was incarcerated in jail and foully assassinated, with his brother, the Patriarch of the Church. Such a thing  the breaking up of the First Presidency had not been contemplated by the Church, and there were many in the Church, not having given the matter any study or thought, who wondered who should be the successor. Before the Prophet was murdered, he had called the Apostles together, and had instructed them in all things pertaining to the Priesthood; and 'he had laid upon their shoulders the responsibility of carrying on the work; hence they were the men to preside over the Church when the Prophet was gone. And this had its precedent in the scriptures. We find the first-day Church organized with apostles, seventies, and other officers in the Priesthood. They had been called by the Savior Himself. We are told by Paul that He gave apostles, prophets, teachers, evangelists, etc. Consequently, 'if He gave these officers to the Church he organized the Church when He was taken away from among men, He left His apostles to take care of it. There was no mention of his brothers or any relatives to preside over the Church. He laid it upon Peter and the apostles to do this. I desire to read a few words on this subject. When Jesus met with His disciples on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, the Evangelist says : "So when they dined, Jesus said to Simon Peter : Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him :-Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He said unto' him : Feed my lambs." This was the first question. He asked Peter if he loved Him more than these. This language I know can be interpreted in two ways, but we may understand the meaning when we think of Peter's expression at the last supper, when Jesus said 119  there would be many that would be offended at Him. Peter declared that he would never be offended at Him; he felt so strong. Jesus tells him that before the cock should crow that night, he would deny Him three times. Peter said, if I should die with you, I would not deny you. Now, this was Peter when he was under the good influence of the Master. Having a testimony for himself and feeling strong he depended on his own power. "Do you love me more than these ?" He had said that he would never deny Him, and yet he had done so. He felt the gentle rebuke, and said : "Thou knowest I love thee," and the Master said : "Feed my lambs." The next verse reads : "He said to him again, the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, yea, Lord, thou knowest I love thee. He saith unto him, feed my sheep." The word which is here translated "feed" is a different word in the Greek text from the word so translated above. The word first used is "boske," which is translated, "to graze; feed, nourish." The word used in the second place is . "pomaine," which has been translated "feed," but has a much broader meaning than that. My lexicon gives the following translation of "pomaine :" "to herd; to be a shepherd; to rule; to take care of; to tend." Peter was, therefore, called to be the shepherd, the caretaker, the ruler of the Church. And the third time, He saith : 'Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?" Peter was grieved because He said it unto him the third time, and he replied : "Lord, Thou knowest all things; Thou knowest that I love Thee." Jesus said unto him, "Feed my sheep." Here the word "feed"  the same as in the first reply — where He told Peter to feed His lambs. Now I consider that the charge which Jesus gave to Peter and the Apostles was that they should direct and take charge of His Church here upon the earth. Following the history of the Apostles as it is given, we find that when any dissensions arose in the Church, men were sent to Peter and James and John at Jerusalem, to learn from them what was the word of God on those matters, and the decision of the Apostles was the end of controversy. There we have the precedent given us, that when the President of the Church was taken away, the Apostles took the place. Jesus presided over the Church while He lived in the flesh upon the earth; He continued to preside over the Church through His Spirit, and revealed His word to His servants, but His earthly representatives were the apostles, and they took charge of the Church. So when the Prophet Joseph was martyred, the responsibility rested where he had placed it. There was no talk of heredity; there was nothing said about his relatives taking charge; but there was the quorum of the Apostles, and upon them rested the responsibility of carrying on the work, and they did so; they continued the work that Joseph had commenced so well. 

There has been a claim made that the Church was disorganized at the death of the Prophet, and hence the necessity of a re-organization. The Church was not disorganized; the quorum of the Twelve was not disorganized, neither were the quorums of the Seventies, nor the Bishops, nor the Elders, nor the Lesser Priesthood; all of them were just the same after the death of the GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Prophet as before. As they had been organized by him, so they continued, and at no time have the quorums of the Priesthood been disorganized. Wherein is the claim, then, justified? Did He reject His Church because the Prophet and his brother sealed their testimonies with their blood ? Should it be a cause for disorganizing the Church, that the people were driven away from their homes and had their houses burned, and their temple taken from them? The answer is self-evident. They showed themselves brave and true; they continued with the work of the temple until they could go into it, and receive their promised blessings. When persecution raged and they were driven forth they had to leave the temple, but they did not give up the Gospel. Perhaps there were not so many members in some of the quorums, for there were men who, too cowardly to share the trials of the Saints went away, and were not willing to bear the burden and the heat of the day, and follow the Church. The Lord, however, blessed His Saints and led them to this land. When they came here, they had not forgotten that thev owed a duty to the people of the whole world to preach the restored Gospel to them, and in a year or so missionaries were sent forth to the different nations upon the earth. We thank the Lord that these men came to the countries where we lived, and brought the light of the Gospel, which gave us peace in our souls, and the' testimony that God had revealed Himself in our day. You : can bear that testimony with me, We thank the Lord for the administration of President Young and his brethren the apostles. 

When the First Presidency was  by them, it was done according to the pattern set by the Prophet himself. The Church has been organized in the way that God intended; and it has never needed any reorganization, because it has never been disorganized, even through the darkest days of the expulsion and drivings. 

I thank the Lord that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I pray that I may be faithful to the covenants I have made with Him; and I ask that His blessings may rest upon all present and upon all Israel, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

. My brethren and sisters, I desire very much that you will assist me by praying for me, and that I may be enabled to make you hear, during the short time that I shall occupy. President Smith has invited me to say a few words, and I will endeavor to do so. I wiil begin by saying that I endorse, very heartily, the vote that was taken for the suppression of the drinking habit and the sale of alcoholic drinks, in the communities of the Latter-day Saints. To show that I am not illiberal at all, I wish the same unanimity of spirit could be shown in every communit} wherever there is a Christian settlement established. I am willing that the Catholic Church, the Methodist Church, the Episcopal Church, the Quakers, the Shakers, the Congregationalists, the Campbellites and all other ites, and all other denominations claiming to have the Christian religion and faith, I am willing that they should show their loyalty to the cause of right and to the spread of the prin121  of temperance, and vote as you voted here, day before yesterday, for the suppression of the vice of the drunkard; and also for the establishment of more definite rules enjoining upon this people, and every other people, the observance of the Sabbath day. I have seen, with a very great deal of dissatisfaction, for the last two or three years, in this our beloved city of Salt Lake, the teams and men employed by the City of Salt Lake, working, driving, plowing and scraping, placing down pavement in these streets on the Sabbath day. working as vigorously on that day as on any other day in the week. I am also reminded now that I have seen the saloons, that have been licensed by other influences than the "Mormon" people, running night and day, Sunday and week days alike, ready to receive the wayward man or foolish person within those drinking dens, and there administer the cup that inebriates, and that destroys the soul. When I voted with you on this question, and lifted my voice as loud as. I could, that I might at least hear my own expression on the subject, I believed with all my heart that you voted as I did, sincerely, and with the hope that your influence, from this time, would be felt from' one end of the land to the other. As it is a fact that you brethren and sisters here assembled on that day, and on the days subsequent, are a representative body of this great people, I am satisfied that the influence of that vote will be carried to all of our organizations. 

I rejoice today, my brethren and sisters, when I remember the opening remarks of President Smith; and I hope we will all follow his instructions. He called our attention to the extensive neglect of the  to observe that law, that commandment which the Lord gave for the preservation of His people, that will give them length of years, and spiritual as well as physical strength; for in the act of obedience to this great commandment we are insured these blessings of the Lord. I know by my own experience that when I have endeavored, with what little ability I have, to exemplify His word and keep His commandments, I have realized a direct answer to my prayers, and have felt within my soul that the Lord had been kind and merciful to me, because I had shown a willingness to do His will; and I know that is the experience of the Elders as they go out into the nations of the earth. They speak with power and with strength because they feel that they are on the Lord's business, that they are preaching His Gospel, that they are exemplar? of the life thai He has designed they should live. While I apply this word of commendation to our Elders, I apply it likewise to our brethren in their local capacities, as presidents of stakes, as bishops of wards. The most successful officers in the Church are those who live closest to the Lord. This we see exemplified in these great gatherings,for we do know that our brethren who preside over us are devoted to the work of the Lord, and are determinea to magnify the holy calling which has been laid upon them. They are exemplary in their lives, and we see it evidenced. When they stand before the people to proclaim the word of the Lord unto us, we know that it comes from their hearts which are pure and clean before Him. 

I rejoice to be able to bear this testimony to you today, my brethren and sisters. I rejoice in being GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in this great congregation of the saints. These are gatherings long to be remembered; they will be historic forever. The words that come from our President, and other leaders, will be remembered; they wdl be recorded for us and our children to read in the future. I refer to the record of these great gatherings of annual and semiannual conferences. 

My brethren and sisters, there are many things that need reforming. There is a very good chance for every Elder in Israel to preach the Gospel, not only abroad in the nations but at home, by the firesides of the people, in the streets, upon the sidewalk. Wherever we travel we generally find an opportunity to correct evil, and we should do so in a mild spirit, even the spirit of our Lord and Savior; not rail against evil but kindly call the attention of the trespasser to the fact that he is not alligned with the Spirit of the Gospel. As Jesus taught, let us forgive our enemies, and always lend a helping hand to our neighbors. He said: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and thy neighbor as thyself." Sometimes we find it difficult to love some of our neighbors' actions. During the history of this people, we have seen times and experiences wherein we could not endorse the actions of our neighbors; yet if they will repent of their sins, and receive the Gospel;wewill gladly offer them, in the name ofjesus, salvation and redemption. This is the duty and calling of every Latterday Saint Elder. 

I pray the Lord to bless our leaders, and to bless the people all the. day _long\ that He will give us hearts to understand and a determination to carry out the will of the 

Lord, and to fulfill His purposes in our creation, that we may inherit eternal life, with our loved ones and with all the saints, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"Sweet Spirit, hear my prayer," was sung by Sister Claribel Gardner. 

PATKIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

It is with peculiar feelings, my brethren and sisters, that I stand before you on this occasion. I have listened attentively to the remarkr which have been made during this conference, and I can indorse every sentiment, every word, and bear testimony that the sayings we have listened to have come from the right source; they have been grtei; to us through the whisperings of the Good Spirit with which owe Father in Heaven has inspired those who have spoken to us. I say to the people I trust that these instructions will sink deep into their hearts, and that they may profit thereby. 

I can bear testimony to the truth of this work. I bear you my testimony that Joseph Smith was the prophet of the living God, and that through his labors and the gifts which came from the Father, this work has been thus far established, and that his successors have been in the true path, that they have worked and labored for the furtherence of the cause of truth. They have been men of God, prophets, seers, and revelators and their teachings have been just and true, I can also bear testimony to the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord in many ways, for myself individually. On 123  or two occasions, from overwork, exposure, and so forth, physically I have been broken down, but through the faith and prayers of the saints, I have been restored. I can bear testimony that the Lord has heard my petitions, not only in my own behalf but also in behalf of many of the people. I often meet individuals who have received blessings under my hands, promises and so forth, and they have borne testimony that the words which I have spoken, under these circumstances have been prophetic, that the promises I have made havt come true, every word. 

Although I am not, probably, living in the full sense of the word up to the revealed law in all respects, I have striven to do my duty; I have tried to do that which the Father has called me to do. A-; a rule, there are many people more guilty of sin of omission than sins of commission, and I trust that this has been my lot. I admonish the people to try to understand their duties, to try to live in obedience to the laws of God, and to keep His commandments. If we as a people will listen to the whisperings of the still small voice we will not often err in judgment; and if we call upon the Father, in humility, in a proper way, He will hear our petitions and answer them. I often admonish the people when they get their blessings under my hands, and say to them they must first learn to listen to the whisperings of the still small voice; and if they will seek for the gift of discernment, they will be guided by the Spirit of Truth. 

I pray God, the Eternal Father,, to let His blessings rest upon all Israel, and guide us in the true path, that when we have finished our work here, we may be worthy  His blessings. May Father add His blessings unto us, qualify us for every duty, that we may fill the missions whereunto He has called us. If we will strive diligently to do this, His blessings will be with us and make us equal to every task. May the Lord help us to fill the mission whereunto we are called, and thereby be worthy of His continued favor, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

AUTHOHITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the. Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As Members of the Council of Twelve Apostles, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay and Anthony W. Ivins. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies, Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as trustee-intrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder'. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Assistant Historians. 

As Members of the General Church Board of Education — Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools— Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Lindford and Willard Young. 

Tabernacle Choir— Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Walter J. Poulton, Jr., assistant organists.; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the members. 

Auditing Committee — Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W Riter, August W. Carlson, and Henry H. Rolapp. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

General Board of Relief Society — Bathsheba W. Smith, President; Annie Tavlor Hyde, First Counselor; Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, Secretary; Clarissa S. Williams, Treasurer. Members of the Board : Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phoebe Y. Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Merrill Home, Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Rebecca E. Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Harriet B. Harker, Minnie H. James, Rebecca N. Nibley. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Director of Music; Edna H. Coray, Accompanist. 

Emma A. Empey, Superintendent of Nurse Work; Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor of Nurse Work; Phoebe Y. Beatie, Secretary and Treasurer , 

Deseret Sunday School Union — Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; George Reynolds, First Assistant Superintendent; David O. McKay, Second Assistant Superintendent; George D. Pyper, Secretary; John F. Bennett, Treasurer. Members of the Board : Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, David O. McKay, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, Tohn M. Mills, William D- Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Stephen L. Richards, H. H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, 125 

John Henry Smith, Charles B. Felt and George H. Wallace. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association — Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; Heber J. Grant, Assistant Superintendent; B. H. Roberts, Assistant Superintendent; Alpha J. Higgs, Secretary and Treasurer; Evan Stephens, Music Director; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Music Director. Aids : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Briant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, Brigham F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Ovando C. Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Louis A. Kelsch, James H. Anderson, 'Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association — Martha Home Tingey, President; Ruth M. Fox, First Counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom,Second Counselor; Ann M. Cannon, Secretary; Alice K. Smith, Treasurer; Alice Calder Tuddenham, Music Director; Mattie Reed Evans, Organist; Lizzie Thomas Sardoni, Assistant Organist; Maria Y. Dougall, Honorary Member. Aids : Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Susa Y. Gates, May Boothe Talmage, Joan Campbell, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Elizabeth A. C. McCune, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle Neff Caldwell, 

Nellie C. Taylor, Emily C. Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy Woodruff Smith, Jane Ballantyne Anderson, Edith Rossiter Lovesy, Letitia Thomas Teasdale. 

General Board of Primary Association — Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson and Clara W. Beebe, Counselors; Olive D. Christensen, Secretary; Margaret C. Hull, Assistant Secretary; Emeline McMaster, Treasurer; Vera I. Felt, Recording Secretary; Ida B. Smith, Librarian; Norma Fenton, Organist. Aids : Aurelia S. Rogers, Lulu L. Greene Richards, Isabelle S. Ross, Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza Slade Bennion, Edna L. Smith, Edna Harker Thomas, Alice L. Howarth, Emma Romney, Rebecca Nibley r Zina Y. Card, Vilate Peart, Maria B. Winder, Lillie T. Freeze and Josephine R. West, honorary members. 

General Board of Religion Classes — Anthon H. Lund, Superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant Superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, Second Assistant Superintendent; Joseph J. Cannon, Secretary. Members of the Board : Anthon H. Lund, Rudger Clawson, Hyrum M. Smith, Henry Peterson, Horace H. Cummings, Josenh W. Summerhays, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W.McMurrin, Louis A. Kelsch, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, George F. Richards, George H. Brimhall, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant and Anthony W. Ivins. Aids to Board: J. E. King, Stephen L. Richards. 

Each and all of those named Were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Deaths in .the missions. — Blessing of Heaven invoked upon the Priesthood and Saints, and upon the Nation. — Thankfulness expressed that Utah is represented in Congress by good men. 

For the benefit of the congregation, I will announce that the following elders have passed away in the various missions since Jan. 1, 1908: 

Leroy Hall, Southern States mission, typhoid fever. 

Burdette P. Burdette, Swiss and German mission, drowned. 

Everett Hall, Central States mission, typhoid fever. 

John A. Southwick, New Zealand, typhoid fever. 

Emil J. Huber, Turkish mission, typhoid fever. 

John Leroy Tripp, Netherlands, appendicitis. 

John Loosly, Swiss and German mission, heart failure. 

This is sad news. We are sorry indeed for the kindred and loved ones of these good and faithful elders who have met death while laboring in the missionary field. The Lord prolong their memories in Zion, for they died with the harness on — faithful to the covenants they had made and the commission with which they were sent forth to preach the gosp.el. 

There are now laboring in the mission fields a little over 2,000 elders. 

(After announcing the special Priesthood meeting, President Smith continued) : 

I desire to express briefly the sincere prayer of my heart for all this congregation and for all the faithful Latter-day Saints who have  in attendance here during this most interesting and profitable conference. I feel in my heart to invoke the blessings of the Lord more abundantly upon all the presiding general authorities of the Church and upon all the presidents of stakes and their counselors, the members of each high council, and upon all the bishops and their counselors throughout the length and breadth of Zion. I pray God to bless all our auxiliary organizations and prosper them in the labor that they have been called to perform. May the Lord give them joy and satisfaction in their labors. May they be interested, earnest, devoted, diligent and prayerful, that they may enjoy abundantly the spirit of their callings, and that their labors may be a blessing, a pleasure and a joy unto them, and exceedingly profitable to all the children of Zion for whom they labor. 

I pray God, my heavenly Father, to bless you as elders in Israel, as high priests, as seventies, and all the lesser priesthood. Mav peace abide and abound with you, and oh! may the Spirit of truth, may the enlightening influence of the Holy Spirit, may the power of the living God rest down upon those, one and all, who have been ordained to the holy Priesthood which is after the order of the Son of God, and the appendages that belong to it! May the Lord bless you in your homes; bless you as husbands; bless your wives; bless your children and your children's children to the latest generation! May God prosper Israel in all her abidings! May the Lord bless the earth for your sake and make it fruitful! May He prosper you and bless you! May He multiply your flocks and your herds and prosper you in the labor of your 127; and may you always feel inspired and inclined to honor the Lord with the first fruits of all your increase; so shall your barns be filled with plenty, and the Lord will pour out His Spirit upon you more abundantly! God bless Zion, and the Lord have mercv upon her enemies and those that seek her hurt! I have no fears in my heart, or mind, that that which is called "Mormonism" — which is indeed the gospel of Jesus Christ — will not bear the scrutiny of science and the researches of the learned and literate into all truth. The Gospel of Jesus is founded in truth. Every principle of it is susceptible of demonstration beyond any just reason for contradiction. The Lord is doing His work and will do it, and no power can stay it. 

I desire that the blessings of the Lord may be upon our choir here, who have made music for us during the Sabbath day, for they were here then in full number. These days of labor, they are under the necessity of following their various occupations, and they are not able to be present, for they are bread-winners; they have to labor with their hands for their livelihood, but they give their Sabbath day and they give their time for practice for the benefit of the Church; and we ask God to bless them for it. May He unite them' together, give them confidence in their leaders, and give their leaders power and influence over them for good. May the Lord bless Brother Stephens, Brother McClellan, and their assistants, and all the members of the choir. 

I ask God, my heavenly Father, to bless my counselors. May He bless President Winder, a noble spirit, an honest man, a man of truth, a man of God; and I pray 

God to bless Brother Lund, who is in all respects equal to Brother Winder in his integrity, in his love for the truth, and in his devotion to the cause of Zion! May the Lord bless us all and preserve us from our enemies until we shall complete our mission in the world; and while we live may He help us to be valiant in the testimony of Jesus Christ, true to our covenants, true to our people, and true to God until we shall finish our work! This is my prayer for you all and for all Israel. 

I pray for the prosperity of our great nation, for the -blessing of God to be upon the executive, the judicial and the legislative branches of our government. May the Lord bless our government and lead those that hold the power in their hands to do that which is righteous, pleasing and acceptable unto God, who established this great government by His own will and providence! I thank God, my heavenly Father, that this State of Utah is, and has been, represented in the halls of Congress by honest men, men after God's own heart, men who love their people and who are just and impartial and true to the interests of all the citizens of our state. I thankGod that we are blessed with the privilege of representing ourselves rather than being misrepresented by our enemies, in the halls of Congress; and in the name of common sense I deplore the thought that any Latter-day Saint should regret that good and true men have been chosen — not by the Church, but by their own political parties — to represent the State of Utah in the halls of Congress. Thank God for it. That is my sentiment, and I hope that I shall not see the day soon when we will have the misfortune GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of being either misrepresented or of failing to be properly represented in the halls of Congress. 
