Third Overflow
04 10 1908

ELDER NEPHI PRATT. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I appreciate the privilege of being at home among the Saints of God, and listening to the inspired teachings of the Presidency and other Elders of the Church. The speakers are here this afternoon by appointment of the prophet of the Lord. We are few in number, but the Lord has said that He will be even with, three or four, when the} come together in His name. I hope that you will pray that I may be inspired by the Spirit, that we may be blessed together, and the hearts of those who are assembled here be comforted, their faith increased, and they be instructed. 

I praise the Lord for the inspira tion in the remarks of my brethren who have spoken in this conference. I love the sound of their voices. I am laboring away off, 800 mile.5 from here, in a missionary field, and I rarely have, except upon special occasions, as great an audience as is here assembled; and you may imagine the great pleasure and happiness it gives me to mingle with the Saints in Zion. God has blessed this country. This is the land to which the Lord inspired His sercants to gather the hosts who have from time to time met in our great conferences. The site for the ternpie of the Lord and the place for its chief cornerstone, was pointed out by revelation. I have been with this Church,- in Salt Lake Valley, except when I have been traveling on missions, from the time I was a year and a half old. I have seen the growth of this people, and the greatness of their character. When we first worshiped the Lord on this block, under the old Bowery, the theme of the prophets and saints in that day was that God had sanctified and blessed this land, reserved it on purpose, and kept it for this people. The prophetic vision of our leaders then looked forward to the time when great buildings would grace the Temple block. When log houses were builded by the pioneers around Pioneer Square, which was* at that time called the Old Fort, I was a small child, but I know the spirit that possessed the people. I want to tell the Saints who are gathered here that when our pioneers look ed upon that ten-acre block, enclosing log houses shingled with stra-w and mud, they beheld, with prophetic eye, those cabins merge into palaces of beauty. And when they worshiped God under the crude shelter which they had builded, they thought of the Temple of the Lord, and the Tabernacles that would sometime be builded on this block. They felt that the poverty of those years would some day change into riches. You are my witnesses, who walk the streets of our beautiful city, that the Lord did not inspire our fathers with any false hopes, but has fulfilled to the letter all predictions that were made through His servants, and many times made them greater than they were spoken. 

It is a great and magnificent day in which we live; and among Ua , are evidences of tlv; greatness that the Gospel brings to those who live it. So far as anything that I have ever read in history says, there never was as great a body of Priesthood on the face of the earth, living the Gospel laws to as great an extent, as there is today gathered here on the tops of the mountains, exalted, as Isaiah said, above the hills. The people of many nations have flown unto us. The desert has blossomed as the rose. Harmony, joy, gladness, and thanksgiving are here, as Isaiah predicted, and the voice of melody, which is evidenced by the great Eisteddfod that has recently been held here, and by the great choirs that sing in our places of worship, — and the Elders see eye to eye, all of which the Lord promised should be, when the Lord should bring again Zion. 

I want to stand among this peo pie, a humble member of the Church of Christ, sanctified and blessed by a good course of conduct. My destiny is in my own hands. If I ascend into the paradise of God when my spirit departs from this tabernacle, and in peace and happiness reside with the Pioneers who laidthe foundation of this splendid commonwelth, it will be because I have received of the same Spirit, humbled myself before God, purified myself by repenting of that that I have done wrong. It will b* because I have worked and studied to make myself yield to the will of God, because my house ha., been a house of prayer and thanksgiving, because my means and ability have been spent in the service of God, because I chose good instead of evil, because I curbed impure appetites, and subjugated myself to the good. Then I shah see Joseph Smith,who, under God's , laid, the foundation of this work, when my spirit shall pass into the other world. I personally knew President Brigham Young, and I associated with his children. President Young has held me on his knee when I was a child; and he spoke consolingly to my mother in her widowhood, anc! sympathetically condoled the sorrow of our family when father was assassinated. When I pass from this world, I expect to meet President Young, and be associated with other worthies who sustained the banner of truth and righteousness in the midst of a hostile world. 

If I go where darkness, and weeping, and wailing prevail, I shall never be able to accuse God our Father, or say to Kim, Father, why have you placed me in such sorrowful conditions, in outer darkness where there is weeping, and wailing and gnashing of teeth i Why, Father, have you given me evil companionship, and made my soul to dwell with those that are ungodly ? Why,the Lord might say, my son,, you only earned a place where there is outer darkness, and weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, and we have given you what you earned. You had your destiny in your own hands. Your brother that is across the chasm over which you cannot pass, who is in the association of prophets, priests and kings and with Jesus, blessed with eternal riches and eteral life, is the recipient of what he has earned. You each had your agency. I gave you my precepts, laws, and commandments, and you exercised that agency. I shall not be able to blame my Heavenly Father if I stand condemned. 

My brothers and sisters, read the laws of the Gospel and lay them to heart. The prophet of the Lord 

God has spoken by revelation, and declared that hailstorms will destroy the crops. Do you think the saints shall escape famine wher that comes ? And there will be the grim reaper, death, coming to all the nations, in various forms that have been foretold. It has been Written that awful new diseases shall come, over which the physicans will have no power; that flies shall come upon the wicked and eat their flesh, and that maggots shall come upon them, and devour them. But the revelation that was quoted in our hearing this morning holds out hope to us. When these awful conditions which are coming shall predominate, and the judgments of God be poured out without stint, in that day the man who has kept the Word of Wisdom can say to the Lord, Father, you did promise that if I kept this word, the destroyer should pass me by, and the Lord will hear. Now let us heed these things, individually. I can preach them, but can I practice them ? It is easy to talk; it is harder to act. We should take upon us the whole yoke of our Redeemer, the whole armor of right eousness, and thus become free and sinless; when we do that, our yoke will be easy, and our burdens light. Sin binds us and makes us fearful. A condition of apostasy will keep us from being heard by the Lord when we pray. Faith is lacking in our families, if the first thought is to call for physicians when we are afflicted instead of appealing to the Lord. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I desire to live these principles, and to live a life that shall please God. Before I pass away from the earth, I want to make amends for all my transgressions. I want to pay all the debts I owe to man and to ou. Heavenly Father. I want to go free into the spirit world, and 1 hope the Lord, when I have done my best, will open the way before me that I may not go into the spirit world among the ungodly, looking forward with fear to that whicii shall come in the judgment of God. I hope the Lord will approve my sacrifices and say, it is enough, let him go into the paradise of God with the saints. If I only can live worthy to obtain these things, 1 will risk the rest. 

Brethren and sisters, may God bless you in His mercy, comfort you in your homes in the future have His hand ever extended to bless the Saints, save our children, and keep us for ever and ever hi His holy keeping, and save and exalt us in His kingdom, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "The ninety and nine," was sung by Sister Elma Young. 

ELDER JOSEPH A. M'RAE. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

I am pleased to have the opportunity of meeting with 'you here this afternoon. There are but few of us present, but as I said to Brother Pratt before the beginning of this meeting, there have been many times in my life that I have spoken to smaller audiences than the one here today. I have seen smaller audiences in larger halls too, where we have gone to the expense of renting and invited the people to our meetings, done everything possible to get them to come and listen to the testimony of the Elders, and we have had but  present. I note that there are just eighty present now; and it is a coincidence that the most glorious meeting I ever attended in my life, was held with just eighty people That meeting continued five hour^ and a half, and I never attended in all my life a meeting where there was a more glorious outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord than was witnessed on that occasion. Some of the Elders, after the meeting was concluded, looked at their watches, and were surprised to ascertain we had been present five and a half hours, The reason that our meeting was marked by such an outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord, was that every individual present was living close to tht Lord; and when we offered ou ,_ petitions unto Him that His Spirit should be in that meeting, He could not refuse to answer our prayer. I saw on that occasion stalwart men arise to bear their testimonies and they broke down and sobbed like children. Such an outpouring of the Spirit, I say, I never witnessed in my life before, nor do J expect to ever witness another greater. 

We who have assembled here this afternoon, have come for the purpose of having our hearts and souls satisfied with reference to the principles of the Gospel. Wt have come to be fed the bread of life, and listen to the inspiration of our Father given to His servants in the words that they shall utter. We have come for the purpose of receiving a portion of the Spirit of the Lord, and although in the Tabernacle this afternoon thousands are gathered to hear the inspired words of the servants of God, there is no reason why our prayers ascending to our Father shall not result in us obtaining the same rich blessings. 

I have listened with interest this afternoon to the remarks that have been made by Brother Pratt, who has the privilege and blessing of presiding over one of the missions of the United States. I have listened to the testimony he has borne respecting the integrity of the men and women who have stood foremost in this Church, some of whom are standing there today. I have listened with interest to his recital of the conditions which prevailed in these valleys while he was a boy — conditions that we know nothing about, and by which, consequently, we will never be tried. Our trials will come in some other way. W". are surrounded today by all the luxuries that God can bless us with; and the Lord has promised us, if we will keep His commandments, that there is nothing the earth produces that shall not be ours. He has verified those words, and has blessed us with an abundance of this world's goods, including the beautiful buildings by which we are surrounded, in which we can meet from time to time. The two buildings upon the Temple block, in which are being held today meetings of the Saints, are filled to overflowing. We have assembled in another building, and if this was filled to overflow, there, are other buildings we could repair to, where meetings could be held, and the voice of the Lord, through His servants, could be heard by us. 

My experience, in the few years that I have lived, has taught me there is no safety, no genuine happiness, joy, nor pleasure comes to an individual except he be keeping the commandments of the Lord. There is no real joy nor happiness in  things of this world. I find men in my travels about the country who are undecided about the affairs of life, and who ridicule religion. I find other men who say there is something in religion, but "I cannot understand it; it is all a mystery to me." In some instances, men's hearts are torn asunder, and their families are divided one against another, because they do not know God; they have not received His revelations; they hav;: not tasted of the inspiration that comes through the voice of His servants. They do not know what it means to kneel down and listen to the voice of the Spirit in answer to prayer. They do not realr ize what this means; they cannot understand it as we do, therefore they are disrupted, torn asunder, dissatisfied, discontented, continually complaining of this Church an ' that, and the doctrine that is taught. 

I sat in the Tabernacle this morning and listened to the inspired words of President Smith wlit^ he arose in that congregation, an 1 called the people to order, gave oui the hymn, and by virtue of his diVine calling took charge of that gathering, and I thought of another conference that I read of a short time ago, where a body of religious worshipers were gathered together. They have a man whom they sustain as the head of their church, and this man has two counselors. J thought of the beginning of their meeting, when the congregation was called to order bythe chairman, one of the members arose and said, "I move that it be the sense of this meeting that the present presidency of this church preside over this meeting." I thought when I read it, how devoid they are of the Spirit of God; and I could not help but contrast what I had read with what I saw this morning. 

It is said that this is a most peculiar doctrine that we preach, a most peculiar religion that we have embraced. The fact is this is the religion of Jesus Christ, the Church that He established. That is the reason it is regarded as a peculiar religion. The burden of the message that was given to the Elders in the early history of this Church was, "Faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins." A shor$ time ago I met upon the train a lady and gentleman, and they began to talk about Brigham Young. Thio lady had been to Utah. They were sitting j-ust opposite me, and I said, "Wait a minute before you go any farther with your conversation. I want to tell you that I am a Mormon Elder." This lady then said to me. "Tell me why it is that the people of Utah hold Brigham Young up as such a great man ?" I said : "My good lady, they have reason, they have cause, for it. If you would investigate the early history of Utah, if you could see the immigrants who came from the work shops of Europe, if you could see those people who never knew what it was to own land of their own before coming to the valleys of Utah, and saw the inspiration of that great man in planting those people in the various parts of this state, and then could see today the offspring of those men and women, you, if you were candid, would never cease praising the name of Brigham Young. And yet," I said, "Brigham Young was not the one who did it, it was God, our Eternal Father. Brigham Young wa: merely His instrument in accomplishing this great pioneer work." I , after our conversation, she had a different idea and understanding of the work that Brigham Young has done. 

What has been the cause for thi^ people coming from the islands of the sea, and from the continent ot Europe, and establishing themselves in these valleys? The primary cause of it has been repentance from their sins, and baptism for the remission of those sins; and without it they would not be here. Without it there would not be that bond of union that we see today, and there would be no Temples erected in these mountains. Without it we would not be here to teli the story of our faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ; and I say therefore, the fundamental principles we have to learn are, "First, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, second repentance from our sins, third baptism by immersion for the remission of sins." 

Sometimes the Elders come to me and say: "We have preached faith, repentance and baptism for so long that this people know all about it." I say, "There is no theme you can teach that is of more importance to the Latter-day Saints than faith, repentance, and baptism." I believe we ought to be made to think of the first time we went down in the water and were baptized for the remission of our sins. One of our Elders remarked last night at our meeting here, "When an Elder of Israel arises to address a congregation, and asks for the interest of their faith and prayers, I wonder how many realize the importance of that request? I wonder how many say Heavenly Father, bless the speaker, that he may speak under Your influence." Now, I wonder how many of us  the time of our baptism, immersion for the remission of sins, and remember the things connected therewith. I wonder how many of us review those things, and see if today we are much better. I wonder if we ask ourselves if there are things that we should repent of today. 

President Smith was moved upon this morning to read the Eightyninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. You have read it many times, no doubt, that beautiful Word of Wisdom. He felt impressed to read that, and he called the people to repentance, and asked them to turn unto the Lord, for the Lord is mighty to save, He is merciful to us. He holds out His hand with charity towards us, and will save us if we will, as Brother Pratt has told us this afternoon, work for our salvation, work for our exaltation. 

I love this Gospel. I love the principles that have been revealed through Joseph Smith and the other prophets who have ministered unto us. I love my brethren and sisters who have embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Sometimes 1 hear Elders say in the mission field, "I have left every thing that was near and dear to me." I do not say that, because the people that I am sent to, those who are in darkness, who know not Jesus Christ, who know not the sound of His voice, who do not understand revelation, they are near and dear to me, for they are the children of my Father. I have been sent to preach the Gos- . pel to them, to bear my testimony to them; I have been sent to tell them that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the Book of Mormon is a divine record revealed by the Lord unto this generation. This is what I have been  for, to call them to repentance, just as President Smith felt called upon to call the people of Israel to repentance today, and ask them to turn unto Him, to turn unto the Lord and serve Him, and keep HL commandments. 

I know this work is true, as I know I live. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God. I know that Brigham Young and all of Joseph Smith's successors have been prophets of the Lord. I know that the Apostles who are today in our midst, who have been ordained Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, are men after God's own heart. I have associated with them. I have come in close contact with them, and I have enjoyed the privilege of meeting with thern in the temple in council with them, and I know the teachings they give are the teachings that have been inspired by our Father in Heaven. My brethren and sisters, let mc exhort you to listen to their counsel and teachings, to listen to the advice they give, and if they chide or admonish you, let me ask in all humility that you will receive that chastisement and counsel that they give in the spirit that it is given, and the Lord will bless us, and will pour out His Spirit upon you, and though your afflictions in this life may be great, you will have much to praise the Lord for. His Spirit will take possession of you, and it will make no difference whether we are but few, God will be with us, and He will bless us, and will pour out His Spirit upon us in abundance, and we shall come near to the Lord, and there shall be just a thin vail between us and our Father, and when we kneel down and offer our prayers, we will hear the voice of the Spirit. May God bless those who have assembled here this afternoon, pom out upon them His Holy Spirit, cause them to reflect upon the first principles of the Gospel, and then go on from faith to faith until we shall know our Father in heaven as He knows us. When we kneel down at our bedside or around the family altar, and pour out our soul to our Father in heaven for blessings upon ourselves or upon our family, may our faith be such that those blessings will surely be realized upon our head, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS B. EVANS. 

(President of Ogden Stake.) 

Brethren and sisters : I have very much enjoyed the spirit of this meeting, as also the spirit of this morning's session of |our Conference. When Brother Nephi Pratt stood before you, bearing his testimony of his knowledge- of the divinity of the work in which we arc engaged, it took my mind back to the time when I was about twelve o» thirteen years of age. Brother Pratt at that time was filling a mission in Wales. He was a man that devoted his time and his talents to the spreading of the Gospel of Jesus Christ among the people of my country. He was an instrument in the hands of the Lord of bringing many to a knowledge of the truth. The people of that principality loved Brother Piatt bf.cause of his faithfulness, because of his devotion to the cause of God. 

We have \ery much to be proud of, I believe; we are indeed blessed above all other people upon the face of the earth; and I sometimes  as to whether or not we appreciate the blessings that are conferred upon us. 

When President Joseph F. Smith was speaking to us this morning upon the Word of Wisdom, I wa;> reminded of the people known as ancient Israel. On either side of a valley two great armies were met. for the purpose of giving battle. One man, a giant, stepped forth, and issued his challenge, saying to the people who should have been serving God, "Send out a man that I may fight him." This he did for forty days, and none dared go out and fight that giant. A young man happened into the camp. He hac' been sent thither by his parents to take food to his brothers, who were serving in the army. He overheard Goliath issuing his defiance, and it came into his mind that someone ought to go and meet the giant. He proffered himself to do so. He was laughed at; but he was ushered into the presence of the king. The king instructed his officers to put on this boy a coat of mail, and also give hjm a sword, and put upon his head a helmet. After attempting to walk in this new garb, this shepherd bo> David, said, "Nay, I cannot do any efficient work in this garb. I have not proved them." So he took off these garments, and put on his shepherd clothing, and he went out in the name of the Lord. He said that when he was attending his father's sheep, a lion and a bear came, but God made him equal to the occasion of destroying theso* wild beasts, and he now felt quite sure that his Maker would make him equal to destroying this man who defied the armies of the living God. Brethren and sisters, there are no Goliaths today, there are no giants that we may fight, but the  of Goliath ie among us, and we ought to arm ourselves with a view of fighting that spirit which crops out in the saloons and in the electric theaters, baseball parks, and other places of amusement which are thrown open on the Sabbath day, enticing our young men and young women to go there and thus forget to serve their Maker. Brothers and sisters, let us put on the armor of righteousness. Let us go forth and defy these vile elements. Let us, in the name of the Lord, go forth and fight this spirit of Goliath, in order that our young people may be established beyond question in the paths which lead back to the presence of our God. 

May God bless us and make us equal to this great work which 'is before us, that of saving souls, my brethren and sisters, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH S. WELLS. 

(Of the Presidency of Ensign Stake.) 

Brethren and sisters : I have felt very much edified and instructed, as I am sure all of vou have, in listening to the testimonies that have been borne by the brethren who have spoken this afternoon. It is a great blessing to be identified with the Church of Christ, and to have a testimony that the principles which we advocate, which we have embraced, are the principles of truth, calculated to save all of God's children. We are fighting in the world today for the principles of truth and righteousness, and it is a great blessing to us to be able to bear testimony, to bear witness, that God lives, and that He has restored His 

Gospel again to earth; and we have the privilege of bearing it to the world of mankind who lie in darkness; and it makes no difference unto us, who have this testimony, how the world may fight against it. They cannot stay the arm of God. They cannot prevent Him from' accomplishing His purposes. And we know that the principles of truth have been restored again for the last time; that they are not to be given to another people, but that in fulfillment of the prophecies of old, the Kingdom of God shall be established in the last days, never more to be thrown down. 

We can look back upon the history of this people from the time of the organization of the Church,and, notwithstanding all of the trials and persecutions, and mobbings, and drivings that our people have had to go through, the Church today is stronger in numbers, in property, in material growth and wealth, than it has ever been before, although the prophet of God who was His instrument in restoring the principles of truth aeain to the earth, was martyred. The world thought that his death would be the end of "Mormonism." but could it kill the testimony that had been declared by these prophets of God? No. While the people were called upon to leave their homes and their property, and were driven to these valleys of the mountains, God was with them, the principles of truth were still being preached in the nations of the earth, and the honest in heart were being brought to a knowledge of the orincioles of the Gospel. Honesthearted men and women embraced the gospel and gathered to these vallevs of the mountains, in great numbers. The progress of Church has not been stayed. Our enemies have not ceased to worry us, to persecute us, to falsify against us in all this time; but notwithstanding all of this, the work of God is growing and increasing in the earth. There are more missionaries in the field today than ever before, and the true Gospel is being preached by them to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, as a witness unto all nations. It is a pleasure to those who bear the priesthood of God to fulfill this mission which God has given unto us as the army of Christ, to spread the truth in these latter days. 

I am glad to be able today to join with the other brethren in bearing testimony of the truth of this work. God has given me a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, His humble instrument in restoring the Gospel again to the nations of the earth; that Brigham Young, whom I was acquainted with in my boyhood days, was his legal successor; and that all of those who have followed him are men of God, chosen by revelation and inspiration, to guide and direct the Church of Christ in this day and age. May God bless them, and bless all of the Elders who are proclaiming His word, who are defending the truth, who are living the lives of Latter-day Saints; and may He bless all of the people who have named His name, and who have taken upon themselves covenants to keep His commandments, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John M. Knight. 
