Afternoon
04 10 1908


PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

The Saints always under laws of Temperance and Prohibition. — Should sustain present world-wide agitation against liquor traffic. — Valuable suggestion for Sabbath day observance. — The Saints should be examples of righteousness. 

It is a very great undertaking for many of the brethren to speak to so large a congregation, and I think it will be very proper for all Latterday Saints present, as the brethren arise to speak, to ask the Lord to bless them', so that they may speak with the Spirit and with understanding. 

I am sure we were all greatly pleased this morning in listening to President Smith and his counselors, for the good Spirit was abundantly with them and with the congregation, and I trust the same may be true this afternoon. We all endorse most heartily the word of the Lord so beautifully given to us this morning in regard to the Word of Wisdom, the law which prohibits the use of intoxicating liquors of all kinds. The most of us have lived under this law for a long time; and when the temperance movement  inaugurated by the world, looking to this important reformation among men, it was not a surprise to the Latter-day Saints; for we live under the law of the Gospel, which is the law of prohibition so far as strong drinks.tea, coffee and tobacco are concerned; and the same law requires also the very moderate and wise use of meats. It behooves the Latter-day Saints to order their lives in harmony with this law, which we heard read here today, for it is a very important law. I remember so distinctly, and, no doubt, many in this congregation remember the same, when President Brigham Young, speaking as the mouthpiece of God, announced, from this stand, that from that time forth the Word of Wisdom was a commandment, binding upon all Latter-day Saints. 

I have no doubt but from that time, as well as before, very many of the Latter-day Saints have undertaken to observe this law, but some of us, no doubt, have excused ourselves because it was not given in the beginning by way of commandment or constraint, but by revelation, a "word of wisdom," with promise of very particular and important blessings — the blessing of health, and wisdom and knowledge. We have been striving to live that law, and we have labored unceasingly, especially with our leading brethren, in all the stakes of Zion and in the various mission fields, to train the Latter-day Saints in this law of temperance and wisdom, given for our temporal salvation. Compliance with it on the part of the members of the Church would not only be a great blessing to them physically, but it would have a remarkably beneficial effect upon their financial condition, for the means  for liquor, tobacco, tea, and coffee, go out of the country, as these articles are generally imported, and the people are impoverished to the extent that they use them. So it is with meats, which the Lord says, should be used sparingly, and in times of excessive cold and hunger. If the meats that are so extravagantly expensive in our day, could be partially dispensed with, and if we could dispense with all the tea, coffee, tobacco and strong drinks that are used — if all the Latter-day Saints would do without these things entirely, it would conduce to their becoming a wealthy people; for the means thus saved would be kept at home. It is upon this principle that we are now producing in our state all the sugar that is used in the state, as well as all the sugar being used in the state of Idaho; and I presume the same is true of Colorado. We produce our own sugar, and at the same time give employment to the people, thus keeping the means at home. Then, we manufacture and provide for exportation as much more, which is sent abroad, and the means therefor comes back into our state. This industry alone has materially helped to put the State of Utah in splendid financial condition, but if the people would observe the Word of Wisdom, if the law of temperance were enforced and prohibition obtained that would prohibit, the benefits to the community would be incalculable. 

It seems necessary to have laws of the land to confirm and assist the law of the Lord in prohibiting the use of strong drinks, and the world has been moved upon to make an effort in that direction. This movement should find a ready response in the heart of every Latter-day Saint. Those who bear the Priesthood especially should second every movement of this kind and encourage and sustain it, at home and abroad; for it means the temporal salvation of the people of our state and our nation, t here is no profit in drinking strong drinks, or tea or coffee; and there is no profit in the use of tobacco. There is profit in the barter and sale of these things. A great deal of money changes hands, and there is, no doubt, profit for those who barter and sell tea and coffee, liquors and tobacco. But there is no profit to the person who uses these things. No good comes to those who use these things, but very serious injury does come as a result of their use, and we become the slaves of our appetites. Now, we have been trying to correct, and the Lord desires that we should correct our appetites in this regard, and set an example before the people, so that the Latter-day Saints may be recognized, among the children of men as remarkable for their temperance. 

I am sure the importance of this question is felt by my brethren — the Twelve, the presidents of stakes, *-He bishops of wards and their counse*ors, the high councilors, the presiding men in quorums and associations. I am sure that, as a rule*, these brethren feel the importance of this burning question, and I trust that the brethren who have been doing about right in this regard will use their influence with others. There is quite an army of people who have been doing fairly well, but there is an army that needs reformation. We expect our people to fall in line with every movement and every action taken in our nation and among the peoples of the world for the salvation and redemption of men. We approve of all good that  being accomplished among the children of men. We sustain men that are workino- righteousness; for there are many people who are as honest and conscientious as they can be. They have not entered into the light and received revelation from the Lord; but the world is full of truth. Mankind have been abundantly furnished, by the Lord, with the spirit of truth; and there are many men of principle, and women also. I believe that the great majority of all the children of men are good, conscientious and honest. I have that faith in human nature. There are men, of course, who are wicked, and there are women who are wicked, and there will always be, no doubt, so long as men live in the flesh, in a fallen condition; but there is goodness in the world; purity and righteousness among men. We recognize such people; and their splendid conduct, their good lives, their good principles, and their honor in business, we approve and appreciate, and - we love to live among them. We love to be associated with men of honor, men of honesty, men of sobrietv, men of truth, men who love righteousness; and we hold out to such men the hand of fellowship in the truth; we love them and feel to bless them. 

We call all men to repentance. The mission of the Latter-day Saints is to call all men, everywhere, to repentance. The Gospel is being preached among the nations of the earth; and as we call men to repentance in the nations of the earth, so we call upon all Latter-daySaints in this mountain region, in the land of Zion, or among the people of the world, as we, do upon ourselves, to repent of sins, follies and weaknesses, that we may serve the Lord the remainder of our mortal . It is an important matter that we should be in, the service of God while we live in the flesh, for the Lord has so ordered that if we will receive the truth, receive the light, listen to His counsels and enjoy His Spirit while we live in the flesh, we shall be freed from the power of Satan; he will have no power or influence over us; for whom we list to obey in this probation of ours, to him we will be servants in the world to come — either the servants of righteousness or the servants of Satan and darkness. We ought to be very anxious, my brethren and sisters, to do what is right, to serve the Lord, and to keep His commandments, so that when we are in need we may be worthy to ask and receive of the Father. 

In addition to what we have said upon the subject of temperance and the Word of Wisdom, I want to say a few words in regard to the Sabbath day. Latterly, I have felt very much impressed with the importance and sacredness of the Sabbath day among the Latter-day Saints, and the necessity of our advocating the keemnsr of the Sabbath day holy. On that day we should refrain from all labor, from all secular and improper pleasures, and spend the day in the service and worship of the Lord. Efforts have been made in numbers of cases to bring this matter before the presiding brethren and sisters in the various stakes of Zion, to try to bring them not only to observe the Word of Wisdom and the law of tithing, not only to meet together and partake of the Sacrament, but to make the legitimate and orooer use of the Sabbath day. I believe I have discovered a thought that is worthy of our consideration in this regard. The Lord commands that we should keep the 

Sabbath day holy, that during six days we should do all our labor, and rest on the Sabbath day; for the Lord hallowed the Sabbath day; it is His day, and we are expected to honor it and to keep it holy. Then, the question is, how shall we keep the Sabbath holy? We have provided Sunday Schools for the morning, and we have also provided for classes of Seventies, on the Sabbath morning, that our foreign ministry may be thoroughly trained and prepared for their work abroad. We have provided for the Sacrament in the after part of the day, either in the afternoon or evening, in all the wards of Zion, and quite a percentage of the people attend these meetings. However, those who attend the Sabbath schools sometimes excuse themselves from attending the afternoon meetings, and those who attend the Sabbath schools or afternoon meetings sometimes excuse themselves from meeting with the young people in the evening. But, what shall we do with all the Sabbath day? How shall it be occupied? This thought has taken possession of m'y mind. You will re^member that the Lord has required that parents in Zion, who have children, should teach them faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the doctrine of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, so that when they are eight years of age they shall receive that sacred ordinance of baptism and be brought into accountability under the law of the Lord. Parents are required, also, to teach their children to observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy; and they are required, also, to teach their children to walk uprightly before the Lord. Now, we have organized in our midst, not only the quorums of the Priesthood, but we have the auxiliary associations. We have the Relief Societies and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations for our sisters, the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations for our brethren, the Sunday Schools, the Primaries, and the Religion Classes for our young folks — and all these organizations have been established in our midst in order to perform just the very labor that is required of parents, in the way of teaching and training the children, that they may be prepared for their lives in this Church. Now, I wonder if the Latter-day Saints haven't felt thankful that these associations have been established, and that they (the parents) have been so nicely relieved of teaching their children. The parents prepare their children for the Sunday Schools, the Primaries, and the Religion classes, and send them' to these organizations, and I wonder if they do not then conclude that that is about all they need to do, and that their children will receive about all the religion, in these meetings, that they can take care of and live up to. I have felt that the Sabbath day should be utilized by the fathers and the mothers in their homes; that after the children have returned from their Sabbath schools, and after they have been suitably fed, as they should be on the Sabbath day and their food prepared, as ours has been, with singleness of heart— that the balance of the dav, instead of the children being turned adrift, instead of those half-grown being allowed to walk upon the hills and visit about, spending their time seeking worldly pleasures, instead of the young people spending their time going visiting and riding in carriages, or young men fishing and hunting, or the like, making the day  time for pleasure and frolic and fun — I believe thatj;he Sabbath day should be occupied in our home temples, in home study, in home reading, in home prayer. The fathers and mothers will, perhaps, find themselves pretty well "stumped" at times to know just exactly how to handle the little ones; but they must not be wearied; they must not be worn out and disgusted. I believe they will all enjoy singing the songs of Zion. This is what is desired by our brethren who are teaching little children. If Brother Stephens could have his way there would not be a child in the world who could not sing; he would have them all taught to sing and enjoy themselves in this way. They may be taught the songs of Zion; there may be some singing, some praying, some reading, and the time may be occupied wisely and well. I believe in fulfilling that requirement of the Lord, that parents in Zion, having children, shall teach them. Oh, what a glorious thing, if there could be a people such as the Latter-day Saints — a half million of them, possibly, in all the world — and in every home there could be given these Sabbath instructions, this home training, and home worship; fathers and mothers teaching: their children these principles, that their children may learn to love and reverence the Lord. We have six days in the week for school and for labor and for pleasure, for fishing, hunting, frolic and everything that is required; and we want a great deal of that. We want all the six days for labor and for pleasure, but on the Sabbath day we should be occupied in the service and worship of the Lord, in every home. Fathers and mothers should see that their children observe this day; but they should do it in such a  that they will not offend their children, that their children shall not feel that they are too closely cared for. Make the singing, the instructions, the worship and the occupations of the Sabbath day a choice morsel to the children. Little boys and girls, if they are thus trained in their childhood, when they come to be fathers and mothers will walk right in the same path. They will say : That is the way father did, and that is the way mother did; we were so instructed when we were children. That is the home discipline we want; and there should be prayers — morning, evening, and other times as well. Let the children be so trained that they understand there is no lying down at night until prayers are said; and there is no such thing as going to work on the week days without we have commended ourselves to the Lord's keeping, thanking Him for what we enjoy, and asking His protection to be over us. And when we have done this, we are under the necessity of keeping His commandments. If we keep His commandments, we are then entitled to ask and we shall receive, to knock and it shall be opened unto us; and there shall not be anything, that we are entitled to enjoy as His children, but what the Lord will be delighted to bestow upon us, and He will hear and answer our prayers. 

I feel, and have felt for some time the importance of this question, and so I recommend to all Latter-day Saints that they undertake this improvement; and let us see if we can not, under the inspiration of the Lord, find just what is the best and wisest way to keep the Sabbath day holy. I believe if we will do this, we will receive great pleasure and satisfaction in that labor, and there  be great pleasure to the children. The Spirit of the Lord will be with parents who thus labor, and the Spirit of the Lord will be with children who are thus taught; for they will be so instructed and trained that when they are eight years of age they will be prepared and they will be anxious to go into the waters of baptism; and this matter will not be overlooked. We will remember it, and they will remind us : We are eight years of age, the boys and girls will say, and we want to be baptized; we want to be Latterday Saints, so we can partake of the Sacrament in our own right, and so that we may have our sins forgiven us. Thus great good will be accomplished, and our children will be saved; we will be able to restrain them and withhold them from sin; they will listen to our counsel, and Satan will not have power over them. I believe that we have not done our duty fully in this regard; I am satisfied that I have not, and it may be true of others; yet, there may be many Latter-day Saints who have done their full duty. If they have done their duty in the past, they will recognize and approve what I have said. If they have not done their full duty and feel a little reproved and condemned in their spirits, as I do, they may make reformation for the future. 

I pray the Lord to bless us, that we may take hold of all these various points and principles and doctrines, and bring them to bear upon the whole measure of our life in the world today, for the Lord requires wonderful things of these Latterday Saints. We have the preaching of the Gospel to the world, and we ought to go into the world spotless, for we are entitled to be spotless; we have no reason for doing wrong, no reason for indulging in anything that is forbidden, anything that would contaminate or corrupt us; we should be free in this regard. We ought to be filled with the light and inspiration of the Lord, for we are entitled to enjoy that Spirit which the Lord gives with His work, and which bears testimony to the heart of every Latter-day Saint in every country. We are entitled to enjoy that spirit daily if we keep His commandments so that we can stand approved before him and before our own consciences. May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and give us the light and inspiration of His Spirit, now and forever, and the seal of His Spirit upon the position and stand taken by our Presidency today, for I am sure that they have the full fellowship and support of all Latterday Saints in the doctrines they laid down for us this morning. God bless you, my dear brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Peace, be still." 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Spiritual and financial advantages in obeying the Word of Wisdom. — Convincing arguments about temperance, quoted from "Leaves from the Diary of an old Lawyer," etc. — Resolution condemning saloons and favoring "Sunday Law." 

I am pleased to have the oppor- ' tunity of meeting with so many Latter-day Saints, and I earnestly desire that the time I may occupy, this afternoon, may be spent for the mutual benefit of all of us who have assembled. I have been deeply interested in all that has been said thus  in our conference, and I hope and pray that the words that were spoken here this morning and this afternoon, appealing to the Latterday Saints to observe God's law, may find lodgment in the hearts of the people. Upon my return from Europe, and in traveling in some of the stakes of Zion, I made the remark that I believed the Latter-day Saints were becoming more careless many of them, in observing what is known among us as the Word of Wisdom. I regretted to see it, and in my public utterances from this stand, since my return home, and in the stakes of Zion, I have endeavored to urge upon them the necessity of returning to an observance of this law of God. I know there are many Latter-day Saints who feel that the breaking of the Word of Wisdom is a small affair, that it is a very slight matter to partake of a cup of tea or coffee, or to use tobacco, or to occasionally take a drink of liquor, but I, for one, cannot believe, and never have believed, that it is a slight affair for any man, woman, or child, to do that which God our heavenly Father has commanded us not to do. From my investigations, I believe, beyond a doubt, that the saving to this community by the observing of the Word of Wisdom would be far more than the profits that are made todav by our great sugar factories in the State of Utah. When we stop to reflect upon the fact that we spend enough money, in breaking this commandment of God, to build about two factories every year, then we can realize the importance of what some people call an insignificant matter. I rejoice, beyond measure, to have the prophet of the Lord lay it down so forcefully to this people, under the inspiration of thp 

Spirit of God, telling us that it is in very deed our duty, an obligation from God Almighty resting upon us, to obey this command. I have heard some people say that many of those who preach upon the Word of Wisdom — one of whom I have always been — are standing up so straight that they lean over backwards. No man stands up any straighter than he ought to stand, by keeping the commandments of God and urging the people to do the same. 

Now, I have read, time and time again, as I have traveled through the stakes, some very strong and forceful arguments against the liquor traffic. I have read the same thing here from this stand, but, like a good song, or like one of the revelations of the Lord that contains truth and instruction, a repetition will not hurt the people. Although I realize, as I stated the last time I read these same things from' this stand, that it is wearisome to an audience to listen to reading, yet at the risk of wearying this large audience by a repetition of what I have read here once before, I shall read it again, and I believe if the people will listen attentively and will mark carefully the wonderful items that are brought forth in that which I shall read, that it will be of more benefit, perchance, than anv remarks that I might make myself along the same line : 

From "Leaves from the Diary of an Old Lawyer :" 

"I believe that it will require the force of the whole people, men and women, applied at the ballot box, to effectually blot out of existence the great curse to the country, 'The Laws that License and Permit the Sale of Alcohol as a Beverage.' I deny the right of the government to sell to one citizen the privilege to tempt another to commit crime — " 

Incidentally, I wish to say I also deny the right, but I thank God that you and I have the right to stamp out this evil that is in our midst, if we determine to do it. 

"I doubt the policy of those laws that seek to raise a revenue by the sale of that which debases the people, is the prolific source of crime and pauperism, and costs the country annually a thousand times more than the revenue received therefrom. I deny the justice of those laws that on one page of the statute books legalize that which promotes crime and makes criminals, and on the next page provide severe penalties to be administered to those they have tempted to transgress. This little volume [and it is as large as the book I hold in my hand, exhibiting the large edition of the Book of Mormon] is presented to the public to promulgate these views. They may be thought radical, and perhaps are so; but they are the result of long years of experience in our criminal courts, and are but a feeble expression of my abhorrence of the vice of intemperance, and the laws that encourage and promote it. 

"Tell me I hate the bowl — 

Hate is a feeble word; I loathe — abhor — my very soul 

With strong disgust is stirred Whene'er I see, or hear, or tell Of the dark beverage of hell."* 

"My experience at the bar has satisfied me that intemperance is the direct cause of nearly all the crimes that are committed in our country. I have been at the bar over thirty years, have been engaged in over four thousand criminal cases, and on mature reflection I am satisfied that over three thousand of those cases have originated from drunkenness alone, and I believe that a great proportion of the remainder could be traced either directly or indirectly to this great source of crime. In sixty-three cases of homicide forty-nine have been caused by the maddening influence of strong drink." 

Think of one lawyer defending forty-nine cases of murder, all originating from strong drink! If there 

*The entire poem is inserted as a footnote on next page. had never been but one boy or one girl murdered, and only one boy had become a murderer, through the influence of strong drink, then every father and every mother ought to rise up and determine that there shall never be another from the same cause if they had the power to prevent it — and we have the power, by legally putting down the saloons. 

"I have seen upon the counsel table of our court room the skull of an aged father who was killed by a drunken son. My brother and myself sat by his side as his counsel, and I never shall forget the look of that son when the ghastly evidence of his guilt was laid on the stand before him. That silent yet eloquent witness! It was but an arch of bone, and was handled carelessly by the jury in their investigation, yet it had once been covered by a father's gray hairs, beneath it had throbbed a brain full of pride and 

HATE OF THE BOWL. 

Go feel what I have felt — Go bear what I have borne — 

Sink 'neath the blow a father dealt, And the cold world's proud scorn; 

Then suffer on from year to year — 

Thy sole relief the scorching tear. 

Go kneel as I have knelt, Implore, beseech, and pray — 

Strive the besotted heart to melt, The downward course to stay — 

Be dashed with bitter curse aside, 

Your prayers burlesqued, your tears defied. 

Go weep as I have wept 

O'er a loved father's fall —  See every promised blessing swept — 

Youth's sweetness turned to gall — Life's fading flowers strewed all the way, That brought me up to woman's day. 

Go see what I have seen — 

Behold the strong man bow, With gnashing teeth.lips bathed in blood, 

And cold and livid browGo catch his withering glance, and see There mirrored, his soul's misery. 

Go to thy mother's side, 

And her crushed bosom cheer — 

Thine own deep anguish hide — 

Wipe from her cheek the bitter tear;  for the son who was now on his trial for murder, and as it passed from hand to hand the fearful expression on the face of the accused plainly told the terrible feeling of remorse that filled his soul. It was a wicked and most unnatural crime, and begot feelings of loathing and horror in the breasts of all who witnessed the trial. Yet it was not in reality the son who had committed the crime, but the demon that lurks in every cup of strong drink. And that cup had been filled and placed to the lips of that son by the hand of a most respectable member of society — a man who had a license from that very court to sell that which maddened the brain and prompted the hand to murder. 

"I saw upon the table the skull of young B — , who was killed by his most intimate friend in a drunken brawl at Hartstown, and the respectable proprietor at whose hotel the murder was perpetrated, and who sold the maddening spirit that prompted the deed, was a witness to the trial. He said he had a liMark her wan cheek and pallid brow — The gray that streaks her dark hair now, Her failing frame, and trembling limb; 

And trace the ruin back to him Whose plighted faith in early youth, Promised eternal love and truth, But who, foresworn, hath yielded up That promise to the cursed cup; 

And led her down, through love and light, 

And all that made her prospects bright; And chained her there, 'mid want and strife, 

That lowly thing, a drunkard's wife; And stamped on childhood's brow so mild, 

That withering blight, a drunkard's child! 

Go hear, and feel, and see, and know, All that my soul hath felt and known; 

Then look upon the wine-cup's glow — See if its beauty can atone — 

Think if its flavor you will try! 

When all proclaims, 'tis drink and die! 

Tell me I hate the bowl — 

Hate is a feeble word; I loathe — abhor — my very soul 

With strong disgust is stirred — Whene'er I see, or hear, or tell, Of the dark beverage of hell.  from that respectable court to sell liquor; yes, from the very court then sitting in judgment on that act, which was but the natural sequence of the license it had sold and granted. 

"I have seen upon the table the skull of a little child, with the evidence upon it of a murderous blow, inflicted by the hand of a drunken mother. Yet it was not the mother who had committed the most unnatural crime. All our knowledge of the promptings of the human heart deny the charge. Who that remembers his own mother and her maternal love could believe it? No! a demoniacal spirit had violated the sanctuary of the mother's heart and cast out the tender, loving tenant that once resided there, and that was the spirit of strong drink, sold to the woman by a man who held a license to sell under the seal and sanction of that very court. 

"I have seen upon that table the bloodstained skull of a wife, cleft from top to base by an axe in the hand of a brutal, drunken husband, who came home from a neighboring licensed beer shop, reeling, drunken, and maddened by drink there sold by a most respectable dealer, by a man who had a legal right to sell that poison whose effects are more terrible than the plagues confined within the fabled box of Pandora, and under whose baneful influence 

" 'The hand that should shield the wife from ill, 

In drunken wrath is raised to kill.' 

"I once defended a man for killing his own brother, by whom, in a fit of drunken frenzy, he had been attacked with a dangerous weapon, thereby compelling him in his own defense, to strike a blow that had taken his brother's life. He was tried for murder, and in his defense I called the 'landlord' to prove that the murdered brother was mad from the effects of the liquor he had received at the witness' bar. He so testified, yet seemed conscious of no wrong. Why should he? He had a license from the court, and why should that brother's blood cry to heaven for vengeance against him ? Oh, no! he was a respectable citizen, possessing a good moral character, for the law grants licenses to none other! He had a legal right to present the maddening cup to his fellow's lips, and no one should complain of him. He had  in accordance with the law, and did not one of England's greatest and best men say that 'the law was that science whose voice was the harmony of the world, and whose seat was the bosom of God?'" 

That ends the extracts from the "Leaves of an Old Lawyer." I now desire to read an advertisement issued by a saloon keeper, and certainly nobody can complain if we give free advertising to those engaged in the saloon business by reading their own advertisements, for which they have spent their money. It is headed : 

"an honest saloon keeper. 

 "Tombstone, Arizona, claims credit for the frankest saloon keeper in the United States. He keeps the Temple Bar saloon, and advertises his business with moSt enterprising frankness: 'Allow 'me to inform you that you are fools,' he says, yet his place is usually filled. He maintains that he is an honest saloon keeper, and that it will not hurt his business to tell the truth about it. He has had printed an advertising card which would make an excellent manuscript for a temperance lecture. Copies are being circulated through the western states and are attracting attention. The card reads as follows : 

" 'Friends and Neighbors : I am grateful for past favors, and having supplied my store with a fine lot of choice wines and liquors, allow me to inform you that I shall continue to make drunkards, paupers and beggars for the sober, industrious, respectable, part of the community to support. My liquors will excite riot, robbery and bloodshed. They will diminish your comforts, increase your expenses, and shorten your life. I shall confidently recommend them as sure to multiply fatal accidents and incurable diseases. They will deprive some of life, others of reason, many of character, and all of peace. They will make fathers fiends, wives widows, children orphans, and all poor. I will train your sons in infidelity, dissipation, ignorance, lewdness and every other vice. I will corrupt the ministers of religion, obstruct the gospel, defile the church, and cause as much temporal and eternal death as I can. I will thus accommodate the public. It may be at the loss of my neverdying soul, but I have a family to support — the business pays, the public encourages it. I have paid my license, and the traffic is lawful; and if I don't sell it somebody else will. [If we don't go to hell somebody else will.] I know the Bible says : Thou shalt not kill. No drunkard shall enter the kingdom of heaven, and I do not expect the drunkard-maker to fare any better, but I want an easy living, and I have resolved to gather the wages of iniquity and fatten on the ruin of my species. I shall, therefore, carry on my business with every energy, and do my best to diminish the wealth of the nation and endanger the safety of the state. As my business flourishes in proportion to your sensuality and ignorance, I will do my best to prevent moral purity and intellectual growth. Should you doubt my ability, I refer you to the pawnshops, the poorhouse, the police court, the hospital, the penitentiary and the gallows, where you will find many of my best customers have gone. A sight of them will convince you that I do what I say. Allow me to inform you that you are fools, and that I am an honest saloon keeper.' " 

I wish to read a few words from a book written by David Starr Jordan, entitled "The Strength of Being Clean." I believe that President Smith has paid this little book the tribute of saying that it is one of the strongest arguments yet produced or written by a non-Mormon in support and vindication of the teachings of God, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, contained in the Word of Wisdom. (The speaker turned to President Smith, and then continued) : The President says that is true : 

"So far as the drink of the drunkards is 'concerned, prohibition does not prohibit. But to clean up a town, to free it from corrosion, saves men, and boys and girls, too, from vice, and who shall say that moral sanitation is not as much the  of the community as physical sanitation. The city of the future will not permit the existence of slums and dives and tippling-houses. It will prohibit their existence for the same reason that it now prohibits pig-pens and dung-heaps and cesspools. For where all these things are, slums and cesspools, saloons and pig-pens, there the people grow weak and die." 

Now we, as Latter-day Saints, do not wish to. grow weak and die. We wish to grow in strength, in power, in ability, in the Spirit of Almighty God. We wish to grow in the power to be clean and sweet in our lives; we wish, in very deed, to so live that otfier men seeing our good deeds shall glorify God and be ready to investigate the truth. 

I indorse, with all my heart, the teachings of the Presidency of the Church and the teachings of the President of the quorum of the Apostles, in our hearing today. I believe that if the Latter-day Saints would, in very deed, observe this law of God, that the rich outpourings of the Spirit of God would be felt among the people as never before. 

May God bless us and inspire us, one and all, with a determination to live up to this resolution and with a determination to serve God and to keep His commandments, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the conclusion of his remarks, Elder Grant read the following 

RESOLUTION. 

Believing in the words and teachings of President Joseph F. Smith, as set forth this morning on the subject of temperance, it is proposed, therefore, that all officers and members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will do  in their power, that can properly be done, with lawmakers generally to have such laws enacted by our legislature, soon to be elected, as may be necessary to close saloons, otherwise decrease the sale of liquor and enact what is known as the "Sunday Law." 

On motion, the immense congregation voted in favor of the resolution submitted, proclaiming "aye" in a unanimous shout. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

The Saints enjoined to walk in the way of righteousness. — They must increase in faith, knowledge, and love. — Laws do not make "men good, but the love of right. 

"And it shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

"And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths. 1 ' 

If I might be permitted, my brethren and sisters, to paraphrase or quote this Scripture as it presents itself to me, this afternoon, I would say : It has come to pass, in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house has been established hi the tops of the mountains, and all nations have flown unto it; and many people have gone, and have come up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God ot Jacob, where they have been taught His ways, and where they have learned to walk in His paths. It seems to me that I see, in this vast congregation of Latter-day Saints who are assembled here this afternoon, the fulfillment of these words  the prophet Isaiah. It seems to me that I see in it justification for the change that I have made in the quotation of this Scripture. We have come to be taught the way of the Lord, that we might walk in His paths. What is the way of the Lord, my brethren and sisters? What are the paths which He has marked out,  and which we have come here that we might walk in them? Jesus said: "I am the way; I am the light; I am the life." If this be true, the way of the Lord is the way that He has taught us. If it is true that we are to follow in the way of the Lord or in the paths of the Lord, then are we to follow after Christ whom we acknowledge as the way. The Psalmist here say* that the way of the Lord- is right eousness, and he appeals to the Lord to teach him that he may walk in that righteous way. The way of the Lord, then, is righteousness; it is to do that which Christ our Savior, has commanded thai we should do. 

Many things which He taught us to do did not come in the way of direct command, but are binding upon us His followers. You who have come up here, my brethren and sisters, have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. This was the way that He taught us, that we should believe in our Eternal Father, that we should recognize Christ as His Son, the Savior of the world. Your presence here this afternoon is witness that you have this faith; consequently, thus far, you are in the way of the Lord. This faith brings hope, and hope is manifest in your lives, in your obedience to the principles of the Gospel. He told us that after faith, after hope in the mercy of God our Eternal Father, repentance is necessary upon our part, that we forsake everything that is not righteous that we get into the righteous way to which the psalmist referred. In order that we might properly enter into it, he bore witness to us that except a man be born of the water and of the Spirit, he could not enter into the kingdom of heaven; and more than that, unless he were born of the Spirit, he could not even see the kingdom of heaven, much less enter into it. So He called us to repentance. You have repented of your sins and are thus in the way of the Lord; because that is the way He marked out. You have gone down into the waters of baptism and have been baptized for the remission of your sins. That was the way of the Lord; you were following in His path, because He Himself was baptized of John, in the river Jordan, and He bore witness to us that in order to fulfill all righteousness so should we be baptized in similitude of His death, and come out of the water in similitude of His resurrection; and so. having done this, you are in the way of the Lord; you are following in His path — that path which He tells us, though easy to follow; though He makes it very plain to us, nevertheless, it is a straight and a narrow path. 

So, my brethren and sisters, we are here in the tops of the mountains, having access to the house of the God of Jacob, having been taught His way, we are learning to walk in His paths. We are not yet perfect, though we have giver, obedience to those fundamental and indispensable ordinances of the Gos pel — not yet perfect before the Lord, because there are other things which are necessary to us that we may learn the way of life now, that we may understand how to apply these ordinances of the 

Gospel, which the Lord has given us, to our everlasting exaltation. It is necessary that our faith be increased by studying more fully the theory of this Gospel of redemption, that we may become familiai with the word of the Lord, understanding all of His dispensation.^ that we may know something of the past, that we may know something of the present, and that we may understand something of the future. He has revealed to us many many great and important things which apply to the future, as well as things concerning the present and the past, that these things may all be brought into harmonious union, that we may understand the providence of the Lord and th J purpose in this great scheme of human life and human redemption which is embodied in the Gospel of Christ. Thus, He expects us to learn; this is a part of His wjay, that we have come here to learn, the way of the Lord. 

If we walked in His paths, we wouldn't need courts, very badly, to keep us in the line of duty; it would not be necessary for us to exercise the privileges and prerogatives which the civil law gives us, in order that men might live righteous lives, but righteousness would be written in our hearts, because of the love of it. We wouid be righteous because we desired righteousness, because we knew that it was the way of the Lord, the narrow path which He had marked Out. For that reason, we would be moral men and women, we would be truthful men and women; we would be virtuous men and women; we would be temperate men and women; we would not be drunkards; we would not be blasphemers, because that is not the way of the Lord; that is not the  He taught us, and that is not the example He set for us to follow. His example was one of righteousness, one of love, one ot mercy, one of charity and of longsuffering, kindness towards all of God's creatures here in the earth. You know that He told us that the greatest of all gifts is charity. You knpw that He told us that the first great commandment is that we should love the Lord our God with all our hearts; and that the next great commandment, which is like unto it, is that we should love our neighbors as we love ourselves. This, He told us, is charity — not that we give liberally to the poor, not that we administer to the wants of those we know are in need, — 'but that the love of God act ually enters into our hearts, that we sympathize with those who are in distress, that we find joy in administering to their wants, that we love each other and, show that love by rendering help ' where help is needed, that we love righteousness and seek, with all our might, to establish it in the earth. 

I am not a strong believer in the ultimate ends that can possibly be accomplished by coercive means. It is all right to apply the law; it is necessary: we could not very well do without it, but far better and above the civil law is faith and the voluntary love that we have, by which we do good and observe the law without compulsion, but because we love it. To illustrate this idea, I have often referred to two great peoples who were upon this American continent at the time of its discovery. The greatest nation in North America was the Aztec nation, with its headquarters where the City of Mexico now stands. Their dominion had been extended over all of this North 

American continent, a great and wealthy empire with a code of laws that in many respects were very remarkable. These people were noted for the rigor with which they applied the law to evil-doers; the murderer was punished by death , the thief among them was punished by death; the adulterer was punished by death; the drunkard was punished by death; the man who struck his father was placed upon an equal plane with the murderer, and the law was rigorously enforced, and yet historians tell us that that people were immoral, and the}' were so devoid of sense of right, so far as conscience was concerned, that it was impossible to lay an article down that was not immediately appropriated by some one else. We are told that murdei and adultery were common among them; in fact, these crimes prevailed to an alarming extent. They had no regard at all for human life. Farther down, in South America, was the empire of the Incas. The emperor stood there as the Son of Heaven, representing himself to be God's vicegerent here on earth, claiming all of that race as his people, his sons and his daughters, — another mighty empire, equal in wealth, equal in numbers, but here the people were governed almost entirely by moral law. They were taught that it was wrong to do evil, that they' must answer to the Great Spirit for the deeds done in the body, and it is written of them that theft was unknown among them; that immorality was unknown among them, that a homicide scarcely ever occurred; a man leaving his house left the door open, with effects exposed, but they were never touched; all the people worked together in harmonious union for the accomplishment of the wellbeing of their fellows. The contrast is very marked. 

So, my brethren and sisters, I feel that the greatest mission these brethren, these presidents of stakes, have before them today, the greatest mission before these bishops, and all the Latter-day Saints in general, who have come up here to learn the way of the Lord, and to walk in His paths, is that we teach righteousness to the people because of the love of it. This is the command of our Father in heaven, and only through this plan, and onlv by righteousness manifest in ou." lives, because of our conversion to the truths of the Gospel, and the way of the Lord, can we please Him. I want to say to you that there is nothing requisite for the happiness, the welfare, the hope  the faith of men and women, that is not. comprehended in the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, as it has been restored to the earth in the dispensation in which we live. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may He inspire us all to do right because we love it, that we may verily walk in the way of the Lord, as we have come up here to do, through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Awake, my soul;" the solo parts were rendered by Lizzie T. Edward and Wm. D. Phillips. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 
