10
Morning
05 04 1902
Elder Reed Smoot. 

People should be fed with the bread of life — Prophecy fulfilled — Progressive character of the community — World afraM of the truth — High moral status of the Saints — Missionary work and proper training of children. 

In looking upon this multitude this morning I can assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I feel my weakness in standing before you; but I rely upon the prayers that have been offered during this conference in behalf of those who shall speak, to guide my utterances. I sense the responsibility that rests upon the servants of the Lord as teachers, to give to the people the word of the Lord. I indeed rejoiced yesterday in listening to the testimonies that were given of the growth of this people. Zion is growing, "Zion kept by power divine." I also rejoiced in hearing the Prophet of the Lord speak to the people and say that they were increasing in good works, in the payment of their tithes, and in numerical strength, and that God was blessing them both temporally and spiritually. I noticed in the Deseret News, on Wednesday, a statement from the president of the 

Mexican mission that 30 members of the Church had come from Mexico to attend this conference, costing them something over $7,000 to make the trip; and I thought to myself, how important it was that every speaker should speak by the power of God, that those faithful Saints should be repaid for so great a financial sacrifice. It is certain every one of them will attend every meeting during this conference, because they came here for no other purpose than to be fed with the word of God. "What a responsibility it is upon those who are called upon to teach people with such faith in God and such devotion to His work, and, as I have said, I feel my weakness in doing so; but I shall claim an interest in the prayers that have been offered, that the spirit of Almighty God may be with me, so that 1 may by the grace of God feed the people the bread of life. 

I also noticed in that same report that in far-off Mexico there were at least 3,000 people who had taken upon them the name of the Lord, who had bowed the knee to the God we worship, who had acknowledged that Jesus is the Christ, and who were members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When Prest. Joseph F. Smith was speaking of the wonderful progress of this work, it was brought to my mind that the prayers of Saints in asking that Zion's Stakes be strengthened and her cords lengthened, have been answered. Not only are we growing in the Rocky mountains, but we are spreading all over the face of the earth. While I was thinking of these things it called to my mind a revelation that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the year 1829, a short time before the Church was organized. Joseph Smith was only 23 years old then, and I ask you today to see if the words that were revealed to the boy Prophet at that time have not been verified in the history of this people. 

"1. Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; 

"2. Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; 

"3. Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work, 

"4. Behold the 'field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"5. And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"6. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humanity, diligence. 

"7. Ask qnd ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. Amen.
