20
Overflow
06 04 1902
Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 

My brethren and sisters, there is an item I would like to speak, of, for the benefit of some of the Latter-day Saints. Many words of instruction have been spoken, and I like to speak them myself; but, somehow, I cannot always get through a conference or meeting without hearing a word or two of condemnation. 

I well remember the remarks of Brother John W. Taylor here, while out in one of the missions. There was quite a congregation of outsiders present, and he was endeavoring to teach them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and was telling them what the Latter-day Saints believed in. He was speaking on the first principles of the Gospel, and was telling them that it was necessary to yield obedience to the commandments of the Lord and be baptized for the remission of sins, and have hands laid upon them, by those holding the proper authority, for the reception of the Holy Ghost. While he was thus speaking two or three of the congregation, as I remember it, arose to their feet, and, with a look of contempt on their faces, started to leave the room. Brother Taylor then added, "We also believe that every man and every woman who enters a house of worship ought to have enough good manners and breeding to remain until the services are concluded.' I thought that was pretty good doctrine, and I hope the Latter-day Saints believe and accept it;, but in case that some of us had forgotten it, T just mentioned it for our benefit. 

I was delighted with the testimony of Brother Penrose, and, in listening to  same I was hoping that when I got to- be as old as he is I would also have the same testimony to bear, and that I shall have passed the most of my life in preaching the Gospel and trying to do what good I can in my calling. (Turning to Brother Penrose). How old are you Brother Penrose? Over 70 years of age, and yet Brother Penrose does not look to be so old; but he could yet make many young men perspire freely, were they to accompany him in a walk. He has a testimony of the truth and has been faithful all the days of his life, thus far, and, evidently, will be the remainder of his life. May God grant him many years of life, that he may still defend, in nis champion way, the Latter-day Saints. He spoke of the union of the Latter-day Saints. They adhere together; they all cling around one standard, because they receive their inspiration from one source. 

My brethren and sisters, God is at the head of this great work, and He is exalting His people. Look at the multitude here and in the Tabernacle today who have gathered ' together to hear the word of the Lord. It is with the spirit of envy that some of those not of our faith witness our unity in assembling together to be instructed in the ways of the Lord. We are Latterday Saints, brethren and sisters, we are one people, no matter where we are or how we may be scattered, and there is only one kind of "Mormons," only one kind of Latter-day Saints. 

I have a clipping here from a newspaper, with reference to a paper which was read by a minister in a religious convention, or convention of ministers, which I will read. It says: 

"The paper of the day was by Rev. Charles J. Godsman, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Auburn. His subject was 'The Essential "Unity of the Christian Church.' He named the different varieties of churches: Six kinds of Adventists, seven kinds of Catholics, twelve kinds of Presbyterians, thirteen of Baptists, sixteen of Lutherans and seventeen of Methodists, with 100 separate entities of churches besides. The speaker deplored this condition of things and looked upon it as contrary to the Scriptures. He maintained, however, that there was a real, deep union of all beliefs, notwithstanding this outward variety. The paper was well received." How many 01 them realize that this condition of things is entirely contrary to Scripture? And of those who did realize this how many were there who had the moral courage to say that it was wrong and contrary to scripture, that in such a condition of separation and disunion there could be no real union in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? They dare not come out and stand on the principle of the thing and say that it is entirely contrary to the will of God. The Latter-day Saints dare do it, because they know it and they are one people and have not divided into a dozen or more sects, there being but one kind of Latter-day Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, as I said. God is exalting us, and I would like to caution you not to seek to exalt yourselves, but to leave that to God, who will exalt us quickly and grandly enough, inasmuch as we seek to keep His laws and commandments. 

One word to the young men and young women. Much has been said with reference to the rearing of children and teaching them the principles of the Gospel. In relation to the Religion Classes brethren and sisters, I would add, there ought to be a Religion Class in the home of every Latter-day Saint. Every member of the Church ought to have a Religion Class, where the children are being taught the principles of the Gospel. I want to say to you young men and young women of which this congregation is, in the main, made up, that belief in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the very first step; and the only way you will ever come to a knowledge of the truth is by first believing the testimony of vour parents and of the servants of God, no matter who or where they are. You have first got to believe their testimony and have faith in their words; then you will come to a knowledge of the truth. The Lord will not condescend to come down in person to each of us to convince us that this is His Church; not by any means. We must believe the words and testimonies. So it has been from the beginning. The sons of Adam had to believe the words of Adam and to put into practice the things taught  before they could know. You young men and young women who may not have a testimony must put into practice what you are taught before you can obtain a witness of the divinity of this work. 

May the Lord bless you and cause you to desire a knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ above all else, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
