23
Morning
06 04 1902
Elder J. G. Duffin. 

(President of the Southwestern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel grateful to my Father in heaven for the privilege of meeting with you in this annual conference, and I trust that the Spirit of God will enable me to briefly report the work of the Lord in the Southwestern States mission. That mission is one of magnificent distances and of liberal-minded people. The people who live in the great majority of the states embraced within the territory that we cover have come from the various states of the Union and from almost every nation under heaven. They have come from among the best classes of the people, and have drifted westward, largely, I believe, because of the liberal spirit that prevails in the western part of the United States. On this account we meet with but little persecution, and wherever our Elders go they are treated well, as a rule. The people generally are religiously inclined. We are meeting with fair success in that mission, not alone measured by the number of baptisms, though they are reasonably satisfactory, but the people are purchasing our publications, and during the past year we have placed in their hands nearly 10,000 of our books, including the Book of Mormon, the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and the . Life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We have also distributed nearly 5,000 of the Voice of Warning and hundreds of an excellent little book written by Prest. Ben. E. Rich, of the Southern States mission. We have emphasized in our labors the truth that God has spoken from the heavens, that He has raised up in these latter days prophrts, and that through them is He giving His word unto all nations of the earth. 

If there ever has been a time when it has been necessary or prudent to dwell almost exclusively upon the four fundamental principles of the Gospel, and to say but little about what God is doing today among His children,  time we have felt impressed, does not now exist in the Southwestern States mission. Because of that we have been led to impress upon the Elders in that mission the importance of studying the revelations of God given today, and to bring before the people that word of God in its purity, to let the people know that God is doing a work today, and not be forever dwelling on the past centuries. This is creating a wonderful impression for good among the people, and their minds are being drawn to the great work that God is doing now. "We have felt the importance of getting our literature into the hands of the people, so that it might be read and impressions for truth be made upon their minds, in place of their reading all the time those books that have been written against the work of God. We have been greatly favored in the past year in getting out a ten thousand edition of that sacred book revealed from God by one of His heavenly messengers, the Book of Mormon. While some of the brethren have been speaking during the conference that we are afraid to attempt what our fathers did, I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that your sons have been led to contribute of their means to that work, knowing that if they would do it God would bless them therein; and that book has been published, half of the expense being borne by the Elders of that mission and by a few others. We feel very grateful for this privilege and we know that it is going to accomplish a great amount of pood. 

The headquarters of our mission is located in what is termed the land of Zion. We are in Kansas City, ten miles only from Independence, the spot where the temple will yet be erected. I have been very much impressed during the last year with the very favorable sentiment that is exhibited in that land toward our people. It is only a few days ago since I received a letter from the city engineer of Independence, stating to me that a portion of the original temple lot was now for sale, and if our people desired to get hold of that we could do so by paying the purchase price. The original temple lot, according to the  on the records, contained about 63 acres, and it is now possible for this people, if they desire, to purchase the greater portion of it. I state this by way of encouragement to the Saints — not that I am particularly impressed that the time is here just now to do that work, though it may be, but to show the sentiment in that land, from which our fathers were driven, and where our mothers and sisters were abused so shamefullv. There are thousands of people today who would welcome you back with open arms, and do all in their power to assist in the building up of the work of the Lord in that country, from a worldly point of view. 

One word more before closing. A few days ago I had business to transact in Kansas City with a leading manufacturer. After we had got through our business, the question of our people going back to that country came up, and he said to me, "Mr. Duffln, it appears to me almost improbable that your people will ever accomplish the work that I understand has been predicted." I said to him, calling him by name, "You have done business with my people; you understand their integrity. Now, let your mind go back to the year 1847. The pioneers went into the Salt Lake valley on the 24th of July of that year. A few days after they reached the place where Salt Lake City now stands, Brigham Young struck his cane on a certain spot, and said, 'Here we will build the temple of our God.' Today the Salt Lake temple stands upon that spot. The idea was never lost sight of that that temple would be erected upon that spot; and never has the idea been lost sight of that the City of Zion .will be built where Independence now stands, and the temple of our God will be erected there." "Well," said he, "it may be so; but if it is, your people will exert a wonderful influence for hundreds of miles around." This is the sentiment of the people. I want to say that God is preparing the way for His work to be accomplished. The words of our beloved Prophet at the opening of this conference are true. I know that Zion is growing, and her borders are extending. I know that GENERAL CONFERENCE.  work of God is established upon this earth, and that it will ultimately prevail. I know that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet of God, and those who have succeeded him have been and are the oracles of God, His prophets and through them has come His word unto the nations of the earth. God bless you. Amen.
