32
Afternoon
06 04 1902
President John R. Winder 

Importan je of Temple work— Vicarious labor for the dead — Resp risibility attached to this duty. 

My brethren and sisters, there is one principle connected with the Gospel of Jesus Christ that has a very warm place in my heart, and that is, our temple work. It was referred to yesterday by Apostle Merrill. I desire to emphasize the remarks made by Brother Merrill concerning this, and I know no better way to do it than to read a few remarks made by the Prophet Joseph Smith in relation to this principle. We find in section 128 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants an address to the Latter-day Saints by the Prophet. He starts out thus: "I now resume the subject of the baptism for the dead, as that subject seems to occupy my mind, and press itself upon my feelings the strongest, since I have been pursued by, my enemies." 

In the 15th paragraph of the same address, we find the following: 

'And now, my dearly beloved brethren and sisters, let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead, and the living, that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation. For their salvation is necessary, and essential to our salvation, as Paul says concerning the fathers, 'that they without us cannot be made perfect;' neither can we without our dead be made perfect." This address was given in April, 1842, not very long previous to his martyrdom. Again, in April, 1844, he preached a sermon at the funeral of King Follet, and in that sermon the following appears: 

"The greatest responsibility in this world that God has laid upon us is to seek after our dead. The Apostle says, 'They without us cannot be made perfect;' for it is necessary that the sealing power should be in our hands, toseal our children and our dead, for the dispensation of the fulness of times. It is necessary that those who have gone before and those who come after, should have salvation, in common with us; and thus hath God made it obligaGENERAL CONFERENCE.  upon man. Hence, God said, 'I will send Elijah the prophet, and he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children,' etc. I have a declaration to make of the provisions which God hath made to suit the conditions of iran, made before the foundations of the world. He made a provision that every spirit in the eternal worlds can be ferreted out and saved. He has wrought out salvation for all men, unless they have committed the sin against the Holy Ghost, and every man who has a friend in -the eternal worlds can save him, unless he has committed the unpardonable sin. And now you can see how far he can become a savior." 

Again, in the Prophet's last sermon but one, delivered on the 12th of May, 1844, just about one month previous to his martyrdom he said: 

"It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead, but you will have to go through all the ordinances for them, the same as you have gone through to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors upon Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number. Every man who has been baptized and belongs to the kingdom has a right to be baptized for those who have gone before." 

This is the point that I want to call your attention to particularly: 

"And as soon as the law of the Gospel is obeyed here by their friends who act as proxy for them, the Lord has administrators there to set them free." 

I could think of no better way, brethren and sisters, to emphasize the remarks made by Brother Merrill yesterday in relation to this subject than to read to you these few words from the Prophet of God. We have spent millions of dollars in building temples and preparing for this work. The doors are open to all of the Latter-day Saints, male and female, provided always that they are worthy and can receive recommends from their Bishops and Presidents of Stakes. "While a great deal of work has been done already, at the same time a great deal more might be done, with the same expense that we are under now. All of the temples are open, but they are not all the time filled. It is true, our temple here is pretty well patronized. I could name a few individuals who have done a grand work in this direction. I have in my  now one dear old German lady, who commenced work in this temple soon after it was dedicated. She spent her means, obtained assistance, and had work done for 1,800 persons — her relatives and friends. The last time she was there she came to me and said, "Nov/, I have finished my work, and I would like to put my record in the archives of the temple." In a very short time — only a few weeks — she passed away to the other side. What a glorious time she would have with those 1,800 persons that she had released from prison! How many are there of you in this congregation that have relatives and friends on the other side waiting for you to do the work for them ? Take this matter into consideration, and try to make an effort to carry on the work and to release those who are waiting for you. Since the dedication of this temple there have been 685,966 ordinances performed in it; and in all the temples there have been 2,409,128 ordinances performed. When I reflect on this, my brethren and sisters, I am inclined to think that there is a large congregation on the other side. Many of our Prophets and Apostles have gone there, and I have read to you that there is an organization there, so that as soon as the ordinances are performed here the parties are informed of it. I believe it, brethren and sisters, and that there is a host there. 

Now, you have kindly voted to sustain me as a counselor to the President. I wish to tell you that the aim and object of my life from this time on will be to stand up and sustain my President. As the Lord will give me strength and ability, I propose to do that thing. I pray that the blessing of the Lord may attend His people. God bless you all, brethren and sisters, and may we be faithful and true to our covenants, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
