33
Afternoon
06 04 1902
President Joseph P. Smith. 

I hope that the congregation will be patient just a few moments more. We have a little matter of business to bring before the conference by way of a notice for action in the future, probably at the next October conference. 

The Latter-day Saints generally are familiar with the book called the Pearl of Great Price. The old edition of it has been accepted by the Church as an authentic doctrinal work. It has now been re-published, with some improvements. It has been divided into chapters and verses, with references on the bottom of the pages. This has been done, under the sanction of the Presidency of the Church, by Elder James E. Talmage. We have eliminated from the Pearl of Great Price those revelations it formerly contained which are to be found, and always were, in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, believing that it was unnecessary to publish revelations in the Pearl of Great Price that were included in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. These changes have been made in the book,  it is now ready for the use of those who desire to obtain it; and at the coming October conference the book will be presented to the conference for their acceptance in its revised and changed form. 

The choir sang the anthem: Hosanna. 

The benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. Conference adjourned for six months. 

Note: — The attendance at this conference, throughout, was larger than on any other similar occasion in the history of the Church. 

The stenographic work, in taking a full account of the proceedings, was done by Arthur Winter. 

JOHN NICHOLSON, Clerk of Conference. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 

Annual General Conference. 

At the conference of the Deseret Sunday School Union, held in the Tabernacle, Sunday evening, April 6th, there were present of the general superintendency: Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds and Joseph M. Tanner, nearly all the members of the Sunday School Union board, the stake authorities then in the city, and the largest attendance of Sunday school workers ever gathered. All of fifty stakes of Zion were represented except Alberta, Bingham, Big Horn, Maricopa, St. Joseph, San Luis, St. Johns, Snowfiake and Teton. 

The meeting was presided over by General Superintendent Joseph F. Smith, and commenced by the choir singing the hymn, "High on the mountain top." Opening prayer was offered by Elder John B. Maiben of Manti. This was followed by the hymn, "Zion stands with hills surrounded." 

Following the calling of the roll secretary George D. Pyper read the 1901 annual statistical and financial report of the Sunday schools throughout the Church, which gives the following gratifying showing: 

Number of Sunday schools in the organized stakes of Zion, 716 — an increase of 37 over the report of 1900. 

Number of schools in missions, 339, an increase of 38. Total schools throughout the Church, 1,055 — an increase of 75 schools. 

Number of officers and teachers in organized stakes, 13,576 — increase, 1,102; In missions, 1,622 — increase 39. Total officers and teachers, 15,198 — an increase of 1,141. 

Number of pupils in the organized stakes, 50,992 males, 53,413 females. Total, 104,405. Increase, 4,077. 

Number of pupils in mission schools, 4,335 males, 5,185 females. Total, 9,520. Increase, 773. 

Total pupils, 55,327 males, 58,598 females. Total, 113,925. Increase, 4,850. 

The report shows that there are 3,271 more girls than boys in the Sunday schools. 

Number of Sunday school officers and missionaries not on the ward rolls: In organized stakes, 338; in missions, 121: total, 509; an increase of 157. 

Total of officers, teachers, Sunday school missionaries and pupils: In ororganized stakes, 38; in mission, 121; 263. Grand total of 129,632, and a total increase over 1900 of 6,148. 

The report also shows for 1900 an average attendance of 69,474, and for 1901, 75,683, an increase of nearly nine per cent. 

The Sunday schools have collected $23,182.81, and expended, $18,423.21, having a balance on hand of $4,759.60. 

Out of 118,369 officers, teachers, and pupils, the report shows that 87 per cent, or 102,881 keep the "Word of Wisdom. 

The general authorities of the Sunday schools were presented and unanimously sustained. 

RPJMARKS OF APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT. 

Our Sunday school interests are not very extensive in Japan, as yet. I will simply say that we live in hopes of having, in the providence of the Lord, Sabbath schools in that empire, by the time the next conference is held. 

I have always enjoyed my labors in the Sabbath school and the Mutual Improvement Association, and I rejoice in  -wonderful growth of the Sunday School interest among the Latter-day Saints, and in the remarkable advancement that has been made. I feel that there is nothing in which we can take more pride and satisfaction than the increased knowledge, as to the principles of the Gospel, and the plan of life and salvation, that our children have today, in comparison with what many of us had when we were children. 

I remember that, when I was made the president of the Tooele stake of Zion, I had never had any experience whatever. in public speaking; never had I spoken ten minutes at any one time, and I was then nearly 24 years of age. I imagine now, with our Church schools, religion classes, Sabbath schools and Mutual Improvement Associations, that it would be a very dimcult matter to find, among the intelligent young men and women that have attended these institutions, one who could not stand up and speak intelligently.for fifteen minutes or a half hour on the principles of the Gospel. I rejoice when I realize that this is the case, and that there has been such an advancement among our children in the knowledge of the Gospel and their ability to explain the same and to give a reason for the hope that is within them. 

I remember being selected as one of the officers of the first Mutual Improvement Association that was organized under the direction of our late President Brigham Young, and, as I con'emplate the growth of the Sabbath schools. Mutual Improvement Asociations and Church schools, my heart is filled with gratitude and thanksgiving to my heavenly Father. 

I realize that the destiny of the Latter-day Saints is very great. I realize that the prophecies that have been made with reference to this people will ail have to be fulfilled; that the little stone cut from the mountain without hands is to roll forth and fill the whole earth. I realize that it will be necessary that our children be fitted, qualified and prepared by education by study, and also by faith in God, our heavenly Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ, if they successfully fulfill their destiny. That the Saints will fu fill  destiny, that they will accomplish all that God desires them to accomplish, I have no doubt. Whether we, as individuals, shall do all that is possible for us to do is a personal matter. I have often said in my remarks to the Saints, that each and every one of us are the architects of our own lives; that God will bless us in proportion to our faithfulness and diligence. I rejoice in the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that there is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven, which was decreed before the foundation of this world, upon which all blessings are predicted. He says that if we receive any blessing, it is by obedience to the law upon which it is predicated. Our children today in the Sabbath schools, the Mutual Improvement Associations and Church schools are fulfilling the law whereby they are entitled to have ability and knowledge and capacity to proclaim the Gospel and to give a reason for the hope that is within them. God will bestow the blessing if we will do our part, for He will not fail to do His. He has said that if we keep His laws and commandments that He is then bound to bestow the blessing. 

I rejoice in the growth of the Sabbath school work. I remember that the first trip that I took, after being called as one of the Twelve Apostles, was to the Stakes of Colorado, San Juan and to Arizona. I went with Apostle Brigham Young. I remember thinking that he was an aged man; but I am as old now as he was then, lacking but a few months, and I well remember hearing him say that he was only a boy in the Gospel, and it sounded strange to me; but I feel that I am very young yet in the Gospel. I remember while on that trip, that I bought a North American Review, while on the train, and read an article on Sabbath schools, (written by a man that had been engaged in the Sabbath school work in New York City for many years,) bewailing the condition of affairs in that great city. He said fifteen hundred high class Christians attending one fine big church in that city could not muster one hundred children. He said the only way that they could make a respectable showing at all, a showing that was not a disgrace to them, was to go out into the slums and hire children to attend their Sunday school. When I realize that there are over 130,000 engaged in the Sabbath school work of the Latterday Saints, that there are over 100,000 Sabbath school children, and that the Latter-day Saints only number about 400,000, including these 100,000 children, then it is that I realize that we, as a people, are fulfilling the first great commandment that God gave to our father Adam and mother Eve, to multiply and replenish the earth. We are not drying up the fountains of life, but are keeping that great commandment, and, therefore, we are fulfilling the law that was irrevocably decreed, whereby we shall become great and mighty. God bless you. Amen.
