34
Afternoon
06 04 1902
Elder Jos. W. Summerhays. 

We have established in this city a Sunday school that is known as the University Sunday school. We secured accommodations for the school in the Latter-day Saints' University . The school, however, is open to all those who come into our city to attend our institutions of learning, who do not belong, directly to the ward in which they reside while in Salt Lake City. We are informed that there are a few who are now attending our institutions of learning that do not attend this Sunday school. We ask you, my brethren and sisters, when you go home, to see the parents of those attending schools in this city, and ask them to write to their children requesting them to attend the Sunday school and the university; and if these parents will also address a letter to Supt. Milton Bennion, he will see that they are visited and labored with and that an effort is made to get them to attend the University Sunday school. Of course, it is intended that those who attend school at the State University and other institutions, whether they are of our faith or not, shall be made' perfectly welcome. We shall be glad to have them come, and feel certain that they will be benefited by so doing. 

Some time ago a Sunday School His was issued. It contained an account of the doings of our Sunday schools for the first fifty years of their existence in these valleys. It was proposed as we had a number on hand that these histories be sent around to the different stakes pro rata, and that they should pay for them. All the stakes have now received their quota but two. We have still outstanding on this account about $1,300, and we would like to have the stake superintendents see to it, when they return to their homes, that these accounts are settled and the proceeds forwarded to our office. 

We are distributing to the Sunday schools, this season, last years' volume of the Juvenile Instructor. This, of course, is free. Most of the stakes have received their portion of these volumes but we have learned that there are one or two stakes that have not distributed them to '" their respective schools. Now, brethren, we would like to have them distributed to the schools. They are bound, as you are aware, and we want the schools to have the benefit of them, as there are many things in them that will be of advantage to the schools. We would like to have the superintendents of those stakes who have not yet received these books call on our business manager, Brother T. C. Griggs, and get them, or make arrangements for their delivery. 

The Sunday School Treatise, as you are no doubt aware, recommends that, in opening the schools on Sunday morning, you have roll-call, singing, prayer, then singing again, after which the minutes are to be read. Application has been made to the Board to change this, on the ground that the Sacrament can be more properly administered after the singing of an appropriate hymn than immediately following the reading of the minutes or the giving out of notices. Some of the superintendents feel that it would be better, after the morning prayer, to give out the notices and read the minutes, and then, after singing again, to administer the Sacrament. Now, the Deseret Sunday School Union Board has ho objection to this change, where desired by any of the schools. 

Some' of the Stake Sunday School authorities have sent to the Union Board, for literature, stating that they would  that it was paid for. The literature, has been sent, and some of the stakes are still owing considerable for the same. We need money badly just at present, and would be glad if you would close up these accounts. Let us have the means that you have in your hands, and then sell what literature you have left on hand and remit to us for that also. 

We have been trying, as a Sunday School Union Board, to introduce into our schools better methods, and to get, if possible, teachers that have had more training. Now some have imbibed the idea that no one should teach in the Sunday School that is not a graduate from an institution of learning. We want to correct this. 

Thirty years ago, next October, the first Sunday School statistical report was sent in to the Sunday School authorities. We then numbered, all told, 14,007 souls, if my memory serves me correctly. You have heard, this evening, that we have in the fifty organized stakes of Zion, seven hundred and sixteen Sunday Schools. Several of these schools number hundreds of pupils. One, at least, numbers nearly 1,200. Some of them have a membership of over six hundred, and many have five hundred. The work is growing very fast. People who do not travel through the stakes of Zion cannot understand how we are increasing; but, perhaps, you will be able to form some idea of the scope of country these seven hundred and sixteen schools cover when I tell you that the distance from the farthest Sunday School in the North to the farthest in the South is nearly as great as that from Salt Lake City to Buffalo, New York. We are spreading out; we are increasing in a wonderful manner, but not as fast as we might. There is one reason why we are not increasing as fast as we might; I do not want to say much about it, but I want to give it as my opinion, that if some of our young men would marry, we would increase a little faster. It has been my privilege to travel among some of the missions, and I find that about seventy-five per cent of the missionaries are not married; but most of them ought to be. There is something else I want to tell you: In the fifty or stakes of Zion there are some wards that have over sixty marriageable young women that have no chance to marry because the young men are not willing. This is all wrong, and it is not a healthy condition. I would like to say to every young man that can marry, it is your privilege to get married, and give the girls a chance to get married also. In one of these wards I spoke to a young woman who is over thirty-two years of age, and asked her why she did not marry. Her reply was, "If you will send in some good Latterday Saint young men, there will be no trouble about the young women marrying." There is another reason why our Sunday schools are not increasing as fast as they might. Quite a proportion of our Sunday school population are not identified with us yet. Most of these are boys, and we should look after those who are not in the Sunday school and take a deep interest in their welfare. 

To go back to my subject again, I want to say that the increase in our Sunday schools during these last 30 years has not been brought about by college-bred men; therefore, my brethren and sisters, those of you who have not graduated from some institution of learning need not be discouraged. In saying this, do not think for a moment that we do not uphold education. We want everybody educated; but it is wrong to think that a person cannot teach in a Sunday school except he has a first class education. What is wanted in every Sunday school teacher is a testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and a knowledge of the Gospel and- a love for God's work, coupled with the ability to impart that knowledge and infuse that love in others. 

I pray God to bless the Sunday school interests, and to bless you, my brethren and sisters, so that, from the far north to the far south we shall keep spreading out and organizing new Sunday schools, and keep making Latter-day Saints of our boys and girls, that they may become men and women after God's own heart. I ask it in the name, of Jesus Christ. Amen.
