35
Afternoon
06 04 1902
General Superintendent Joseph F. Smith. 

I have been requested to make a few remarks, and I shall certainly try to be brief. 

There is one point that has rested upon my mind in relation to the Sabbath Schools, and it is this: I think there is nothing in the Sunday School work more necessary or essential than that all the teachers of the Sunday Schools should win the love and the confidence of their pupils. I believe that greater good can be done in the Sunday Schools by the teachers where they have the absolute affection andi confidence of their pupils than under any other conditions. -You may teach them, you may drill them in concert, and you may have them commit to memory, and labor in every other way that you possibly can to accomplish the good that you desire with your children, but in nothing, in my opinion, can you succeed so well as when you possess their undivided love and confidence. If a ohild thinks a teacher is harsh with him or her, or unkind toward him, or does not feel a real, genuine love for him, if he feels that the teacher is not taking a real interest in him as one who loves him, he can never be led to possess the right spirit; but when he feels that the teacher loves him, is trying to do him good and to teach him that which will be for his everlasting welfare, then you have an influence over that child, that when he studies he will study with a purpose and with an earnest desire to be benefitted and to please the teacher; because he knows and feels in his little heart that the teacher loves him and is seeking to do him good. I have entertained this sentiment from the beginning and in relation to the instruction of little children. It is a principle that obtains at the home as well as in the Sunday School. If you can only convince your children that you love them, that your soul goes out to them for their good, that you are their truest friend, they, in turn, will place confidence in you and will love you and seek to do your bidding and to carry out your wishes with your love, or are harsh or speak concerning them. But if you are selfish unkindly to them, and if they are not confident that they have your entire affection, they will be selfish, and will not care whether they please you or carry out your wishes or not, and the result will be that they will grow wayward, thoughtless and careless, and although you may drill them, like a parrot, to repeat verses and to speak in concert, and all that sort of thing, they will do it mechanically, without affection, and without its having that effect upon their souls that you desire it should have. 

I felt to say that much, in relation to the influence of the Sunday School teachers. Be good and kind to the; win their affection. You can do more that way than you can with the rod; you can do more than you can by tyranny or by any forceful means. 

May the Lord bless the teachers of the Sunday Schools, and give them the spirit of meekness and kindness, that they may be able to convince the children entrusted to their care that they love them and are seeking for the welfare and happiness of their souls, and the children, in turn, will love them and strive to learn and to do good. God bless you. Amen.
