36
Afternoon
06 04 1902
Elder L. John Nuttall. 

The program for our work during the present year has been gotten out by the Sunday School Union Board, and copies have been forwarded to the different Stake superintendents. If there are any who have not received these programs, we desire to have you call at our general headquarters and obtain enough for the different schools of your Stake. In connection with this, the time for holding the conferences of the different Stakes has been provided. We have, however, since learned that, in three of the Stakes, at least, our appointments interfere with the quarterly Stake conferences; therefore, it has been necessary to make changes in those Stakes. The Sunday School Union Board, early in the season, sent out le 1ters to the different Stakes, asking if more than one day for holding the Sunday school conference would be desired. We have only received answers from four desiring more than one day for their conference services. Those four are the Jordan, Cassia, Summit and Star Valley Stakes. There may be others also that desire to hold two days' conference, and the program is sufficient to enable them to do so. Therefore, if any desire more than one day, we will ask you to make it known to our secretary, so that proper arrangements may be made therefor. 

Dates for holding annual Stake Sunday school conferences, 1902: 

Boxelder, Sunday, April 20. 

Utah, Sunday, April 27. 

Malad, Nebo, Cache, Sunday, May 11. 

Jordan, Saturday and Sunday, May 17 and 18. 

Alpine, Juab, Woodruff, Sunday, May 18. 

Bingham, St. George, San Juan, Sunday, May 25. 

San Luis, Sunday, June 1. 

Bannock, (first district) Granite, Parowan, Sunday, June 8. 

Beaver, North Sanpete, Sevier, Sunday, June 15. 

Millard, South Sanpete, Sunday, June 22. 

Bear Lake, "Cassia, Sunday, June 29. 

Star Valley, Saturday and Sunday, July 5 and 6. 

Union, "Wayne, Sunday, July 6. 

Oneida, Panguitch, Pocatello, Sunday, July 13. 

Summit, Sunday and Monday, July 13 and 14. 

Alberta, Kanab, Wasatch, Sunday, July 20. 

Big Horn, Hyrum, Sunday, July 27. Benson, Teton, Morgan, Sunday, Aug. 

10. 

Bannock (second district), Uintah, Sunday, Aug. 17. 

Tooele, Emery, Sunday, Aug. 24. 

Salt Lake, Sunday, Aug. 31. 

Davis, Fremont, Sunday, Sept. 14. 

Weber, Sunday, Sept. 21. 

It is desirable, my brethren of the Stake superintendencies, that those of you who have not received your quota of the questions to be answered by the ward superintendents, will secure them, and that you will see to it that these reports, after being filled out by the various superintendents of the schools of your Stake, are in the hands of your Stake secretaries at least three days before your conference, so that the visiting brethren of the union board, when they meet with you, may have the opportunity of looking them over and ascertaining the conditions of the schools in your Stakes without having to ask the superintendents to arise and make their reports verbally. 

Tou will note in the program that there is provision, where we only have one day's services, for but one ward superintendent to make a verbal report. All others will have to be made in writing. We also desire that you will have 

* Cassia will hold two days' session, superintendent to decide for second 

day.  last year's report, and also the reports of your ward superintendents, as made at the last conference, on hand at the coming conference, so that comparisons may be made in regard to the work that is being done, to the end that all that is desired may be accomplished in the interests of the youth of Zion, that our organization may fill its place —the nursery of all the organizations in the Church. The grand object that we have in view' in the Sunday school organization, being to make Latter-day Saints of our children. 

May God bless us, and let the power of His spirit attend us as officers and workers in the Sunday school, in the faithful discharge of the labors devolving upon us, to the end that we may accomplish our mission on earth, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
