Afternoon
06 04 1902




PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

My brethren and sisters, it is with peculiar feelings that I stand before you. For one reason, I was not expecting to occupy this position; but I trust, by your faith and prayers I may say something which will be of benefit, not only to you, but to myself. I can bear testimony to the truth of that which we have heard thus far during this conference. I can bear testimony that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us, and has guided those who have spoken to us. I trust that we as Latter-day Saints, will treasure up in our minds that which we have heard, and carry it with us to our homes, that it may abide with us and guide our actions in the future. I can bear testimony that this is the work of God, and that we are His people. So far as we will follow the instructions we receive from those who are set to preside, and be guided by our Father in h aven, I know that His blessings will rest upon us. If we will strive to do our duty, live our religion, and conduct ourselves in that way that shall be pleasing unto our Father in heaven, all will be well with us. I know that my Redeemer lives, and that Jesus is the Christ, and that if we will do our duty as Latterday Saints we will reap the reward which our Father has in store for us. I feel to exhort my brethren and sisters to faithfulness and to diligence; for we understand that every Latter-day Saint has certain known duties to perform. We realize that it is our duty to remember our prayers, to pay our tithes and offerings, and to do unto others as we would wish them to do unto us under like circumstances. But if I have a hobby, it is what I have said in times past: I feel to exhort my young brethren to faithfulness, to diligence of , to prepare themselves by study and by attending the Mutual improvement associations, and striving to inform their minds at home, that when they are called to labor in the ministry they may go forward enabled to perform that duty unto which they may be called; for I realize, from many circumstances I have seen, that oftentimes our boys, although they are honest and willing to do their duty, have neglected to prepare themselves for the ministry, so much so that when they get into the field they are at a lost,, and it takes them sometime before they can commence to do that amount of good that they would do from the start if they informed their minds before they left home. I feel to strive to know my duty and to perform the same in that way and manner that shall meet the approval of my Father in heaven. I desire an interest in the prayers of the Saints, that I may be able to fill my mission in honor and accomplish the work whereunto my Father in heaven has called me. May the blessings of our Father rest upon all Isreal, and guide us in the true path, that when we have finished our course we may be worthy of the blessings which He has promised us, is may prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

The time to favor Zion come-— Prnpheti' declarations fulfilled — Evidence of GrO'P- har d over the Saints — Ma-lyrdnm of Joseph and Hyrum 

This is a day of rejoicing, and I feel to bless the name of my Redeemer for the privilege - that I have of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in this conference. It is not often that we behold so many of our people assembled together as we witness this day, beneath this roof. God is exceedingly merciful unto the Latter-day Saints, and I am satisfied that prosperity and peace will dwell in their midst, as long as they observe to keep His commandments. The set time has come to favor Zion. Zion has been favored all the days that I remember in this life. Though driven and peeled by our enemies, God has sustained us, and we have grown, and enlarged, and built up the country, and become a great people. I have often heard the brethren prophesy of the day  we now behold — that the few who were gathered here upon a tenacre block would multiply, others would gather in, and a great people would be established in these mountains. How speedily have these words been fulfilled! God is blessing the people. We witness it upon every hand; and if we continue to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth as it is in Him, this people will soon be the head, not the tall; for virtue, uprightness, honesty and continuity of purpose will bring the honest and the pure to the head of the whole world. I know something about the condition of the nations, our own nation included. The wickedness that is abroad in the land is a reproach to the United States. It is a reproach to us that wickedness should prevail to the extent that it does. But as true as there is a God in heaven, the Latter-day Saints — not the latter-day sinners, but the Latterday Saints— and the pure who do not claim to be Latter-day Saints, will rise up and be the head of this nation. I do not say that we are a government within a government. We are one with our parent government. But purity, excellency and honesty are sure to bring a people to the front. God designs it, and it will come to pass. 

I feel to bless this people with all my heart and soul. I feel to bless every man and woman, of whatever land or religious denomination they may be, who feel to exalt Christ and Him crucified, and who preach this doctrine for the salvation of the human family. God help them; God help us. When the record is written and published that this people have made, under the guidance of inspired men, it will equal if not surpass any record that the people of God have ever made on this globe. It is a testimony in and of itself that should convince all men who are acquainted with it, that the people are guided by the hand of Jehovah. But there is something beyond this to the Latter-day Saints. Who is there in this congregation that has the living testimony and the fire of the Spirit of God in them? Brethren and sisters, answer that yourselves. Have I that testimony in me? Have you that testimony in you? It is the priceless gem that God  upon His anointed, and upon His sons and daughters who seek Him with undivided hearts. I know that this people have it, because I see and feel it. The inspiring influences of that Spirit are in the midst of this people; and we are bound to succeed, because there is no power that can resist the influences of that Spirit and the revelations of God. Never in the history of this people will evil come upon them, unless they forsake their Redeemer. Never will sickness, death or anything come in your homes, but what God designs it for the benefit, the upbuilding and enlarging of the dominion of the Latter-day Saints. We have control over sickness — how far? Are there any deaths among us? There are, and good people die; but there is something in this that is far beyond my understanding; for I remember the time well when our Prophet Joseph Smith and our Patriarch Hyrum Smith — two of the noblest men that ever stood upon the earth — rode to their death. They went to death at Carthage. What for? To leave the people without a shepherd? To leave us there in the midst of our enemies, trembling and like lost sheep? Oh, no! They went to seal their testimony with their blood, which cannot be refuted by all the world. They gave their lives to sustain this work, and it was necessary, according to the revelations that we have received. Are we any better than they? Are we any better than Christ? No. If God permits a thing, shall we complain at it? But I do testify to you this day that nothing will come to me, nothing will come to you, to your families, or to anything that God has given you, but what you will acknowledge His hand in it, and it will be for your salvation and the salvation of your families. I know it because God is doing this work. He has the issues of life and death in His hands, and I know that when these things occur, His hand is in them, if we are living right before Him; and there is no power beneath the earth nor above the earth that can check this, handiwork of the Almighty for the uplifting, guiding and consolidating of His people. These things are hard to bear; but, brethren and sisters, I say to you as I say to myself; in rr>' prayers every day I acknowledge His hand in all things, because I know He has my welfare at heart, come life or death, poverty, riches, persecution, or whatever it is. The Church of Christ will rise; the kingdom of God will burst forth, His purposes will be accomplished, and the exaltation of the faithful will be assured, and no one can hinder it. 

I testify of these things unto you. I would like to talk a little longer, but there is no time; indeed I am not able to talk more. But I want to bless the people. I_want you to hear my voice, for it is not stilled yet. I want you to hear me say, God bless you, brethren and sisters, and all the Latter-day Saints, from the center to the extremities. God be with the people. He is with them, and He will continue to be. We need not to fear famine, nor drouth, nor grasshoppers, nor insects of any kind; we need not to fear any foemen, nor any weapon. Pear God, and Him only; for He will bear us oft victorious under all circumstances. We will live and grow and become better, and rise higher and become nobler and more efficient in our labors, if we serve Him with undivided hearts. God grant that this may be the case with all of us; that we may never shirk a duty, nor turn pale nor our knees tremble before our enemies. May He give us the Spirit of the Lord, and much of it, to send the Gospel forth to the nations, open up new missions, go to those who sit in darkness, preach the Gospel by the power of the Spirit to the poor and the destitute, to those who are not civilized as well as those who are. May He give us the power to accomplish this great work, and build up His kingdom, labor in His Temples, and accomplish a work for the living and the dead, that all may rise together, and that we may become a power in the earth and fill the whole earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: Let the mountains shout for joy. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH P. SMITH presented, to be voted upon by the conference, the 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OP THH CHURCH, 

as follows: 

Joseph P. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Brigham Toung, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Brigham Toung, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias P. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot and Hyrum M. Smith. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First seven presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Toung, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham Henry Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

Wiliam B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Toung, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph -M. Tanner and John R. Winder. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, O. F. Whitney, A. M. Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the conference. 

All of the voting was unanimous. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Ennobling rules of conduct— Man's indebtedness to Q id— Tae only pat iwajf to exaltation— Goodwill toward all men— Unity a principle of power — Parental care of the family. 

I desire to express my sincere gratitude to God my Heavenly Father and to all the Latter-day Saints assembled here for the unanimity of faith and feeling- which exists among them, and for the confidence that they have shown in the presiding authorities of the Church, and also in observing the laws of God as far as they have done. There are laws which we do not observe as we should; there are principles of the Gospel which are perhaps too pure and exalted for us to live them as we should; but I believe with all my heart — I ea. % ot consistently believe otherwise — that we are growing in grace and in the knowledge of the truth, and that the day will come, and I pray that it may be hastened, when the people of God will not only be faithful in keeping the law of tithing, but that they will be faithful also in observing the Word of Wisdom, which is a law of God, and that we will be faithful in observing that most sacred and most important law of God — the law of chastity, wherein we may preserve the purity of our own persons and the chastity of our neighbors and associates as we would preserve our own lives. I would to God that the time may come, and that it is not far distant, when the Latter-day Saints will live up to the golden rule taught by the Son of God, (than whom none so perfect has ever sojourned in the flesh upon the earth,) to do unto others as we would have others do unto us; and in this way stop all faultfinding, all bickerings, all jealousies, all contentions, and all strife, and, as far as practicable, remove every possible chance for misunderstanding amongst us, that we may see as we are seen and know as we are known, that we may be true men and women in the cause of Zion and of human redemption, that God may put His holy name upon us and we bear that holy name acceptably before Him. The object of our being here is to do the will of the Father as it is done in heaven, to work righteousness in the earth, to subdue wickedness and put it under our feet,  conquer sin and the adversary of our souls, to rise above the imperfections and weaknesses of poor, fallen humanity, by the inspiration of Almighty God and His power made manifest, and thus become Indeed the Saints and servants of the Lord in the earth. 

Let us sustain the cause of Zion. Let no man speak lightly of the principles of the Gospel. Let no one treat lightly the ordinances of the house of God. Let no one hold in derision the Priesthood that the Lord has restored to the earth, which is the authority that He has given unto men. Let no man look contemptuously upon the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it has been established in the earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom the Lord raised up when he was but a child to lay the foundation of the same. Let no man treat these things lightly or doubtingly; but let ever man seek earnestly to understand the truth and teach his children to become familiar with those truths of heaven that have been restored to the earth in the latter day. I believe with all my soul in God the Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I believe with all my might, mind and strength in the Savior of the world, and in the principle of redemption from death and sin. I believe in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I believe in all the truth that I know, and I believe that there are many principles of eternal truth that still lie hid from me and from the understanding of men, which will yet be revealed by the power of God unto His faithful servants. I believe that the Lord has revealed to the children of men all that they know. I do not believe that any man has discovered any principle in science, or art.; in mechanism, or mathematics, or anything else, that God did not know before he did. Man is indebted to the source of all intelligence and truth, for the knowledge that he possesses; and all who will yield obedience to the promptings of the Spirit, which leads to virtue, to honor, to the love of God and man, and to the love of truth and that which is ennobling and enlarging to the soul, will 

86 GENERAL, C< 

get a clearer, a more expansive, and a more direct and conclusive knowledge of God's truths than anyone else can do. I tell you this, because I know it is true. The Lord Almighty lives; He made the heavens and the earth, and the fountains of water; and we are His children, His offspring, and we are not here by chance. The Lord designed our ccming, and the object of our being. He designs that we shall accomplish our mission, to become conformed to the likeness and image of Jesus Christ, that, like Him, we may be without sin unto salvation, like Him we may be filled with pure intelligence, and like Him we may be exalted to the right hand of the Father, to sit upon thrones and have dominion and power in the sphere in which we shall.be called to act. I testify to this doctrine, for the Lord has made me to know and feel the truth of it from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet. I love good, honorable men — even men who may be mistaken, as far as their judgment is concerned, but who try to do right; I love them for the reason that they are my brethren, the sons of my Father, and I would that they might all see the truth as it is in Christ Jesus, and accept it, and receive all the benefits of it, in time and throughout all eternity. If the Lord has revealed to the world the plan of salvation and redemption from sin, by which men may be exalted again into His presence and partake of eternal life with Him, I submit, as a proposition that cannot be controverted, that no man can be exalted into the presence of God and attain to a fulness of glory and happiness in His kingdom and presence, save and except he will obey the plan that God has devised and revealed. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel in my heart that we have had a' time of rejoicing during this conference. I wish we had a place big enough to hold the Latter-day Saints at conference. I do not know but we will have to build some boweries or something else on this temple block, to accommodate by overflow meetings the multitude of people who come to conference in the performance of their duty, many of whom cannot be accommodated in this Tabernacle. But we will visit you; we will  to you who cannot come to us, and we will carry our spirit and testimony unto you and exhort you in your homes, if the Lord will give us the strength to do it. Provided my strength holds out and my brethren do not object, I propose, the Lord being willing, to visit the Saints a little, and encourage them in their homes; let them know what we are, what we believe in, and how much we love them for Christ's sake, that they may receive His truth, and be exalted by it and eventually return into His presence. We want to visit St. George, and all the settlements between. We want to visit the northern settlements, as far as we possibly can, and see you in your ciies. When we come, brethren and sisters, we hope that you will receive us in the same spirit that we take to you— the spirit of love and of earnest desire for your welfare and happiness and for the happiness of all mankind. We have no ill feeling in our hearts toward any living creature. We forgive those who trespass against us. Those who have spoken evil of us, and who have misrepresented us before the world, we have no malice in our hearts toward them. We say, let God judge between them and us; let Him recompense them for their work. We will not raise a hand against them; but we will extend the hand of fellowship and friendship to them, if they will repent of their sins and come unto the Lord and live. No matter how malicious they may have been, or how foolish they may have acted, if they will repent of it we will receive them with open arms, and we will do all we can to help them to save themselves. I cannot save you; you cannot save me; we cannot save each other, only so far as we can persuade each other to receive the truth, by teaching it. When a man receives the truth he will be saved by it. He will not be saved merely because someone taught it to him, but because he received and acted upon it. The Gospel is consistent; it is common sense, reason, revelation; it is almighty truth from the heavens made known to man. 

The Lord bless you. We propose to do our duty according to the light we possess, by the help of the loving Father. I propose to do nothing that I  not the most positive assurance is right, through the unanimity of my counselors, our seeing eye to eye, and our understanding alike together with as many more of the leading brethren as possible. I do not propose to do anything, or suffer anything to be done or sanctioned which will affect the kingdom of God in the earth, except by common consent, or unless we can see eye to eye upon it, then I know we shall have strength behind us, that the power of God will be with us, and the Saints will uphold and sustain our hands. Now, I want to hear from Presidents Winder and Lund. God bless Israel. May peace and prosperity goodwill and holy love for the truth abide with you and be multiplied upon you, is my earnest prayer. And oh! my brethren, be true to your families, be true to your wives and children. Teach them the way of life. Do not allow them to get so far from you that they will become oblivious to you or to any principle of honor, purity or truth. Teach your children so that they cannot commit sin without violating their conscience. Teach them the truth, that, they may not depart from it. Bring them up in the way they should go, and when they get old they will not depart from it. If you will keep your boys close to your hearts, within the clasp of your arms; if you will make them to feel that you love them, that you are their parents that they are your children, and keep them near to you, they will not go very far from you, and they will not commit any very great sin. But it is when you turn them out of the home, turn them out of your affections — out into the darkness of the night into the society of the depraved or degraded; it is when they become tiresome to you, or you are tired of their innocent noise and prattle at home, and you say, "Go off somewhere else." It is this sort of treatment of your children that drives them from you, and helps to make criminals and infi'lels of them. Tou cannot afford to do this. How would I feel to enter into the kingdom of God — (if such a thing were possible) — and see one of my children outside among the sorcerers, the whoremongers and those that love and make  lie, and that because I had neglected my duty toward him or had not kept the proper restraint upon him? Do you think I shall be exalted in the kingdom of my God with this stain and blot upon my soul? I tell you, No! No man can get there until he atones for such crime as this — for it is a crime in the sight of God and man for a. father to carelessly or wilfully neglect his children. This is my sentiment. Take care of your children. They are the hope of Israel, and upon them will rest, by and by, the responsibility of bearing off the kingdom of God in the earth. The Lord bless them and keep them in the paths of righteousness, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Past and present status of the Church — Work of God spreading wherever It has reached — Authenticity of the Book of Mormon. 

We have had a great many instructions given us during this conference, and I believe all who are present have rejoiced in what they have heard. When I look upon this vast assemblage I ask myself, what would the Prophet Joseph have thought, 72 years ago today, if he could have beheld what we see — this large Tabernacle filled, the Assembly Hall full, and still hundreds of people on the grounds? When they met on the 6th of April, 1830, to organize the Church, it was accomplished with six persons, and there were not more than that number of members of the Church at that time. Those who met on that occasion rejoiced in their meetings; and experienced a rich outpouring of the Holy Ghost. 

Even at that time the principle enunciated by our President today, that all things should be done by common consent, was carried out. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery had received the Aaronic Priesthood under the hands of John the Baptist. Afterwards they received the Melchisedek Priesthood under the hands of Peter.James and John. This, no doubt, was in the summer of 1829. We do not know the exact date, but the Prophet Joseph tells us that the Lord commanded him that when the Church was organized he should ordain Oliver Cowdery an Elder, anft Oliver Cowdery should ordain him an Elder. Mind you, they held the Melchisedek Priesthood, but the office of an Elder was to he given them when they could be sustained by the Church. Before they were ordained, they laid this matter before the members of the Church, who sustained them by their votes; then they ordained each other to this office in the Melchisedek Priesthood. They held the Melchisedek Priesthood before, but to be the presiding Elders of the Church they must have the consent of the members, and it was granted. 

Prom that little beginning 72 years ago, this has come to pass! Thousands have heard the name of the Prophet Joseph. In Europe, on the islands of the sea, in America, and in Asia, messengers bearing glad tidings, are proclaiming that God has revealed Himself, and that Joseph Smith was His prophet. Many who hear their testimonies believe and join the Church, while many others have not the moral courage to do so. We feel encouraged to look back on the work of last year. Wherever the Elders have gone success has attended their labors. In England they have baptized more this last year than they have done for a number of years before. We thought that the work was nearly done there, but still the Elders have been baptizing hundreds in that land. In Germany there are good prospects. The Elders there are laboring faithfully and gaining the ears of the people. This morning I read an account of a Sunday school at Koeningsburg, in East Prussia, very close to the Russian empire. The school is composed of children of Saints and of outsiders; in fact, four-fifths do not belong to our Church. These children go to the school, and sing our songs. They sing them, too, in their homes; and other children are falling in love with the songs of Zion. It has been said, "If I can have the making of the songs of a nation, I will mold the sentiment of that nation." If we can get the people to sing the songs of Zion, the Spirit will go with them, and it will draw the hearts of the people to us. In other places likewise they have had success in the Sunday school movement, and also in preaching. In Saxony — a place where the cradle of  Reformation stood — we have had the most success as a conference; over 100 were baptized there last year. In the Netherlands our Elders have had more baptisms to the Elder than in any other mission in Europe. In Scandinavia the work is progressing as usual. The members of the Church are trying to build a meeting house at the capital of Denmark, which I hope they will finish this summer, so that our good Copenhagen Saints may have a suitable house of worship to which they can invite their friends and be proud to take them. On the islands of the sea the Gospel is also spreading. 

The Book of Mormon has been translated intoTahitian and Samoan,and it is already printed in the Maori and Hawaiian. Tou have heard the good report from Apostle Grant concerning Japan. There a Shinto priest has joined the Church. In Turkey a leading Mohammedan has been baptized — something very unusual. When the Lord begins the great work of touching these nations, many will accept the truth. His work will grow in the earth. He has commenced it, and He will see that it is carried forward triumphantly. The Book of Mormon has also been translated into the Turkish language, by Brother Hintze. Gradually the word of the Lord contained in that book will be translated into the leading languages of the earth, so that all men can read it. The external and inte-rnal evidences in favor of it are many. Any one who will read the Book of Mormon with a prayerful heart will feel that he is reading what has been written under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. Men have doubted the origin of it; they knew that Joseph Smith could not write it, and have therefore tried to give the honor to others. The theory that Spaulding was the author of it has been exploded by the discovery of the Spaulding manuscript, though I hear that the argument is being put forth now. "Who knows but he wrote some other manuscript, if that which has been found and given to the world is not the origin of the Book of Mormon?" If such arguments as that may be used, when can anything be refuted ? Others have said that Sidney Rigdon was the writer. Sidney Rigdon did not  the book till it was printed and delivered to him by Parley Pratt and others who visited him. Anyone who will read what Sidney Rigdon has written may know that Sidney Rigdon was not the author of the Book of Mormon. His style was totally unlike the style of that book. The style of the Book of Mormon is plain and simple. Sidney Rigdon's style was diffuse and labored, often lacking in clearness. He was a great preacher, and when he was moved upon by the Spirit he could enthuse his hearers; but he could not have written the Book of Mormon. Who that has seen a man's handwriting and become familiar with it, that cannot tell it when he sees it again? Men show their individuality in their writing, and one does not write like another. If you have studied style, you will readily see that Sidney Rigdon is not the author of that book. 

The Prophet Joseph did not pretend to be a writer; still he had a clear and forcible style. When I read his little daybook from 1832 to 1834, I am struck with his ability to express his thoughts. 

Notwithstanding all that the Lord had done for him he was a humble man. Yet he was by nature an able man, and when the Lord endowed him with the Holy Spirit and gave him revelations from on high, he became a great man — the one chosen to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times, and by the help of our Heavenly Father he laid the foundation broad and wide. 

Brethren and sisters, let us do our duty in helping to carry on this work. Tou have received a testimony of the truth; let it continue to burn in your hearts. Do not feel to stop your work or to lag in your diligence; but continue zealous for the cause. Remember what you have received, and how the Lord has blessed you in giving you the truth, and remember the duty that rests upon you to make it known unto others. How thankful I am when I see the response our brethren give to the calls to go upon missions! Daily we receive their letters, and generally they contain these words: "We are ready to go." We commend the brethren for this readiness, and hope that in all other duties devolving upon them they wffl show the same readiness. God  you, and help us to serve Him, to do our duty while opportunity is given us, that at last we may be saved, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER 

Importan je of Temple work— Vicarious labor for the dead — Resp risibility attached to this duty. 

My brethren and sisters, there is one principle connected with the Gospel of Jesus Christ that has a very warm place in my heart, and that is, our temple work. It was referred to yesterday by Apostle Merrill. I desire to emphasize the remarks made by Brother Merrill concerning this, and I know no better way to do it than to read a few remarks made by the Prophet Joseph Smith in relation to this principle. We find in section 128 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants an address to the Latter-day Saints by the Prophet. He starts out thus: "I now resume the subject of the baptism for the dead, as that subject seems to occupy my mind, and press itself upon my feelings the strongest, since I have been pursued by, my enemies." 

In the 15th paragraph of the same address, we find the following: 

'And now, my dearly beloved brethren and sisters, let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead, and the living, that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation. For their salvation is necessary, and essential to our salvation, as Paul says concerning the fathers, 'that they without us cannot be made perfect;' neither can we without our dead be made perfect." This address was given in April, 1842, not very long previous to his martyrdom. Again, in April, 1844, he preached a sermon at the funeral of King Follet, and in that sermon the following appears: 

"The greatest responsibility in this world that God has laid upon us is to seek after our dead. The Apostle says, 'They without us cannot be made perfect;' for it is necessary that the sealing power should be in our hands, toseal our children and our dead, for the dispensation of the fulness of times. It is necessary that those who have gone before and those who come after, should have salvation, in common with us; and thus hath God made it obligaGENERAL CONFERENCE.  upon man. Hence, God said, 'I will send Elijah the prophet, and he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children,' etc. I have a declaration to make of the provisions which God hath made to suit the conditions of iran, made before the foundations of the world. He made a provision that every spirit in the eternal worlds can be ferreted out and saved. He has wrought out salvation for all men, unless they have committed the sin against the Holy Ghost, and every man who has a friend in -the eternal worlds can save him, unless he has committed the unpardonable sin. And now you can see how far he can become a savior." 

Again, in the Prophet's last sermon but one, delivered on the 12th of May, 1844, just about one month previous to his martyrdom he said: 

"It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead, but you will have to go through all the ordinances for them, the same as you have gone through to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors upon Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number. Every man who has been baptized and belongs to the kingdom has a right to be baptized for those who have gone before." 

This is the point that I want to call your attention to particularly: 

"And as soon as the law of the Gospel is obeyed here by their friends who act as proxy for them, the Lord has administrators there to set them free." 

I could think of no better way, brethren and sisters, to emphasize the remarks made by Brother Merrill yesterday in relation to this subject than to read to you these few words from the Prophet of God. We have spent millions of dollars in building temples and preparing for this work. The doors are open to all of the Latter-day Saints, male and female, provided always that they are worthy and can receive recommends from their Bishops and Presidents of Stakes. "While a great deal of work has been done already, at the same time a great deal more might be done, with the same expense that we are under now. All of the temples are open, but they are not all the time filled. It is true, our temple here is pretty well patronized. I could name a few individuals who have done a grand work in this direction. I have in my  now one dear old German lady, who commenced work in this temple soon after it was dedicated. She spent her means, obtained assistance, and had work done for 1,800 persons — her relatives and friends. The last time she was there she came to me and said, "Nov/, I have finished my work, and I would like to put my record in the archives of the temple." In a very short time — only a few weeks — she passed away to the other side. What a glorious time she would have with those 1,800 persons that she had released from prison! How many are there of you in this congregation that have relatives and friends on the other side waiting for you to do the work for them ? Take this matter into consideration, and try to make an effort to carry on the work and to release those who are waiting for you. Since the dedication of this temple there have been 685,966 ordinances performed in it; and in all the temples there have been 2,409,128 ordinances performed. When I reflect on this, my brethren and sisters, I am inclined to think that there is a large congregation on the other side. Many of our Prophets and Apostles have gone there, and I have read to you that there is an organization there, so that as soon as the ordinances are performed here the parties are informed of it. I believe it, brethren and sisters, and that there is a host there. 

Now, you have kindly voted to sustain me as a counselor to the President. I wish to tell you that the aim and object of my life from this time on will be to stand up and sustain my President. As the Lord will give me strength and ability, I propose to do that thing. I pray that the blessing of the Lord may attend His people. God bless you all, brethren and sisters, and may we be faithful and true to our covenants, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH P. SMITH. 

I hope that the congregation will be patient just a few moments more. We have a little matter of business to bring before the conference by way of a notice for action in the future, probably at the next October conference. 

The Latter-day Saints generally are familiar with the book called the Pearl of Great Price. The old edition of it has been accepted by the Church as an authentic doctrinal work. It has now been re-published, with some improvements. It has been divided into chapters and verses, with references on the bottom of the pages. This has been done, under the sanction of the Presidency of the Church, by Elder James E. Talmage. We have eliminated from the Pearl of Great Price those revelations it formerly contained which are to be found, and always were, in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, believing that it was unnecessary to publish revelations in the Pearl of Great Price that were included in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. These changes have been made in the book,  it is now ready for the use of those who desire to obtain it; and at the coming October conference the book will be presented to the conference for their acceptance in its revised and changed form. 

The choir sang the anthem: Hosanna. 

The benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. Conference adjourned for six months. 

Note: — The attendance at this conference, throughout, was larger than on any other similar occasion in the history of the Church. 

The stenographic work, in taking a full account of the proceedings, was done by Arthur Winter. 

JOHN NICHOLSON, Clerk of Conference. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 

Annual General Conference. 

At the conference of the Deseret Sunday School Union, held in the Tabernacle, Sunday evening, April 6th, there were present of the general superintendency: Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds and Joseph M. Tanner, nearly all the members of the Sunday School Union board, the stake authorities then in the city, and the largest attendance of Sunday school workers ever gathered. All of fifty stakes of Zion were represented except Alberta, Bingham, Big Horn, Maricopa, St. Joseph, San Luis, St. Johns, Snowfiake and Teton. 

The meeting was presided over by General Superintendent Joseph F. Smith, and commenced by the choir singing the hymn, "High on the mountain top." Opening prayer was offered by Elder John B. Maiben of Manti. This was followed by the hymn, "Zion stands with hills surrounded." 

Following the calling of the roll secretary George D. Pyper read the 1901 annual statistical and financial report of the Sunday schools throughout the Church, which gives the following gratifying showing: 

Number of Sunday schools in the organized stakes of Zion, 716 — an increase of 37 over the report of 1900. 

Number of schools in missions, 339, an increase of 38. Total schools throughout the Church, 1,055 — an increase of 75 schools. 

Number of officers and teachers in organized stakes, 13,576 — increase, 1,102; In missions, 1,622 — increase 39. Total officers and teachers, 15,198 — an increase of 1,141. 

Number of pupils in the organized stakes, 50,992 males, 53,413 females. Total, 104,405. Increase, 4,077. 

Number of pupils in mission schools, 4,335 males, 5,185 females. Total, 9,520. Increase, 773. 

Total pupils, 55,327 males, 58,598 females. Total, 113,925. Increase, 4,850. 

The report shows that there are 3,271 more girls than boys in the Sunday schools. 

Number of Sunday school officers and missionaries not on the ward rolls: In organized stakes, 338; in missions, 121: total, 509; an increase of 157. 

Total of officers, teachers, Sunday school missionaries and pupils: In ororganized stakes, 38; in mission, 121; 263. Grand total of 129,632, and a total increase over 1900 of 6,148. 

The report also shows for 1900 an average attendance of 69,474, and for 1901, 75,683, an increase of nearly nine per cent. 

The Sunday schools have collected $23,182.81, and expended, $18,423.21, having a balance on hand of $4,759.60. 

Out of 118,369 officers, teachers, and pupils, the report shows that 87 per cent, or 102,881 keep the "Word of Wisdom. 

The general authorities of the Sunday schools were presented and unanimously sustained. 

RPJMARKS OF APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT. 

Our Sunday school interests are not very extensive in Japan, as yet. I will simply say that we live in hopes of having, in the providence of the Lord, Sabbath schools in that empire, by the time the next conference is held. 

I have always enjoyed my labors in the Sabbath school and the Mutual Improvement Association, and I rejoice in  -wonderful growth of the Sunday School interest among the Latter-day Saints, and in the remarkable advancement that has been made. I feel that there is nothing in which we can take more pride and satisfaction than the increased knowledge, as to the principles of the Gospel, and the plan of life and salvation, that our children have today, in comparison with what many of us had when we were children. 

I remember that, when I was made the president of the Tooele stake of Zion, I had never had any experience whatever. in public speaking; never had I spoken ten minutes at any one time, and I was then nearly 24 years of age. I imagine now, with our Church schools, religion classes, Sabbath schools and Mutual Improvement Associations, that it would be a very dimcult matter to find, among the intelligent young men and women that have attended these institutions, one who could not stand up and speak intelligently.for fifteen minutes or a half hour on the principles of the Gospel. I rejoice when I realize that this is the case, and that there has been such an advancement among our children in the knowledge of the Gospel and their ability to explain the same and to give a reason for the hope that is within them. 

I remember being selected as one of the officers of the first Mutual Improvement Association that was organized under the direction of our late President Brigham Young, and, as I con'emplate the growth of the Sabbath schools. Mutual Improvement Asociations and Church schools, my heart is filled with gratitude and thanksgiving to my heavenly Father. 

I realize that the destiny of the Latter-day Saints is very great. I realize that the prophecies that have been made with reference to this people will ail have to be fulfilled; that the little stone cut from the mountain without hands is to roll forth and fill the whole earth. I realize that it will be necessary that our children be fitted, qualified and prepared by education by study, and also by faith in God, our heavenly Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ, if they successfully fulfill their destiny. That the Saints will fu fill  destiny, that they will accomplish all that God desires them to accomplish, I have no doubt. Whether we, as individuals, shall do all that is possible for us to do is a personal matter. I have often said in my remarks to the Saints, that each and every one of us are the architects of our own lives; that God will bless us in proportion to our faithfulness and diligence. I rejoice in the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that there is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven, which was decreed before the foundation of this world, upon which all blessings are predicted. He says that if we receive any blessing, it is by obedience to the law upon which it is predicated. Our children today in the Sabbath schools, the Mutual Improvement Associations and Church schools are fulfilling the law whereby they are entitled to have ability and knowledge and capacity to proclaim the Gospel and to give a reason for the hope that is within them. God will bestow the blessing if we will do our part, for He will not fail to do His. He has said that if we keep His laws and commandments that He is then bound to bestow the blessing. 

I rejoice in the growth of the Sabbath school work. I remember that the first trip that I took, after being called as one of the Twelve Apostles, was to the Stakes of Colorado, San Juan and to Arizona. I went with Apostle Brigham Young. I remember thinking that he was an aged man; but I am as old now as he was then, lacking but a few months, and I well remember hearing him say that he was only a boy in the Gospel, and it sounded strange to me; but I feel that I am very young yet in the Gospel. I remember while on that trip, that I bought a North American Review, while on the train, and read an article on Sabbath schools, (written by a man that had been engaged in the Sabbath school work in New York City for many years,) bewailing the condition of affairs in that great city. He said fifteen hundred high class Christians attending one fine big church in that city could not muster one hundred children. He said the only way that they could make a respectable showing at all, a showing that was not a disgrace to them, was to go out into the slums and hire children to attend their Sunday school. When I realize that there are over 130,000 engaged in the Sabbath school work of the Latterday Saints, that there are over 100,000 Sabbath school children, and that the Latter-day Saints only number about 400,000, including these 100,000 children, then it is that I realize that we, as a people, are fulfilling the first great commandment that God gave to our father Adam and mother Eve, to multiply and replenish the earth. We are not drying up the fountains of life, but are keeping that great commandment, and, therefore, we are fulfilling the law that was irrevocably decreed, whereby we shall become great and mighty. God bless you. Amen. 

A quartet, "Refuge," was sung by Elders Pyper, Whitney, Patrick and Spencer. 

ELDER JOS. W. SUMMERHAYS. 

We have established in this city a Sunday school that is known as the University Sunday school. We secured accommodations for the school in the Latter-day Saints' University . The school, however, is open to all those who come into our city to attend our institutions of learning, who do not belong, directly to the ward in which they reside while in Salt Lake City. We are informed that there are a few who are now attending our institutions of learning that do not attend this Sunday school. We ask you, my brethren and sisters, when you go home, to see the parents of those attending schools in this city, and ask them to write to their children requesting them to attend the Sunday school and the university; and if these parents will also address a letter to Supt. Milton Bennion, he will see that they are visited and labored with and that an effort is made to get them to attend the University Sunday school. Of course, it is intended that those who attend school at the State University and other institutions, whether they are of our faith or not, shall be made' perfectly welcome. We shall be glad to have them come, and feel certain that they will be benefited by so doing. 

Some time ago a Sunday School His was issued. It contained an account of the doings of our Sunday schools for the first fifty years of their existence in these valleys. It was proposed as we had a number on hand that these histories be sent around to the different stakes pro rata, and that they should pay for them. All the stakes have now received their quota but two. We have still outstanding on this account about $1,300, and we would like to have the stake superintendents see to it, when they return to their homes, that these accounts are settled and the proceeds forwarded to our office. 

We are distributing to the Sunday schools, this season, last years' volume of the Juvenile Instructor. This, of course, is free. Most of the stakes have received their portion of these volumes but we have learned that there are one or two stakes that have not distributed them to '" their respective schools. Now, brethren, we would like to have them distributed to the schools. They are bound, as you are aware, and we want the schools to have the benefit of them, as there are many things in them that will be of advantage to the schools. We would like to have the superintendents of those stakes who have not yet received these books call on our business manager, Brother T. C. Griggs, and get them, or make arrangements for their delivery. 

The Sunday School Treatise, as you are no doubt aware, recommends that, in opening the schools on Sunday morning, you have roll-call, singing, prayer, then singing again, after which the minutes are to be read. Application has been made to the Board to change this, on the ground that the Sacrament can be more properly administered after the singing of an appropriate hymn than immediately following the reading of the minutes or the giving out of notices. Some of the superintendents feel that it would be better, after the morning prayer, to give out the notices and read the minutes, and then, after singing again, to administer the Sacrament. Now, the Deseret Sunday School Union Board has ho objection to this change, where desired by any of the schools. 

Some' of the Stake Sunday School authorities have sent to the Union Board, for literature, stating that they would  that it was paid for. The literature, has been sent, and some of the stakes are still owing considerable for the same. We need money badly just at present, and would be glad if you would close up these accounts. Let us have the means that you have in your hands, and then sell what literature you have left on hand and remit to us for that also. 

We have been trying, as a Sunday School Union Board, to introduce into our schools better methods, and to get, if possible, teachers that have had more training. Now some have imbibed the idea that no one should teach in the Sunday School that is not a graduate from an institution of learning. We want to correct this. 

Thirty years ago, next October, the first Sunday School statistical report was sent in to the Sunday School authorities. We then numbered, all told, 14,007 souls, if my memory serves me correctly. You have heard, this evening, that we have in the fifty organized stakes of Zion, seven hundred and sixteen Sunday Schools. Several of these schools number hundreds of pupils. One, at least, numbers nearly 1,200. Some of them have a membership of over six hundred, and many have five hundred. The work is growing very fast. People who do not travel through the stakes of Zion cannot understand how we are increasing; but, perhaps, you will be able to form some idea of the scope of country these seven hundred and sixteen schools cover when I tell you that the distance from the farthest Sunday School in the North to the farthest in the South is nearly as great as that from Salt Lake City to Buffalo, New York. We are spreading out; we are increasing in a wonderful manner, but not as fast as we might. There is one reason why we are not increasing as fast as we might; I do not want to say much about it, but I want to give it as my opinion, that if some of our young men would marry, we would increase a little faster. It has been my privilege to travel among some of the missions, and I find that about seventy-five per cent of the missionaries are not married; but most of them ought to be. There is something else I want to tell you: In the fifty or stakes of Zion there are some wards that have over sixty marriageable young women that have no chance to marry because the young men are not willing. This is all wrong, and it is not a healthy condition. I would like to say to every young man that can marry, it is your privilege to get married, and give the girls a chance to get married also. In one of these wards I spoke to a young woman who is over thirty-two years of age, and asked her why she did not marry. Her reply was, "If you will send in some good Latterday Saint young men, there will be no trouble about the young women marrying." There is another reason why our Sunday schools are not increasing as fast as they might. Quite a proportion of our Sunday school population are not identified with us yet. Most of these are boys, and we should look after those who are not in the Sunday school and take a deep interest in their welfare. 

To go back to my subject again, I want to say that the increase in our Sunday schools during these last 30 years has not been brought about by college-bred men; therefore, my brethren and sisters, those of you who have not graduated from some institution of learning need not be discouraged. In saying this, do not think for a moment that we do not uphold education. We want everybody educated; but it is wrong to think that a person cannot teach in a Sunday school except he has a first class education. What is wanted in every Sunday school teacher is a testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and a knowledge of the Gospel and- a love for God's work, coupled with the ability to impart that knowledge and infuse that love in others. 

I pray God to bless the Sunday school interests, and to bless you, my brethren and sisters, so that, from the far north to the far south we shall keep spreading out and organizing new Sunday schools, and keep making Latter-day Saints of our boys and girls, that they may become men and women after God's own heart. I ask it in the name, of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder George Hamlin recited a beautiful little poem, entitled, "The Combatant." ASST. SUPT. JOS. M. TANNER. 

It must have been very gratifying tonight to all present, when Secretary Pyper read the report of our Sunday schools. There has been indeed a very remarkable increase. You will notice that the increase is largely in the number of teachers, and I am pleased to say that our Sabbath schools now have enlisted in their work some of the best and most devoted talent in the Church. Many of our young men and young women, who have taken time and means to educate themselves, are today loyally supporting, by their aid and instruction, the great Sabbath school work. This increase in the number of our young people in the schools, in my judgment, is not the most important report that we have to make to you tonight. Those who are familiar with the work generally of the Sunday schools throughout the Church, know very well that there has been a very wonderful improvement in the character of the instructions given; that greater skill and better methods have been brought into our Sunday schools, and, in very many instances, they have been quite revolutionized. 

It is also gratifying to note, this evening, that we have in this work the co-operation and sympathy of the presiding authorities; the presidents of the Stakes and Bishops are proud of their schools; they are enthusiastic regarding every improvement that is made, and, altogether, we have great occasion for rejoicing tonight. 

Perhaps some of you noticed, some time ago, an item in the Deseret News, that a Sunday school worker, not of our faith, from the state of Ohio, was attending a Sunday school convention in the city of Washington, and that he declared there that the "Mormon" Sunday schools were the best in the world. That was indeed a compliment, and I have no doubt but that it was deserved. Yet there are still opportunities for improvement. 

I desire to call your attention tonight to a subject that I believe is one worthy the consideration of the authorities of the Church, and especially of the Sunday schools. That is the question of our amusements. I am associat with the Church schools, and the question of the religious education of our young people comes to me from that source, as well as from the Sunday schools. In visiting these schools I have had occasion to ask the principals what, in their judgment, was the greatest obstacle today to our school work, and the very general answer has been that there is too much dancing. I want to say to you tonight that where our young people are out to a dance once or more every week, it has a tendency to demoralize them, in a religious and in an intellectual sense. It is not only the time that is devoted to it, but it is the excitement that precedes and follows it that is so harmful to our school work. In some places it becomes absolutely necessary to regulate the attendance of our students in the dances and require that they get the permit of the principal before they attended any balls. Only a year or two ago I was riding through Salt Lake City in company with some of the leaders of the National Education Association. They were considering Salt Lake City as a suitable place for some future convention of that great body of educators. As we were passing the Salt Lake Theater it was pointed out, and one of these national educators took occasion to remark that President Young was indeed a man of great foresight and wisdom, whatever people might think of his religious belief. Said he, he (President Young) recognized that pleasure enters into the life of man, and he proposed, as far as he could, to guide the whole man. The physical man, the man in quest of pleasure, as well as the man devoted to religion and worship. And, said he, the man that today can control the amusements of the people and restrict them in their excessive pleasure, and can make their amusements proper and suitable, must certainly be a great benefactor to his fellow-men. I take it that these words are very true. Indeed, I realize that it is possible for the amusement-maker in all communities to undo much of the good that is accomplished in the Sunday school by turning our children loose to excessive pleasures. It has a tendency to demoralize them; it makes them seekers after pleasure rather than  the love of God and after knowledge and information; and it is to be hoped that our Sunday school officers will, as far as they can, control the amusements of the children. We want to enter into their entire lives; we want them to feel that we are interested in all that they do, that we are with them in the schoolroom, that we are with them in the dance, in the concert, and in all those necessary and nroper amusements which our young people ought to have; and we ought to guard, on the other hand, against a spirit of excessiveness. It would he gratifying, indeed, if the spirit of the Sunday school could control in the ballroom as it controls in the meeting house or schoolroom. We would be glad if those men whose example is before the children in the classes could be with them occasionally in the ballroom, that there might always be some representative of these school workers and officers at all the amusements. Let us control the lives of our young people in their entirety. Let us not surrender the pleasures to the professional amusement makers, but let us see to it that our children are under our control in all the affairs of life. I want to say to you tonight that when ever you go into a community that is given to excessive pleasure, having dances once, twice, and sometimes three and four nights a week, you may depend upon it that they have not a first class Sunday school. We have discovered that our Church schools are worse off in those communities where there is no restriction placed upon the amusements, and the young people go at will. I take it that this is something worthy the consideration of our people. Years ago our amusements were controlled more than they are today, and the dances and amusements were opened by prayer. That was the good oldfashioned custom among us. I want to say to you that if we can start our young people out in the ballroom under the spirit and influence of devotion to their God, after having listened to a short prayer, they are not so likely to be guilty of that giddiness, and, ofttimes, impropriety that characterizes some of our dances. We ought to look after the dress of  young people, also. We are not seeking the fashions of the world; we are a sober God-fearing people, devoted to our religion. We need recreation, but only as a matter of relaxation. We must not be controlled wholly by the spirit of pleasure.  Let us control our amusements and keep them subject to the influences of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and then if the amusements are within the keeping of the religious organizations of the Church in the various wards, we will gather to us into the Sabbath Schools a great many young men that are very indifferent today. If they find that the Sabbath School and other organizations are controlling all the life of the people, the pleasures as well as the devotions of the young, then they will be brought under that influence, and it will only be a question of time before there will be created in their hearts a love for the Sabbath School. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. Let us rejoice in the work that we are doing, and let us remember also that there are matters that need our attention, and that it is our duty to go on and improve. God bless the officers of our Sunday Schools, these men and women who are teachers, who are devoting, unconsciously, perhaps, their lives for the blessing of the youth of Zion, who are some day to be the glory of God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang "Let the Hills Resound." 

GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I have been requested to make a few remarks, and I shall certainly try to be brief. 

There is one point that has rested upon my mind in relation to the Sabbath Schools, and it is this: I think there is nothing in the Sunday School work more necessary or essential than that all the teachers of the Sunday Schools should win the love and the confidence of their pupils. I believe that greater good can be done in the Sunday Schools by the teachers where they have the absolute affection andi confidence of their pupils than under any other conditions. -You may teach them, you may drill them in concert, and you may have them commit to memory, and labor in every other way that you possibly can to accomplish the good that you desire with your children, but in nothing, in my opinion, can you succeed so well as when you possess their undivided love and confidence. If a ohild thinks a teacher is harsh with him or her, or unkind toward him, or does not feel a real, genuine love for him, if he feels that the teacher is not taking a real interest in him as one who loves him, he can never be led to possess the right spirit; but when he feels that the teacher loves him, is trying to do him good and to teach him that which will be for his everlasting welfare, then you have an influence over that child, that when he studies he will study with a purpose and with an earnest desire to be benefitted and to please the teacher; because he knows and feels in his little heart that the teacher loves him and is seeking to do him good. I have entertained this sentiment from the beginning and in relation to the instruction of little children. It is a principle that obtains at the home as well as in the Sunday School. If you can only convince your children that you love them, that your soul goes out to them for their good, that you are their truest friend, they, in turn, will place confidence in you and will love you and seek to do your bidding and to carry out your wishes with your love, or are harsh or speak concerning them. But if you are selfish unkindly to them, and if they are not confident that they have your entire affection, they will be selfish, and will not care whether they please you or carry out your wishes or not, and the result will be that they will grow wayward, thoughtless and careless, and although you may drill them, like a parrot, to repeat verses and to speak in concert, and all that sort of thing, they will do it mechanically, without affection, and without its having that effect upon their souls that you desire it should have. 

I felt to say that much, in relation to the influence of the Sunday School teachers. Be good and kind to the; win their affection. You can do more that way than you can with the rod; you can do more than you can by tyranny or by any forceful means. 

May the Lord bless the teachers of the Sunday Schools, and give them the spirit of meekness and kindness, that they may be able to convince the children entrusted to their care that they love them and are seeking for the welfare and happiness of their souls, and the children, in turn, will love them and strive to learn and to do good. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER L. JOHN NUTTALL. 

The program for our work during the present year has been gotten out by the Sunday School Union Board, and copies have been forwarded to the different Stake superintendents. If there are any who have not received these programs, we desire to have you call at our general headquarters and obtain enough for the different schools of your Stake. In connection with this, the time for holding the conferences of the different Stakes has been provided. We have, however, since learned that, in three of the Stakes, at least, our appointments interfere with the quarterly Stake conferences; therefore, it has been necessary to make changes in those Stakes. The Sunday School Union Board, early in the season, sent out le 1ters to the different Stakes, asking if more than one day for holding the Sunday school conference would be desired. We have only received answers from four desiring more than one day for their conference services. Those four are the Jordan, Cassia, Summit and Star Valley Stakes. There may be others also that desire to hold two days' conference, and the program is sufficient to enable them to do so. Therefore, if any desire more than one day, we will ask you to make it known to our secretary, so that proper arrangements may be made therefor. 

Dates for holding annual Stake Sunday school conferences, 1902: 

Boxelder, Sunday, April 20. 

Utah, Sunday, April 27. 

Malad, Nebo, Cache, Sunday, May 11. 

Jordan, Saturday and Sunday, May 17 and 18. 

Alpine, Juab, Woodruff, Sunday, May 18. 

Bingham, St. George, San Juan, Sunday, May 25. 

San Luis, Sunday, June 1. 

Bannock, (first district) Granite, Parowan, Sunday, June 8. 

Beaver, North Sanpete, Sevier, Sunday, June 15. 

Millard, South Sanpete, Sunday, June 22. 

Bear Lake, "Cassia, Sunday, June 29. 

Star Valley, Saturday and Sunday, July 5 and 6. 

Union, "Wayne, Sunday, July 6. 

Oneida, Panguitch, Pocatello, Sunday, July 13. 

Summit, Sunday and Monday, July 13 and 14. 

Alberta, Kanab, Wasatch, Sunday, July 20. 

Big Horn, Hyrum, Sunday, July 27. Benson, Teton, Morgan, Sunday, Aug. 

10. 

Bannock (second district), Uintah, Sunday, Aug. 17. 

Tooele, Emery, Sunday, Aug. 24. 

Salt Lake, Sunday, Aug. 31. 

Davis, Fremont, Sunday, Sept. 14. 

Weber, Sunday, Sept. 21. 

It is desirable, my brethren of the Stake superintendencies, that those of you who have not received your quota of the questions to be answered by the ward superintendents, will secure them, and that you will see to it that these reports, after being filled out by the various superintendents of the schools of your Stake, are in the hands of your Stake secretaries at least three days before your conference, so that the visiting brethren of the union board, when they meet with you, may have the opportunity of looking them over and ascertaining the conditions of the schools in your Stakes without having to ask the superintendents to arise and make their reports verbally. 

Tou will note in the program that there is provision, where we only have one day's services, for but one ward superintendent to make a verbal report. All others will have to be made in writing. We also desire that you will have 

* Cassia will hold two days' session, superintendent to decide for second 

day.  last year's report, and also the reports of your ward superintendents, as made at the last conference, on hand at the coming conference, so that comparisons may be made in regard to the work that is being done, to the end that all that is desired may be accomplished in the interests of the youth of Zion, that our organization may fill its place —the nursery of all the organizations in the Church. The grand object that we have in view' in the Sunday school organization, being to make Latter-day Saints of our children. 

May God bless us, and let the power of His spirit attend us as officers and workers in the Sunday school, in the faithful discharge of the labors devolving upon us, to the end that we may accomplish our mission on earth, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

I congratulate the congregation on the good order which has been kept here tonight. 

I have been pleased to see such a large attendance of Sunday school workers. I hope that you will remember the excellent lesson President Smith gave us. If you want influence over the children you must reach their hearts. While we desire them taught in the principles of the Gospel, and wish them to obtain knowledge, still we want to reach their hearts; and instil in them a love for virtue. We want to make them see the beauty of virtue and to make them love it. We want to make them understand how odious vice is, and teach them to detest it. That is the great mission we have to perform every Sunday morning, when we meet with our precious little ones. Make the school attractive; gather all that can attend into a school and try to get their love, as our President has counseled us tonight. 

May the Lord bless you in the good work in which you are engaged. 

I also feel to thank the Tabernacle choir for their presence here and their beautiful singing. I would say let our Sunday school children learn singing. When they grow up, the boys especially, and become missionaries, what a blessing it is to them to be able to sing. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 

I was struck when I read the statement in the Juvenile that our songs are being sung amongst the children of the outsiders in Germany, through the presence and labors of our Sunday schools. When our Sunday school children learn to sing the songs of Zion, they will love to come together and partake of the spirit present in the  and make it attractive to others. May the Lord bless the Sunday school cause. 

"Our God we Raise to Thee" was sung by the choir and congregation. 

Elder John Henry Smith offered the benediction. 


