Overflow
06 04 1902




ELDER CHAS. W. PENROSE. 

It is a great pleasure to be permitted to assemble with the Saints in this general conference. During the meetings that have been held in the Tabernacle, anci this morning, in looking upon this congregation, I was reminded of a revelation, given through the Prophet Joseph Smith before the organization of the Church, which was alluded to by one of the speakers during our services in the Tabernacle. The Lord said that a grear and marvelous work was about to come forth among the children of men. This thought is also conveyed in the Book of Mormon, and was taken fron the prophecy delivered through the Prophet Isaiah many hundreds of years ago. You will find it in the 29th chapter of the book of Isaiah. The Lord gave one of the reasons for the corning forth of this marvelous work. He said. "Forasmuch as this people draw v.oar me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men: Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous  and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." But the Lord said that the meek among men should rejoice in the Lord, and the poor among men should increase their joy in the Holy One of Israel; but that the scorner should be brought to nought. The eyes of the blind were also to be opened and the ears of the- deaf unstopped, and they should hear the words of the book that was to be brought forth; for the word of the Lord was to come out of the ground, and to speak, as it were, "low out of the dust." 

Now we are witnessing the fulfilment, to a very large extent, of these predictions of the Prophets of the Lord. This work with which we are associated is indeed a marvelous work and a wonder. When we look upon the people assembled in the Tabernacle and at this overflow meeting, and realize that we who are gathered here are but a small representation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which forms the majority of the people of this region— when we realize this, we are led to exclaim, "What hath God wrought!" It was "a marvelous work and a wonder" when the Book of Mormon was translated by the power of God into the English language, from the hieroglyphics made on the metallic plates. Nothing of the kind had ever occurred, so far as we are aware, in the history of the world. In all the developments of science and in all the gifts and blessings which God bestowed upon His servants in ancient times, I do not know of anything to compare with the marvelous work and wonder oi bringing forth those plates and translating the characters which were upon them. It is so marvelous and wonderful that the' people of the world will not believe it. But we, my brethren and sisters have been led to believe in the truth of this book which the Lord has given us in  last days. Through our faith in the word of the Lord and the testimonies that have been borne unto us we have been led to receive the Gospel as taught in that book and in the New Testament, through the labors of the servants of God in the latter days. We have also received the Holy Ghost as a gift from God to us, to enlighten our minds, to lead and guide us in the ways of truth, and to bear witness to us concerning every truth that the Lord has revealed, that He is revealing and that He will yet reveal. Through this glorious gift which the Lord has given us our minds have been led upward from the things of earth to comprehend, in some degree, the things of heaven— from the things of time to those of eternity. 

In contemplating that which God has already accomplished in this marvelous work that He has commenced on the earth, we can look forward to that which is to be. The Gospel is to be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. The nations that sit in darkness are to see the marvelous light. The people that know not God are to be brought into such a condition that they can learn of His laws, walk in His ways and keep His commandments, and the barriers that have been builded up by the powers of darkness, through the craft of men, will be broken down, in the due time of the Lord. They will be removed from the way, and this Gospel of peace, this marvelous work that God has commenced in the earth, will spread over all the globe, and there "will not be a corner of this earth wherein the Gospel will not be preached. Now, this lies in the future, but the Lord will accomplish it. This is part of the work that He said He was about to bring forth among the children of men. 

The preaching of the Gospel by the Elders of this Church is a marvelous work. Where will you find among the differing religions a man like the Elders of Israel, who is willing to go to any part of the world, without money and without price, who is willing to sacrifice all the temporal comforts of home and its surroundings and carry the message of life and salvation to his fellow-creatures? It is marvelous in  eyes of the preachers of the various Christian sects. They can scarcely believe or comprehend it. When they see how our boys, without training, go out in the world, and face an opposing people, the traditions of men and the influences and powers that are against them, trusting wholly in God, and preaching the Gospel without purse or scrip, they are amazed and confounded. It is something marvelous, something unique in the world's history, aside from the labors of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ and their associates in the early days of the Christian Church. The fact that many people of the nations of the earth, wherever this Gospel is proclaimed, bear testimony that they receive a witness from God concerning its divinity, is marvelous. It matters not where those men or women were born, or what their traditions or language may have been, when the light of the Gospel, through the testimony of the humble servants of God, penetrates their souls they are brought to a unity of the faith. When they come together they may not be able to understand each other's languages, but they understand the spirit that permeates their minds, and understand the influences by which they are led, and rejoice together. The same light is in all their souls, the same warmth in all their hearts, and they can fraternize and feel that they are brothers and sisters in very deed. 

It is a marvel when we look at it naturally, to behold how this influence spreads throughout the whole Church, to see what a bond of union is formed by the power of the spirit and teachings of the Gospel. When we come to think how the way has been opened up for the people who have been brought from the various nations of the earth to these mountain \ales, is it not wonderful? Most of them were raised in what ar-> called the lower ranks of society. I do not mean the lowest classes, or the criminal element of society, but the working people, the bone and sinew of the nations of the earth. Most of the people who have come up here into these mountain vales were not from among what is called the upper classes, the learned. and wise after the wisdom of this world, but were from among the plodding class. The Gospel has reached them and the Lord, in a marvelous manner, has opened the way whereby they might gather here in these mountains by tht thousands. They have come away out here, across the bleak and barren plains, up into these mountain vales, to worship the Lord, to learn of His ways and walk in His paths. This was also predicted by the Frophets ls--aiah and Micah. Is it not marvelous in our eyes, when we think of what God hath wrought, bringing these people from afar, from the north and from the south, from the east and frjm the west? He has said "to the north give up, and to the south keep not back. Bring my sons from far £n-i my daughters from the ends of the earth." They are gathered here, and wp see them spreading out over the face of the land, and still they say, "Give us rcom that we may dwell." They are overflowing into Canada on the north, and away down into Mexico, Arizona and New Mexico, on the south, and into Colorado, Idaho and Wyoming. We are spreading out, and the influence that we carry is a marvel in the eyes of the world, and many are warning the people against "the menace of Mormonism," the peril that is to come to the nation because of the wonderful increase of the Latter-day Saints, or "Mormons." 

Some years ago President Brigham Young sent missionaries to China, Siam and the East Indies. The brethren accomplished but little in Siam and China, but a few converts were made in India, and some of them came here to these mountains. We might think the trip was a failure, on the .whole. Sometimes, when people go into a new country to found settlements they make big mistakes in the beginning. They flounder away and have a hard time, and sometimes forsake the spot where they were sent to live; but, in most instances, they go ahead, and, after a little experience, the way is opened up before them, the barrenness is taken from the soil, the elements become propitious, the water is increased, and the blessing of God comes upon the land,  flourishing settlements are built up. When the Lord, through His servant Brigham Young, sent men into Arizona, on the first expedition, they did not succeed in founding any settlements, but returned and gave a bad report of the land. But Prest. Young had seen it by the power and gift of the Holy Ghost, and knew the way was to be opened up in that southern country; so he did not give up. When at first they did not succeed he was determined that they should try, try again. Now we learn that settlements are flourishing in Arizona, New Mexico and Old Mexico, and we have a good representation of Saints from that country attending this conference. Even so the Lord moved upon His servant Brigham to send missionaries to the Orient. If their mission accomplished no great good, it did, at least, help to prepare the way, in a small degree; and now, the servants of the Lord, Apostle Heber J. Grant and his associates, through God's assistance, have been successful in opening up the work in the Japanese empire, and persons have been brought to a knowledge of the truth, and others are enquiring. We shall find, I believe with all my heart, that the opening of the Japanese mission will prove the key to the entrance of the Gospel in the Orient. We will find that an influence will go out from Japan into other oriental nations. The ice has been broken, and the barriers will be removed from the way, and the Gospel will spread into other eastern nations. If we only succeed in getting a few converts, who can open the door of the kingdom for their ancestors in the spirit world, what a wonderful work will be accomplished! 

When the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were slain for the testimony of Jesus it was in the providence of God; it was with His permission. They went to open the door of the kingdom in the spirit world, and thus a marvelous work and a wonder has begun there also. When we get there we will find out the magnitude of it; for we will see that the Elders of Zion who have tabernacled in the flesh are laboring there, under the direction of him who holds the keys of the last dispensation, and the Gospel  being preached to millions upon millions of spirits, and a far greater work is to toe accomplished there than among men in the flesh. We have but just begun the work here, for there are many millions upon the earth that have not heard the Gospel, and know nothing of this marvelous work and wonder; but they will yet hear the Gospel message, and the way will be opened everywhere and the purposes of the Lord will be accomplished. 

The great thing for us, my brethren and sisters, is to know, to have a full understanding, a firm conviction and real knowledge that this is God's work, and that it is not the work of man. "We can reason this out when we look at what has been accomplished, and can reasonably come to the understanding and conviction that a superior Power has been at work with this people, with the Elders of this Church and with our leaders, and that it has not been done by human wisdom. Human wi;dom has perished before this work; the understanding of the wise has come to naught before it, and we can reasonably come to the conclusion that a stronger Power must have been at the head of this work to accomplish what has been done, in the inspired preaching of the Gospel; the gathering of God's people, the building up of Zion and the establishment of this great State. There is also an influence of oneness and union among the Latterday Saints that cannot be found anywhere else. The sects and societies have great gatherings in different parts of the world — religious gatherings, political gatherings, scientific Gatherings and educational assemblies — but where will you find among any of them such a spirit of union, brotherhood and 'Enthusiasm as is found in the gatherings of the Latter-day Saints? There is a kind of enthusiasm among the people of the world in their religious revivals. They get spiritually intoxicated and sometimes indulge in various spiritual gymnastics. but ' what does it amount to? There is no light or intelligence in it; it is merely a feeling worked up by human oratory and energy. Where do we find that spirit and influence that are experienced in our gatherings? Look at the great con in the Tabernacle and in this building today! Where can you find such an exhibition of union and spiritual light and enthusiasm as we feel and experience here in these assemblies? There is nothing like it in. the world. Well, reviewing these matters, we may come to the conclusion that there is something more than human about it, a Power greater than- that of man. But, my brethren and sisters, we need something greater than these conclusions as a foundation upon which to build. We need the testimony of Jesus, the Spirit of prophecy, the witness of the Holy Ghost in our hearts; not only a reasonable conviction, but a knowledge of the truth, and it is our privilege to have this. 

All those who have repented of their sins and been baptized in water, by immersion, by one having authority, are entitled to receive the Holy Ghost, as a gift from God, to enlighten their minds and to bear witness of the things of God, and to open up a channel of communication -between them and the Eternal Father, through Jesus Christ, the Son. Now, have we that blessing, you and I? If we have not we should get it; we can all have it. There is nothing in the way but ourselves. God has promised the gift to us, and if we have not received it let us seek for it. We need not look for some wonderful spiritual exhibition of power, something different from the ordinary. What we should look for is the light to our souls; that we may know that it shines in our hearts, so that we have no dubiety in this thing. It is our privilege to have this. I hope you all have it this morning. I am very thankful that I have received it, and have had it for a great many years. I received it when I received the Gospel; it began to glimmer in my soul when I first heard the truth. I had a place for it in my heart when I was a boy. No One else belonging to the family I was connected with received it. When I obeyed the Gospel and was baptized I received the gift of the Holy Ghost, a witness from God that this work is true; and I am very thankful this morning that it has always been with me from that time until the present. I have been in this Church a little over fifty-two years, and was called, shortly after embracing the Gospel, to go and preach the glad tidings to the world. O how glad I am that I responded to that call, in spite of all the discouragement and influence brought to bear upon me not to do so! The Lord has been with me from that time until now. It is marvelous in my eyes, "A marvelous work and a wonder," and I can bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I do know that this is the work of God. This is the work of the Father, and, of course, it is the work of the Son and of the Holy Ghost; for they three are one in all things — not one in person, but one in purpose, and their efforts are for the uplifting of the children of men, not only on this litle globe, but on others also; but we will confine ourselves to this glebe, for it is ours and will be in the future. I know that God has commence! the great latter-day work and will cause it to continue to grow and spread until it fills the whole earth. It will never be overcome. 

One thing we should have inscribed on our memories in conection with this knowledge is, that when the Lord commenced this work He commenced it "for the last days and for the last time." It will not be thrown down or given to another people. It is to endure and abide forever, and, instead of being overcome by the things of this world, it is to overcome them. My brethren and sisters, it will conquer, it. will endure. It matters not what may be brought against it, it will prevail; for it is the work of the Lord, and it is "a marvelous work and a wonder." Let us not turn to the right or to the left through the influences of that Evil One, who deceives the nations. Many people will fail; many persons will turn aside, and they will endeavor to lead others astray. But this work will continue onward, and it will overcome everything that arises in its path; it will revolutionize the world. It will turn things upsidedown, or rather rightsideup, for they have been turned upsidedown already. This work will rectify the evils that exist in the world. But, before that is accomplished we must rectify every evil among ourselves. If there is anything in  hearts that is contrary to the word of the Lord, let us eradicate it; let us pull the weeds from our own gardens and remove every root of selfishness, every seed of bitterness and everything that is not good, and live together, as brethren and sisters, as the Lord has commanded, in love and humility, and in obedience to His laws and commandments. Let us attend to the little duties as well as the big duties. They are all big enough when we understand them properly. Let us attend to every duty in the Gospel and live according to the laws of God, and the testimony of the truth will abide with us forever. 

Now, I rejoice in what has been done, and I can see a great deal that will be done; but I will not take time to enter upon such a subject as that, as there are others to speak, and I will bring my remarks to a close. 

Brethren and sisters, I am with this work with all that I have and am, and I am in it for "keeps." I want to be with this people and labor for the cause of humanity, for I know that this is God's work and that it will prevail. I know this Gospel will go to every nation, and that the Lord will gather from the nations His sons and daughters, to labor in His cause, that His work may be perfected in the redemption of the human race, both the living and the dead. It will not be fulfilled until every soul of Adam's race that can be redeemed in some degree of glory is saved. The Captain of our salvation will overcome, and the Adversary of our souls will eventually be discomfited, and will gain none but those who are called the sons of perdition. 

May God help us to understand the truth and to labor in this great work for the salvation of mankind, with all our hearts, that we may never falter or fail, but finally be prepared to go into the presence of the Lord and inherit a fulness of glory in His kingdom, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

I have rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in the testimony and remarks of Elder Penrose. I wondered, when he  record that he was in this work with all that he had and was, and that he was in it for "keeps," whether or not there was that same feeling and testimony in the hearts of all present here this morning. We should all be in this work with all that we possess. It is a very great mistake to become associated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and be possessed of anything that is not in the work of the Lord that we do not hold in readiness to be used for the establishment of the purposes of our Father. I hope that we have this testimony, and that we feel in our hearts that, with the assistance of God, we will be true and faithful to the covenants we have made, and that we will always be found under the direction of the authority that God has placed upon the earth,, laboring faithfully for the establishment of His holy purposes. 

I feel in my heart to bear record to the fulfillment of the scripture referred to by Brother Penrose, concerning the marvelous character of the work that has been established on the earth by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith. In looking over this congregation, the thought came to me that there were, perhaps, quite a number of men and women here who were born before the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established. Such men and women have, within the span of their own lives, witnessed the wonderful growth of the Church established in 1830 by the Prophet. They are witnesses to the fulfillment of Joseph Smith's predictions, and must know from their own experience and observation, that Joseph Smith was an inspired man. The Prophet Joseph Smith, as has already been announced, in the very inception of this work, before its organization had been effected, made the announcement, more than once — for God had given him revelations, respecting this — that a marvelous work was about to go forth among the children of men. I wonder if it is possible for any one here present, who has f*-^ted of the inspiration of the Holy host, to look upon the condition that now prevails, the great work that has already been accomplished, and not say the  of the Prophet have been fulfilled. 

In 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared that there was a time coming when the people of the Lord should go up into the Rocky Mountains, and he also made the prediction, at that time, that many of the Saints who were then living should live to see the people gather in this land, which was then a desolate barren waste; and become a great and mighty commonwealth. Who is there in this congregation, or among the people of the Latter-day Saints, who is lit up by the inspiration of heaven, who cannot see, in this wonderful growth and in the development that is still taking place, that the word of the Lord has not failed? Who is so callous in his fellings that he cannot say, with all his heart, that the power and inspiration of the Almighty will not fail? Who can doubt that there will be still greater developments and' still greater things brought to pass, under the direction of the Priesthood of the Almighty, than that which has already been accomplished in the history of the Church? That which has been accomplished is truly marvelous. The future, however, must be full of remarkable events, for it is the decree of God, that this work of the latter days shall forge to the front, and be more marvelous than all preceding dispensations. I beg of you, my brethren and sisters, to bear in mind the solemn fact that the same divine authority, the same inspiration that came from God, our Father, which enabled the Prophet Joseph Smith to speak of the future history of this work, is with the Israel of God today. A Prophet of God stands in the midst of the people now, clothed upon with every gift, key, power, and authority, that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that same inspiration, that same power to penetrate the future, to comprehend the purposes of the Almighty, is with the Priesthood that is in our midst today. We should honor that Priesthood; we should be true in our feelings to the authority that God has placed upon the earth, and feel in our hearts that we will sustain it, and that we will stand under the arms of the men who preside over us, and hold up their hands, that all may be accomplished that God has promised. There should be no questioning- of the wisdom of the counsel that is imparted by the servants of the Lord; but, rather, we should look back over the history of this people and endeavor to understand what has been accomplished under the direction of this authority, and when we comprehend the marvelous character of that history, we will feel in our hearts to trust the God of heaven, and in trusting our Father in heaven, we honor His Priesthood on earth, and faithfully strive to carry out the counsel of that Priesthood. 

I have thought, my brethren and sisters, that I would like to offer a few words upon a matter that I feel is of very great importance in the midst of the Latter-day Saints. I have felt the importance of this subject greatly, and this feeling has been increased within me during our meetings because of the trend of the counsel that has been given by most of the speakers at this conference. Nearly all of the brethren have referred to the great necessity that exists for the Latter-day Saints to give special care to the rising generation. The announcement was made, not long ago, in a convention of ministers held in this city, that nothing could be done with the aged Mormons, and that they were to seek after the children and try to impress upon the minds of the youth of the community that the religion of the Latter-day Saints was false. There are many persons already scattered around among our people, who are not looked upon as ministers or missionaries, who are exerting an influence, as far as they can, over the youth of the Latter-day Saints, to poison their minds, in order to win them from the faith, and, I suppose, many parents have observed it. It is very necessary that there be an influence on the part of parents and officers in the Church to counteract those influences that are at work among the youth. 

An organization has been established in the Church known as the Religion class, but, I am sorry to say, there is a lack of interest on the part of many of the people in relation to the Religion  of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Sometimes Bishops question it; sometimes Stake presidents question it. Occasionally some of these men and others in authority in the Church, stand up in opposition to that which has been established by the Council of the Apostles and of the Presidency of the Church, and say there is no room for this organization. I want to say to this congregation that it is the duty of fathers and mothers, and of all Church officers to lend an influence in favor of Religion classes. The Bishopric of every ward, with the Sunday school superintendent of the ward, constitute a board of education in each ward, and they should seek to build up and sustain these classes. This Religion, class movement is a part of the Church educational system. It is under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, and one of the First Presidency, Anthon H. Lund, is the general superintendent of the religion classes of the Church, and Apostle Rudger Clawson and J. M. Tanner the superintendent of Church schools, are his assistants, and it is the duty of the stake and ward authorities, as well as the parents, to give their support to this movement in all the wards of the stakes of Zion. The aim and object of the organization is the blessing and salvation of the rising generation. I was sent, a few days ago, to examine a class of missionaries in one of our Church schools. Questions were asked of forty young men, concerning their understanding of the principles of the Gospel, and I made the discovery that, in almost every instance, those young men were graduates of public schools, high schools, colleges and universities; but, in almost every case, they made the announcement that all the study that they had given to the Gospel had been while attending their missionary class. They were graduates in other branches of learning, but were in the primary department, to a considerable extent, so far as a knowledge of the Gospel was concerned. If these young men had attended a religion class during the time they were going to school, instead of being without an understanding of the Gospel, they would have been just as  of knowledge concerning- the purposes of the Almighty, as they were of other matters to which they had given attention. Latter-day Saints should guard against stuffing their children with worldly learning, and leaving them without faith in God. Let us educate our children in art, science and literature, but above all else in a knowledge of God. Remembering that to know God and Jesus Christ is life eternal. The religion classes are to be feeders to our Church schools, as well as to our missionary fields, and all the other organizations in the Church, and they are a necessity in the midst of the people. Every father and mother, it seems to me, ought to know this. We should not hesitate to ask the school trustees, those men appointed by the people to manage the educational affairs of the ward, for the use of the public school buildings, which have been erected mainly by the means of the l atter-day Saints, for holding our religion classes. We have a perfect right to ask for the use of these buildir.gs for half an hour or an hour, as the case may be, once or twice a week, or oftener, if necessary, for the purpose of religious instruction, which, of course, is to be in no way connected with the general work of the school. We should also be perfectly willing for the Catholics, Presbyterians, or any other religious denomination, to have the use of these school buildings to instruct their children in their religion, should they desire to do so. The school teachers, those of them who belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Scints, and who are filled with zeal for the Gospel, should also be pressed into service, to act as teachers in the religion classes, and to instruct the children in the principles of the Gospel after school is dismissed, and before the children leave the schoolroom, as it will be almost impossible to get them back after they have once left the building. 

I thought I would like to say these few words in favor of the religion classes of the Church, and if a few men and women go from this meeting to their homes throughout the various stakes of Zion, with a determination to foster and encourage and build up religion classes, I will feel very . God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RTJLON S. WELLS. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the opportunity of standing before you here this morning, and I also feel in my heart to endorse the excellent remarks that have been made by the brethren who have just addressed you. 

I, too, like Brother Penrose, feel that I have come into this work for "keeps," and I propose to devote my talents irt helping to establish the kingdom of God upon tlje earth. I rejoice in the testimony of the truth, and in the magnitude of this great and marvelous w-ork which our Father in heaven has set his hand to do in the day and age in which we live. Of all the things yet to be accomplished in connection with this great work, nothing has been referred to that is greater, to my mind, than the one referred to by Brother Penrose, when he spoke about the work that was to be accomplished with us as individuals — the purification of our .own selves. If this work will accomplish the purification of the Latterday Saints and cause them to be better men and women and cause them to advance and grow in the knowledge of the things of God, what a great and marvelous work it is in very deed. 

During the few moments I shall stand before you, I wish to call your attention to one particular thing, whereby the Latter-day Saints and their children can become better men and women. If we were to labor for years and accomplished nothing else, what a great and glorious thing it would be. That one thing to which I refer is the keeping of one of the commandments which the Lord thundered down from Mount Sinai in the days of ancient Israel, when it was written upon those tablets of stone, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh His name in vain." In my own observations, both here at home and in the various settlements in the different Stakes of Zion, in fact, almost every place, I have heard, in a greater or less degree, the name of the Lord is being profaned by the rising generation, and, sometimes,. GENERAL, CONFERENCE.  those who have advanced in years, who are old enough to know better. I wish to emphasize with all the stress I am capable of the necessity of the Latter-day Saints overcoming this evil. Many have not a sufficient reverence, for the things of the Lord and in using the names of Deity. We ought to cultivate reverence among us, and whenever the name of the Lord is taken upon cur lips it should be done in reverence and respect. We ought to remember that He is our Creator, that He is the Father of everyone of us, the Creator of the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. We ought to remember that He has commanded us that we should not take His name in vain. I do not wish this congregation to become impressed with the thought, for a moment, that this people is given to swearing more than any other people; but I wish to say this: That the people in these western states, in the midst of these mountain districts and throughout the mining districts of this intermountain country, especially, use more profanity than is used in the more thickly settled portions of our country. In my travels in foreign countries I have never heard so much profanity as I have heard right here in Zion. I do not mean to say that it is the Latter-day Saints themselves that are given more particularly to profanity: but, on the contrary, I wish to say that it is more frequently heard among those that have not received the Gospel. Nevertheless, too much profanity is used among the Latter-day Saints also. We, as a people, have entered into covenants with the Lord, have exercised faith in Him, have repented of our sins and have gone down into the waters of baptism, and for what purpose? That we might obtain a remission of sins, that we might be forgiven for all things that we may. have done that was displeasing in the sight of God, that when we are summoned before the Great Judge of all we might stand faultless before Him. I want to bear testimony here today that it does not matter how many times we may have repented and been baptized, or whether we have been baptized at all, for when the time shall come, and we  brought up before the judgment bar of God, if we have indulged in the habit of profaning His holy name — I want to bear testimony that we will not be found guiltless when we stand before the judgment seat. That was the way it was thundered down in the time of ancient Israel, and delivered to that people, through the Prophet Moses, and this commandment is equally binding upon the Latter-day Saints, for it has not been done away with. Therefore, if we want to stand spotless before the throne of God, we must eradicate this evil from our midst and exercise all our power and influence to do so, that it may no longer be said, as some declare, that the Latter-day Saints are not reverential in using the names, of Deity. 

Brethren and sisters, a reformation in this respect is very needful among the Latter-day Saints, and if we labor to this end and accomplish our purpose, what a great and grand thing it would be. What utility can there be in profaning the name of the Lord? Will it distinguish a man among his fellowmen or gain him respect? Is there a boy here who has received any more respect from his companions by profaning the name of the Lord? No. They would not respect you a bit more for committing this wrong act; such a boy would not even gain the favor of his own clique, by so doing, to say nothing of the opinion others would have of him. A person that indulges in this bad habit is almost sure to offend somebody; there is one who sits on high who will also be offended, and what will be the consequence of this, of offending our Father in heaven? Our young men go to the various colleges, and some become graduates of great institutions of learning; but they are no more accomplished in swearing than the most ignorant among us. It is no mark of culture, and has no merit whatever. It does not even enable us to express our ideas with any more force. If we desire to obtain a good knowledge of the English , language, it is not necessary that we learn to profane the name of the Lord. We are admonished not to swear at all. It is an idle use of words and a thing we ought to abominate and avoid. 

I do not feel justified in occupying any more time this morning, for there are several Apostles here, from whom .you no doubt wish to hear. I know this is the work of God, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was sent of God to usher in this great and glorious dispensation. I know that the influence of this Gospel is to help us purify ourselves and overcome the evils that are in our midst, and that we may devote our energy to endeavoring to overcome these evils is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

My brethren and sisters, there is an item I would like to speak, of, for the benefit of some of the Latter-day Saints. Many words of instruction have been spoken, and I like to speak them myself; but, somehow, I cannot always get through a conference or meeting without hearing a word or two of condemnation. 

I well remember the remarks of Brother John W. Taylor here, while out in one of the missions. There was quite a congregation of outsiders present, and he was endeavoring to teach them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and was telling them what the Latter-day Saints believed in. He was speaking on the first principles of the Gospel, and was telling them that it was necessary to yield obedience to the commandments of the Lord and be baptized for the remission of sins, and have hands laid upon them, by those holding the proper authority, for the reception of the Holy Ghost. While he was thus speaking two or three of the congregation, as I remember it, arose to their feet, and, with a look of contempt on their faces, started to leave the room. Brother Taylor then added, "We also believe that every man and every woman who enters a house of worship ought to have enough good manners and breeding to remain until the services are concluded.' I thought that was pretty good doctrine, and I hope the Latter-day Saints believe and accept it;, but in case that some of us had forgotten it, T just mentioned it for our benefit. 

I was delighted with the testimony of Brother Penrose, and, in listening to  same I was hoping that when I got to- be as old as he is I would also have the same testimony to bear, and that I shall have passed the most of my life in preaching the Gospel and trying to do what good I can in my calling. (Turning to Brother Penrose). How old are you Brother Penrose? Over 70 years of age, and yet Brother Penrose does not look to be so old; but he could yet make many young men perspire freely, were they to accompany him in a walk. He has a testimony of the truth and has been faithful all the days of his life, thus far, and, evidently, will be the remainder of his life. May God grant him many years of life, that he may still defend, in nis champion way, the Latter-day Saints. He spoke of the union of the Latter-day Saints. They adhere together; they all cling around one standard, because they receive their inspiration from one source. 

My brethren and sisters, God is at the head of this great work, and He is exalting His people. Look at the multitude here and in the Tabernacle today who have gathered ' together to hear the word of the Lord. It is with the spirit of envy that some of those not of our faith witness our unity in assembling together to be instructed in the ways of the Lord. We are Latterday Saints, brethren and sisters, we are one people, no matter where we are or how we may be scattered, and there is only one kind of "Mormons," only one kind of Latter-day Saints. 

I have a clipping here from a newspaper, with reference to a paper which was read by a minister in a religious convention, or convention of ministers, which I will read. It says: 

"The paper of the day was by Rev. Charles J. Godsman, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Auburn. His subject was 'The Essential "Unity of the Christian Church.' He named the different varieties of churches: Six kinds of Adventists, seven kinds of Catholics, twelve kinds of Presbyterians, thirteen of Baptists, sixteen of Lutherans and seventeen of Methodists, with 100 separate entities of churches besides. The speaker deplored this condition of things and looked upon it as contrary to the Scriptures. He maintained, however, that there was a real, deep union of all beliefs, notwithstanding this outward variety. The paper was well received." How many 01 them realize that this condition of things is entirely contrary to Scripture? And of those who did realize this how many were there who had the moral courage to say that it was wrong and contrary to scripture, that in such a condition of separation and disunion there could be no real union in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? They dare not come out and stand on the principle of the thing and say that it is entirely contrary to the will of God. The Latter-day Saints dare do it, because they know it and they are one people and have not divided into a dozen or more sects, there being but one kind of Latter-day Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, as I said. God is exalting us, and I would like to caution you not to seek to exalt yourselves, but to leave that to God, who will exalt us quickly and grandly enough, inasmuch as we seek to keep His laws and commandments. 

One word to the young men and young women. Much has been said with reference to the rearing of children and teaching them the principles of the Gospel. In relation to the Religion Classes brethren and sisters, I would add, there ought to be a Religion Class in the home of every Latter-day Saint. Every member of the Church ought to have a Religion Class, where the children are being taught the principles of the Gospel. I want to say to you young men and young women of which this congregation is, in the main, made up, that belief in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the very first step; and the only way you will ever come to a knowledge of the truth is by first believing the testimony of vour parents and of the servants of God, no matter who or where they are. You have first got to believe their testimony and have faith in their words; then you will come to a knowledge of the truth. The Lord will not condescend to come down in person to each of us to convince us that this is His Church; not by any means. We must believe the words and testimonies. So it has been from the beginning. The sons of Adam had to believe the words of Adam and to put into practice the things taught  before they could know. You young men and young women who may not have a testimony must put into practice what you are taught before you can obtain a witness of the divinity of this work. 

May the Lord bless you and cause you to desire a knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ above all else, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

I am very pleased indeed to have the opportunity of meeting with the Latterday Saints, and I have listened with pleasure, interest and attention to that which has been said. 

Brother Taylor requested Brother Penrose to occupy his time. Some people are always inclined to criticise, and, as Brother Penrose talked a little longer than the rest of us, some may go away and find fault with his talking so long. I have given much advice to the Latter-day Saints in my time, and one of the principle items was never to criticise any one but ourselves. I believe in fault-finding for breakfast, dinner and supper, but with our own dear selves. 

I endorse all that has been said here this morning. I am delighted to see this building full of Latter-day Saints. It is a testimony and a confirmation of the remarks of our Prophet yesterday, that Zlon is growing, and that the Latterday Saints are increasing in faith and good works and are laboring for the advancement of the kingdom of God. I rejoice exceedingly in being here with you today to lift up my voice in testimony of the divinity of the work of God in which we are engaged. I rejoice that the testimony of the Gospel grows and increases within me day by day; for every day of my life it seems as though the Lord blesses me with additional knowledge. I rejoice, as I said the other evening in Priesthood meeting, that we stand as a united whole. I rejoice that the adversary, who inspired the men to kill our Prophet and Patriarch, has been routed. I rejoice in thinking that a son of the martyred Patriarch stands at the head of this Church. I rejoice that a love has al existed in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints for all the Prophets of God since the organization of the Church down to the present time. I rejoice in the love and confidence the Latter-day Saints have for the First Presidency of the Church, and for the Apostles. I rejoice in the testimony that is borne in my heart that all of the authorities of the Church — the First Presidency, Apostles, Seventies, Stake presidents and ward authorities, as well as the presidents of the various auxiliary organizations — are seeking- for and desiring the advancement of God's work. I rejoice in seeing the harriers broken down whereby the Gospel may be carried to all the nations of the earth. I rejoice in the testimony in my heart that, as was stated by Brother Penrose, the opening in Japan will prove the opening of the oriental world, not merely the opening of the little islands that form the nation of Japan, but it shall also lead to the Gospel being preached in China and other oriental nations. 

One of the pleasures I had recently was the privilege of baptising a gentleman who speaks the Corean language. His wife also speaks that language, and I expect she will also soon join the Church. I believe this man will soon be an instrument in the hands of God in preaching the Gospel in Corea. I also met a man that has written considerable in a paper in our favor, stating, among other things, that we are the only people that teach as the Bible teaches. This man has, for many years, been taking trips into China, trying to advocate improvements in that country. He looks different from the ordinary Japanese. He is a very large man, and looks like an oriental. He wears his hair long, and forms it into a cue when he takes his trips to China. I think he, among others, will also come to a knowledge of the truth. Brother Snow, our late President, who passed away since I left Salt Lake City last year, said, when I was called to go to Japan, "I feel in my heart that this will be the opening wedge for the Gospel in that country." Brother Penrose was just saying he believed this would be the case, and I want to say to you that I believe it, and I believe it with all my heart. 

I rejoice in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God. I rejoice in being permitted to attend the first general conference presided over by the son of the martyred Patriarch. 

May God bless each and every one of us, that as we grow and increase we may grow in the knowledge of the Gospel, and that we shall have a determination to serve God and carry out in very deed the teachings of the Savior; to let our light so shine tnat men seeing our good works shall glorify God. If we set an example worthy of imitation it is sure to have its effects. I received a letter from a man in London, stating that the Latter-day Saints were the only people, so far as he knew, who carried their daily beliefs into their daily life, as though they believed what they taught. Well, God bless you, one and all; I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

The time is far spent, there is little remaining. 

Benediction by Elder John W. Taylor. 

