Morning
04 04 1902


PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

Righteousness increasing emorg ihe Sairts— Furposes of God will be fuiij acc( irjinhf 6- His kindness and mercy to the Saints— Ecci uiagement and blessings for the people. 

It is certainly gratifying to see so many of our brethren and sisters assembled here at the opening session of this the Seventy-second annual con'erence of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. EverytV"' seems propitious for a time of rejoicing and profit in instruction and admonition and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit upon the servants of the Lord who may speak and upon those who shall assemble to hear from day to day. The weather is delightful, and I believe that the spirit of the people is good, and that there is an earnest desire in the hearts of the La ter-day Saints to promote all the interests of the kingdom of God in the earth and the welfare of the Saints of the Most High. 

I believe that the desire in the hearts of the people to serve the Lord and to work righteousness in the earth is steadily — although it may be slowly, yet steadily and surely — increasing; and I do believe with all my heart that this desire will be more and more earnest and more and more pronounced in the hearts of the people of God from time to time and from year to year, as we grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth, until the coming of the Son of Man. 

The kingdom of God is here to grow, to spread abroad, to take root in the earth, and to abide where the Lord has planted it by His own power and by His own word, in the earth, never more to be destroyed or to cease, but to continue until the purposes of the Almighty shall be accomplished, every whit that has been spoken of by the mouths of the holy prophets since the world began. 

' I rejoice exceedingly in the truth. I thank God every day of my life for His mercy and kindness, and loving care and protection that has been extended to all His people, and for the many manifestations of His peculiar mercy and blessing that have been extended unto us throughout all the length and breadth of the land and through all the years since the organization of the Church, on the 6th of April, 1830. 

The Lord, about that time or soon after, decreed a decree which He said His people shou'd realizes That they should begin from that very hour to prevail over all thsir enemies, and, inasmuch as they continued to be faithful in keeping His laws which He had given unto them, it was decreed that tfiey should prevail until all enemies were subdued — not subdued by violence or the spirit of contention or of warfare but subdued by the powor of eternal truth, by the majesty and power of Almighty God — and by the increased power of the righteous and of the upright covenanted people of God should be magnified and increased, until the world shall bow and acknowledge that Jesus is the Christ, and  there is a people preparing for His coming in power and glory to the earth again. 

We carry to the world the olive branch of peace. We present to the world the law' of God, the word of the Lord, the Truth, as it has been revealed in the latter day for the redemption of the dead and for the salvation of the living. We bear no malice or evil toward the children of men. The spirit of forgiveness pervades the hearts of the Saints of God, and they do not cherish a desire or feeling of revenge toward their enemies or those who hurt or molest them or seek to make them afraid; but, on the contrary, the Spirit of the Lord has possession of their spirits, of their souls and of their thoughts, and they forgive all men, and they carry no malice in their hearts toward any, no matter what they have done. They say, in their hearts, let God judge between us and our enemies, and as for us, we forgive them and we bear no malice toward any. 

I sincerely hope that, during this conference, which will necessarily be brief, or at least will last but three days, with the exception, possibly, of some of our Priesthood meetings that may be held later — I trust that this conference will be one signally marked by the presence of God's influence and power, and that it will be one in which all that assemble will rejoice and be exceeding glad, in which their hopes will be encouraged and strengthened their faith increased and their power for good enlarged, that they may go hence from this conference rejoicing more than ever in the truth of the Gospel, and more and more determined to tight the good fight and keep the faith and establish righteousness in the earth; that it may be like a well of pure and living water, ever springing up unto eternal life. 

God bless the people, the Saints of the Most High, wherever they may be, whether in the vales of these mountains and the regularly organized Stakes of Zion or in the missions in the earth, in our own land and abroad in foreign countries, and upon the islands of the sea. May God's blessing  poured out upon those that yield obedience to the truth throughout all the world, and may the power of truth, the power of testimony, and the witness of the Holy Spirit, rest mightily upon His servants who are sent forth to preach the Gospel to the world. 

I have to say this to my brethren and sisters: That I believe conscientiously, from all that I know, that the day never has been when Zion was more thoroughly equipped, more thoroughly furnished in good works, when there was a better spirit or a more united feeling existing among the people of God than exists today. i believe that the people of the Lord are more prosperous today than ever they have been.  I believe they are more firmly established in the truth than they ever have been before. I believe, in other words, that we are continually growing and increasing m the knowledge of God and in good works, and in faith, power and determination to carry out and consummate the will and purpose of God in the earth. 

I want to say to the people here that there never has been a time, within my knowedge at least, or within my knowledge of the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day S3ints, when the Saints paid a better tithing than they did during the year 1901. I have this to say as a word of encouragement and congratulation to the people throughout all the Stakes of Zion. Tou have done better than you have ever done before, and we hope that you will continue to do better in this respect, and that you will continue to do better in all other respects throughout the year 1902, and so continue on and on, from year to year, until we shall be perfect in the sphere in which God calls us to act, as the Father and the Son are perfect in their more exalted and glorious sphere in Which they act. 

May the Lord bless Zion, and may the Spirit of the Lord rest mightily upon His servants that shall address you during this conference, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MURRIN. 

Necessity for experienced Elders in the missionfield — Resp .nsibilities of the Seventy — None should shrink them. 

It is rather unexpected to me, my brethren and sisters, to be called upon this morning to address this great congregation; nevertheless, I esteem it a very great privilege and honor to have the opportunity of standing up in this general conference to bear my testimony to the truth of the glorious work that God our Father has established upon the earth in this dispensation, and I sincerely hope that the few moments I occupy I may be directed by the Spirit of the Lord to say something that will be of some advantage to those who are assembled here. I believe that the Elders of the Church of Jesus* Christ of Latter-day Saints feel the need of the inspiration of the Lord when they stand up to address the people, and that without that inspiration their words are very weak, indeed like unto sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal; yet, by the blessings of the Lord and the presence of His Holy Spirit, men who may be looked upon as weak are ofttimes led to say things that are of the utmost value. I hope that this Spirit may rest, not only upon your humble servant at this time, but upon all the servants of the Lord who shall stand up during this conference to teach the people the will of the Lord; and I believe that we have it in our own power, to a very great degree, to call down the blessings that we desire at the present time. We have assembled from the north and from the south, from the east and from the west, that we may worship the Lord our God; and if we have come together with the desire in our hearts to be blessed of our Father in heaven, and our prayers ascend to Him that He will be mindful of us, we have a right to hope, from the promises He has made to His people, that He will hearken to our prayers, and that He will pour out His blessings upon us in rich abundance. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the few words that have been spoken to us by Prest. Joseph F. Smith, and I believe that a feeling of joy has permeated this entire congregation, and that we feel, as has been expressed by the president, blessed of the Lord, and that there is a spirit of unity and determination to keep the commandments of the Lord resting upon the people. This conference has opened in an exceedingly auspicious manner. I do not suppose there has ever been a conference in the history of the' Church when a larger body of the people was gathered together at the opening session than there is today. 

My mind of late, brethren and sisters, has been led out a little in relation to the work that is being performed by the Elders of the Church as missonaries abroad, and I feel that if I can have the Spirit of the Lord I would like to offer a few remarks upon this missionary labor, and upon the class of men that are being selected from time to time to bear the message of the Gospel to the people of the world. 

I rejoice in the opportunities that are given to the young men of Israel to go forth, clothed with the authority of the Holy Priesthood, and authorized to cry repentance to the people, to teach the children of men the wonderful purposes of the Almighty, and to expound to them the doctrines of the Gospel as they have been revealed anew in these latter times through the great Prophet, Joseph Smith. It is a glorious privilege that the young men of the Latterday Saints enjoy, to go forth in this manner, to call the attention of the peoples of the world to the purposes of the Lord. In the missionary field they receive an experience that is invaluable; and we rejoice, as fathers and mothers and as servants and handmaidens of the Lord, in seeing the return of young men from the missionary field who are filled with the inspiration of heaven, and who have gained valuable testimonies concerning the work of the Lord while they have been ministering words of salvation to the people. Many young men go out from our midst who have never had any experience outside of the Church, and who have never been brought in contact with any of the religious denominations of the world; yet when they come in contact with these denominations and meet profes of religion who have been specially educated to teach the people the dogmas the sects believe in, it in no wise lessens the faith of the Utah-born boys. In fact, coming in contact with the outside world and with the religious ideas that prevail among men seems to strengthen their faith, and they return home a thousand times firmer in their knowledge of the Gospel than they were before they left their homes to preach to the people. Therefore, I do not wish any feeling to arise in your mind, from the remarks I desire to make, that I am opposed to the sending forth of the young men tvho are going from day to day to represent the Latter-day Saints. I look back twenty years to the time when the opportunity was given to me, as a bov to go out as a missionary, and I thank God with all the strength of my soul today that that opportunity came to me in the days of my boyhood. I have thanked the Lord for twenty years that I was sent at that time upon my first mission — taken, as it were, as a brand from the burning, and made to understand the blessings that Almighty God had showered upon me in being born in the midst of this people, and in having good and godly parents, who made strong impressions upon my mind favorable to the work of the Lord by. their upright lives and by their testimony concerning the truth of the Gospel. And I look forward with anticipations of joy to having sons myself, at' no d'stant day. abroad in the nations lifting up their voices in proclamation of tJie same truth that I was sent to proclaim twenty years ago. 

Nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, I have felt, in meeting with the Council of the Seventy and with the Apostles to set apart missionaries, that there is a lack of men of experience going abroad to represent the Latterday Saints. I believe that all the missions would be greatly strength n d if, when word is sent out from the Presidency of the Church that a number of missionaries are required, the Bifhops and Stake Presidency, in looking over the ground, would turn their attention occasionally to men of experience. It is no uncommon thing to find a com of young men going out as missionaries who have never had any experience in traveling — perhaps never been outside of the state in which they were born — and not one among them of experience who can be placed in charere, to watch over them, and to give them counsel as they journey to their fields of labor. And in the missions, I know from my own experience in the European mission (and I suppose this condition prevails in other missions) that it is sometimes a difficult matter to find a man to preside over a conference who has had experience. I have the feeling that if we would pay a little more attention to the manner given of the Lord for the calling of missionaries there would be more men of experience selected to perform this labor. The Lord has said, in the revelation concerning Priesthood, section 107 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. 

"It is the duty of the traveling High Council to call upon the Seventy, when they need assistance, to fill the several calls for preaching and administering the Gospel, instead of any others." 

If, when a call goes from the Presidency of the Church for missionaries, the Presidents of Stakes and Bishops would keep in mind this communication from our Father in heaven, I believe there would be more Seventies gathered in from the large number of quorums that exist than are now being called upon missions. I believe that God Almighty has placed the responsibility of preaching this Gospel upon the shoulders of the Seventy; that it is their peculiar calling; that the Lord expects men who have received this appointment to be in preparation for the accomplishment of the labor that specially belongs to them; and I do not think that the Presidents of Stakes and Bishops, when required to furnish missionaries, should look to the young men only, but they should look into the quorums of Seventy and be anxious to fill the calls made upon them from time to time from the ranks of the Seventy to a greater extent than they are now being filled. 

In making these remarks I do not have any feeling to shift any responsi from my own shoulders or from the shoulders of my brethren with whom I am associated in the Council of the Seventy, on to the shoulders of other men. We are anxious in relation to this matter. "We are traveling among the quorums of Seventy to a considerable extent, and we are teaching our brethren all the time that God has placed this responsibility upon them, and that they should try to put their affairs in shape that they may be prepared to respond. I realize that the great majority of the Seventies are men of families, who cannot lay down their affairs, quite so readily as the young men who are unmarried. It is much easier for the young men to go upon missions than it is for men of families. Sometimes excuses are offered, and men say they cannot go without making sacrifices. I feel to say to the Seventies that if they put off going upon missions until they can go without making sacrifices, the time will never come when they will be prepared to respond to' missionary calls. Men who have received the Priesthood of a Seventy should be anxious to be in a condition to discharge the duty that God requires of them. They should read that which the Lord has given by revelation through His Prophet concerning the responsibility that rests upon them. The Lord says: ''The Seventy are also called to preach the Gospel, and to be especial witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world. Thus differing from other officers of the Church in the duties of their calling." 

The Lord also says, in this same revelation : 

"The Seventy are to act in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Twelve or the traveling High Council, in building up the Church and regulating all the affairs' of the same in all nations — first unto the Gentiles and then unto the Jews." 

I feel in my whole being that men who are Seventies should have a desire in their hearts to accomplish this labor which God has designated as belonging to them. There should be no disposition in the heart of any Seventy to roll off the responsibility of preaching the Gospel on to the shoulders of the Deacons, or the Priests, or any others; but they should feel, "I am ready; God has called me to be a witness among the nations of the earth, and I desire to bear my fuli share of this responsibility, that I may enjoy a fulness of the promised blessing. The Lord has clothed me with the authority; He requirts the preaching of the Gospel at my hands, and I propose to put myself in a condition to be ready for these appointments." I believe that is the spirit that should actuate the brethren who have been called to be Seventies. I desire to ask the Bishops and the presidents of stakes to look among the quorums of the Seventy, and assist the Council of the Seventy in procuring missionaries from them. I believe that the doing of this will greatly strengthen the hands of the mission presidents, and be a source of strength to all the missions in the world. There are thousands of men and women in the nations who have received the principles of the everlasting Gospel, who understand the first principles of the Gospel, and who are well grounded in the faith. They need some men of experience in their midst, whc can counsel them, and who can feed them better ofttimes than a young and inexperienced missionary can. My experience leads me to say that there are a great many men abroad who are as well or better qualified to preach the Gospel than some of the missionaries who are sent into their midst 

As I have said, I rejoice to see the young men being sent forth. I want my own sons tr go. I believe every father and mother, who has a testimony of the truth of the everlasting. Gospel has the same desire in relation to their sons. But I would feel to rejoice in my heart in the going of my sons, if I knew that there were with them men of experience and understanding, men thoroughly established in the Gospel, and men who could take them by the hand and lead them and act to them in the place of a father. I would feel that they were in safer hands in the company of such men than if they were with the young men altogether. I therefore recommend to the brethren not to overlook the quorums of the 

Seventy, but to furnish more missionaries from that band of men who have been designated of the Lord as being especially responsible for the preaching of His word. 

I bear my testimony, my brethren and sisters, to the truth of the work in which we are engaged. I know it to be of God. I prize the testimony that the Lord has given me concerning this work above all else in the world. I pray with all my heart that God will help me to retain that testimony, and to labor in the midst of the people, whether it be at home or abroad, as I may be directed by those who preside over me, so that I may fill up the measure of my days in the way that He desires. I pray that this blessing may be upon all the people, that we may be true to God, true to each other, true to the covenants that we have made with our Father in heaven in holy places, and that the accomplishment of the purposes of the Al- ' mighty and the building up of His kingdom may be the desire of our hearts; for this will bring to us eternal life in the presence of our Father, the reward that God has promised to the faithful; and the gaining of this blessing should be the very strongest desire of which we are, or can be possessed. God bless us and help us to be' true and faithful, help us to honor and respect the authority of the Holy Priesthood, help us to hold up the hands of the men of God who preside over us and to hearken to their counsels, that the purposes of the Almighty may be fully accomplished in the earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

The growth of Zion — Development of Sunday School work. 

My brethren and sisters, realizing that I should have to speak next for a few moments, I have been trembling upon my seat, but asking myself the question, Why should I fear to stand up before my brethren and sisters? Do I not know that this is the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Yes, most certainly. Do I not hold a portion of the Holy Priesthood? Assuredly I do. Have I not for many years been a member of the Church, endeavoring to understand the principles of eternal life  to obtain the spirit of the Gospel? I answer, Yes. Why, therefore, should I, or why should anyone who is clothed with the power of the Priesthood, who loves God, and who is seeking to serve Him, fear to address a congregation of his brethren and sisters? There is something, however, in large masses of people which has an influence that causes us all to feel our own littleness, our own insignificance compared with the body of the Church. 

I feel like those who have preceded me, that we can truthfully say and truthfully sing, "Zion is growing." The kingdom of God is increasing in power upon the earth. "We see it in our growth numerically; we see it in the increase of our settlements, in the area of country that we are covering, in the extension of the stakes of Zion, and in the growth of our Church schools. We can see it also in the greater obedience of the people to the law of tithing and to other laws that God has revealed. All these things tell us that the Lord is with His people, and that He will fully accomplish all that he has declared; for as we know, He is abundantly able to take care of His people and of His work. 

With regard to what Elder Joseph W. McMurrin has been saying, I also know that there is a dearth of experienced men in the foreign ministry of the Church. I know it because of the requisitions that so often pass through my hands from the presidents of missions, asking for more experienced men to be sent to them. I appreciate the diligence and zeal, the singleness of heart and purpose of our young men. Still, the power of the preaching of the Gospel would be manifestly increased if many of them had more experience, or, to put it in another form, if there was a greater percentage of experienced men associated with them in proclaiming the glorious principles of the everlasting Gospel. We know that the Lord is opening other gates in the midst of the nations, that he is prospering His work, that many are listening to the truth and that the Gospel is now being preached in numbers of places, cities, towns and regions where one or two years ago nothing was known concern it. The demand from abroad is that more Elders be sent. It is very seldom —hardly ever indeed— that any president of a mission says he has too many Elders in the field. The constant cry is for more men, because there are more openings. But as far as my experience has gone, there appears to be no method by which we can guage the condition of any particular portion of the Lord's work by the increase of the Elders sent there, because there are times of sowing and times of reaping in the missionary fields, as there are in the field of the agriculturist; but, as a rule, the more Elders the more baptism's, though the percentage is not always higher, per capita by reason of an increase of the number of Elders in the field. 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in these things, because I love the cause of God. I desire to see it prosper, and I know I will. 

There is another field of labor in which I am engaged that, I am thankful to know, is growing and doing its part — that is, the Sunday school portion of the work of the Lord. In conjunction with this is the work done by other auxiliary organizations connected with the Church. We find, especially abroad, that additional importance and fresh strength has been given to the Sunday school work. In some places the first foothold obtained in the preaching of the Gospel has been by the organization of Sunday schools in the midst of non-members of the Church, and we know of schools that are flourishing and numerically strong where scarcely one-fifth of those who attend are members of the Church or children of members of the Church. We can make a favorable report in this direction with regard to the growth of the work of the Lord and the increase of knowledge of principle amongst our young people. 

May God bless us, strengthen us, and enable us to do His will completely, whatsoever our calling or our duties may be, that we may fulfill the object of our creation, and do all for God's cause that He requires at our hands, is my prayer, through Jesus our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER C. D. FJELSTED. 

It was very gratifying to listen to the remarks of President Smith this morning, that the work of God is growing, both at home and abvoad. We feel that it is quite an encouragement to us to do the will of our Father. "We certainly h&ve a testimony that this is the work of God. We have not been left to guess at it, or to be in doubt about it, but the Lord has given us a testimony, right from the beginning, that this is the work of the Lord. Opposition to it will never stop it; for it has come here to stay. The kingdom of God will stay here, His work will progress, and the blessings of God will rest upon His people. We will prosper in everything that is good, if we will do the will of our Heavenly Father continually. We are thankful that we have a living Priesthood among us— a genuine Priesthood, not a bogus Priesthood; men that are inspired of God to teach us the way of life and salvation. When we meet together it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to send up a prayer in silence to our Heavenly Father that He will inspire His servants, that they may be fed with the bread of eternal life and have the word of God, that we may be blessed and renew our determination to stand faithfully in the kingdom of God. For my part, I have enjoyed a great deal of the Spirit of God when I have been out preaching the Gospel in tha world; and I can testify to this people that yeur sons who are sent out to preach the Gospel are doing well. They a.r*. intelligent, and they are working hard, and the work of the Lord is progressing. Those that oppose it never have tb- advantage of the servants of God. The servants of God are assisted by the Spirit of God, because this is His work, and He sustains them. 

T feel tc say, the Lord bless Israel. The Lord bless all His servants. May wo rally around them, listen to their counsels, and do the will of our Father as it is delivered to us through His servants from time to time, is my prayer for Christ's sake. Amen. 

ELDER J. G. KIMBALL. 

Special work of the Seventy — More home missionary work needed — Dangers to which our young people are exposed. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that life is too short and our time is too brief to be spent in making apologies or excuses, or for expressing myself as being surprised. I think we ought to educate ourselves not to be surprised at almost anything happening that pertains to our calling in the only holy Melchisedek Priesthood, for we never know where lightning will strike We are not acquainted with those tuat will be released, or with those that will be sent to the nations of the earth; but we believe that it comes from God. I do know and testify that when a man is appointed to fill a place, notwithstanding the fact that he may not have all the qualifications, nor be endowed so richly as some other man may be, and the people may be surprised at the appointment, yet the Lord is able to qualify him. It it> marvelous in my sight how m«n that are called by divine authority increase in wisdom and knowledge, how they progress, and how well they fill 'heir positions when they have the spirit of their office and calling. Now, brethren, I know what my Priesthood and calling is. I am young in experience, but I know that I am a special witness of the Lord to the nations of the earth, under the direction of the traveling High Council; if I fall short in some directions, if I exhibit weaknesses, .1 ask the Lord to cause that my integrity and my loyalty and patriotism to the Church of Jesus Christ shall never wane. I do not want to be afraid of man. I want to open my mouth and use the talent which the Doid has given me. What I say may not be in harmony with some men. Those tfiit it is; n harmony with, there being a congeniality and an affinity between us, I may be able to reach their hearts. 

It is difficult for the First Council of Seventy to talk of anything else but missionary work, because that is our special calling. I '"esirs tj call tue attention of the Presidents of Stakes  the Bishops of wards to the fact that 50 letters were sent out yesterday, under the direction oz die First Council of the Seventy, asking that the first 50 quorums in the Church each furnish two Seventies to fill missions. I think we were explicit enough in teiling them the kind of missionaries we wanted, and I hope they have them. While we acknowledge that you cannot grind men over, neither can you li^ their heads, we have asked for men of a certain kind. There are se.-en presidents to every quorum of Seventy in the Church, and there are 142 quorums, numbering 9,500 Seventies; and if they canot find 284 missionaries out of the 142 quorums, then I suggest that they sell out and let someone eLe "tin the business. We desire them to be careful about their morals, about their spiritual, their physical, and financial condition. I wish we could strike out that word "financial;" but we cannot; for if Seventies are in debt, in bonuage, they will have to stay noii;r> and pay their debts. That is one of the greatest difficulties we have to meet in calling for missionaries. 

Our Brother McMurrin hj*s talked to you about the foreign missionary work, and I desire to corroborate what has been said. There is not an Elder that has ever presided o/er a mission who would not prefer a young man to a man who is old; but I want tc tell you that two young boys can do a lot of mischief in a short time, l'iiey intend to do right ,and they try to do right, and the Lord blesses these young men most wonderfully; but where you put two of them together, they are not acquainted with the customs of the people, they are not experienced, and it takes a great deal of wisdom and courage to go among the children of men and have the finger of scorn pointed at you and be as unpopular as a "Mormon" Elder is. Educated tS we Pie, and breathing this mountain air for 20 years, it takes a little training before you can turn the other cheek and treat those kipdry who spitefully use you. It takes a little education to learn how precious are the souls of the children of men in Hie sight of God. So we need some rider men to put their hands on us younger  and hold us down. We are a good deal like Peter. I was that way. I would have cut more than one of their ears off, if there had been someone to stick them on again. That is the spirit of young men at first; but after awhile they moderate. You will be surprised how I will moderate in the next ten years; I will be as mild as a summer's morn, because 1 will commence then to look for death. But I expect to live a number of years yet, and I hope the fire won't entirely burn out of me. I had one of the Apostles tell me, "Brother Kimball, if you don't quit making so much noise, you will burn out." "Well," said I, "I want to burn out, and give room for somebody else, as I believe some men live too long." 

I desire to call your attention to a revelation, and I have tried to understand the part which I shall read: 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For,Behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh;' wherefore He suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto Him. 

"And He hath risen again from the dead, that He might bring all men unto Him, on conditions of repentance; 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth. 

"Wherefore you are called to cry repentance unto this people; 

"And if it be so that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with Him in the kingdom of my Father? 

"And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me? 

"Behold you have My Gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation!" 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel to testify. I believe fervently, after giving it a moment's consideration, the testimony that was borne by President Smith regarding the onward progress of this great work. I believe that it has been established upon the earth, never to be thrown down, nor given to another people. I believe with you, my brethren and sisters, who have a testimony, that your feet are planted upon the rock of salvation, and that you know that Jesus is the Christ. I believe that you will be saved in the kingdom of our Father. I believe that a greater part of you will be true, will be steadfast, will be firm, immoveable and unshaken. Tou are not dazzled nor bewildered by these allurements that are finding their way among this people. You have got past that. You no longer have on your shoulders young heads; you no longer care for society, worldly society; you no longer hunger after the things of the world. You have been able to stamp under your feet these appetites and these weaknesses that young men have not yet overcome. When you came into the world men were not so bewildered with the things of the world. These things have come with luxury and riches, and you, as has been stated, are becoming rich. I declare to you that we, the sons and daughters of those old pioneers, are becoming effeminate, and we no longer believe that we can do the things our father did. It would be almost a crime to ask me to do the things my father did. I do not think I would do them, though I might if I were called upon to do so. Why, to preach the Gospel without purse or scrip, by some it is believed it cannot be done, even in countries where custom will permit of it. We are being impoverished in order to send our sons upon missions; and if you send some of these married men, who have kept the first commandments of God, which is to multiply and replenish the earth— well, the Bishops do not want them to go, because it means the support of a wife and perhaps thirteen children, if it is in a good healthy country. I do not blame the Bishops, because it is a great responsibility; and there are mighty few men in the country, and less in the cities, that have money in the bank. I have interviewed some of the Seventies of Salt Lake City, and I have seen thirty men in one evening, every one of whom said, in substance, "If I go on a mission, I lose my position, there is no income, and my family are helpless." These things have to be met, and I realize it. I think there is a wonderful missionary work to be done. They have over 1,300 missionaries in the world and among them some very bright young men, with great faith, and they will do a great work, and will speak the  of the earth by the inspiration of God. 

Now, after having referred to you older brethren, how you are fortified and fastened, how faithful you are to keep the comandments of the Lord and pay you?- tithing, what about your sons and daughters? Are they converted? Are they fastened? Can you handle them? Are there any of you Presidents; of Stakes and Bishops that feel about to falter and say that they are getting beyond your reach? We are doing a great missionary work at home. In every stake of Zion home missionaries are sent out among the people to preach, and we preach, and we preach, and we preach most eloquently. But these boys are not there. Possibly not twenty per cent of them are £t your meetings when the home missionaries talk. Of course, there are some exceptions. Now, what are you doing about them? We preach daytimes, and I believe ardently that we sleep too much nights. I remember Brother Lyman saying, 'Young man, how old are you?" "I am over forty." He said, "I thought so, because you commence to hunt for an easy chai;even now." At forty we commence to hunt for an easy chair; and so when night approaches, it seems that we parents all go to bed, that we may rest. I rather believe the idea that if the president? of Pta v es and Bishops of wards would appoint missionaries to walk the streets at night, there would be a marvelous work done in Zion. The devil does not do his dirty work in the daytime, when the sun shines; but he is getting so he does. some here under the blazing electric light. Are we going to watch our children? I remember being in a far-off settlement not long ago, where they see few if any of the leading brethren, and yet they number over twelve hundred. They have a great many young people, and when I retired to my bed after the meeting I was kept awake all night long by the boys and girls running the streets of that settlement. I got up towards morning, looked at mv watch, and it was then 4 a. m., and they were still roaming the streets. While it may have been harmless and they may have been pure in their intentions, I tell you  the name of Israel's God it is one of the criminal things that are going on in this land. The devil is breathing In the hearts of our young people, and the very air is stagnated in some of our larger cities with the spirit of immorality, and no greater sin can find its way in the hearts of our young people. I tell you, it is your duty and it is my duty to go out as missionaries; not to preach these things from the pulpit, not to talk- to our sons and daughters publicly, but privately, and " point out to them in a proper way, the great and abominable evil of secret sin. Some of you in your far-off districts are not burdened with what we call civilization and the things of tho world; but you are menaced, and the greatest danger that menaces you today is immorality, and secret sin. You know how we guard our missionaries. The Elders yesterday pled with a number of missionaries till tears came to my eyes. Oh, brethren, avoid wine and women as you would the gates of hell. Don't allow any woman to take your honor. Don't allow any woman to take your arm. Keep them at arm's length; and as you expect to honorably fulfill your mission and have the Spirit of God burning in your hearts, see to it that there are no courtships, that there are no arrangements made of any kind to -enter into matrimony; but come home clean and pure and sweet before the Lord." As one missionary said, when he returned home from his first mission, he was about to step over his mother's threshold and his mother said, "Hold on, my son, have you come back to me as pure and as good as when you left?" He was able to say, "Mother, I am pure, 1 am clean and sweet before the .Lord;" and she threw her arms open and took her son in her embrace. 

Brethren and sisters, are we going to fortify the youth of Israel and the daughters of Zion, that they can withstand these men who seem to think it is their special mission and that they are justified in coming among our people and ruining our daughters and leading away our young men? God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

Every gift and endowment brings responsibility — The use and abuse of wealth. 

My brethren and sisters, I trust that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord while I shall stand before you this morning. I feel to rejoice in the privilege that I have in bearing my testimony before so large a congregation, t wish to endorse with all my heart theremarks that have been made by my Drethren who have preceded me. 1 rejoice in the progress that has been made in the work of the Lord, in the growth of Zion, and in the extending of her borders. I rejoice in the advancement that is being made oy the people of God. 

While the brethren were speaking this morning upon the responsibility of the Seventies in being the special witnesses of our Lord in the nations of the earth, I thought what a great thing it would be if ail the people, und. particularly all those who 'hold the Priesthood, would only realize the responsibility that rests upon them as individuals, and if each man would feel that he, for one, was determined to discharge himself of that responsibility. When a man is ordained to the Priesthood, it matters not to what office, with that ordination comes a responsibility; and it were better for him that he never had received that ordination, unless he magnifies the calling whereunto he has tven called. If a man is blessed with wealth and with the good things of this woi I i, with that comes responsibaity; and it were better for him that he had remained in poverty all his days than to possess riches and not give a proper account of his stewardship. Every iaan who has been endow-xl with a gift, whether it be the gift of intelligence, the gift of oratory, the gift of song, or any other gift, with that endowment comes responsibility, and he will be held accountable for every gift and talent that has been placed within his reach. And to whom much is given, from him much will be required. While visiting one of the wards not very far from Salt Lake City I heard of a young man who had been appointed a Teacher upon one of the blocks, and he was complaining. He said he could not afford to go out teaching every month, because every time Iia went ir cost him $1.50. I thought then, how little that man appreciated the responsibility that had been placed upon him. He actually begrudged $1.50 worth of his time in magnifying the Piiesthood to which he had been ordained by the authority of our Heavenly Father' There should be in every man a 'aiming desire to fulfil the obligations that are placed upon him. Every man should seek to enjoy the spirit cf his calling. If he be a Seventy, he should enjoy the missionary spirit. If he be a Teacher, he should enjoy the spirit of going out among the people and teaching them their duties, and seeing "hat there is no iniquity in the Church. Once a young man was being interrogated as to his being in a posiuon to fulfil a foreign mission, and ho told the brethren who were making the investigation that he was in debt, and on that account he was" excused for the time being. As the young man went out, he made the remark, "I ge t out of that pretty slick. I t«:H the brethren I was in debt; and what is more, I propose to be always ir>. .Vl>t." I am happy to say there are only a lew cases of this kind, but thin, was a young man, holding the Friasthooc 1 cf a Seventy, who did not enjoy the spirit of his calling. I want to say that it were better for him, unless he repents of that feeling, that a millstone were hung around his neck and he were sunk to the bottom of the sea. Every man that has been called as a Seventy should enjoy the spirit o* a missionary. He may not tie called at the present time to go into the nations. He does not need to go and a;-k for an appointment in the missionary field. But there should be a desire in his heart to lift up his voice and cry repentance unto this generation. If he does not have that feeling in his heart, he does not enjoy the spirit of his calling. "We ought not to be glad to get out of the opportunity of going into the world to proclaim the Gospel message unto those who know not God. 

If I were to be asked what it is that arouses in men and women the greatest amount of energy, and that causes all this activity that we see in the world, my answer would be, it is money. Men and women are struggling after the riches of this world. They will work from early morn until late at night, they will wear out their bodies, in trying to obtain money. Not only will they do that, but they will lie, they will cheat, they will steal, they will kill for money! It is the desire for riches that is calling out the greatest amount of energy from men and women in the world today. But among Latter-day Saints the thing that ought to call out the best life forces that we have, the greatest amount of energy and activity, is to do the will of the Father. Once, a missionary, who was the son of a wealthy man, said to me, "Brother Wells, the Bible says that money is the root of all evil, but give me a little of the root." I talked to the young man for a few moments, and contradicted the statement. I told him that money was not the root of all evil, and that the Bible did not say it was; that money is a great blessing, when people know how to utilize it, and can be made the means of accomplishing great good. Temples can be erected for the worship of the Most High, buildings like this Tabernacle can be constructed, the poor can be fed, and suffering can be alleviated, through the application of money. Money itself, I said, was a blessing in the hands of those who knew how to use it. The Bible did not say that money was the root of all evil, but it did say that the love of money was the root of all evil. When men give their hearts to gold, and worship mammon rather than God, then it is that it becomes the root of all evil, and leads men and women away from the paths of truth and righteousness into the paths of evil. 

May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints; may He fill us with an ambition to magnify our callings and to discharge ourselves of the responsibility that rests upon us. If we are wealthy, may He put it into our hearts to do something for the progress of His work here upon the earth and for the establishment of the kingdom of God. May 13. 

He fill us with the desire in our hearts that when we leave this sphere of action, we may not leave immense fortunes for our families to apostatize over, but may He put it into the hearts of our well-to-do brethren and sisters to endow the institutions of Zion. May God bless us. Amen. 

The choir sang: Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Guide us to the promised land. 

Benediction by Elder Lewis W. Shurtliff. 
