Morning
06 04 1902


ELDER BEN. E. RICH. 

(President of the Southern States mission.) 

It has been my privilege for some little time back to labor in what is known as the Southern States mission. The field covered by the Southern States mission is rather large, including the states of Ohio, Virginia, North Carolina, Soutn Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, Tennessee and Kentucky; so that it reaches from Lake Erie on the north to the Gulf of Mexico on the south, and from the Mississippi river to the Atlantic ocean. Since I have been there, from 1,050 to 1,100 Elders have labored in the Southern States mission. I believe that I have traveled 140,000 miles. I have not the exact number, but between 3,500 and 4,000 baptisms have taken place during that time. We have published and distributed among the people 1,500,000 tracts, 70,000 of the Voice of Warning, 10,000 Orson Pratt's Works, 7,000 Books of Mormon, 55,000 of a little work called Durant, besides about 20,000 miscellaneous works bearing upon the principles of the Gospel. I believe there is not a house, outside of the larger cities of the south, where the Mormon Elders have not tapped at the door. As a rule, the Elders are happy in their labors; all of them are who have the spirit of their mission, and it is only occasionally that I have found an Elder destitute of that spirit. The Gospel has been preached, many people have rendered obedience to the principles of the same, and in return they have borne testimony to their relatives and neighbors that God has given them a testimony concerning the divinity of this work. The people of the south are a good people. As a rule, they are a religious people. They are not a hypocritical people. If they are your enemy, they let you know it. We have made some very strong and influential friends in the south; and, as is the case wherever the Gospel is preached, we have also made some very strong and influential enemies. I believe that I have three invitations there now to be killed, but I have been so busy that I have not had time to fill any of them yet. We have lost four Elders by death during the last four years; and considering the large number that we have had laboring in the south, and the difference there is between the climate in the valleys of the mountains and down around the everglades of Florida, I think the Lord has blessed us exceedingly in not allowing more of our Elders to lay down their lives in the south. The most of our  comes from the ministers. If they would remember the commandments of God, and stop their lying and stop bearing false witness against their neighbor::, we would have less trouble in the south. Probably the ministers of Salt Lake would be surprised if I should tell them that I have a book, almost the size of a family Bible, containing an account of all the mobbings of the Mormon Elders in the south, and 85 per cent of the mobs have been headed by ministers. When our Elders go into the large cities to preach the Gospel without purse or scrip, these ministers go to the officers of the law and remind them that there are laws against beggars, against vagrants, and they ask that our Elders be arrested when they have no visible means of support. They went so far in one of the legislatures of the south as to influence a man to introduce a measure making it a crime to preach the Gospel without a salary! I think if Christ and the Apostles were to come back and meet some of these pretended representatives of Jesus, He would not labor three years before the cry would go up, Crucify him! Crucify him! 

I rejoiced in listening to the testimonies of the Elders yesterday. I want to refer briefly to the remarks of one of them concerning the Congress of Religions, held during the period of the World's fair, when the representative sent by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was rejected. It is the first time in the history of this world when the representatives of all the religious faiths of the world came together in a Congress. The pagan, the Jew, the various denominations throughout Christendom, the heathen priests — all were there. There was one, and only one, who did not receive of their courtesies. There was one who was not of the world! Jesus Christ said concerning His people, "If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.' If ever I had cause for rejoicing, it was when it was demonstrated, the only time in the history ot the world when these words of Christ had a chance to be verified, that we were  people who were not of the world. We are the ones who claim that God has revealed His Gospel anew from the heavens, and that it is builded upon the rock of revelation from God. Those who were instruments in causing the word to go forth 1800 years ago to crucify the representative of modern revelation are the ones today who are engaged in the same cause. I have often said that the devil does not care how many dead prophets the people of this or any other generation believe in; but when God reveals His mind and will anew, then it is the devil's business to blind the eyes of the people and stop their ears against the prophet of God who comes to deliver that message to mankind. It was mibeluef in modern revelation anciently that was the curse of the generation to whom Christ came, and He told them that their condemnation was that they would build synagogues to the memory of the dead prophets, but stood ready to crucify the living ones; and I believe that if Christ came again He would have the same message to deliver throughout the length and breadth of Christendom. 

I rejoice in the work of the ministry. I have enjoyed my labors. I thank God for the testimony He has given me concerning the divinity of this work. I know that if I am faithful to that testimony to the end of my days I will be saved and exalted in the celestial kingdom of God. That we all may be faithful to the end of our days, and reap this great and everlasting reward, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH A. McRAE. (President of the Colorado Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I desire an interest in your faith and prayers for the few moments that I shall speak to you, that I may be under the inspiration of our Father in heaven. It has been my pleasure to labor for a short time in the Colorado mission, and the time that I have been there has been the pleasantest of my life. The Colorado mission embraces a great deal of territory. Many of the Latter-day Saints do not realize its extent. We go from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, and from the Missouri river  California, including the states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming and Colorado, and the territories of New Mexico and Arizona. The people who live in this locality are comparatively a new people. The country is also comparatively new — about the same as Utah. The people who have settled it came there for the benefit of their health or for the purpose of making money; and there is a great indifference among them with respect to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We have no persecution to meet. I sometimes wish we had; for I believe if we had a little it might cause the honest in heart to look at us and see what we really are teaching. As it is, it requires a great effort on the part of the Elders to get the people to take any interest in us whatever. W e have a very healthy climate. I do not think there has been an Elder taken home dead from the Colorado mission, and, so far as I know, there has only been one case where an Elder has died within a few weeks after his return. We have eight stakes of Zion situated within the borders of our mission, and it is a difficult mission to preach the Gospel in, for we find so many people who have drifted away from the Church, and who have denied that they ever had a testimony. This class of people do us a great deal of injury. On the other hand, we find people who have drifted away from the body of the Church, having forgotten lh;ir covenants, but who are brought back into the fold by the labors of the Elders, and they rejoin the stakes of Zion, pay their tithes and offerings, and become active members. In this way we are trying to do some good; but in some instances the efforts of the Elders are not realized because their labors are among this class of people. We find many of our young sisters who have married outside of the pales of the Church. They come to us with tears in their eyes, and say they wish they had their life to lead over again. In my experience in the mission field I have got the first woman to see yet who was happy in this kind of a union, and I have met hundreds of them. We have between forty and fifty Elders doing the work in these five states and two territories, and they are kept busy. Some parts of our mission have to remain without Elders, because we do not have sufficient to preach the Gospel there. There are no Elders in North and South Dakota, nor in Wyoming, at the present time. There are thirteen Elders in Nebraska, where we- ought to have at least twenty-five or thirty; but we realize that it is difficult to get the number of Elders to preach the Gospel that should be sent out into the mission fields. It would be a difficult thing for me to estimate the number of conversions, or the amount of literature that has been distributed, as I have not the figures with me. It is difficult to estimate the number of conversions, for the reason that so many have been brought back into the Church, or have been led to renew their covenants. 

I know that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and, like the Apostle Paul, I know it is the power of God unto salvation. I have joy and satisfaction in my labors in preaching the Gospel unto the people of the world, and in bearing my testimony wherever it is possible for my voice to be raised. I wish to give my life to the service of the Lord. The only desire of my heart is to do what good I can for my fellowmen, and to ,preach the Gospel unto those who know not Jesus Christ. I have been very much interested in the conference thus far, and to me it is a feast. I can appreciate the words of Apostle Grant, when he f'iu that no one but those who are deprived of these blessings can realize and understand to the fullest extent the blessings that are bestowed upon them by having the privilege of attending these conferences. I know that I am spiritually fed. I know that it does me good when I return to my mission field, and I feel that the Elders who are laboring with me partake of the same spirit and are actuated by the self-same testimony that has been given at this conference. They write to me, "Attend all the conferences, and do not miss any of them; for we feel that when you return to the mission you will carry the same spirit with you." I pray that I shall, and I pray that we will all carry the spirit of this conference with us to our homes, that it may be a blessing  us and our children and to those who have not the privilege of attending the conferences. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. G. DUFFIN. 

(President of the Southwestern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel grateful to my Father in heaven for the privilege of meeting with you in this annual conference, and I trust that the Spirit of God will enable me to briefly report the work of the Lord in the Southwestern States mission. That mission is one of magnificent distances and of liberal-minded people. The people who live in the great majority of the states embraced within the territory that we cover have come from the various states of the Union and from almost every nation under heaven. They have come from among the best classes of the people, and have drifted westward, largely, I believe, because of the liberal spirit that prevails in the western part of the United States. On this account we meet with but little persecution, and wherever our Elders go they are treated well, as a rule. The people generally are religiously inclined. We are meeting with fair success in that mission, not alone measured by the number of baptisms, though they are reasonably satisfactory, but the people are purchasing our publications, and during the past year we have placed in their hands nearly 10,000 of our books, including the Book of Mormon, the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and the . Life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We have also distributed nearly 5,000 of the Voice of Warning and hundreds of an excellent little book written by Prest. Ben. E. Rich, of the Southern States mission. We have emphasized in our labors the truth that God has spoken from the heavens, that He has raised up in these latter days prophrts, and that through them is He giving His word unto all nations of the earth. 

If there ever has been a time when it has been necessary or prudent to dwell almost exclusively upon the four fundamental principles of the Gospel, and to say but little about what God is doing today among His children,  time we have felt impressed, does not now exist in the Southwestern States mission. Because of that we have been led to impress upon the Elders in that mission the importance of studying the revelations of God given today, and to bring before the people that word of God in its purity, to let the people know that God is doing a work today, and not be forever dwelling on the past centuries. This is creating a wonderful impression for good among the people, and their minds are being drawn to the great work that God is doing now. "We have felt the importance of getting our literature into the hands of the people, so that it might be read and impressions for truth be made upon their minds, in place of their reading all the time those books that have been written against the work of God. We have been greatly favored in the past year in getting out a ten thousand edition of that sacred book revealed from God by one of His heavenly messengers, the Book of Mormon. While some of the brethren have been speaking during the conference that we are afraid to attempt what our fathers did, I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that your sons have been led to contribute of their means to that work, knowing that if they would do it God would bless them therein; and that book has been published, half of the expense being borne by the Elders of that mission and by a few others. We feel very grateful for this privilege and we know that it is going to accomplish a great amount of pood. 

The headquarters of our mission is located in what is termed the land of Zion. We are in Kansas City, ten miles only from Independence, the spot where the temple will yet be erected. I have been very much impressed during the last year with the very favorable sentiment that is exhibited in that land toward our people. It is only a few days ago since I received a letter from the city engineer of Independence, stating to me that a portion of the original temple lot was now for sale, and if our people desired to get hold of that we could do so by paying the purchase price. The original temple lot, according to the  on the records, contained about 63 acres, and it is now possible for this people, if they desire, to purchase the greater portion of it. I state this by way of encouragement to the Saints — not that I am particularly impressed that the time is here just now to do that work, though it may be, but to show the sentiment in that land, from which our fathers were driven, and where our mothers and sisters were abused so shamefullv. There are thousands of people today who would welcome you back with open arms, and do all in their power to assist in the building up of the work of the Lord in that country, from a worldly point of view. 

One word more before closing. A few days ago I had business to transact in Kansas City with a leading manufacturer. After we had got through our business, the question of our people going back to that country came up, and he said to me, "Mr. Duffln, it appears to me almost improbable that your people will ever accomplish the work that I understand has been predicted." I said to him, calling him by name, "You have done business with my people; you understand their integrity. Now, let your mind go back to the year 1847. The pioneers went into the Salt Lake valley on the 24th of July of that year. A few days after they reached the place where Salt Lake City now stands, Brigham Young struck his cane on a certain spot, and said, 'Here we will build the temple of our God.' Today the Salt Lake temple stands upon that spot. The idea was never lost sight of that that temple would be erected upon that spot; and never has the idea been lost sight of that the City of Zion .will be built where Independence now stands, and the temple of our God will be erected there." "Well," said he, "it may be so; but if it is, your people will exert a wonderful influence for hundreds of miles around." This is the sentiment of the people. I want to say that God is preparing the way for His work to be accomplished. The words of our beloved Prophet at the opening of this conference are true. I know that Zion is growing, and her borders are extending. I know that GENERAL CONFERENCE.  work of God is established upon this earth, and that it will ultimately prevail. I know that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet of God, and those who have succeeded him have been and are the oracles of God, His prophets and through them has come His word unto the nations of the earth. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

God's message to the world — All the faithful entitled to a testimony of the truth. 

In listening to the testimonies and the instructions that have been given at this conference my heart has been full' of thanksgiving and praise to God, our Eternal Father for His loving kindness and tender mercy unto us His children. It is wonderful the knowledge that has been brought to the earth in the restoration of the everlasting Gospel, which was rejeoted 1800 years ago by the Jews and by the Gentiles. How highly we are favored to have the privilege of living upon the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of times, which was spoken of by all the prophets who foresaw the wonderful work that was to be done in the last days in the establishment of the righteousness of God upon the earth! "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved," is the message that we have been carrying to the people, with signs following the true believer. The restoration of the Priesthood of the Son of God and the authority to preach His Gospel and to administer in the ordinances of His house, has made it possible for all the children of our Father to obtain light and truth, if they desire it; for we are equal before the Lord as His children, and we all have the privilege of understanding the principles of life and salvation, no matter what our circumstances or position may be in life. The Lord hath said, "Look unto me, all ye ends of the earth, and be ye saved; for I am God, and beside me there is no Savior." 

The Latter-day Saints are called by the world "Mormons;" the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is called the "Mormon" Church. Why it should be so is a question. Mormon  nothing to do with the organization of this Church. The Lord Jesus Christ organized it. It is not the "Mormon" Church; it is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Those who embrace the doctrine of the Son of God are called Saints. Eighteen hundred years ago the members of the Church of Christ were called Saints. The Apostle Paul wrote to the Saints in Rome, to the Saints in Corinth. How came they to be Saints? Simply because they accepted Jesus Christ and believed in His doctrine. The Lord Jesus himself said: "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine." It has been manifested at this conference, in the testimonies that have been borne by these living oracles, that they know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that He has commenced His marvelous work and a wonder. I am not surprised that the wisdom of the wise perishes and the understanding of the prudent is hid, when they call the Church of Christ the "Mormon" Church. Please tell me where is the justification for calling the followers ol the Lord Jesus Christ in this dispensation "Mormons," and the doctrine taught by the Latter-day Saints "Mormonism." I have never heard a justifiable reason why it should be so. It is done, under the influence of anti-Christ, for the purpose of impressing upon people that this is not the Church of Christ. Those who embrace the Gospel are called Saints, because they are true believers in the Lord Jesus Christ and in His doctrine. 

We worship the living and true God, our glorious Creator, in the name of Jesus Christ. We have accepted of the atonement; we have repented of our sins, and have been baptized by immersion for the remission of sins, to fulfil all righteousness, and that we might be born of the water; we have been sanctified in the precious blood of Christ, which follows the water, and we ha,ve received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, and we have obtained a living testimony. This makes us peculiar. We have come put of the world and taken up the cross of Christ; we advocate His doctrines, and we know that they are true, for we  tested them. Every man and every woman who has ever accepted the doctrine of Christ in all humility and meekness, seeing light and truth from our Father in heaven, and has lived the principles of the Gospel, has obtained a living testimony that it is true. It shows us that the Lord is no respecter of persons, but every member of the Church of Christ has a right to knowledge, light and intelligence, and to know that the doctrine of Christ is true, by the revelations of Almighty God. We know that the Lord has established His Church upon the rock of revelation, and we know, as Daniel of old knew, that there is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets. We know that the spirit of prophecy is in the Church, because we are continually hearing prophecies and seeing them fulflled. The Apostles, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, set apart missionaries to go and preach the Gospel to the nations, where they themselves have already been, and where they have given their testimony concerning this people and the restoration of the everlasting Gospel; and the predictions they utter upon the heads of those who are thus set apart are verified. The missionaries come back like the ancient seventy, who returned rejoicing in the power of God that had been made manifest in their administrations, even devils being subject to them. The Lord Jesus Christ told them not to rejoice so much in that as that their names were written in the Lamb's book of life. To have our names written in the Lamb's book of life is everything to us. But it is necessary that individually we work out our own salvation, and be in harmony with the eternal principles of the everlasting Gospel of the Son of God. The Lord Jesus Christ said unto His disciples anciently, "Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved." Believeth what? Believeth in the Lord Jesus Christ, in the atonement, in the resurrection, in holding communication with the heavens, in the spirit of revelation, in putting our trust in .God, in doing good, in fulfilling our individual missions, and being in obedience to the  of the Gospel. This is .the only way by which we can obtain a knowledge of the truth. The Savior said, "No man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal Him." We are living testators that the Lord has restored to the earth this knowledge and made it possible for us to understand the things of God, , because we have the fellowship of the Holy Ghost. We declare these glad tidings of great joy to the people, calling upon them to repent, to worship the living and true God, and to obey the Gospel of the Son of God, that they may be put in possession of this priceless knowledge, that they may be delivered from ignorance, priestcraft, error, superstition, and the darkness that covers the earth and the gross darkness the minds of the people, by having the fellowship of the Spirit of God and being taught of His ways, that they may walk in His paths. 

After fifty years experience in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I do know most assuredly that God lives. I do know most assuredly that Jesus is the Christ. I do know most assuredly that the signs follow the true believer, and that the doctrine of the Father, taught by the Son is true. No man has ever accepted this Gospel and lived its principles, but has been satisfied and has obtained a knowledge that it is true. This is a glorious opportunity for mankind. The Lord Jesus Christ is coming in flaming Are, with ten thousand of His angels, to take vengeance on them that know not God and o^~- not the Gospel of the Son of God. This Gospel is being preached by His authority. It is not the work of man, it is ths work of God. This wonderful gathering that has been brought to pass has been accomplished by our Father in heaven, who is doing His own work. I thought the other day, when Apostle Grant was telling us of two being baptized in Japan, that is the way the LtJ generally commences His work, the Lord Jesus Christ and John the Baptist in their dispensations, and in these last days Joseph Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery, in the dispensation of the fullness of times. Jesus declared that no man could come unto Him except the Father drew him. All glory to God our Eternal Father that we have been drawn into His fold; that we had the moral courage to come out of the popular religions of the world and to take up the cross of Christ. We have been rewarded. The Father has given unto us a living testimony concerning this work, and we know that these principles are true. We say to all the world, Repent, obey the Gospel, receive the remission of your sins, become sanctified through the precious blocd of Jesus Christ, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be one with us in our glorious brotherhood in Christ Jesus, adopted into the family of our Father in heaven. God bless you, my beloved brethren and sisters. Let us _be encouraged; for I can bear testimony to the truth of the expression of our beloved President, that the Saints are improving, increasing in righteousness and in good works. I know it from my labors among the people. The power and Spirit of God rests upon me when visiting the Stakes of Zion under the direction of the Presidency, and I know the freedom we enjoy and the hearty reception we receive. I say, God bless you forever; and all gliry, power, might, majesty and dominion be ascribed to God and the Lamb forever! Even so, amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Pro re^b'ln? made in different missions — Favorable change ol sentiment in the Bast toward  the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, it is indeed a pleasure to me to meet with you in this conference, although I failed to be with you upon the first day and regret that I did not hear the remarks that were made by the brethren who spoke during that day. 

It has been my privilege during the past thirty days to visit in various parts of the East. I met with the Elders in Chicago, and had a very pleasant and agreeable time with them. President Woodruff of that mission regretted very much that he could not attend this conference, for the reason that appointments had been made and  conditions were such that he felt it unwise to leave his field of labor. I also had the privilege, in connection with President Ben E. Rich, of attending a meeting in Richmond, Virginia, and mingling with the Elders there. I found that the spirit of inquiry is manifest in that capital city of the Old Dominion. From there it was my privilege to visit the states of New York and Massachusetts and, in connection with the Elders in those fields hold meetings. I believe the work is developing fairly well in Boston. The Elders seem to be hopeful, and the officers of that municipality seem to be quite fair. The Elders are now allowed to hold their meetings upon the Boston Common — a privilege that was denied some little time ago; and they feel that the chances for success in that field are very good indeed. They have a very nice branch of the Church there, and the spirit of inquiry Is manifesting itself among the people. President McQuarrie of that mission is indeed an active, intelligent and devoted Elder. His heart is given to his work, and he is doing everything consistent to ex* tend and spread the Gospel among the people over whom he is called to preside. His conferences were also being held, which prevented him from coming here to attend the general conference. In the city of New York the spirit of inquiry is quite manifest. The Elders are very devoted to their work, and are holding meetings constantly upon the street corners, upon vacant lots, or wherever opportunity may offer within the confines of that great city. Fair treatment is accorded them generally, and many are inclined to investigate the doctrines of the Church. The recent baptism of a few choice people in that city has awakened some interest, and is causing others to investigate the principles of the Gospel. I had the pleasure, in connection with the Elders in the city of New York, of attending- six meetings. At two of them representatives of all the leading papers of New York City were present, and their notices of our meetings, taken as a whole, would be regarded as very fair, considering- the spirit that sometimes actuates the reporters in their idea that they must cater to a  that exists in the minds of the people. The feeling manifested by them in conversation was also fair, and indeed quite generous upon the part of most of them. 

My own observation, in my brief visit to these fields of labor leads me to believe that the feeling of the people is undergoing a change, and that while the spirit of investigation may not be all that we could wish it to be, the people generally are inclined to treat us fairly. The American people, to a great degree, are not inclined to have much to do with religion. While they attend the churches and display their good clothes in their visitations there, there is an evidence of an indifference to the doctrinal views presented by the religious world at the present time. During my absence in the East I attended a Catholic service in the cathedral at Baltimore, and while I did not have the privilege of listening to Cardinal Gibbon, I heard a very fine discourse given by Father O'Gavin. In his effort before his congregation he sought to establish among them an understanding of the reason that the Catholic Church in the world hold in respect and reverence images, and he made the argument, fully and explicitly upon his part, that it was not the images that they worshiped — they did not worship idols — but that it was simply to impress upon their minds the nature of the Catholic faith. 

This, I believe, gives you in brief some idea of my visit to the East. During the trip I attended ten meetings among the Elders and Saints, and found them, in every part where it was my privilege to go, actively engaged in the accomplishment of their work, devoted and true; and everybody whom I met in connection with them gave them a good name and spoke well of their devotion to the cause that they had gone forth in the world to represent. 

With you I rejoice in the privilege of being in this conference, and in listening to the remarks that ha- e been made by our brethren touching the many questions upon which they have spoken. The work of the Lord has been established, never more to be thrown down, nor given to another . The Holy Priesthood, with its rights, its powers and its privileges, has been given to man in the day and age in which we live. It is the purpose of the Master that the world shall be warned in regard to this matter, that the truth shall be preached among the children of men, and that the spirit of this work shall be felt in every land, in every tongue, and in every nation. To this end the best efforts or the lives of thousands of men and women have been devoted in the past, and for the future the possibilities of their accomplishments can alone be told by the spirit of revelation. But our duty in this respect is as full and clear, I trust, before our eyes, and before the eyes of the Presidency of the Church, today, as it was when in the beginning the Lord revealed His will and declared that this message of eternal truth must be taught to every nV-ion of the world, and that mankind must be warned of the truth and of its re-establishment. Today we are better equipped for the accomplishment of that mission than at any time in our past history. We are becoming more fully established in our homes; better opportunities are furnished for the education and training of the young; and the schools that have been established in the Church, together with the various organizations and associations that have been builded up, are all aiding in that preparation which shall qualify the young men and maidens of our communities to go forth under the inspiration of the Divine Spirit, equipped for their ministry, and relying upon God their Father for the accomplishment of His holy will. I trust that in every home among the Latter-day Saints the foremost thought will be that, so far as lies within their power, the members of that household shall be fully equipped for the performance of their part and the discharge of the obligations which they took upon themselves when they entered the sacred waters of baptism. The world is not warned. Its sons and its daughters by millions are not conversant with the truths that have been revealed through the ministrations of the prophets of these later days. They have heard bad words spoken of the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ. Thousands of them have believed, and are believing, that the people called Latter-day Saints are of the worst possible stripe among men and women. While thousands have heard the truth, and while thousands are from time to time visiting our mountain homes, and thereby changing their spirit and thought in regard to us as a people, there are thousands whose ears have never been saluted by the testimony of the truth, but who have been impressed with the thought, presented by someone as lacking in knowledge as they themselves, that the mission and purpose of the Latter-day Saints is simply to do evil among their fellowmen. But these thoughts are giving way. The proud and the mighty, conversant with the conditions of our own land, are not inclined to avoid the companionship of a "Mormon" Elder. Those possessed of wealth, and standing in comfortable positions, as they are thrown in contact with the Elders of the Church are surprised at their character and deportment, and they bear witness to their honesty and uprightness. But a short time ago, in the home of a Methodist family in the State of Massachusetts, the lady of the house expressed her dislike of "Mormonism," as the world calls it, but, said she "the people around us do not understand Mormonism. A few days ago, in the chapel where I was worshiping, a person from your section of country made a representation of the conditions among your people that I knew was Snot true, and I told her so. I said that while I was not a believer in the doctrines taught by Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet, I knew her statements were not true, because I had mingled among the people and knew the conditions that existed among them." Thus in the towns and cities of our own land and in every part of the world may be found upright men and women who will not tolerate the suggestions that go forth from the lips of the unwise and imprudent, the disgruntled and the dissatisfied because of the failures that have come to themselves, who are belittling the cause of Christ, and seeking to trample beneath their feet and dishonor the system that the Almighty has established  the world. These honest people who mingle with and are in the companionship of the Elders of the Church raise their voices in testimony of their good character, and are inclined to defend them by giving forth what is the truth, so far as they have been made conversant with it. 

I desire to say that in my brief visit to the Eastern States, it has been all that I could have wished. In associating with the missions, in talking with the Saints, in visiting with strangers and expounding the doctrines of the Church, in mingling with men in exalted stations, the same spirit of fairness and of justice seems to manifest itself as you converse with them in regard to the character of the work which the Latter-day Saints represent in the world. 

My brothers and my sisters, the work of the Lord is onward and upward. The spirit of truth is disseminating itself little by little. There are, perhaps, millions of people within the confines of the United States who believe in the mission and ministry of Joseph Smith, and the day will come when, in the providences of Almighty God, they will link their destines with that cause and aid in its development and growth among the children of men. They are convinced in their souls, but they are restrained from an acceptance of it by the pride that exists and the feeling that it would be unwise for them to link their destines with it. Jn their hearts, however, the seed has been sown, the light of truth is springing up, and the day will come when they will be humbled and will receive the truth. I have no more doubt of this than that I stand before you as a witness for that self-same truth and for that great God and His Holy Son who introduced the Gospel in this dispensation and taught the boy Prophet the way of life and the means by which the human family can be reclaimed. 

My brothers and my sisters, I pray that the blessings of heaven may abound in your hearts and homes. May the spirit of inspiration be in the mind and heart of every father and every mother. Let every boy and every girl be impressed with the sacredness of this mission that has been given to  — the sowing of the seeds of truth, the calling to repentance of the children of men, the pointing of the way of life to all who will listen. They that will listen, their hearts will be touched; for as the days go by and we meet men upon the right hand and upon the left, they say, "I heard upon such an occasion the testimony of a Mormon Elder. It unsettled my life, it changed the trend of my experience, it turned me from the course I was pursuing, and it brought me to sense that there is something in the world aside from the struggle for wealth, or for affluence, or for place and station among men." The Gospel is true. Jesus is indeed the Redeemer of the world. God in heaven is our Father. He has restored His Priesthood and placed it upon the shoulders of men, and, as He promised, it will never be taken from the earth again, nor will it ever be given to another people. The key, the power, the authority, the dominion, is here; and Almighty God is ratifying His promises by His still small voice in its declaration of truth among His children. To this end I trust that we may be faithful to the promises we have made to the Almighty, that we may reap the reward promised to the just, and that we may eventually stand in His presence, having been reclaimed and brought to a perfect knowledge of the principles of everlasting life, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: 

Rouse, O ye mortals, The dawn is near. 

Benediction by Elder Lewis, of Benson stake. 
