Afternoon
05 04 1902



ELDER M. F. COWLEY. 

Work o c God not denen^nt upon the world — Thi only way to pleasp tho l,o d — We - hou d a< t wtih a view to futu'ity — Parents s ould be exemplars 10 their children. 

My brethren and sisters, it is very gratifying to see so many in attendance upon this conference, and I feel that there has been a pleasing variety of instructions given unto us, and that it would be a good thing for the Latfer-day Saints as a whole, and for the Priesthood especially, to make a little note, if not in a notebook, in their minds, of the items of instruction that are touched upon, so that we may act upon it in our various wards and stakes when we return. It is not in glittering peneialities that we accomplish much; it is in taking down the details and working at them in such a way as to bri.ig good fruits out of them. I do not remember of attending a conference  I felt that the Spirit of the Lord had more thoroughly and in a more appropriate way actuated the brethren, touching upon those subjects which are especially adapted to our wants. 

I have felt impressed with one idea while listening to my brethren, and that is that the whole history of this work has gone to show that we do not need the help of the world to sustain it. I do not mean by this to depreciate any kind assistance, sentiment or support that may be accorded unto us by honest and upright men who, from time to time, defend the rights of the Latter-day Saints, and who have sufficient of the light of truth to see the purity and power of the doctrines that are taught by this people; but I mean to say that it all goes to show that God has established this great work, and that He has sustained it in every sense of the word. When I heard Brother Smoot this morning talking and reading a little about the ideas of men concerning the effect of "Mormonism," as it is termed, more especially in the eastern states, some of them entertaining the idea that it was a great menace to the people, I thought to myself that the world had got the nightmare. I heard Sol Smith Russell once read an essay on the horse. He said that the horse was a noble animal. It would live on oats and sawdust, he said. Then he went on to describe the various kinds of horses there were in existence. He said there was the sawhorse, and there was the horse-radish, and then there was the Colt's revolver, and then there was the night-mare. He said, "the nightmare is a horse that is born in the night, and my Aunt Jane has lots of them." I think sectarianism has the nightmare over this work, and possibly it is all right that they should have. It makes me feel that there are not only prophets among the people of God, but there are some prophets in the world. I heard one of our local politicians a few years ago stand up before a public audience, when the question of dividing on national political lines was agitated among this people, and some doubted the propriety of it. They wanted to hold the old anti-Mormon party together, and more thoroughly crowd us to the wall, and  their power with the great parties of the nation to distress and oppress this people by inimical legislation. One of the speakers that stood up to address that audience made this statement: "The Mormons will come out on top, no matter what you do." He said he did not believe in dividing on political lines; he believed in keeping- the hand over the Mormons just as long as possible, because, said he, they will come out on top. To illustrate his prophecy he told an anecdote about Gen. Mahone of Virginia, and one of his negro slaves, and he compared us to the general and themselves to the slave. He said this poor slave had a dream. He dreamed that he died and went to the gates of heaven, and there he met the Apostle Peter. N Peter asked him who he was. "Why," said he, "I am the slave of Gen. Mahone of Virginia." "Well," said Peter, "are you mounted, or are you on foot?" "I'm on foot," he replied. "Well," said Peter, "you can't come in here." So the poor nigger started down the steps, and he met his master at the bottom, and he said to him, "General, whar d'ye think you're gwine?" "I'm going to heaven," said the General. "No, you're not," he said; "you can't get in dar, unless you're mounted." At this a happy thought struck the nigger, and he said to the General: "I'll tell you, General, I'll git down on all fours, and you git on my back, and when Peter ask you if you're mounted, say, yes, and we both ride right in." So the General got on his back, and when they got up to the gates of heaven, Peter asked who he was. He replied that he was General Mahone, of Virginia. "Are you mounted or are you on foot?" "I'm mounted," said the General. "Well," said Peter, "tie your horse on the outside, and come in." This great politician that was opposed to the Latter-day Saints being identified with the national political parties said, "They will walk right in whether they are mounted or on foot." And I thought to mysel". he has got the key to the whole thing; he understands it just about right. And why is it, my brethren and sisters? It is because God has established this work. I want to read just a little. The  have been reading the Scriptures, and I believe it is all right to have a little Scripture reading on these occasions. The Lord says, as recorded in section 1 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, that this is "the only true and living Church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the Church collectively and not individually." While God has established this work, and He is pleased with it because it is His work, we ought not to lose sight of the fact that He is not pleased with every individual in it, only to the extent that that individual conforms his life to the principles and spirit of this Gospel. The only safe thing for a Latter-day Saint is to be found in the discharge of every duty, to be found absolutely free from sin and complying with every principle, as far as possible, that the Lord our God has revealed. A great deal has been said at this conference and at our meeting last night respecting evils that creep in among the Latter-day Saints. While we speak of them from this stand and warn the people, while President Smith gives unto us the word of God, it is the bounden duty of the local Priesthood in every stake of Zion and in every ward to see that iniquity is rooted out from among the people of God, that the day may come when the Lord shall say that He is not only pleased with the Church collectively, but individually a'sc, it having been, purified and sanctified from every sin. 

I started to tell you the one thought I had in mind, and another thought connected with it: that as the work of God has been established and promoted in the earth without the support of men, without their financial assistance, without the popularity of the world, in a religious sense, so I say that God will sustain this work from a temporal point of view, and make the Latter-day Saints a united people, a peopli of absolute unity in regard to all things, provided we do just the same in temporal things as we have done in spiritual things — that is, listen to the voice of God, enjoy the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and be guided and controlled by the direction and counsel of the holy Priesthood. By doing so we can become one in all things. "We ought not to consider that there is anything of a carnal nature, or, if you please, of a temporal nature — something that pertains in its effects to this life only; for there is nothing associated with the work of God upon the earth but has its effects, not only here, but throughout the countless ages of eternity. As we live near to God in all respects, so shall we be entitled to the companionship and, according to our faithfulness, a greater measure of the Holy Spirit, that will give us a better understanding of the things of God, qualify us to live nearer unto God, and consequently to secure unto ourselves a greater exaltation in His presence. There is nothing of a temporal or transitory nature connected with the work of God. One of the ancient prophets said, "I know that that which God doeth He doeth forever." What He does, eternal effects are realized therefrom. The Prophet Joseph Smith made this statement: "Whatsoever you do, you ought to do with an eye to futurity." It ought to be done with reference to the effects that will result from our action in the future. 

I was very much impressed with a remark made by President Lund affecting our conduct and conversation in the presence of our children, wherein he said that some were in the habit of making remarks that were depreciatory in their nature concerning their brethren, concerning the Bishop of the ward, or the President of the Stake, or the authorities of the Church, and some, perhaps, were given to making remarks that were disrespectful to some of the principles of the Gospel, in the presence of their children. Where this is done, it ought to be repented of and discontinued; for it will have a telling effect in the hearts of the youth of Zion. I remember a most striking illustration of this in the case of one of the leading brethren in the Church. I have heard him stand up time and time again and declare the word of God to the people. I have heard him give counsel to the saints of God, that they should never speak disrespectfully of the authorities of this Church, and especially in the presence  their children. That same man was guilty of that which he warned the Saints against, and today he has lost his standing and posterity, following the example that he practised in private but declared against in public, have fallen into his habits and disrespect the servants of God. My brethren and sisters, it is salvation we are after. It is to establish and ground our children in the faith. We ought to live and labor to this end, that they may not turn aside, and afterwards say they turned aside because their parents set them a bad example. You know, President Kimball once prophesied to this people, and especially to the mothers, that if they spoke disrespectfully of a certain principle of the Gospel and fought against it, the day would come when their daughters would turn aside and lose their virtue, and become objects of immorality upon the streets of Salt Lake City. I want to say that that prediction, sorrowful though it may seem, has had its fulfillment. I -want to endorse the instructions of my brethren that we ought to look carefully after the conduct of our children who are running the streets of Salt Lake City, and, for that matter, the streets of all the cities and towns throughout Zion. I know that evil habits creep in among us. I know there is an influence brought to bear upon the minds of the little ones to learn and to practise evil, which goes to destroy their force of body and of mind, and to grieve the Spirit of God from them. Now, the responsibility is especially upon those who bear the Holy Priesthood. The teachers who go out to visit the saints from family to family ought to be men endowed with the spirit of revelation from God. They ought to study the principles of the Gospel, and to so live that they may enjoy the inspiration of the Holy Ghost in their instructions, so that their instructions may be understood and be attractive to the children; that they should not go simply to carry out a routine, to ask certain questions, just to be able to say that they have made their monthly visit. They ought to be men inspired with the spirit of revelation from God, that they may touch the hearts of the families, and especially of  children, where they visit. "While it has been said here that there is a sentiment among the people, to some extent, which does not respect the Priesthood, referring to the authorities of the wards and stakes, and of the Church, I want to say that we do not respect the Lesser Priesthood as much as we ought to do. "We ought to respect every Deacon in the Church, and encourage every Deacon to perform his duty. We ought to respect every teacher, and make him welcome, and sustain him in his administrations in our homes. I know that those who understand the Priesthood best, and who have the greatest respect for it, are the men that will call their families together when the Teachers pay them a visit, and will sit down and listen to what the Teachers have to say. When I was a boy, in the Fourteenth ward, with Brother John W. Taylor' and other young men, I used to visit President John Taylor as a Teacher. I used to visit President Wilford Woodruff in the same capacity. I will admit that I was glad when they were away from home, because I was so frightened; but when I got through and left the house I was glad they were at home, and that they had been there to receive me as a Teacher in his Church of Christ. They treated us with more respect, they made us feel more at home, and they encouraged us more in the discharge of our duty than any families that we had to visit upon the block. This was because they had the spirit of the Gospel and understood the responsibility of the Holy Priesthood. I remember that many beautiful lessons I enjoyed on the principle of faith came from the sweet instructions of President John Taylor when we visited him as a Teacher;for when we would get through with our duties, he would say, "Now, boys, you have been teaching me, I would like to teach you a little;" and he would tell us anecdotes to increase faith in our minds; tell us how he had asked God to open up his way while declaring the Gospel abroad, to give him a little money, just what he needed to pay for pamphlets or something of that kind, and the Lord answered his prayers in a most remarkable manner. He told us many incidents of this , and they tended to create and encourage the principle of faith in our hearts. 

My brethren and sisters, may God enable us to remember the glorious instructions which we have received; remember what President Smith has said, that we are in a better condition, as a whole, than ever before. Let us all see to it that he shall not be disappointed in this sentiment of encouragement concerning this people. Let us remember the instructions of Brother McMurrin and the Seventies In regard to our duties and obligations in the selection of missionaries to send the Gospel abroad to the ends of the earth. Let us remember the admonition concerning our tithing, and our moral deportment, and every obligation that the Gospel of Jesus Christ enjoins upon us. If we do this, all is well with us. Every Latter-day Saint knows that to be found in the discharge of his duty makes him a happy man, and when he is not in the discharge of his duty there is an uneasiness about him which makes him feel that something is wrong. May God bless you, my brethren and sisters; help us to keep the commandments which He has given unto us, and to perform the duties enjoined upon us, to be ready at all times to go abroad and declare the Gospel, or to work in the Gospel of Jesus Christ at home. The best kind of a Latter-day Saint is the man or the woman that is ready for any kind of labor, whether at home or abroad, and has no hobby, no special desire in a certain channel, to the depreciation of everything else. God bless you. in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 

Duties of the Saints— Should be reminded of thern — A prosperous community— Result of the blessing of God — Answers to p ayer— About colonization — Importance of Temple work. 

I have listened with a great deal of interest during the meetings of this conference, and I believe it is the largest conference I have ever attended in the Church. Fifty-one years ago the 9th of April I was baptized, when the ice was about three feet thick, and had to be cut away, and I have not lost interest in this work yet. I remember I was quite zealous when I was first baptized. I was soon ordained a Priest and sent out to teach. I acted two years in that capacity. When I came to this valley I was appointed a Teacher in the North Canyon ward, and labored in that capacity for eight years; and then moved to Cache valley, under the counsel of Apostles Orson Hyde and Ezra T. Benson. I was appointed Bishop there, and acted in that capacity 18 years. Subsequently, I was appointed to labor in the stake presidency with Brother W. B. Preston and acted in that capacity for 10 years Since that time I have labored in the quorum of the Apostles. But I want to say that there never was a time when I felt that I was really qualified for the position I was called to occupy. I feel the same way yet. There is no disposition in me to boast. I am thankful to the Lord that I have been preserved in the Church for over 50 years, and I hope to continue in it as long as I am alive. I know this work is from the Lord. I know that Joseph Smith was a great Prophet, raised up to usher in this last dispensation of the Gospel. I had evidence of this even before I was baptized, and it has never departed from me. I want to bear record to my brethren and sisters here that there is no other way of retaining the spirit of this work and the fellowship of the Holy Ghost than through faithfulness and diligence in observing to keep the commandments of the Lord. The individual who will be humble all the day long and strive to keep the commandments of the Lord will never apostatize or become dissatisfied, but he or she will be preserved in the truth, and by and by will sit down in the mansions of the Father, to enjoy the blessings of eternal life. People who are spiritually-minded are devoted to the work. They pay their tithes and their offerings; they go to the ward meetings and to the stake meetings, and they are willing to devote their time, their talents and their all for the building up of the kingdom of God on the earth. 

We have had credit from the President of the Church during this conference of doing very well in paying our tithing. We have done well, there is no question about that; but let every  ask himself if he has come up to the standard. I think we shall be led to conclude that we have not quite got there yet. No doubt, a great many brethren and sisters pay their tithing in full, and if they were to sit in judgment upon themselves they would not need to be judged of others; for they would be able to say in all sincerity, "I have done the best I could." But there is another class who, if they were to sit in judgment upon themselves, would be forced to say they had not come up to the standard. The Lord expects us all, as His servants and handmaidens, to come up to the standard. He expects us to pay our tithing and our offerings in full. The giving of offerings is associated with the payment of tithing — offerings for the benefit of those immediately around us who need our help, to obviate the necessity of the Bishop having to make application to the Church for funds to support the poor. If we were to observe this law strictly, we are amply able in all our wards to support the poor. There are many people in the Church, I have discovered, who are willing to support themselves rather than receive offerings, if they could only be given employment. Even the aged can do something, unless they are maimed or disabled; and this is a matter for the Bishops to look after, to see that people have employment, as' far as possible, and to encourage the payment of offerings as well as tithing. 

If tithing is never mentioned in a ward from one month's end to another, neither by the Bishop nor the Priests and Teachers, that ward will not come up to the standard. There are lots of people who would come up to the standard if their minds were stirred up by way of remembrance. I am not one who believes that it is proper for the Bishop to be always talking about tithing; but I believe it should be kept before the people. They should be encouraged to pay their tithing when they get it, and not wait till the end of the year. If your salary is paid to you each month, pay your tithing each month. I want to bear t testimony that that is the easiest and the best way to pay tithing. Pay it when you get it, and let it be the first . . Let us pay our tithing- first, and then distribute the rest as far as it will go. If we will do this, we shall find that tithing is easily paid; and when the end of the year comes we shall be glad, and prepared to settle with the Bishop with a cheerful heart. 

Take us as a whole people, we are better off than other people, after all, though there are too many of us in debt, with mortgages on our homes. The Lord has blessed us. He has blessed and sanctified our land, and it has brought forth in its strength, in the season thereof. 

There is a great deal of faith exhibited among the Latter-day Saints, and that faith, no doubt, will increase as the Saints grow older and get more experience. In the last 50 years I have seen many things that have given me a great deal of joy and increased my faith. I have seen the prayers of the brethren answered. I have seen the prayers of little children answered in the homes of their parents. I remember a few years ago in Cache valley we l ad a drouth for some years. There was very little snow, and lots of grasshoppers to eat our crops. I remember Apostle Orson Pratt coming to visit us. He went to every settlement in the valley, and he prayed everywhere that the Lord would send moisture upon the mountains and valleys. I traveled with him, and he never forgot this. He always prayed himself in the family circle, and he prayed every time that the snows might come. In fulfillment of his prayers the snows did come, s nd we had more that year than we had had for years before; the mountains were filled with snow. I have seen evidences of this same thing recently; when prominent Elders of the Church have prayed that the moisture might come, their prayers have been answered and the moisture has come. I do not know of any reason why our prayers should not be answered, if we will pray in faith believing, and not ask amiss or for anything that we ought not to have. Do not let us be discouraged. This is the Lord's workT not curs. We did not place ourselves in position. None of you Presidents of stakes, or Bishops, has ever sought for office or wanted office, so far as I know. 

The Lord has called you all. He has opened the eyes of our understanding, that we have been enabled to comprehend the truth in part, and we are supposed to make some progress. I have thought since coming to this conference, that we are making improvement all the time. I do not remember the time when we could see all the presidents of stakes right in front here as we can now, for they have been scattered among the congregation. It is an improvement having the prominent Elders seated where they can hear everything. I have been reminded of the necessity of this in visiting stake conferences and seeing the Bishops and leading Elders scattered among the people. This here is an ensample. Bring your leading Elders to the front, where they can hear and take part in the labors of the conference. This is a grand thing, and a sign of progress and advancement. 

My brethren and sisters, I am aware that there are a number of people among us who want to move somewhere, and they are asking about different parts of the country. I have brethren enquire of me frequently, some since I have been here. I want to say this about it; It is all right to go if you are counseled by the authorities of your ward or stake, or by the authorities of the Church. Get good advice, and then, if you go, you will feel that you go with the blessing of the Lord. Do not let any of our people, no matter how desirable a country may be, run off on a tangent, without the advice of the presiding brethren. Go under the direction of the Priesthood, with their consent and good feelings, if you want to go. It' may be all right for you to go just where you want to go, but get counsel from the brethren. Do not let us be running up and down the country simply to better our condition, but let us be satisfied to labor under the advice of the Priesthood, and if we will do so, we will come out all right. 

Another subject I want to touch upon, and then I will close; it is with regard to temple work. Brethren and sisters, do not forget your temple work. Do not leave your kindred dead who have slumbered in the grave for years, and perhaps for ages, without going to their rescue and giving them relief, as their Lord has ordained and appointed. Here are the temples of the Lord in this state, wherein you may go and administer for your kindred that have passed away. Do not be so swallowed up in the cares of the world that you will neglect your kindred dead, because we will meet them by and by, and we will have remorse and sorrow if we have not done what we could for them. Remember this, and talk of it in your homes. Let us prepare our records and labor in the interest of our friends who have passed away. Of course, the people are doing very nicely in this matter; but there are many that have not given it consideration yet. 

God bless you. Let us be true, faithful, and humble; let us attend to our prayers in the morning and evening, invoking the blessings of the Lord upon us and upon our brethren. Pray for your Bishops and Presidents of Stakes; pray for the authorities of the Church, that they may be guided by the inspiration that comes from God, so that all may be well and prosperous with Israel. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

Graduation in the gospel-Blessings the result of obedience to law. 

My dear brethren and sisters, I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may direct me in all that I shall say, even that Spirit of truth and righteousness which comes from our heavenly Father. I desire to bear testimony to all that I have heard during this conference. I was very much impressed with a remark made by President Smith, testifying that the people were more faithful and were performing their duties a little better today than they were several years ago. There is no one so well qualified to judge of the Latter-day Saints in the aggregate as President Smith. What impressed me particularly about his remarks was the statement that the growth was a gradual one. It made me think of the word of the Lord unto the Prophet Nephi, when He said, "I will give you line upon line, and precept upon precept, here a little, and there a little, that you may know my  and will concerning all things." When we plant a tree in the garden, though we should stand by it day and night we could not perceive its growth, because it is so gradual; but go to that tree at the end of six months or a year and you will find that it has made remarkable development; and so on year after year until the tree is fully matured. 

I feel strongly impressed in my remarks to touch a little upon the importance of having the Spirit of the Lord with us day by day, to perform the duties of the day. While that which we are doing may not appear to be of any great importance at the time, it will be very evident at the end of a term of months or years that we have made marked progress. Like the tree, the growth will have been gradual. I desire to read some scripture, my brethren and sisters, to show you how our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ attained the perfection which He reached during His lifetime. I will read from the 93rd section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

"1. Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shall come to pass that every soul wh» forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am, 

"2. And that I am the true light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world; 

"3. And that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and: I are one: 

"4. The Father because he gave me of his fullness, and the Son because I was in the world and made flesh my tabernacle, and dwelt among the sons of men. 

"5. I was in the world and received of my Father, and the works of Him were plainly manifest; 

"6. And John saw and bore record of the fullness of my glory, and the fullness of John's record is hereafter to be revealed: 

"7. And he bore record, saying, I saw his glory that he was in the beginning before the world was; 

"8. Therefore in the beginning the Word was, for he was the Word, even the messenger of salvation, 

"9. The light and the Redeemer of the world; the Spirit of truth, who came into the world, because the world' was made by him, and in him was the life of men and the light of men. 

"10. The worlds were made by him: men were made by him: all things  made by him, and through him, and of him. 

"11. And I, John, bear record that I beheld his glory, as the glory of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth, even the Spirit of truth, which came and dwelt in the flesh, and dwelt among us. 

"12. And I, John, saw that he received not of the fulness at the first, but received grace for grace: 

"13. And he received not of the fullness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fullness." 

It is this last verse which I desire to emphasize, setting forth the fact that Jesus Christ received not a fulness of glory at first, but He received grace for grace. It is in this way, my brethren and sisters, that we shall receive a fulness. It will not come all in a day, nor all in a month, nor all in a year; but it will come as the reward of the righteous, through faith and diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord, at the end of our career upon the earth, when we shall be brought before the judgment seat of Christ, to be rewarded or condemned, according to the deeds done in the body. 

"14. And thus he was called the Son of God, because he received not of the fulness at the first. 

"15. And I, John, bear record, and lo, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove, and sat upon him, and there came a voice out of heaven saying, This is my beloved Son. 

"16. And I, John, bear record that he received a fullness of the glory of the Father; 

"17. And he received all power, both in heaven and on earth, and the glory of the father was with him, for he dwelt in him. 

"18. And it shall come to pass, that if you are faithful you shall receive the fullness of the record of John. 

"19. I give unto you these sayings that ye may understand and know hffw to worship, and know what you worship, that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness, 

"20. For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace." 

In other words, we shall receive strength according to our day, and the Lord will bless us with wisdom pertaining to all things committed to our care, according to our faithfulness in keeping His commandments; for we are , in a revelation contained in this great book of revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the Priesthood is inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven can only be controlled upon the principles of righteousness. 

I desire to draw your attention to a peculiar characteristic of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I never remember of reading where our Lord and Savior ever made a promise unto the children of men without giving with it a law for them to obey in order to obtain the blessing, and he always placed the law first and the blessing after; and thus you can see how the powers of heavenare inseparably connected with the Priesthood, Jesus being the great HighPriest. To illustrate what I say, let me quote a little from the 5th chapter of Matthew. Jesus said: 

"Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness; .for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost." 

Here is a condition, a law to be obeyed, namely, that we shall hunger and thirst after righteousness; and the promise is, we shall be filled with the Holy Ghost. In the holy Bible it says, "for they shall be filled;" but the more perfect translation, as given in the Book of Mormon, is, "Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost." 

Again, He says: 

"Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God. 

"Blessed are the poor in spirit; for their's is the kingdom of heaven." 

He gave many laws, and many blessings He promised unto the people through their obedience to those laws. Take, for instance, the case of the rich young man who came to Jesus and wanted to know what he should do to be saved. Jesus told him to keep the commandments. The young man replied, "All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet?" Jesus said, "If thou will be perfect, goand sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me." The young man turned away sorrowful, "for he had great possessions." The same principle is manifest in the Ten Commandments. Take, for example, the fifth commandment: '-'Honor thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." This is a law of long life. If you wish to live a long time, my young brethren and sisters, honor and obey your fathers and mothers, and the Lord will bless you with this desire of your heart; but if you disobey your parents, you are not entitled to a long life; you are not entitled to the blessings of God upon you and upon your posterity. On the contrary, the Lord says in another of the commandments, that He visits "the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me." 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice in being present with you today. I am glad to see you congregated together to receive the word of God from His servants, and I have greatly rejoiced in the remarks that have been made. I am going to take the liberty of reading a little more before I close: 

"21. And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the first-born; 

"22. And all those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the same, and are the church of the first-born. 

"22. Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is Spirit, even the Spirit of truth, 

"24. And truth is a knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come; 

"25. And whatsoever is more or less than this, is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning. 

"26. The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying— He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth, 

"27. And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandment?. 

"28. He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things. 

"29. Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be. 

"30. All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also, otherwise there is no existence. 

"31. Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man, because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive, not the light. 

"32. And every man whose spirit receiveth not the light is under condemnation, 

"33. For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receiveth a fulness of joy; 

"34. And when separated, man cannot receive a fullness of joy. 

"35. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple." 

I desire now to testify unto you that I know if you will keep the commandments of God the Spirit of the Lbrd will increase within you, and you will have grace for grace, day by day and year by year, as it shall be necessary in your endeavors to keep the commandments of the Lord. 

I wish to say a word or two to our brethren the Patriarchs. I would feel it to be a good thing when they place their hands upon the heads of this people to bless them, if they shall feel so impressed, to conclude their blessings something like this: "I seal these blessings upon your head, according to your faith and your diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord." The Patriarchs have the gift of being prophets, seers and revelators, to reveal the mind and will of God and portray unto the faithful their future lives, and I believe it would be pleasing unto the Lord if they would seal all blessings that they give in a manner similar to the one I have suggested, as they shall be led by the Holy Spirit. Then there can be no disappointment on the part of the family or friends of those who shall, after receiving a patriarchal blessing, turn from the truth and fight against God; for they will see that these blessings are conditional upon their keeping the commandments of God. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and bless every man who shall speak at this conference, that he may speak by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, and that we may receive light and knowledge and be fed with the bread of life, that we may be filled with joy and peace, and that our determination may be to serve God and keep His commandments. 

I desire to add a testimony to what 

Elder Smoot has said in reference to Elder B. H. Roberts going to Chicago to attend the Congress of Religions, and being rejected by them. What did they do when Jesus Christ came in the meridian of time? All the sectarian world turned against Him. He said that the builders had rejected the chief stone of the corner. When they rejected Elder Roberts in that Congress of Religions, they rejected the chief stone of the corner; for the cornerstone of the kingdom of God has been laid, and the building will be completed, according to the mind and will of God. Zion will spread from state to state, and from nation to nation, until this Gospel, which was revealed unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, will be preached unto all nations, all kindreds, all tongues, and all people; and out of every nation God will bring the honest in heart up to the land of Zion, that they may be redeemed, and that they may redeem their dead; for the day is coming, and now is, as we are told in the scriptures, when they that are dead shall hear His voice. Men will hear His voice, for His coming is near at hand. I know that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ lives, and that He is the Redeemer of the world, and that through the shedding of His blood and the atonement He offered up for the sins of the world all mankiiTd may be saved through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. God bless you, and sanctify this testimony to, your good, as well as all that you have heard and may hear during this conference, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

The Japanese mission — First converts in that nation — Evidences of sincerity and devotionOther applications for baptUm — A wonderful work anticipated — Co- dilion i f the people— A valiant and able defender of the Saints. 

I am very much pleased indeed to be present at this conference. I have rejoiced beyond my power to tell in listening to the testimonies of those who have spoken thus far. I do not know whether I can occupy the balance of the time this afternoon or not. I find that I cannot take a long breath without its paining me in my lungs. Whether it is the change from the sea level to  high country I do not know. I am feeling very well indeed, and unless I try to take a long breath I am in no pain. I desire, however, to mingle my voice with the voices of my brethren, and to give you my testimony as to my knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. 

As I remarked last night at the Priesthood meeting, I hesitated for some little time, after the spirit came upon me to attend this conference, before writing for permission to do so. I thought my desires might be misconstrued, and that there would perhaps be a feeling that I was homesick and desired to shirk the responsibilities resting upon me in a far-off land; but after having once thought of the idea, of being with you and partaking of the spirit of this conference, I could not, hard as I tried, get rid of the desire to come. I finally wrote the letter, and when it reached here permission was given to me. Although I have had to travel a little over seven thousand miles to come to this conference, I am glad to be here, and I was happy when the word came that I was to have this privilege. Only those who have been in the habit of feasting on the teachings of the servants of God under the inspiration of the Spirit of God from their childhood up, and have ever been meeting-goers, can appreciate how hungry I became to listen to the servants of the Lord, when I tell you that for eight months I did not have this privilege, except in the little council meetings held with my associates upon our mission in Japan. 

Knowing that the people will be interested to hear from that country and from my associates, I desire to say that Elders Ke'sch, Ensign and Taylor are well, that they are faithful, diligent and true men, and that we have been excee Singly happy from the time we reached our fleli of labor— in fact, from the time we were called— until my departure from that land. I am pleased to tell you that I had letters from them ye ter.'ay, written ten days after my derartu-e, and they are well. They tell me that the two men whom we tap ized and ordained Elders are meeting v, ith them constantly, studying very diligently, and making memoranda to assist them in defending the principles of the Gospel. In one of the letters, Brother Ensign refers to a man by the name of Gaburo Kikuohi, the second convert, and to his exclaiming in an impulsive manner every once in awhile, "That is true, the Bible says so," as he is reading and studying the principles of the Gospel; and Brother Ensign, after making this remark, says, "Can't you hear him?" and I can almost, because I know how he would explode, so to speak, all the time we were teaching him prior to his baptism. This man for a number of years has separated himself from the Christian sect to which he belonged, because, he said, they did not teach the Bible, and he has been teaching the people the truths of the Bible in the parks in the city of Tokio, having audiences of from 500 to 1,500 people. He seems to be a very sincere, determined man, and I have enjoyed my conversations with him. The day I baptized him, before attending to that ordinance, I told Brother Kelsch to try to discourage him from becoming a member of the Church, and that I would do the same, because I told him I desired him to study more and to comprehend more before he was baptized. But it seemed that with all the words of discouragement that Brother Kelsch and I could utter, he was determined to be baptized. He came to the hotel before I was out of bed in the morning and insisted upon baptism. When I told him that he had better study more and get a better comprehension of the Gospel, he said, "It is true, I believe it, I want to be baptized, and I can understand it better after I have been baptized and confirmed a member of the Church." I knew this was true; so I told him he would be persecuted, and he quoted the scripture, "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you, falsely, for my sake." Brother Kelsch and I went on in this line, trying to discourage this man. I referred to the drivings of our people, to the killing of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum, and to the fact that many men  to give up their lives for the truth; and I wanted him to be thoroughly converted. He said, "It is true; and if I die and am the first martyr in Japan, it would be the best thing that could happen to Japan." "That's enough," I said, "I'll baptize you." 

I have the assurance in my soul that there is to be a wonderful work accomplished in Japan; that there will be many, yea, even thousands of that people that will receive the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We have made no effort whatever to try and baptize people. Many have come and applied for baptism — ten young men at one time; many have written us letters and asked to be baptized into the Church; but we have realized that they did not understand the Gospel, and we had no desire to baptize and seal the Holy Ghost upon a person who would be likely to lose the Spirit and turn around and fight the Church. We have had no desire whatever to baptize people just to make a showing. We prayed earnestly every day for the guidance of the Spirit of God. We fasted and prayed often. We had a delightful time. Time passed very pl^a'-antly and did not hang upon our hand3. I never spent an hour in sightseeing. I did make one little trip through the country, on the cars, to get some knowledge of it; but I never went away for the sake of seeing the sights jnd enjoying myself in that city. I was busy all the time, talking with those that called upon me, answering letters, and in studying the language. The Lord granteth unto men according to their desires, whether it be for life or death, joy or remorse of conscience; and the only desire that I had was to fulfill my duty in that land from day to day, and if I should return after three or live years without converting or baptizing one soul I would be satisfied. However, I have been exceedingly grateful ».o my Heavenly Father that He saw fit to impress with His Spirit a couple of men who, I believe, are honest. They may not prove faithful, but I believe lhey are honest today. The other man was a Shinto priest, who could not speak a word of English, and we had to talk to him through an interpreter. This  was cast out from his congregation of 1,500 by his superiors, and told that he would be reinstated in his office, provided he quit calling upon the "Mormons." He said, "I believe that there is some truth with them; I am not yet convinced, but I will not stop calling on them." Finally he was cast out. He continued to call upon us, and was baptized. 

In that country it is very difficult for a' person to earn much money. It is incomprehensible to me how people -can live and clothe themselves and apparently be well and healthy, on the limited amount of money that they make. You can hire hundreds, and even thousands of men that are married and have children, for 15 yen a month, which is $7.50 in our money, .and they will live on that amount. You can hire a man to carry you around in one of their vehicles (jinrikishas, they call them), and that man will work for you, if you buy your own vehicle, for 15 yen a month. True, there are men that get 20 yen, because they are superior runners, and there are others that will get as high as 25, because they are very swift in running, but you can get a man that will trot along three or four hours at a stretch, for 15 or 20 yen a month! He must get enough food to eat, or I do not think he could stand it. It is remarkable to me the industry and the frugality of that people, and the way they get along. I saw perhaps half a dozen beggars all the time I was there. In the crowded city of Tokio I never saw but two beggars and they were afflicted with leprosy, lying on the ground by a bridge. It is a city of 2,000,000 of people, and I traveled around many, many hours, and they were the only beggars I saw. The people are almost like bees in a hive, and they all seem to be busy. They are a very remarkable people, and I feel to say to you that I believe and know that God will do a mighty work in that land. The Lord has raised up friends to us. Many influential men have called and visited with me. I am told that a certain man there by the name of Goro Takahashi is by far the strongest writer in defense of Christianity in the nation of Japan. This man, before I ever met him. wrote  article in one of the leading magazines of Japan in which he criticized the newspapers and the people of Japan, for opposing the "Mormon" religion. My interpreter interpreted this for me, and I afterwards read it to the man. He laughed, and said, "He has not interpreted my article." He said, "The very first line says, 'The people of Tokio welcome with loud Huzzahs Lamanism, which is polyandry, or a plurality of husbands,' and I did not say any such a thing. I said, 'The enlightened people of Tokio.' The whole sarcasm is lost by your interpreter. It was not the common people, it was not the laboring people, but it was the enlightened people of Tokio that was crying out against the 'Mormon' people." I asked him if he would not translate the first page for me himself. (I had about 10 pages of it.) He said he was very busy, but he would translate the first page, as near as I can remember, the first page was as follows: "The enlightened people of Tokio have recently welcomed a sect from Thibet that preaches Lamanism, polyandry, a plurality of husbands, and scarce have they welcomed them with extraordinary enthusiasm and the huzzahs died away tefore they are condemning, with absolute ignorance, the 'Mormon' religion! And these people who are condemning the 'Mormons' and polygamy are believers in concubinage! Can there be under the sun a greater inconsistency than this? We might say something about the emperor and his concubines, but perhaps it would be considered disloyal, and therefore we will keep quiet." 

This gives you a little idea of this man. I afterwards told my interpreter what he said. "Well, Mr. Grant," he said, "I told you that I could not interpret the article. I told you that it was like a rugged mountain. I told you it was so full of force and fire that I could not put it in the English language." The minute I read this article I sent the writer an invitation to come and dine with me at the hotel. He came there, and afterwards he wrote and said, if I would furnish him items of history regarding our people, he would gladly write a book in our defense. He said, "I feel that you are honest, I feel that you are misunderstood, I feel that the Spirit of the Lord has come upon me, and I want to defend you, and if you will give me the materials I will do it; for I feel that I am called to this work." I immediately told him that it would give me pleasure. I furnished him the History of Joseph Smith by Brother Cannon, the History of John Taylor by Brother Roberts, and A Brief History of the Church by Edward H. Anderson. The latter is published by the Juvenile Instructor, and does not give Brother Anderson the credit of being the author, but he is entitled to it; and if I had the ability to write such a work I would not let them publish it if they did not put my name upon it. I furnished him Mormon Doctrine by Brother Penrose, The New Witness for God and The Missouri Persecutions by Brother Roberts, and the Book of Mormon. He already had the Book of Mormon and was pretty well posted on it. I also furnished him, among other documents, a tract by Colonel Thomas, of London, that impressed him very much. He has written a. boos of some 200 or more pages, about the size of the Improvement Era. He has illustrated it with pictures from the little pamphlet entitled "In and Around Salt Lake City." Th u-e is a picture there of the five presidents of the Church, also of the Temple block, a view of Salt Lake City, of Saltair, of the Salt Palace, and of some Indians, with their children on their backs— exactly the same as the Japanese. And, by the way, there is a wonderful resemblance between the American Indian and many of the Japanese. The pictures of Prest. Smith, of my family, and of some others will be published in this book. He says that these pictures will dispel at a glance the popular idea that the "Mormons" are an ignorant and degraded people. He has put in a picture of the Lehi sugar factory, and he was wonderfully impressed with what our people had accomplished in a material way. He said, "I may, of course, make a mistake in some of your doctrinal items. I would not like to do that. I may make a mistake in some of your historical items. I would not like to do that, either; and I shall submit to you the  and historical items before I publish my book." I invited him to dinner regularly every Sunday for about two months, and afterwards he said he did not wish to show me anything in the book, because, he said, "people will say you told me what to write, and it will not do you the good I want it to do. I am writing in your favor, and I know you will be pleased with the book." He had read all Dr. Talmage's articles published in the Era on the "History and Philosophy of Mormonism," and he said that if he quoted the doctrinal and historical items from what I have given him he could not make any mistake, and that was what he had done. 

I am sorry I did not bring with me the contents of that book. It will contain 10 chapters, and the first is entitled "The Greatest Problem of the World." This will give you* some idea of what the man thinks. In the article he wrote about the "Mormons" before I ever met him, he wound it up by saying, "I will ask some questions. Was Joseph Smith a deceitful hero, who deceived the world, and was punished by the Almighty for his wickedness? Or was he, like Jesus Christ, a martyr for the truths of heaven?" I believe that this man became convinced that Joseph Smith was a martyr. Here is a list of the headings of the ten chapters :' 

Chapter I. The Greatest Problem in the World. 

Chapterll. Mormonism — What is it? Early History of Joseph Smith. 

Chapter III. The Book of Mormon, and American Antiquities; Archaeology and Comparative Philology. 

Chapter IV. The Spaulding Story, and ether Stories. 

Chapter V. Exodus — Miracles— Chosen People. 

Chapter VI. Phoenix-like, risen out of the ashes. 

Chapter VII. Loyal or Disloyal. 

Chapter VIII. Polygamy. What is; it? 

Chapter IX. Social Conditions. Social Christianity without running into Communism. 

Chapter X. Success and Prosperity Religious and Commercial. 

Not one word that is in this book have I suggested; but I believe that 1 could not possibly pick out ten chapters and arranged them any better than this man has done. He is a highly educated man. He translated fivesevenths of the Bible into the Japanese language when it was done. He speaks the English language well; he speaks the Hebrew language, he understands some Egyptian, and he reads the French. He has a two-story fireproof building adjoining his dwelling, full of books, where he studies. I have always looked upon Orson Pratt as the great student of the Latter-day Saints, and I remarked to my brethren that Goro Takahashi was the Orson Pratt of the Japanese nation. I feel that God touched this man's heart.and made him friendly towards us; and he has written a book that I believe will do us a world of good. I remarked to him that I would like him to translate it into the English language and send it . to me, and I would publish it at home, with the same illustrations, so that the people could see what he had written; that I knew it would have a good sale at home, and it would give me delight to let him have any profits that there might be. I told him that I realized it would take him a long time to translate it into the English language, because he would not write as rapidly in our language as he could in his own. "You are very much mistaken," he said; it won't take me very long, because there are so many exact quotations from the pamphlets and books you gave me. I have translated them into the Japanese language verbatim; therefore it wont be difficult to put them back into English." I feel that this man was raised up of God to do this, and although he may have made some mistakes I believe his book will do us a great deal of good. 

I rejoice to be here. I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospbl of Jesus Christ. I rejoice in the increased testimony that my mission has given me. I never expected that it would be possible for a  of my temperament and disposition, who from a boy of 14 years of age has been actively engaged in business, to forget it, and that I could content myself in a foreign land studying a language that put me to sleep nearly every time I tried it, and yet be happy. But I was. There was the sweet Spirit of God with us, and many times in our little meetings we shed tears of joy, because of the outflow of the Spirit of God. If I had the privilege of picking the Church ever for three companions I could not be better satisfied than with those that I have. I had my choice, and I have not been disappointed. I say to you, my friends, that I am happy to be here. All of the officers that have been chosen during my absence, my head and my heart have been pleased and satisfied with. It is a sorrow to me to come home and not receive the handshake of my beloved President Snow, whom I loved as dearly as life itself; but I rejoice that the son of one of the two martyrs for the cause presides over the Church of Christ. I rejoice in the knowledge that the work of God is onward and upward, and that each and every one of us who are true and faithful will be saved. I rejoice that this Gospel is going to all the nations of the earth. I rejoice in being a messenger of the plan of life and salvation. God has blessed me with a knowledge. I know that He lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I know that I shall live forever, and that if I am faithful I shall be exalted. I know that this same blessing will come to all of you, if you are faithful; and that you may be, and obtain the blessing, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation, 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam. 


