Morning
07 10 1927

MORNING MEETING 

The Ninety-eighth semi-annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints opened in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, on Friday morning at 10 o'clock, October 7, 1927. 

President Heber. J. Grant presided. 

A large representative audience was in attendance from all parts of the Church. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH PRESENT 

Of the First Presidency : Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, and Charles ,W. Nibley. 

Of the Council of the Twelve: Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith,* Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard, John A. Widtsoe. 

Presiding Patriarch : Hyrum G. Smith. 

Of the First Council of Seventy : B. H. Roberts, J. Golden Kimball' Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young, Rey L. Pratt. 

Of the Presiding Bishopric: Sylvester Q. Cannon, David A. Smith, John Wells. 

OFFICERS AND OTHER AUTHORITIES PRESENT 

Church Historian and Recorder: Joseph Fielding Smith and the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund.** 

Presidents of stakes with their counselors were well represented from the ninety-nine stakes of Zion, three new stakes having been organized in the past six months. 

The Priesthood Quorums, including high priests, seventies and elders, and bishops and their counselors, from all parts of the Church were in attendance. There were officers also, men and women, of the 

*James E. Talmage absent, presiding over the European Mission. **Junius F. Wells absent in the East. 

2 , GENERAL CONFERENCE 

auxiliary organizations present, and members of the Church Board of Education. 1 

Mission Presidents were present as follows: , Henry H. Rolapp, Eastern States; John H. Taylor, Northern States; Samuel O. Bennion, Central States; John M. Knight, Western States; Wm. R. Sloan, Northwestern States; Chas. H. Hart, Canada; John G. Allred, Northcentral States; Charles A. Callis, Southern States; Rey L. Pratt, Mexico; Benjamin Goddard, Bureau of Information, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "O say, what is truth." 

Elder John M. Holt, president of the West Jordan stake, offered the opening prayer. , 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "High on the mountain top." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is a source of satisfaction and pleasure to greet so many of you here this morning at our semi-annual conference. 

VISITS TO STAKES, WARDS AND MISSIONS 

It has fallen to my lot since our last conference to visit a number of the stakes of Zion, to be present at the dedication of a number of meeting houses in the various wards, and to dedicate four chapels and recreation halls in the missions of the Church. 

I have also had the pleasure of being present at a meeting on the Hill Cumorah, which was held in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the delivery to Joseph Smith of the golden plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated by the inspiration of the living God, and also to attend a meeting in the Sacred Grove at Palmyra, where God, our heavenly Father, and Jesus Christ appeared to the boy Joseph Smith — the most remarkable .and wonderful vision that we have any record of in the Holy Scriptures. 

I rejoice in the growth of the Church and in the general prosperity of the people. There have been quite a number of changes in the various stakes and wards since our last conference. 

STAKE PRESIDENTS APPOINTED 

East Jordan stake, Heber J. Burgon. West Jordan stake, Joseph M. Holt. Los Angeles stake, Leo J. Muir. San Francisco stake, W. Aird Macdonald. Hollywood stake, George W. McCune. 

The former president of the Los Angeles stake, George W. McCune, is now the president of the new Hollywood stake. 

MISSION PRESIDENT RELEASED 

Brother Martin Christopherson was released as the president of the 

Norwegian mission, and since his return home he has passed to the great beyond. Brother Lorenzo W. Anderson was appointed to succeed Brother Christopherson. 

NEW WARDS ORGANIZED 

Osgood ward, Idaho Falls stake. Soldier Summit ward, Kolob stake. Wiltshire ward, Hollywood stake. Winslow. ward, Snowflake stake. 

Riverton ward, West Jordan stake, divided into Riverton first and Riverton second wards. 

Berkeley ward, San Francisco stake. Diamond ward, San Francisco stake. Elmhurst ward, San Francisco stake. Martinez ward, San Francisco stake. Mission ward, San Francisco stake. Oakland ward, San Francisco stake. San Francisco ward, San Francisco stake. Richmond ward, San Francisco stake. Sunset ward, San Francisco stake. Daly City ward, San Francisco stake. 

NEW STAKES ORGANIZED 

Los Angeles stake was divided into the Los Angeles and Hollywood stakes. 

Jordan stake was divided into East Jordan and West Jordan stakes. San Francisco stake. 

BISHOPS WHO HAVE DIED 

Sylvester C. Williams of Glenwood ward, Alberta stake. Thomas J. McCann of Turner ward, Bannock stake. 

NUMBER OF STAKES, NINETY-NINE INCREASE IN SIX MONTHS, THREE 

We now have 930 wards, an increase of 15 in the past six months. We have 75 independent branches, an increase of four in the past six months, making a total of wards and branches from Canada to Mexico of 1,005. 

We have 27 missions, covering all parts of the world. 

STATEMENT BY THE U. S. ATTORNEY GENERAL 

I have decided this morning to make rather brief remarks personally, and to read from the revelations of God to the Latter-day Saints, but before doing so I want to call attention to a very remarkable statement made by the attorney general of the United States. This statement was made at Bedford Springs, Penn., June 22, 1927 : 

ON OBSERVANCE OF LAW 

"When intelligent, educated men hold up to ridicule the rules for its conduct which society has made, intimate and by innuendo and suggestion advise that such rules ought to be violated; ridicule and revile as undesirable members of a community, men sworn to defend and enforce its rules; devote their intelligence, wit and resources to makingcrime and criminals interesting and attractive, why is it not expected that the thoughtless, the unfortunate, the ignorant, the vicious, will try to get rid of ,the oppressors of the criminal in any way, by any means, any violence that will be most effective? 

"Because someone pays for the doing of it, and because the great body of law-abiding citizens is complaisant and says nothing to show its disapproval, flippant, jeering writers, publishers, soap-box orators, cabaret performers sow the wind; and society reaps it in whirlwinds which blast and destroy." 

The attorney general, without mentioning prohibition, asserted that in buying any commodity, traffic in which is forbidden by law, the purchaser is directly sanctioning and rewarding a violation of the law in exactly the same manner as does the receiver of stolen goods, by making the transaction profitable. 

"It will not do," he asserted, "to say in the same breath : 'I believe in and demand enforcement of the laws of the country, and I will pay well any man who will violate these laws.' " 

I regret that his speech was not published in full in the dispatches, because it is the speech of a statesman, the speech of a man who loves his country and is desirous of maintaining and upholding the laws of that country. 

THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS ON THE SUBJECT 

In the very first revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants we find the following: 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"Whiat I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the vpice of my servants, it is the same." 

We read in one of the revelations : 

"I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." 

I wish that I had the ability to impress upon the Latter-day Saints the necessity of searching the commandments of God, the revelations from the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth, as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. If we as a people would live up to those wonderful revelations that have come to us, we would be a bright and shining light to all the wide world. 

"Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. 

"Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it js to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet."" 

"According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 

"That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. * * * 

"And for this purpose I have established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

LOYALTY TO THE CONSTITUTION 

All Latter-day Saints believe absolutely that the Constitution of our Country was inspired of God, and that he used wise men, noble men, as instruments in his hands for establishing that Constitution, and when any law is enacted and becomes a constitutional law, no man who spends his money to help men break that law can truthfully say that he is a loyal citizen. 

"And now, verily I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all things whatsoever I command them. 

"And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me. 

"Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land. 

"And as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this cometh of evil. 

"I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore you are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free. 

"Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. 

"Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil. 

"And I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall forsake jail evil and cleave unto all good, that ye shall live by every word which proceedeth forth out of the mouth of God." 

"For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. 

"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments ? 

"Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled ?" 

"I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. 

"Then they say in their hearts : This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But woe unto such for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above." 

Another statement in this book is that "there is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated: 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law 'upon which it is predicated." THE WORD OF WISDOM 

"A Word of Wisdom for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the Church, and also the Saints in Zion. 

"To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days. 

"Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all Saints, who are or can be called Saints." 

And every Latter-day v Saint knows that tea, that coffee, that tohacco, that liquor, are the things that this Word of Wisdom says it is not pleasing unto God that we should partake of. There are many Saints who say: "Oh, that is not by way of commandment;" but it is "the order and the will of God." And what does the Lord promise to you and to me and to every Latter-day Saint who observes this Word of Wisdom ? 

"And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. "And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

A CALL FOR HELP TO DO RIGHT 

May God help you and me and every Latter-day Saint to observe the Word of Wisdom, that we may have health and hidden treasures of knowledge, and that God will allow us to live here upon the earth until we have filled out the measure of our creation; and may God help you and me to uphold the laws of our land in every way within our power, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I would be very happy, my brethren and sisters, if I were able to impress upon this congregation of Latter-day Saints and upon those who may be present who are not identified with the Church, the vital importance of that part of the remarks just made by the President of the Church which refers to our obligation to magnify, uphold and sustain the civil law by which we are governed in our temporal affairs. 

UPHOLD AND SUSTAIN THE CIVIL LAW 

I have made, while sitting here upon my seat and listening to the President, some notes which I desire very briefly to call to your attention. To me the establishment of the government of the United States, and the development of this nation of which we are citizens, did not come by chance, but was a thing of destiny, just one of the incidents connected with the development of the purposes of the Lord in the  of his great plan, looking to the redemption of his covenant people, coming in the time in which it was to come, developing, as he decreed it should develop, and accomplishing, notwithstanding all of the weaknesses and shortcomings of its people, the purposes for which it was intended. 

WE OCCUPY SIMILAR POSITION TO ISRAEL OF OLD 

It had its inception more than four thousand years ago, when the Lord called Abraham from his home in Chaldea, and entered into covenant with him, a covenant which was to be everlasting, that he would make of him and his descendants a great people, and that through them all of the nations of the earth should be blessed. It is a long time to go back four thousand years, and the time which is allotted to me would not justify an effort upon my part to do so. It is sufficient for me to state to you, and this can be definitely and fully demonstrated, that the history of the Israelitish people from that time until the present, brings us, step by step, to the condition which we occupy today. The way, is clearly marked. Trie path in which they have traveled in the past, as well as the road which will lead to the consummation of this covenant which God entered into 1 with them, are all plainly outlined in the scriptures which we have before us. 

A GOVERNMENT DESIGNED FOR ALL MANKIND 

The coming of Columbus to this continent was not a thing of chance. It had been foreseen and foretold by the prophets of God. The coming of the Pilgrim fathers to New England, of the Dutch to New York, and the cavaliers of the Old World to Virginia, was not a thing of chance, it was just the chosen combination of men and women who were calculated to make up the composite government which was established at the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States. They were prayerful people, they were people who had faith in God, they prayed to him and their prayers were answered; and, as stated in the scripture which the President has read, it was under the Lord's inspiration that these men were moved upon to give us this government under which we have so rapidly and wonderfully developed. It was not to be a government of Englishmen, nor of Dutchmen, nor of royalty represented in the cavaliers, nor of French people who were in Louisiana, and to the north of us, in Canada, but a government designed for the benefit of all mankind, a government which was to make all people equal under the law. 

CIVIL AND RELIGIOUS LAWS ARE SEPARATE 

The beginnings of it in this dispensation were had when Martin Luther struck from the people of the Old World the shackles which bound them to a policy by which the church sought to dominate the state and government in civil, as well as religious affairs — a thing which the Lord has told us is not his will, that we are responsible to him for our faith, for the morality and the righteousness of our lives. He has told us just as definitely that we are responsible to the civil law, SO' far as the control of our temporal affairs is concerned. What could be accomplished without the proper administration of civil law ? There would be no protection for society, the weak would be subject to the power of the strong, to prevent all of which fundamental laws of our country have been enacted by wise men. How wisely the Constitutional law of our country has been framed! It provides for a legislative body to carefully study and enact the laws of our country. These men are not to execute the laws that they themselves make — it would be a dangerous thing — but an administrative department of government is provided, which is to execute and administer the law enacted by the legislative body. They are just laws. It may he that laws have been enacted which were in a sense undesirable. A way is provided by which they may be abrogated or amended, and that is the proper mode of procedure. 

GLADSTONE ON THE 1 CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 

I desire to quote what William Gladstone, one of the greatest of our modern statesmen, says in regard to the Constitution of the United States :; 

"The Constitution of the United States is the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of men." And he speaks truly. It was the work of God, his wisdom manifested in the men who created it and brought it forth. Gladstone is right. 

THE NEED OF EMPHASIZING LAW OBSERVANCE 

Now what is the necessity of calling attention to this matter at this particular time ? I believe that we who are present know that the necessity does exist. You only need to read the reports that come to us from the various parts of the United States, and from our own state and county. There is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that lawlessness is running riot. Men go, boldly and unmasked, and shoot their way into the treasure-houses of this country, killing, if law-abiding men stand in the way, in order that they may carry away that which does not belong to them. Men violate, unblushingly, the laws of chastity and virtue, which are the very foundations upon which all good governments may stand. Men holding public office violate that trust which has been reposed in them by the people, and themselves stand out violators of the very law that they are appointed to magnify and uphold. Only this morning you who read the papers saw an account of one of the most atrocious crimes that could be named, said to have been perpetrated by an official who has been appointed to administer the law, not to violate it, in which at a threat of life he takes a woman into an automobile, carries her away to a secluded place, and there keeps her during the entire night. I have passed a good, part of my life among uncivilized people. I have been with Indian tribes from the Canadian border to the interior of Mexico, and I have never in my experience encountered a  of Indians who would tolerate lawlessness of this character in the indifferent manner that we do. Men are arrested, prosecution is sought, the best legal talent available is called in for their defense, and there is scarcely one chance in ten that they will be convicted. Witnesses unblushingly perjure themselves, while attorneys who pose as respectable members of society, with full knowledge of the fact, encourage them in it. 

OFFICIALS BESET WITH VEXATIOUS LAW SUITS 

Officials who conscienciously endeavor to execute the law are beset with vexatious law suits, the money for which is furnished by lawless people, until they are driven from office. 

I do not refer to local conditions alone. Is there need to call the attention of the people of the United States, of our own state, of this entire inter-mountain country, to the necessity of following the admonition of the Lord, in the scripture which has been read to us, that in the selection of the men who are to administer the law, we should choose men of integrity? and there are plenty of such men, many of whom are now in public service. Do not understand me to infer that there is not integrity in the administration of our public affairs, but by some means rogues slip in, under the shadow^ of good men, before their character becomes known. 

CALLING OF THE CHURCH TO UPHOLD RIGHT AND OPPOSE CRIME 

I speak plainly upon this subject, my brethren and sisters, because it appears to me to be vital to our welfare. I do not direct my remarks to Latter-day Saints alone, but to the people of all creeds, professions of faith, or of no faith at all. I know that politics has been held up to us as a thing so sacred that the Church has nothing to do with it, and should not refer to it. I ask you, in heaven's name, what is the calling of the Church, if it is not to oppose lawlessness and crime, and seek to establish righteousness; if it is not to stand firmly for the proper administration of the law, and to oppose violation of it that peace and prosperity may abide with the people of our country, which can be had under no other conditions? 

DESTINY OF NATION FORETOLD 

I wish that the people of the world could be made familiar with the contents of the Book of Mormon, this American scripture which has been before the world during a century of time. It outlines the destiny of this nation, tells jt as plainly as history will tell it after its destiny is accomplished. It makes very plain this fact : That if the government is to be perpetuated, as it may, if it is to endure as God has decreed that it may, it can only be by service to the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, our Lord and Master. That is definitely decreed. 

AN APPEAL TO CITIZENS TO UPHOLD THE LAW 

I appeal to good people everywhere, not to any political party, not to any particular church, but to all people, to use their influence to bring to pass righteousness in the administration of the civil affairs of our country, and I make this appeal to both the church and the state, for both need it. Do men preach righteousness who themselves violate the civil law? Ask the preachers of today for the answer. Do men standing in high places in governmental affairs violate the law? Go back to Washington and investigate. How can we expect, as this statesman from whom the president has quoted, asks, that the common people, one of whom I am, who look to their leaders for example, shall honor and obey the law when they see it constantly violated in higher callings of life? Violation of the law is an evil under any circumstance, but when the law is violated by people who are chosen to maintain and administer it,' it becomes a double offense in the sight of God and man, because a man not only becomes a violater of the law, but he breaks the trust placed in him, the trust which his fellow citizens have reposed in him and which he has sworn to discharge. He thus becomes doubly . guilty. 

nation's salvation rests with its citizens 

My brethren and sisters, I shall not prolong my remarks. We leave this question with you. We want you to understand that the salvation of this nation rests in the hands of its citizens, not in the hands of those who control, its civil affairs at present, but those who hold the franchise, and are to exercise it in the future. It appears to me that if the importance of this were understood, greater care would be exercised in the selection of men for public office. 

There are enough of such men, and to spare, to administer our public affairs. There are good men, honest men, in all political parties, and associated with all churches, and many who are allied with neither party or church. I do not appeal to any particular group of people, but to Christian people the world over. 

TEACH AND PRACTICE PURITY OF LIFE 

I appeal to you to teach and practice righteousness and purity of life. 

Do you know what those Indians to whom I have referred would do with a woman who violated the law of chastity ? They would split her ears, and cut her hair in a maimer that she would be recognized for what she is, wherever she went. They would never allow her to marry in the tribe again, and the man who would be guilty of offences such as are almost daily committed in our communities, would be put to death. It may have been a barbarous law, but it kept those people free from the sin of immorality, until they were corrupted by the white man who came among them and introduced his more civilized mode of life. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May his spirit be with us during the meetings of this conference. 

PROGRESS OF THE CHURCH WHAT IT STANDS FOR 

The report made by the President indicates to you that the Church is developing; it is progressing. Word comes to us from one of the missions of the United States that more than fourteen thousand copies of the Book of Mormon have been distributed by the Elders of the Church in that mission during the present year. It is a wonderful thing. It is a wonderful achievement, indicating that the people of the United States are becoming interested. They are beginning to understand the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, what it stands for, what it lives for, and what\it is willing to die for to the last man if necessary. The constitutional law which God has given us for our guidance, has made us, through observance of it, the dominant nation of the world today. I pray for God's blessings upon the government, its president, its legislators, upon the state government, its governor and its officers who have been chosen; those who seek to administer the law in righteousness. May God bless and give them success, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo, "The Lord is mindful of his own," was sung by Mrs. Jesse Morley. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"And they were all young men, and they were exceedingly valiarit for courage, and also for strength and activity; but behold, this was not all — they were men who were true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted. 

"Yea, they were men of truth and soberness, for theyi had been taught to keep the commandments of God and to walk uprightly before him." — Alma 53 :20, 

THE MISSION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS . 

The mission of the Latter-day Saints may be considered in two great aspects; one, the proclamation to the world of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ — the declaration to all mankind that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared in this dispensation to the Prophet Joseph Smith. That in itself is a wonderful message. 

There are in this audience sixty-two missionaries who are preparing to go abroad to give this proclamation. They are but representatives of two thousand others who, paying their own expenses, are abroad in the world declaring in all rsincerity that God, as a /loving Father, ever mindful of the children of men, has revealed the means whereby mankind can return to his presence. That is one important phase or mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The other great purpose of the Church is to translate truth into a better social order, or in other words, to make our religion effective in the individual lives of men, and in improving social conditions. It is the second aspect to which I wish to call attention this morning. 

I have read from the fifty-third chapter of Alma, which gives an account of young men who were exceedingly valiant for courage, for strength, and activity — men who were true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted. Who were these young men? They were sons of parents who were equally true to every trust. Their parents were converted Lamanites who, when the Spirit of God came upon them, devoted their lives to the service of their fellow men, and in their ministry in the Church covenanted that they would never more take up arms against their brethren, never more go to war. Such was their oath; such was their covenant; and they were true to it even unto death. 

A MOST BEAUTIFUL PICTURE 

One of .the most beautiful .pictures given in all literature is the picture of these parents going out to meet enemies who came against them with swords, and sacrificing their lives rather than to uncover the swords they had buried and given their word not to' unearth. One thousand of these parents suffered death rather than violate their covenant. Meeting no resistance, the enemy, being conscience-stricken, stopped the massacre, after a thousand men had proved that they preferred death to the violation of a trust. 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTHOOD 

I mention this because parenthood has much to do in inculcating courage and trustworthiness in children. The law of cause and effect is working in parenthood as it is in any other law of nature. There is a responsibility upon all, and especially upon fathers and mothers, to set examples to children and young people worthy of imitation. Parents must be sincere in upholding law and upholding the priesthood in their homes, that children may see a proper example. Respect for law and order, as charity, begins at home. 

These young men were true to every trust. They were men of integrity. I cannot think of anything which will contribute more to the establishing of law and order than for each individual to cherish integrity and honesty in his or her heart. Integrity, honesty — the Latter-day Saints stand for these fundathental principles. They are generally noted for their integrity and honesty, and it is with sorrow we receive the word, whenever it comes through the press or by voice, that one of the Latter-day Saints has failed in his obligation to trust. 

THE VALUE OF INTEGRITY 

I remember with what pride I listened to a conversation over the telephone in one of our stakes. The president was called from the dining table to the telephone. His part of the conversation I heard, and I can give both. The gentleman at the other end, no;t a member of the Church, was a real estate man. He had in his office a man who was making a purchase but who could not pay the entire sum for the property. The purchaser claimed to be a member of this Church, and the real estate dealer called up the president of the stake to confirm this statement. 

"Do you know," said the realtor, "Mr. Blank?" 

"Yes," said the president. 

"Is he a member of your Church?" 

"He is." 

"Is he in good standing?" "Yes," replied the president. 

"Thank you," said the real estate dealer. "He is here to make a loan. If he is a member of your Church in good standing I will trust him." 

Integrity, the first principle of success. "Give us the man of integrity, on whom we know we can thoroughly depend, who will -stand firm when others fail, the friend faithful and true, the adviser, honest and fearless, the adversary, just and chivalrous; such a one is a fragment of the rock of ages." Integrity is the first step to true greatness. Men love to praise, but are slow to practice, integrity. To maintain it in high places costs self-denial. In all places it is liable to opposition, but its end is glorious, and the universe will yet do it homage. "A man of integrity will never listen to any plea against conscience." 

MR. BABSON J S COMMENT 

Many of you are familiar with a comment on this fundamental principle by Mr. Roger W. Babson, the great statistician : 

"The things which we look upon as of great value: the stocks, bonds, bankbooks, deeds, mortgages, insurance policies, etc., are merely nothing. While 51 per cent of the people have their eyes on the goal of Integrity, our investments are secure; but with 51 per cent of thepi headed in the wrong direction, our investments are valueless. So the first fundamental of prosperity is integrity. Without it there is no civilization, there is no peace, there is no security, there is no safety. Mind you, also, that this applies just as much to the man! who is working for wages as to the capitalist and every owner of property. 

"Integrity, however, applies to many more things than money. Integrity requires the seeking after, as well as the dispensing of, the truth. It was this desire for truth which founded our educational institutions, our sciences and our arts. All the great professions, from medicine to engineering, rest upon! this spirit of integrity. Only as they so rest, can they prosper or even survive. 

"Integrity is the mother of knowledge. The desire for truth is the basis for all learning, the value of all experience and the reason for all study and investigation. Without integrity as a basis, our entire educational system would fall to the ground; all newspapers and magazines would become sources of great danger, and the publication of books would have to be suppressed. Our whole civilization rests upon the assumption that people are honest. With this confidence shaken, the structure falls. And it should fall, for unless the truth should be taught, the nation would be much better off without its schools, newspapers, books and professions. Better have no gun at all, than one aimed at yourself. .The cornerstone of prosperity is the stone of Integrity." 

George Washington, the father of our country, said : 

"I hope I shall always possess firmness and virtue enough to maintain what I consider to be the most enviable of all titles, the character of an honest man." 

THE APPLICATION 

Now, the application of this thought. In addition to what we have heard this morning from the President, I would like to read this from the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the -benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the saime; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people." 

No Latter-day Saint can be true to his country, true to his Church, true to his God, who will violate these laws which relate to 1 the moral welfare and the spiritual advancement of mankind. 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS MUST UPHOLD THE LAW 

There is much being said now about the law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of liquor. Latter-day Saints should uphold that law everywhere, at socials, at banquets. Civil officers, members of clubs, who are contributing to the formation of public opinion ought to be proud to uphold that law. It is a constitutional law, and it is time that the leaders of this country, the politicians, the statesmen, the leaders in civic affairs in the state and in the cities should so speak of this law, so act towards it, that public sentiment would be turned in favor of its enforcement. Latter-day Saints, we are expected to uphold it and to uphold every other law which contributes to the advancement and peace of mankind. And these laws against the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors are such laws, and our conditions now in society, with millions of automobiles, the drivers of which must be at their very best, active mentally, quick to respond physically in emergency, make it necessary that we eliminate from society anything that will becloud the brain or leave the driver's hand unsteady. We are living in a condition in which we cannot with impunity foster traffic in intoxicating liquors. God said long ago that they were not good for man. Our boys and girls, from the standpoint of integrity and consistency, should take a stand against the use thereof. 

TRANSLATE OUR RELIGION INTO PERFECT SOCIAL CONDITIONS 

All should take pride in making "Mormonism" a synonym for trustworthiness, temperance, chastity, honesty, justice — these are fundamental principles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and by exemplifying them in our lives we contribute to the transformation of society, we translate our religion into better social conditions and bring salvation and peace to men here and now. 

May our Father in heaven guide and protect the missionaries who are out proclaiming the restoration of the gospel. May he bless Israel here at home, who, through faithfulness, will contribute to an improved social order. May it be recorded also of our young men : They are men of truth and soberness — men who are true at all times in whatsoever thing they are entrusted, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I have been much impressed, my brethren and sisters, with the instructions given to us this morning. I realized while listening to the remarks and instructions that in what has been said there is inspiration for many sermons. I would like to discuss for a moment the statement contained in the Doctrine and Covenants to the effect that there is "a law irrevocably decreed, in heaven, before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated, ,and when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." In effect, as I understand it, this means that obedience to principle and law brings blessings. Conversely, we may say that disobedience to principle and law will fail to produce desired results. 

I am impressed with the statement made by Brother David O. McKay with regard to the matter of integrity. This great fundamental characteristic is too often lacking among mankind. Some years ago one of the great national engineering societies, composed of many thousands of members, sent out a questionnaire to these various men throughout the country, asking them to indicate the requisites to success in engineering work. The result of that questionnaire was in some respects rather surprising. Instead of specifying the first requisite as technical skill and knowledge, the statement generally made was that the first requisite is character and integrity, and that other things should follow. I am sure that that characteristic is recognized as being most important for the welfare and lasting success of men everywhere. There are conditions prevailing, as has been stated today, that require the development of integrity and stability among the people of the United States and of the world generally. 

To produce the greatest results in this direction it will invp^ve thorough training of young people. Theodore Roosevelt declared, in speaking of the development of boys, that "if you are going to do anything permanent for the average man, you have got to begin before he is a man. The chances of success lie in working with the boy andnot the man." I think it was Henry VanDyke who stated that few men over twenty-five years of age change their habits of thought and action. I do not believe that to be entirely the case, although it is' probably true in mo^t instances. 

In my own experience in the gospel of Jesus Christ, I' know that the Lord has power to and does change men's hearts and their desires and determination when they are much older. This occurs when they are brought to a condition of repentance, through an understanding of the fact that the things they are doing are not in conformity with his laws. No matter what their age may be they can repent and change entirely their habits and course of action, and their desires and determination. If time would permit, experiences could be related indicating such changes which have entirely altered the course of life of 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

men in the world who have come to a knowledge and acceptance of the principles of the gospel. 

It being the case that character and integrity are recognized generally as a prime requisite to supcess and progress, I am sure that the principles of the gospel which we have espoused, if they were observed by the people of the world generally, would develop these very qualities in them. I appreciate the fact that olbedience to the principles of the gospel requires will power, and will power is developed through integrity. So that, in a sense, the observance of these principles requires integrity, and also produces integrity. That is true with regard to every principle of the gospel. 

So far as the Word of Wisdom is concerned we realize that, as the Lord has said, those who observe this principle and endeavor to live in accordance with the spirit of it will receive blessings — temporal and spiritual blessings. They develop physically, mentally and spiritually, and as they do so they develop their will power to resist the things that are contrary to the desires of the Lord and their own wellbeing. 

If time permitted we could discuss at some length the benefits that come from observance of the Word of Wisdom, and the bad results that come from the lack of observance of that principle. Medical authorities are agreed that the use of cigarettes is harmful, that it tends to weaken the moral fiber of men and women, and that in addition thereto the use of cigarettes by women not only weakens their moral vitality, but also interferes with the functions of motherhood and the welfare of their children. Shall it be said that those who use cigarettes are morally unfit, or that they are not living in accordance with moral principles? I will not say that, but I do say that they are able to maintain their morals in spite of, rather than because of, the use of cigarettes and tobacco. I realize the fact, and I believe it is recognized, that those who do use tobacco are weakened thereby, and any success they enjoy is in spite of the fart that they use it. This is just as true of the use of liquor and narcotics, which injuriously affect the moral stamina as well as the physical body. 

Some time ago the claim was made to me by a man who is giving his main efforts toward money-making, that the most successful men of today in the business world are using liquor notwithstanding it is contrary to law. At random I have noted the statements made by various men of prominence relative thereto. I would like to show the attitude of such men, some of whom did not use liquor even when it was not against the law. 

Richard Washburn Child said of Theodore Roosevelt that in years of intimate acquaintance he never knew him to take any stimulant other than hot milk. Henry Ford is strongly against the use of liquor, and does not even allow smoking by his men. Tom Mix, the noted movie artist, does not smoke or drink. Calvin Coolidge is opposed to the use of liquor. Mussolini,' the great Italian dictator, says, "I abstain rigidly from all kinds of alcoholic beverages, even from the lightest ." Also, he says, "Coffee is never served me at any meal. It is a stimulant, compelling by its action a useless nervous effort, resulting in no concrete good." Charlie Chaplin, the noted movie comedian, says he does not use liquor. It is further stated that once in a while he uses a cigarette, but without enthusiasm. 

The result of the observance of the Word of Wisdom is that it develops integrity and character in men and women. Whether they acknowledge that these principles have been given of the Lord, or whether they accept them as coming from medical science, the observance of the same makes for their welfare. From whatever source or idea they gain the conviction, it is for their benefit if they observe it; and, if they fail, it is for their injury. In like manner every principle of the gospel brings its own blessing. 

Now, of course, as Latter-day Saints we realize that the thing the Lord desires of us is that we should observe his commandments because we love him and because we recognize in him the fulness of wisdom. Yet, while we accept these things as coming from the Lord, we also gain understanding of the reasons why they are for our blessing. 

The principle of tithing is for many people a difficult one to observe. Yet there are many people outside of this Church who, while not recognizing any direct revelation from the Lord for the observance of the principle, read the Bible and find that in early times this principle was observed. Therefore, they are undertaking to live it. / They call themselves tithers, and are faithful in the observance of that principle. Not-long since there was a man in my office from the East — a Presbyterian — and we were discussing the principle of tithing. He stated that anyone who would observe the principle of tithes, would find that nine-tenths of his income would go as far as the ten would otherwise go. It seems from an economic standpoint a difficult thing to understand and appreciate, and yet that is the testimony of many people. 

I would like to relate to you briefly an instance that occurred in a ward in one of the stakes in Canada. Some years ago the people were in a critical financial condition because of the failure of crops. At that time a special tithing campaign was inaugurated and the people were encouraged to fully obey this principle. From that time, about five years ago, up to the present they have continued to suffer at least partial losses of their crops. Some of the people moved away, mainly non-members of the Church. But the members of the ward undertook faithfully to live the principle of tithing, and as evidence of that it is shown that in the six months' report for this year, 90 per cent of those who should observe the principle of tithing had observed it. 

What is the result? In spite of the fact that crop conditions and climatic conditions have not been entirely favorable; in spite of the fact that at the time they were financially embarrassed, the people have been blessed and prospered. They have practically gotten out of debt, they have become more united, their attendance at meetings is remarkable, and the activities of the ward are unusual. They are living the principles of the gospel. They have been relieved of their obligations. They have learned how to do things, they have brought in dairy cows, sheep and hogs, and have learned to manufacture the raw materials of the farm into products that will sell profitably. The result is that they are in a position to go forward, and they are now building a meeting-house which they expect will be paid for within a year. A little ward of that kind, under the most unfavorable conditions, through renewing their covenants and observing this principle, have gained financial blessings. More than that, they have gained spiritual blessings which come through the observance of it. And so the blessing comes to every one of us according to the way we live it. 

I am convinced of the fact that the principle of tithing is a principle of blessing, spiritually first, financially second, and that it offers opportunity to relieve ourselves of obligations that may press upon us, and will increase our progress and growth in the gospel and in life. I know that it develops in every one that obeys it the qualities of integrity and determination to be worthy of the trust that is placed in us, so that our word shall he as good as our bond. I know that the observance of this principle will bring us up to that standard. . 

It is the same with regard to the principle of fasting and fast offerings. The Lord declared many years ago through his servants that the Latter-day Saints should observe fasting. The Savior in his day taught this principle. Those who observe that principle are /physically stronger and better off, the digestive system has the opportunity to rest and to gain strength and vigor to be able to carry on its functions. Some of the worst diseases of the people of the United States today are due to digestive troubles through overeating. The principle of fasting, properly observed, will help us to enjoy greater vitality. It will also help us to develop increased will p'ower and determination, to overcome and to resist the temptations which come to us in life, and it will develop in us the spirit of sympathy and consideration for our fellowmen. And so, the observance of this principle will bring the blessings which we desire to enjoy and which we need to enable us to become better men and women. 

In like manner the observance of the principle of prayer yields remarkable blessings. It is a principle that is being neglected very seriously throughout the world today by many people who have gotten away from the love of God and faith in him. This principle, drawing one to the Lord in humility, and in faith, asking him for the things we desire, and giving him gratitude and praise for his blessings to us, is a source of strength and power that will enable us to overcome our weaknesses, and develop in us faith and determination to do right. ' 

I do not feel that I ought to take more time, my brethren and sisters. I desire to testify to you that the observance of these principles will bring blessings to men that will develop in them integrity and uprightness, initiative, faith, and ability to stand against all the winds of contrary doctrine, or of temptation or trial. Observance of these  will enable us to go forward and live in humility in accordance with the will of the Lord. 

May the Lord bless us that we may train the young men and women especially, that they may be qualified and developed in the observance of these things, and thereby become men and women of integrity, in order that the next generation shall be able to carry on every phase of activity in the most effective way, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 

Senior President of the First Council of Seventy 

I call yo^ur attention, my brethren and sisters, to what is designated as our Twelfth Article of Faith, which reads : 

"We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates; in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." 

I think by reading this Article of Faith as a text I shall be able in my thinking to be in harmony with the spirit of this meeting by* reason of what our president has said, and this meeting may be the dominating influence of the entire conference. 

On my way home from the East recently, when passing through Scranton, Pennsylvania, I picked up the current paper of that day, and in it was a statement from the census returns of the United States, taken from the Census Bureau, Washington, that crime was increasing, in proportion, faster than the growth of our population, according to the increase of persons sent to prison. Complete returns from thirty-one states, covering fifty-eight of a total of ninety-nine state prisons and reformatories, listed 27,018 new prisoners received by these institutions in 1926, as compared with 21,054 in 1923, the firsjt prison census year in this country, or an increase of 28.3 per cent. There were 34.1 prisoners for 100,000 population jailed last year, as against 27.9 in 1923. 

Then as we came through Denver, I picked up the Rocky Mountain News,- and in it found a column devoted to crime and its increase. I do not have time to read it, but it would be very enlightening to do so. It would, however, occupy too much time. Let it be sufficient to say that the writer of that special column traced the crime of our country from the highest stations in political life, from those who had been found guilty of crime in the President's cabinet, through governors of states and mayors of cities, down to the lowly stations in life. It constitutes a rather severe arraignment of the present status of the United States in the matter of law observance. One statement was to the effect that according to General Lincoln C. Andrews, former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, there are no less than 40,000,000 drinkers in this prohibition country, and "home-brew is becoming a nation-wide enterprise." (; 

And so throughout in the column he discusses the question of violation of law and the increase of the volume of it. 

Then, on the evening that I arrived home, I chanced to pick up a Salt Lake paper, and noticed that the Chief of Police in our city was calling attention to "special juvenile delinquencies" in the city, and giving special instructions to the police officers of the city to undertake the arrest of the development of this species of crime. In that article there is a list running through crimes of four days that makes the heart sick, crimes committed upon juveniles, and crimes by juveniles, that no man can read, I am sure, and not be moved by sorrow at the spectacle it represents. 

You will see that coming in contact with these incidents, through the public press, on my way home, and just upon my arrival here, brought me in contact with, and reminded me of, the subject that has been under discussion for the last thirty years in this country by publicists, by statesmen, jurists, and various institutions that stand for law and order. 

. I have been interesting myself in this subject for some length of time. I happened to come upon some notes since arriving home wherein I found a discourse delivered by myself in this tabernacle, in 1924, in which I set forth, after elaborate statistical investigations, the supporting evidence for a statement which had been made by Chief Justice Taft, in 1908, before the Bar Association in New York, to the effect that "the administration of law in our country was a disgrace to civilization." There was much disputation that arose over that statement, which led me to an investigation with," to me, startling results, only to be convinced that our Chief Justice was within the truth in making that very strong statement. 

We cannot go into statistics in relation to this subject now, but you will be interested in hearing this quotation from the words of Judge Alfred Talley, of the Court of General Sessions of New York, when introducing into office a new jurist a year or two ago. He said to him in giving him his charge : 

"One of the things that you will come to learn is that you have come to the bench of the greatest criminal court in the world, and the oldest court of any kind in the United States, at a time when this country is suffering under an indictment which proclaims it to be the most lawless on earth. You will find that the United States must plead guilty to that indictment. Most of the desperate criminals are mere boys." 

And that I think is one of the tragical things connected with the growth of crime, that its increase is chiefly among the youth of the land. Judge Talley continued: 

"You will be heartbroken at discovering that the vast majority of defendants are under nineteen or twenty years old, and that is going to be your distressing problem." 

Another statement I want to read to you is an excerpt from the report of the Commission of Law Enforcement, presented to a meeting of the American Bar Association in San Francisco, several years ago; and the conditions have not changed since then, only to grow worse. This is the statement : 

"Crime and lawlessness in the United States have been steadily on the in21  and out of proportion to pur growth, and there has been a steady and growing disrespect for law in our nation. This is not a result of the war." 

You know we are disposed to blame pretty much all of this spirit of lawlessness to the effect of the great World War. But this authority denies that and offers this in proof: 

"We do not find the proportional increase in crime from 1916 to 1922 greater than from 1910 to 1916, (That is the year before we went into the War) and we have not been able to discover that crimes of violence have materially increased in France, in England or Canada during or since the War, although the effect of the War naturally must be more marked in those countries." 

There is much more that might be said in evidence of this, but perhaps it is unprofitable, and impossible at least, for me now to discuss the obvious. The testimonials are so overwhelming, the crowd of witnesses is so great that as American citizens we are face to face with the fact that in our country we are Kving in an age of lawlessness; aind therefore I deem it important that for ourselves and for the world, as far as we can reach them by proclamation, it should be known that in these mountains, in the Church of Jesus Christ, stands a people pledged to the support of law and of order, and I think Latter-day Saints no less than the world ought to have their attention called to that important truth. 

Many reasons crowd in upon our attention that are interwoven with this great theme, the keynote of which President Grant has struck in his opening remarks this morning. 

I shall only take time to note here one, ,but that one represents a great contributing cause of the growth and increase of lawlessness in our country. It arises from the uncertainty in the execution of the law. Perhaps in the foundation of our government, in establishing the constitution of our country and our state constitutions, the people of that generation had been under the iron heel of oppressive governments so long, that they became extremely anxious to protect the individual against encroachments of tyrannical administration of law, and therefore over-emphasized the rights of the individual and the protection of those rights, and had less concern for the larger rights and the protection of society from criminals. In this spirit the legislation has run in our states and in our nation, viz : to safeguard and to provide every possible means for the protection of the rights of those who are accused of crimes. And these laws, favoring so strongly the criminal, have been so used by skilful attorneys for the defense, that the administration of law has become a science for protecting the criminal from the just judgment and punishment of his crimes. 

We have a very prominent case in mind now and of recent occurrence that illustrates this point. iSix years ago two men were convicted under due process of law in the state of Massachusetts for shooting down and robbing in full daylight, and in a crowded thoroughfare of the city, two men who were entrusted with a payrool of a manufacturing company. Two men were arrested for the crime, tried under due process of law, and found guilty. I shall not attempt to undertake any analysis of that case, of course. But they were found guilty. By the skill and cunning of lawyers for the defense, however, delays and appeals, based on exceptions to procedure, and in devious ways, the execution of the sentence was postponed from year to year. The radical element of the community organized for withstanding the execution of the law. They went on from one scheme to another, growing, it seemed to me, more desperate in their determination to thwart the law, and the execution of the sentence in pursuance thereof, and this for seven years from the time the crime was committed. Millions in the United States, aided and abetted by some of the foremost newspapers of the land, begged and pleaded for a mitigation of the sentence pro- * nounced by the court. Fortunately, as I view it — fortunately for the stability of the administration of the law — the state of Massachusetts withstood all these appeals, and at last the law was vindicated, notwithstanding its long delay. I was struck myself with the splendid answer that Governor Fuller made to the dramatic appeal of the wife and the sister respectively of these two condemned men. His answer was, and I believe it will become historic : 

"I am sorry. My duties are outlined by the law." 

Governor Fuller refused to interfere with the final execution of these sentenced men. 

We have in this case an illustration of one of the great defects of administration of law in the United States, that is, "the law's delay," and the uncertainty of punishment. Let that thing continue, and criminals will mock the law. 

A touch of divine wisdom comes into this question from the distant past. Solomon left on record this remarkable statement: "Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil." Eccl. 8 :11. The whole consensus of legal opinion upon this subject is to the effect that the uncertainty of the execution of the penalty encourages desperate men in crime. 

If it were in harmony with the feelings of the brethren — and I know nothing of what their feelings are on this subject — it seems to me that we could with propriety voice the sentiments of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in this conference by a proper resolution making known this our great principle, announcing our conviction of duty in the sustaining of the law, by publishing this Article of our faith in such a resolution. It would be a proper occasion, in the face of these increasing crime waves, to let our country know where the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands upon this question. 

President Grant, I beg to venture one more thing, even if I trespass a little on your time. I cannot leave this subject without calling attention to an important declaration in the Book of Mormon, incidentally referred to by some of the brethren in their remarks this ' morning. They are the words of the Prophet Moroni. Hearken unto this, Latter-day Saints, and I would like to see this, too, coupled with the resolution to which I have referred, as the message of the American 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 23 

volume of scripture to the great Gentile nation that now is in control of this land, the U. S., and has great influence throughout the whole continent : 

"And he [God! had swSrn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them. 

And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity. 

For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off." 

Now, mark you :' 

"And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not "continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done." (Ether 2:9-12). 

Only three weeks ago, about now, I had the pleasure of standing upon the summit of the Hill Cumorah in company with President Grant. Being there upon that height of land, which so splendidly commands a view of the whole surrounding country, I could not refrain from recalling the time when Moroni stood upon the crown of that hill with the evidence of the ruins of the civilization of his people about him. And this warning, written in the Book of Ether, let me say, in closing, comes from the prophet of God who was also the historian of the great Jaredite nation, by abridging and translating their history into the Nephrite language. This warning comes, then, from the historian of one civilization that had perished about the Hill Cumorah; it came also from the same man who was a witness of the destruction of the civilization of his own people at the same place. I hold that he was competent to speak upon this question, and it is most fitting, and is one of the evidences of inspiration, in this Book, that one so competent to speak in warning should be chosen to be God's mouthpiece in warning this great Gentile nation, holding dominion over the land in our day, to beware of their course lest they, too, forfeit their rights to the pride of place they occupy among the nations of the earth. For great as our nation is, it is not above the powers of destruction if it observes not the conditions upon which it may hold its position upon this land. 

May the blessing of God so come to the Gentiles that they shall not share the fate of the nations that have preceded them, is my earnest prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "The Doxology." The closing prayer was offered by Elder Elmer E. Taylor, president of the Young stake of Zion. 

The meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 


