Overflow
09 10 1927

FIRST OVERFLOW MEETING 

In the Assembly Hall, 10 o'clock, Sunday Morning, October 9, 1927, an overflow meeting was held. 

Elder David A. Smith, of the Presiding Bishopric, presided. , The music was rendered by the Ensign ward choir, Wallace Bennett, conductor, Alex Schreiner at the organ. 

The choir and congregation sang: "Come, O thou King of kings." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Axel A. Madsen, bishop of the Ensign ward. 

The choir sang the anthem : "Fierce raged the tempest." 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

President of the Liberty Stake 

'My brethren and sisters: It is perhaps known to many of you that the Liberty stake of Zion is located in the southeastern part of this city. This stake is about a mile and a half wide and 105  miles long, so that it occupies very little territory. Residing within the limits of. this stake there are approximately 25,000 people, 15,000 of whom belong to [the Church. It is an easy matter to walk from my house to any meeting house in the stake in twenty minutes and to make the journey over paved walks. In some sections of the stake, and I may say generally, the people are pretty well-to-do. They live in good homes, on an average better, I suppose, than the homes owned by the Latter-day Saints , in many other places. Many of them are professional men. Many of them are successful business men. And withal one must say with pride, the people are good people. We know that it requires the same faith to save a rich man that it does a poor man, and that no man can buy salvation with anything as cheap as money. It requires the same humility and the same obedience and the same diligence to save a rich man that it does a poor man. We have fine meeting houses in our stake, good choirs. Every opportunity seems (to be within easy reach of the people, but I am sure our problems are just as serious and just as difficult as the problems of the people who live in the remoter parts of the Church. It is a difficult thing to maintain in the Sacrament meetings the attendance that many of the wards on the outside maintain. I discover that it is a very difficult thing for a man who is prosperous, who is successful, who has gathered about him the things of the world, to exercise the same faith, the same humility, that he did in his humbler days, but nevertheless it is necessary. 

I came from the country. I grew up on the soil. I came to this city when I;was a grown man. Of course, I can never forget my love for the plain people. My early contact with the people of the soil has left forever in my soul an appreciation of their worth and of the contribution which they make to the Church and to society. I love the people of the city. There are no more faithful people in the world than some of the Saints who live in this city. I know hired girls who pay more tithing, I really believe, than many prosperous farmers. V 

I have enjoyed this conference very greatly. I think the reference made by the President of the Church, to . the support that should be given to law and order, and the pride which this people should have in the great government of which they form a part, was very timely and fundamental. Whenever I am depressed with little things, my heart is inspired with two great thoughts that always cheer and comfort rne. In the first place, I am devoutly grateful that I am an American. It is a proud thing to be an American. I firmly believe that the flag that waves over you and over me is the best flag that ever waved over any land or any people — made so by the heroism of the men who founded this Republic and who have maintained it. My heart was touched with the beautiful and dignified tribute which a distinguished visitor, General Summerall, paid to this people yesterday morning. I 

106 ' GENERAL CONFERENCE 

hope we deserve it, and I believe that we do. I am sure that "Mormonism" has in it the genius of the best civilization the world has ever seen. All good Latter-day Saints are good citizens. Poor citizenship is an evidence of poor affiliation with the Church. It cannot be otherwise. I am grateful for the government that shelters us, for the opportunity which it gives to its citizens. I love this land of ours. The Almighty in his infinite kindness has established our feet in the tops of the eternal hills and given us a place where the sun shines more days in the year than in any other place, where the skies are bluer and the water clearer. We ought to be good citizens, and we ought to stand firmly for the maintenance of the principles bred in the institutions which we love and cherish. 

And I am grateful, my brethren arid sisters, that I am a Latterday Saint. I am not boasting, of course, of my devotion, but rejoicing in the thought that I belong to this people. We belong to a great Church. Every man and every woman who belongs to this Church is to be congratulated upon his opportunity, his opportunities for growth, for development, for the establishment of his character. The history of the past should inspire us, and the promises of the future should sustain us. It is a great thing to belong to this Church. 

Stress has been placed upon missionary work during this conference. In no sense would I minimize the importance of that work. I know that the ingenuity of men never devised such a marvelous educational agency as the missionary system of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There is nothing like it in the world. Boys go to the ends of the earth and bring back all they see, and enjoy the advantages of education that comes from travel. Now, that is only one part of it. There is something about putting a young man on his own responsibility and compelling him to make the Almighty his friend that has a marvelous influence upon him. A young man came into my office and when I looked into his face, I said to him, "Where have you been?" He said, "I have been to New Zealand. I have traveled around the world." Then he told me what he had seen. In the conversation he said to me: "What is the greatest thing you ever saw?" I had the inspiration, I believe, to say to him, "The finest thing I ever saw in my life is a boy in whose eye the fire of the Holy Ghost burns, in whose face is reflected the presence and power of the spirit of Almighty God." Isn't it marvelous that mere boys, modest, trembling boys,, go away from home and come back in two or three years transformed into strong men? Have you ever seen anything that is quite comparable to that experience in helping a boy? I never have. It is wonderful. 

Now, this Church has just three great things to do : First, to preach the gospel to jevery nation, kindred, tongue and people, declaring with a loud voice that an angel has flown through the midst of heaven and has revealed again, to earth, the gospel of 107 

Jesus Christ. We are trying to do that; we are doing it, feebly, perhaps, but doing pretty well. JSTow, the second is, to develop the individual members of the Church, to help them to grow into their best. And the third is to make a icommunity which will reflect the spirit and power of the gospel. Now, my brethren and sisters, the great problem that always addresses itself to each of us is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ in our daily contact. That is not so easy. I know men who' have gone on missions and preached with power the gospel of Jesus Christ, but who, when home, under the influence of prosperity and ease, have grown apathetic and indifferent and careless. You know it is an easy matter to face belching guns when the delirium of war is on, but many a man who is brave in battle falls down supinely under the monotony and routine of daily life. Our mission at home is to "carry on," so that when men come from far and see what we are doing and get in touch with us, they will discover that back of our conduct there is something sincere and genuine, something that carries over. That is the acid test. God expects to make of us a great people. I believe that we will become rich and prosperous, if we ^re only big enough to stand it. If we only have that childlike faith that will enable us to practice the plain principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we will succeed. We wear better clothes than our fathers wore; we live in finer houses, eat finer food, but that is not fundamental. Have we a better quality of faith? Do we manifest that faith in more righteous behavior? That is the important thing. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, you men and women who come from afar to hear the word of the Lord, in whose honest souls a love of truth burns. You and all people of your kind are, after all, the salt of the earth, and your names will endure forever on the records of his Church. GoH help us all, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE R. MAYCOCK 

President of the Kolob Stake 

"It takes a heap of livin' in a house to make it home." I know that my good teacher, Brother Hinckley, did not mean that Liberty stake has better homes; he meant that Liberty stake has better houses. I come from a stake so much larger than his that he does not really know that he has any troubles. Our stake is six miles wide and forty-five miles long, and we haven't any paved roads, and very few paved sidewalks. But we have wonderful people and a wonderful lot pf homes, homes wherein the Spirit of God dwells, where people are trying to keep the commandments of God and where we are endeavoring to draw near unto him. I appreciate Brother Hinckley, my brothers and sisters. I have loved him for a long, long while. There came into my life some of his teachings in 1897, in the Brigham Young Academy, that have stood out from GENERAL CONFERENCE  until now. I am glad to follow him and the good things that he taught us in that class. I never have been, in another class, so filled with inspiration. I have never received teaching from another teacher that stood out in my life like the teachings of Bryant S. Hinckley, and so I love him and appreciate him and pray God's blessings upon him. 

I appreciate the privilege of laboring in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the responsibilities that have come unto me have helped me to appreciate more fully the blessings that have come; because I believe that as we labor we learn to love; because I believe that as we associate with our brethren and sisters and see their integrity and devotion and determination to keep the commandments of God, we more fully appreciate the gospel that has been given to us. We can see its fruits, we can see its blessings, and we cherish them more the more we work. 

I love this wonderful country of ours, and I am glad that our brethren have talked to us about keeping the laws of the land. I desire to read a few words from Abraham Lincoln on this subject : 

"Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well-wisher of his posterity swear by the blood of the revolution never to violate in the least particular the laws of the_ country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap; let it be taught in the schools, in seminaries, in colleges; let it be written in primers, in spelling books, and in almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in the courts of justice. And, in short, let it become the political religion of the nation; and let the old and the young, the rich and the pcor, the grave and the gay, of, all sects and tongues and colors and conditions, sacrifice unceasingly upon its altars." 

My brothers and sisters, I wish we could get that into our souls and appreciate the fact that we should not only live the law ourselves but that we should sustain it by assisting others to live it. We have, to a certain extent, a responsibility in this regard, because we are American citizens. I have been in a position the last few years to know something about the enforcement of law, and I have seen some of the results that have come from people stepping over just a little. First we break some of the lesser laws, disregard some of the lesser things, and then our conscience is seared to the extent that we can disregard some of the greater ones. And in our disregarding those things we are setting examples to those with whom we associate. I wish that every mother in this great country of ours could say to her boy and to her girl, "I want you to live the laws of the land as your father lives them." But what would be the condition if - our mothers did that? We sometimes are prone to try to cover up our actions, to try to break the law and not let anyone know it. But there is always someone to watch. There is that boy and that girl who are always seeing and always imitating what the older ones do. This summer we raised a little garden at the back of our house, and not so long ago I took the hand plow and went out and was pushing that plow in 109  garden. As I stepped in the loose soil after I had plowed it, I looked back and there was our babe, nearly four years old, following-. I said, "What are you doing?" "Walking in your steps." My brethren and sisters, there came tears to my eyes. I said to myself, "Am I leading aright? Am I willing that my child should walk in my steps in all the things that I do?" If I can so live that I am willing that they should, if I can so live that my children can appreciate the gospel and appreciate the country in which we live, because they have walked in my steps, then I shall feel that my mission has been well filled. 

If is not only in the laws of our land but in the laws of our Church that we must keep the commandments, i You know the prophet said that there has been a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundation of the world, upon which every blessing is predicated, and if we expect to receive the blessing, we must keep the law upon which it is predicated. Too many of us, my brethren and sisters, are trying to dead-head our way into heaven. Too many of us are expecting to be judged in that great judgment day by the things that we believe rather than by the things we do. The apostle of old said, "The devils also believe, and tremble." The Latter-day Saints believe the gospel. I have a friend who never did anything for the Church; in fact, he scarcely knew that he belonged to the Church. He went away and someone attacked "Mormonism,""and he began to defend it, but he defended it not as the "Mormon" elders defend it, but with his fists. He believed the gospel, and when the time came that he had to defend it, he defended it the best he could. Will we be judgd by the things we believe ? If we must keep the commandments to receive the blessings, it is time that we begin to work." 

There are three great commandments revealed that will give to us, as Latter-day Saints, every blessing, I believe, that we could desire. The first thing, it seems to me, that we need — the very first thing that we need as Latter-day Saints, is the Spirit of God to attend us continually, and there is an ordinance given that if we would gather together on the Lord's day and partake of his sacrament and covenant to always remember him, we will always have his Spirit to be with us. I have sat in congregations of the Saints and have watched them partake of that sacram,ent, have seen them put out their hands — in fact, I believe I have done it myself on many occasions — with my mind just as far away from that ordinance as it was possible for it to be, not remembering him always, not remembering him even while I was partaking of the sacrament. I believe that we should keep that commandment. I believe that we should partake of the sacrament regularly and 'always remember him, in order that we may have his spirits to be with us. 

And then, after we have his spirit to be with us, we want next wisdom and knowledge and understanding; we want health and strength. And if we will read the eighty-ninth section of the Doctrine GENERAL CONFERENCE  Covenants, we can read there the comimandment by which we can receive these blessings — wisdom, knowledge, and understanding, and health and strength, and not only that, but we have been given the promise that the destroying angel shall pass by us, even as in the days of the children of Israel, and not destroy us. 

And after we have received those blessings, my brethren and sisters, if we turn to the fifty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we can read there the commandments by which all things else, it seems to me, that we may need will come unto us; because we are told in that section (and with your permission I will read a few verses) : 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up' thy sacraments upon my holy day; 

"For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; 

"Nevertheless, thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; 

"But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. 

"On this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may he perfect], or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. 

"Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, in other words, rejoicing and prayer. 

"And inasmuch as ye do these things, with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance — 

"Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the tree and walketh upon the earth; 

"Yea, and the herb, .and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barnsj, or for orchards, or for gardens, 'or for vineyards." 

All are ours, my brethren and sisters, by keeping the commandments of God. 

I bear you my testimony that we "are laboring in the cause of Christ, that we are in his Church, which is indeed the power of God unto salvation. Every fibre of my soul declares unto me that these things are true. My brothers and sisters, I pray that we may live to show to the world that, they are true, for our actions will show more than our words. May the blessings of God attend us in this conference and throughout our lives, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH J. DAYNES 

President of \the Grant Stake 

I sincerely trust, my dear brothers and sisters, that I shall enjoy the spirit of this conference, that the Lord will direct me in what I 111  say, that I shall enjoy your sympathy and good will, and that my efforts shall be the means of stimulating myself to better action and perhaps of helping those of you who are here. 

I appreciate the responsibility that comes to an elder in this Church when called upon to speak to the Latter-day Saints. I appreciate that we should undertake to believe in the principles that we advocate. I have observed in this conference, since its opening session Friday morning, that the theme generally has been that of law and its enforcement, all of which I feel to' endorse and feel to appreciate its importance. There are many laws that are given to the people of the city and nation which are given for a benefit and a blessing; first, to teach us to respect the rights of others,' and secondly that in respecting the rights of others we may grow stronger ourselves. There are other principles that have been given not in the way of legislation by the authorities of the land, but laws and commandments given unto us by our heavenly Father. 

One of these principles, known as the Word of Wisdom, has been touched upon more or less during the conference. Being a profound advocate of this doctrine I have been impressed with its importance, and with your kind permission would like to consider some of its many phases. It really surprises us very much to observe that when we are subjected to an examination, that as to> our own strength, in the living and observance of this law of the Church, that we have many shortcomings, and fail to measure up to the ideals and standards of a typical Latter-day Saint. 

One great authority has said that in the United States, during the year 1925, there were consumed sixty-nine billion ready-made cigarettes, which would mean that during that year every man, woman and child consumed 690 ready-made cigarettes — not counting the number of hand-made cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco. It would be unfair to say that this startling condition exists only in other states, for Utah, the land in which we live, has undoubtedly contributed its share. ' From the records that have been published it may be well for us to see as to what extent Utah has been a contributing factor in the consumption of some of these articles. During the year 1924 the residents of the State of Utah, including of course all classes, and not Latter-day Saints alone, actually threw away: 

For coffee $2,000,000 

For cigarettes 1,500,000 

For tea 1,500,000 

For tobacco 2,000,000 

. Total $7,000,000 

I have not given an estimate as to the amount of money involved in the purchase of liquor, because that perhaps would be beyond computation. 

I have taken this sum of $7,000,000; and have done a little figuring GENERAL CONFERENCE  see what we could accomplish if this sum of money were applied in legitimate channels for the development and growth and upbuilding of our communities, and this is what I observe. We could buy any one of the following things : ten million bushels of potatoes, seventy million loaves of bread, seventy million quarts of milk, 2,500,000 pairs of shoes, 100 million streetcar fares — in fact, this money, if applied, would ^ide the entire population of Salt Lake City, estimated at 140,000 people, to work and return every day for one year. It would buy 14,000 Ford automobiles. You could take a series of one-dollar bills, standing them up end to, end, and construct a fence reaching from Salt Lake City to Los Angeles. It would build 230 meeting houses, at an average cost of $30,000. Assuming that it would cost $5C0 per year to maintain and sustain each of the students in attendance at the following schools for their living for the entire year, it would provide the education and living for the total enrollment of the student membership of the University of Utah, the Agricultural College at Logan, the L. D. S. College here in this city, the East High School, Salt Lake City, the West High School, Salt Lake City; the Brigham Young University at Provo, the Granite High School, and perhaps others. A total of 14,000 students could be taught and educated for a whole year for this money. And further, let me state that if this money were used legitimately and honorably, it would pay the entire taxes for the State of Utah for the whole yeaf. It would take 2,000 people on a tour around the world extending over a period of three or four months, giving to each one the sum of $3,500 for expenses. 

It may be interesting for you to know that in the United States there was expended in the year 1923 for tobacco alone, the amazing sum of 900 million dollars, for liquor two billion, while for furniture which contributes to the happiness and joy of every home, there was expended but 375 million. As we think of this inconceivable amount of money that is expended for these non-essentials, is it not time for us to consider as to what extent we may be contributing to these abuses? As a means of giving us a better understanding as to; how to enjoy wisdom in all of our daily undertakings, I feel that a proper understanding of this precious revelation is most vital to every Latterday Saint family. 

In view of these alarming conditions might it not be well to ask ourselves the question, as to what we are doing to rectify the same? You will recall in the revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith on the Word of Wisdom, the declaration is made that these stimulants are not good for the human body. Are we exercising the proper restraint ourselves, and are efforts likewise applied in teaching our children, that the use of these beverages and narcotics can only work to their spiritual and physical detriment ? 

I feel to compliment and congratulate those who regard this principle as vital, and who undertake to observe this law. For those who are weak and apparently not able in and of their own strength to overcome, I earnestly pray that the Lord in his infinite mercy shall give 113  that added strength that they may be successful in their righteous desires. 

I earnestly pray that the means, the talent and the ability that God has given us, will be at all times used in honorable and legitimate pursuits. God help each of us to know our duty, and give us the strength 

always to properly apply it, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A solo, "How beautiful upon the mountains" was sung by Arvilla Allen. 

ELDER HENRY A, GARDNER 

President of the Palmyra Stake 

Realizing my limited knowledge and ability, I feel very keenly, my brothers and sisters, the responsibility that rests upon me at this moment, and I humbly desire that the prayer that was offered by our brother at the beginning may be made manifest in my behalf, that I may be able to say something to encourage you along the pathway of life. Like Paul of old, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for I realize and know that it is the power of God unto salvation. I have been taught the principles of "Mormonism" from my youth up and have been taught to honor and sustain those who are in authority over me, and as I com; e to these conferences and gaze into the faces of the brethren who preside over this Church, I go home with a renewed determination and desire to press on in this great latter-day work. It seems to me that there never was a time in the history of our Church when the Lord has fortified us with men to lead and guide us as he has at the present time. Coming yesterday morning, as I read the Tribune and saw on the front page a picture of the First Presidency of the Church as they were taken just before' entering the tabernacle, I thought, what a wonderful team of men — well fitted and qualified for the great responsibility of leaders of this people! With the other brethren, I thank God that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for I realize that this is God's work. Though we may fall by the wayside, this work will go on, for it is God's. "Mormonism," so called, is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. To me it is the grandest, noblest, broadest religion in all the world, for it not only accepts the truth that we have, but accepts the truth, the virtues and the praiseworthy things that we find in men, in churches, and in associations wherever they may be found. We are told to seek after the things that are elevating, that are uplifting and praiseworthy. 

I come from the Palmyra stake, situated in the southern part of Utah county. We are there a common people. I thank God that I am ^mong the common people, for I realize that if we are humble and willing to let the Spirit of God work upon us and 

114 ' GENERAL CONFERENCE 

actuate our lives, we shall be fitted and prepared to enjoy our offices and callings as members of the Church. 

Much has been said during this conference relative to law and order. It seems to me that the Latter-day Saints have been taught from their youth that the Constitution of the United States, and that great document of human (rights, the Declaration of Independence, were written by men inspired of our heavenly father. Mr. Babson said recently, "The United States of America at the present time 'is blessed with everything except religion." I feel that not only as a nation, but sometimes as a people, the thing we need most is a return to simple faith in God our Father. We need in our home-lives more of the Spirit of God to lead and guide us. We peed to have more family prayer. We need to pray in the spirit and meaning of the word. 

I remember a little poem I learned a number of years ago. It went something like this: 

I often say my prayers, 

But do I ever pray? And do the wishes of my heart Go with the words I say?  

I may as well kneel down 

And worship gods of stone, As offer to the living God 

A prayer of words alone. 

Prayer without the faith 

The Lord will never hear, Nor will he to those Hps attend 

Whose prayers are not sincere. 

If we go back to the beginning of this Church, we find that the Prophet Joseph Smith went out to the lonely grove that he might offer up a simple, earnest prayer to his heavenly Father, desiring to know which of all the churches then existing upon the earth Jwas the true church of God; for they were saying, "Lo, Christ is here," and "Lo, Christ is there." It was that simple, earnest prayer that reached the throne of glory, and God our Father condescended to come and visit him on the earth. What glorious news to the children of men, to know that God lives, has spoken again, and has revealed in this day and age his Son Jesus Christ unto the world. How thankful we as a people ought to be! We ought to be willing, my brethren and sisters, to singthe song with the full meaning of the word, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet, to guide us in these latter days." And when we are thinking and speaking of this great Church of ours, I sometimes wonder, my brothers and sisters, if there is not too large a difference between the prayer that we speak or utter and the lives we lead. Everywhere we go, up and down in this state and other states, we find the urgent need of the application of the ideals and principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ which we believe and 115 , more earnestly, adopted in our daily lives. We need the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ preached not only from the pulpit but taught and preached by the example of the lives that we live. I want to tell you as a servant of God that I believe he is not pleased with us as a people unless we do our duty. He is willing, I believe, to draw near unto us if we will give him the opportunity, if we draw near unto him. Not everyone who saith unto him, "Lord, Lord," will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of the Father, which is in heaven. We talk about Latter-day Saints and our Church, and I grant you it is a wonderful Church, for me it is the /Church of God; but , I sometimes wonder, and I wondered this morning as Brother Daynes read to us some of the statistics regarding our own fair state — the tremendous amount of money expended for those things that the Lord tells us jn a simple way are detrimental to our health- -1 wonder if we are really and truly living up to the principles that are taught to us? Do those statistics indicate to us that "Mormonism" is not functioning as it should function, that we have not the faith to live the gospel as we believe it? Or does it simply show, my brethren and sisters, that we are not able to reach the goal that is set for us? 

I hope and pray that we shall remember the counsel and advice given to us by the leaders of this Church, that we may be fitted and prepared for the great responsibility that rests upon us as members of this Church in carrying the great message of peace on earth and good will to the sorrowing hearts of mankind. Jesus Christ did for us the thing that we are not able to do for ourselves, and made it possible for us to have the glorious privilege and opportunity of worshiping God according to the dictates of our own conscience and carrying this great message to the sorrowing world, that they too may enjoy the glorious principles of Salvation and life that we possess. Everywhere we go we find the urgent need of the principles of truth, honesty, and integrity that we believe in, to be practiced and applied in the lives of the people. We are told in the Book of Mormon that the people of this land shall prosper as long as they believe and obey the will of the God of the land — meaning that if we do not obey the principles of truth and righteousness, even this fair country of ours, the grand old United States, may see perilous times. 

I sometimes feel that unless we believe the principles of the gospel in our daily lives we may stumble by the wayside. Only recently I had a conversation with a brother who said to me, "Brother Gardner, that which I used to know, I do not believe now." And I said to him, "I wish that you would come back again, when I have a few moments, that we may have a heart-toheart talk together." And, as he enumerated to me some of the things that had happened in his life — for I knew that at one time he was a faithful brother in the Church; I had listened to him bear GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the divinity of this work, and had been inspired and touched by the sincere words that he had uttered — I found out that perhaps some time or other in his life he had been disappointed, had failed to reach some particular office, or that some brother in authority had failed to show him the proper recognition, or had hurt his feelings, and that because of such action he had become dark and gloomy and had drifted away from the Church. It seems to me that there can be no sadder picture painted than that of a man who has been instrumental in instilling in others the principles of the gospel and in showing others the pathway of life, who has planted faith and determination in the souls of men and women to serve God and keep his commandments, and at the closing days of his life comes and says to a young man whom he has inspired, "That which I used to know, I do not believe now." 

Oh, I want to tell you there is no greater joy in this world that can come to any man living than the joy of rendering service in the Church of God. Oftentimes I feel my weakness and am very humble in trying to go about to inspire and teach others to do their duty in this Church, but I want to acknowledge to you that I know this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I feel it in every fiber of my soul that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God. I feel, my brethren and sisters, that it is your responsibility and mine, in order that we may fulfil the great destiny that God our Father intended that we should. 

I do want to say to you, let us be watchmen upon the towers. Let us remember who we are. Let us remember that as fathers and mothers it is our responsibility to see that our children are taught, that we do have family prayer, tbat we do pray with earnestness and sincerity, that we may enjoy God's blessings, and that we may be watchmen for our children and our neighbors' children, that we may be indeed our brother's keeper. But above all, may we keep ourselves clean and unspotted from the world, that the Spirit of Christ may be in our hearts and homes. For if we have a contented home, we are a contented people; and if we keep the commandments of God, we shall have joy in this world and in the world to come. 

May the Lord bless us with the power of appreciation, that we may have in our hearts a love for the truth. May we have a desire to acknowledge the hand of God in our many blessings, and be willing to bear testimony of the divinity of this work, not only abroad but to the rising generation. I want to tell you that there are hundreds and thousands, not only of the older brothers and sisters but of the younger brothers and sisters, who are hungering and thirsting for the Word of God. We need to teach them the simple truths of "Mormonism." We need to implant in their hearts and lives a testimony not only of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith but of the divinity of Jesus the Christ, and that this is his work. May we be equal to the responsibility that rests upon us, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 117' 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in having the privilege of meeting with you. 

Yesterday I appeared in the tabernacle in the uniform of an officer of the United States army, and many wondered why I should be about my official Church duties so* attired. In explanation, let me say that as a reserve officer of the United States army, I was under orders yesterday to go to the station and meet General Charles T. Summerall, Chief of Staff of the United States army. His program had been arranged before he reached here, but in conference with the officers at Fort Douglas and the reserve officers in charge here, the suggestion was made that it might be interesting for the General to look upon a congregation of Latter-day Saints in conference session. Accordingly, we planned for it, with the permission of the Presidency of the Church, and yesterday morning as General Summerall arrived in the 'city an invitation was extended to him to attend and address the congrega- tion. In order that he might do this, it was necessary to shorten his inspection tour at Fort Douglas and the University of Utah. Upon leaving the tabernacle, he expressed his appreciation for the privilege he had of sitting upon the stand and looking upon that vast congregation, and for the music, and for the privilege of saying a few words from the pulpit of that wonderful building. He left yesterday afternoon to continue his inspection tour of the army posts of the United States. One of the great outstanding features of his tour will be, I am sure, his visit with us. 

While mentioning this, perhaps it will be proper for me to say that after the World War, I was offered a commission and refused to ' accept it, feeling that there was no further need of my serving in that capacity, knowing that my Church work was all I could possibly expect to do. Finally request was made of President Nibley, who at that time was Presiding Bishop. He authorized my enlistment. I was called before a board, and a commission with the rank of Major in the reserve corps was given to me. I have since been called to the Presidio of San Francisco and for two years have been a member of the Ninth Corps Area Conference Committee. This work I found to be very interesting, for it gave me an opportunity to study army life in all its phases. 

One little experience I had there may be interesting to you. As members of the Conference Committee, we were lined up waiting to take conveyances to go on a tour of inspection, when the officer in charge called my name and stated that I was to ride with the Commanding General. I hardly knew what to expect of it. I was almost the junior officer, and as I stepped out of line, my companion from Utah, who was standing near, and who is not a member of this Church, said: "Now, bishop, cut out that Church influence." I did not realize that it was Church influence for the moment. I was somewhat bewildered, GENERAL CONFERENCE  I had the privilege that day of riding with the Commanding General, stepping ahead of men who held higher offices; men of greater service and experience. It was not until a few days later that I found out what this Church influence really consisted of, that it was not I who was being honored; it was you. It was your sons, your brothers, your fathers. And I, as your representative, was receiving the reward for your service and activity. 

As a member of that committee it was my privilege and duty to visit all departments of army work. It was my privilege to go into any office, of any department, of any officer, from the Chief of Staff down, to find, if possible, conditions that could be improved. In this work I discovered why I had been so honored. I found in all activities that Utah stands at the head. I found that the University of Utah as a R. O. T. C. school stands in the first rank. That our high schools— the Ogden, the East High and the West High, were outstanding in their work. I was proud of them. I found that in all our war work, whenever we have been called into service, every demand made by the war department had been met, and met admirably. Then I fully realized that it was not I who was being honored, but you, this people. 

Last March I was called to attend a conference in Washington. With nearly three hundred men we stood out in front of the Interior building for the purpose of having a picture taken. I was standing about four rows back, where my rank required that I should be. My name was called, and I was requested to step down to the front. As I did so, all eyes were turned upon me, for they wondered what was going to happen and I wondered also. General Summerall, who addressed us yesterday, was standing in front of that group. I was requested to take my place at his side. And there I stood while pictures of the group were taken. I realized this time that it was not I who was being honored. I have met with high ranking officers many times, I have been a dinner guest in the homes of many, I have had an opportunity of finding out what these officers were doing, trying to do and hoping to do; of knowing what they thought of you as a people and of you'r sons, and they do appreciate every helpful service. 

I am not a prophet, and I have no right to prophesy in the name of the living God, but, as his servant I am entitled to the inspiration of his Holy Spirit, and if I am faithful in keeping his commandments, I should understand the whisperings of that Spirit and know how to act and when to act. I remember before we got into the World War, (I had been called to render service for my country before that time), that on the way to a priesthood meeting held in this building, I mentioned to my father, Joseph F. Smith, who was then president of this Church, that I thought something should be said to the men who were assembled as to how they should conduct themselves in case we should be called upon to defend and uphold the spirit of freedom and liberty. During that meeting, father turned to me and requested that I make trie statement I thought necessary. Briefly it was this, that (at that 119 ) I could not see how we could possibly avoid getting into war, for the principles upon which our nation was founded obligated us to assist in the cause of peace and freedom. I was concerned for our boys, and I advised that they immediately fill up the organizations of our state troops, that they join the national guard, which afterward became the 145th, that they get in, then, before final enlistments and drives should come. Nothing had been said of a draft at that time. And many of you bishops and presidents of stakes and fathers went home and, realizing the situation, advised your boys to enlist in their local units, where they could have the companionship of one another, where they could have in a measure, that spirit under which they grew and developed, to be with them during their enlistment, and their war experience, if such experiences should come to them. And finally they were mobilized and ordered to the .Coast, and after a period of training were brought home and encamped at Fort Douglas. Then orders came to move on. For some days these boys were seen lined up at the Beehive House or Church offices, awaiting a blessing. Day after day it was my pleasure to be with my father as he gave blessings to those boys — your boys — going out to serve their country in a righteous cause. And in every case, as I recall, the blessing pronounced upon their head, gave them the promise that if they would keep themselves clean, obey the laws of the land, remember their God, say their prayers in faith and humility, and keep the commandments of the Lord, they would go and return uninjured. As I heard father pronounce those words time and again on those boys, and as I saw them leave, not knowing what minute they would be on their way, yet with joy in their souls because of the comforting promise, I paused to wonder! One day in the lull, I turned to father and asked, "What is there that impresses you to make this promise? When we read of the great slaughter and destruction on the other side, it seems to me the only possible thing that can cause your promise to come true will be the termination of the war before the boys get there." He answered : "I do not know whether they shall be called to go into battle or not, but this I do know, for the Lord has given me to understand and know; that promise is made to these young men through their faithfulness, and if they abide the commandments of God, they shall return." Well, the rest of the story you know. They served and met every requirement and returned home again to engage in their pursuits of life uninjured. 

I am reminded of them by General Surnmerall's having been here. Perhaps it is not just proper to mention these things at this time, but I do it because I want you to know that we as a people are looked upon by the men who are responsible for our country's defense, as being outstanding in our willingness to serve. May I mention one more incident which goes to show their feeling toward us. 

At the close of the conference I attended in Washington last March, General Cheathem, the presiding officer, stood up to give the closing address. He made this statement. "We have in this body today, an officer who has traveled a great distance. You know very little of the district from which he comes. I am going to take the opportunity of asking him to address us at this time." He called upon me to address that conference. And I did so- but not upon Military affairs alone. I bore testimony to them of the goodness of God to this people. I told them that we believed God had established this nation and that it should be a land of liberty forever, and that we believed it was our duty to defend it against evil and designing people. When I had finished and sat down, the body of men arose as one man, and I was somewhat bewildered. General Cheathem stood up and said, "I am on the program to deliver the final address of this conference, but I feel that anything I should say would only detract from the remarks which we have just listened to. I am going to let the remarks of Major Smith stand as the closing remarks of this conference. You are adjourned."

I stood there, as men crowded around me, wanting to know something more. They questioned me on the way to hotel. Some followed me to the station, and even onto the train. One of those men shook my hand as I was standing upon the step of the car as it was moving off and said, "I am going home, and I am going to say to my dear old father-in-law that I have at last found a man who is willing to stand up under any conditions and circumstances and say that he knows that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ;" for I had borned that testimony to them. Now I am beginning to realize why Bisnop- now president- Nibley sanctioned my going into that work. I am a peace-loving person, and have discovered in my association with these men that they are not warlike; the men who are directing the affairs of the Army of the United States, are not seeking war, they are putting their time and best thoughts and energies to devising means of preventing war and establishing peace.

The theme of this conference has been, obey the law. Some of us know enough to obey the law, for we appreciate that through obedience to law we are blessed. There are others who feel that it is proper to obey the law when there is danger in breaking the law of being caught and punished; some who obey the law when it is convenient; for that reason, it is necessary that we should have peace officers to protect those who are peace-loving, just and honest. When men cultivate the Spirit of God, when they learn to love God, when they can put out of their souls and their very lives, the spirit of selfishness, covetousness and envy, then will the need of peace officers be lessened and perhaps done away. But as long as individuals are speaking their own ends, regardless of the effect of their actions upon the peace and safety of others, we cannot hope for that condition which God has promised to come through our obedience to his laws. As long as that condition exists, it will be necessary to have peace officers and armies. 

And so I say, I am grateful to have had the privilage of becoming acquainted with these men, to go into the very details of their work, not to know merely theoretically what they are doing, but, through the records and their plans, to know just what they are looking for in the future. I find they are men of high ideals, men untrammeled by the course of politics. Army officers receive their position through appointment, upon -merit. They go on year after year, and, as in the priesthood, if I may make a comparison, though not for a moment do I think there is an equality between the two, but only a similarity, for purpose of comparison. We hold the Priesthood, and under that Priesthood we are blessed as we honor it. We grow in intelligence and power to serve as we serve. One of our brethren has said during this conference, one thing that we want in this Church is more thought to the gospel doctrine, to the teachings of God. Let me add to that, and more real service, which permits us to apply that gospel and doctrine through actually doing the things of God; for it is not alone through the study of the work that we are to gain salvation, but through doing the things of God which actually, require service. The army of the United States is built upon the same principle. Men develop as they serve and have ability to serve, and their knowledge enables them to go on, step by step. They are not there subject to any senator or politician. Unless because of misconduct, there is no power that can remove them other than the President of the United States, who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Army of the United States. That gives to them a freedom which enables them to speak from their heart that which they think. General Summerall, because of his position, is familiar with the record we have made as a people, which gave him foundation for the statement he made. As President Grant has said. _ "Thank the Lord he has said it, and thank the Lord he could truthfully say it." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I should not talk longer. I have not said what I intended to say. I wanted to say something about the Word of Wisdom and our missionary work. We have sitting over there in the tabernacle, 53 elders and nine lady missionaries. I wish you could have been with us last Wednesdav night. We had been in session since early morning and when the time for dismissal came, they were not ready to go. They were full of questions. They put question after question. And it was 8:30 p. m. before we finally dismissed our little meeting. And yet in that group called to be missionaries, only eleven out of the 53 elders had assisted in baptisms, not one has ever confirmed a person a member of the Church, five have assisted in administering to the sick, three have assisted in consecrating oil, five have not assisted in the blessing of the bread or the water. Speaking of service, these are just everv day things that should come to them at home and all of which will be required of them when they get into the missionfield. They are not at fault for not having had the privilege of performing these ordinances. We should see to it that these experiences come to them. This opportunity for service should come to them before thev go into the missionfield. Many of them come hce without a testimony of the gospel. Let me remind you. that a testimony GENERAL CONFERENCE  the gospel comes only through work. President Young said that more men gain a testimony of this gospel while upon their feet than while upon their knees. We can pray from now to the end of our days, and prayer alone may not bring a testimony of this work. But through prayer and actual service, we do get a testimony. ' , 

Don't you know that every individual that comes into this world with the promise of the new and everlasting covenant, has embodied in his very soul a testimony of this gospel ? That testimony we may liken to the parable of the Savior regarding the sower; some of the seed, when sown, falls upon stony ground, where it is picked up by the birds and devoured; some in shallow soil, where it sprouts and grows for a little season and withers and dies; spme in soil where it grows up with the weeds, and the weeds choke it and prevent its growth; and some in good soil, where it grows and develops and brings forth fruit in abundance. That is the condition of our boys and our girls, and it is our duty as Latter-day Saints, as men holding the Priesthood, as mothers and fathers in Israel, not to wait until our boys get into the missionfield before that seed is watered and cultivated and cared for, that it may grow into a testimony and into service. That should be developed at home. From the moment of birth, the home, the parents, are responsible. The bishops of the wards are responsible with the parents for providing a means for development for these young men. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I must not talk longer. I rejoice in this privilege I have of being with you. I pray God to bless you. I rejoice in the fact that I have fellowship with you in this Church! I take a pride in it. I have found that it is for me a condition of honor wherever I go; for the people of the world are beginning to look upon your works, your faith, your lives, and your teachings as an example to be followed. To be one with you, to partake of these blessings, to partake of these privileges, is indeed a most wonderful opportunity, and I thank God for that blessing and that privilege. May his blessings continue with us. May we always be found serving in faith, that we may be entitled to his promised blessings, I pray; in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

