Afternoon
08 10 1927

AFTERNOON MEETING 

The meeting opened at 2 o'clock in the Tabernacle, October 8, 1927. President Heber J. Grant presided. The congregation sang, "O ye mountains high." Elder Franklin S. Richards offered the opening prayer. The congregation sang the hymn, "How great the wisdom and the love." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

There is no situation that has arisen since the organization of this Church, neither will there be, in the future, that the Lord has not made ample provision to meet. No matter how complicated it may seem to be or how difficult, there is, ample provision made in the wisdom of the Lord to solve it. 

THREATENING DANGERS FORESEEN 

We read in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments: 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled which was written by the prophets." 

The Lord has seen fit to warn his sons and daughters, has anticipated their danger and foreseen their needs, in ample time to save them. He has submitted not only the warning that there is danger ahead, but the means of escape have been provided and in ample time to save his children. So that I say the Lord knew the perils of this hour that were spoken of yesterday, the dangers that threaten the world, this country, and this present civilization. These things were known by the Lord when he laid the foundations of this work, and he prepared his work to be able to withstand all the storms that should beat upon it, and that it should stand as a shining light before the nations of the earth. He endowed us not only with the responsibility of becoming the salt of the earth but with every facility to attain unto that distinction. 

In the 115th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord says to all the Church: 

THE GOSPEL, A KEY TO THE SOLUTION OF ALL PROBLEMS 

"Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard to the nations; 

"And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth." 

I say that the Lord has made ample provision that we may arise and shine. The obligation is upon us. There is coming a day when we shall see the fruits of the gospel as it has been lived in the lives of the Latter-day Saints, and discover that it has not only brought peace and happiness to them while they live, but made them a light to the nations, and their salvation. In keeping these simple gospel commandments, men and women are also fortified to stand when the storms do beat upon the children of men, and in them lies the key to the solution of all the problems that at present distress the world. 

DANGERS AHEAD 

I confess to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have felt in my own spirit that there is danger ahead, not only for the world but for the Church. I recognize that the powers of evil have been arrayed against this Church from the beginning. When the prophet's life was taken, that was but one item in the program of the adversary. The driving of the Latter-day Saints from their homes to this western country was another; and their long years of struggle to maintain their right to exist has been contested until that right, apparently, is conceded. And yet I can plainly see that the adversary of this work is not yet satisfied. I believe that the thing he has at heart is to realize his first great ambition; namely, to have the privilege of ruling over the kingdoms of this world. He has never lost sight of it, and when he met the Redeemer of the world and tempted him, while Jesus was among men in mortality, the great purpose of that temptation was manifest in the last effort when the kingdoms of the world passed in panoramic vision before the mind of Jesus. The tempter said, Are they not wonderful? Would you not love them? They are mine. Bow down and worship me, and you may have them on easy terms. He knew that this was the purpose for which Christ came into the world to die — to earn the right to become the King of kings and Lord of lords and rule over them. Satan's purpose was not to give the kingdoms of the world, but to overcome the elect and chosen Son of God. Jesus went to Calvary and paid the price and earned the right to rule over the kingdoms of the world. Putt the enemy was not satisfied, and he encompassed Christ and brought about his death, and planned the death of the apostles and the destruction of the Church. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 1 65 

ESTABLISHING THE WORK THAT SHALL NOT FAIL 

No wonder when the' boy Joseph Smith knelt in the grove that before the Father and the Son could appear unto him the powers of evil knew that this humble instrumentality was God's means of establishing once again the work that shall riot fail. He is vain enough to believe, the enemy of our souls, that he is yet to win the contest, for he has an ambition to become the king of this world, and has sought to frustrate every proposition that our Father has made permanently to establish here God's work. 

How grateful I am for the assurance that we have in the vision which the Lord gave to Daniel of old that in the last days, when our Father should set up his kingdom, it should not be overthrown nor left to another people; and yet that kingdom shall be buffeted, and has been buffeted. Nephi saw it. He saw its trials, saw its dangers, dangers that are past and dangers that are yet ahead of it; and yet out of it all, we cling with joy and gladness to the assurance that these are the last days, that this is the last time when God shall set his hand to accomplish his work, and that it shall not fail no matter how the powers of evil may conspire against it. 

EVERY INDIVIDUAL TO BE TRIED 

Powers of evil are not through with their opposition, neither have they conceded to us the right of way, but are seeking to tempt the Latter-day Saints, to turn away from the promises of the Lord, seeking to blind their eyes. The spirit of self indulgence that is rampant in the world, that leads to such lawlessness as was described here yesterday will naturally have its influence over the "Latter-day Saints. There will not be a man or woman in this Church, a boy or a girl, who shall not be tempted or tried. The adversary will lay individual siege against every man's faith and against every woman's faith, to seek to darken their spirits, and have them believe that they have perhaps been deluded in some of these great and wonderful things; that the Lord is not sustaining the establishment of this work, or that the Lord delayeth his coming, or, that after all it is only a matter of opinion. The love for things of this world will take possession of the hearts of men even in this Church and blind their eyes, for the desire for material things will darken their spirits. But the most damning thing that shall happen is the sin and transgression into which men and women will go, who, yielding to that spirit of self-indulgence, will not be able to keep the commandments of God because of not observing the Word of Wisdom, and they will weaken themselves until they shall succumb to a greater and more terrible evil, the evil of immorality, which is the end of self-indulgence, which has brought about the destruction of men and nations. 

HOW TO GAIN STRENGTH TO RESIST 

Yet the Lord has fortified the Latter-day Saints in these simple gospel principles, if only we shall adhere to them, to enable us to stand when the storms do blow, and when the dangers threaten. Men and women who keep the Word of Wisdom, observing to abstain from the things that the natural appetite of men may crave, shall develop a strength and power to resist greater temptations when they come. But whosoever has been unable to observe this law that is suited to the capacity of the weakest of the weak, may not be able to survive the clangers that shall come. 

A WARNING OF DA.NGER 

Now, I do not want to paint a dark picture, I simply want to lift my voice in warning as a watchman upon the towers of Zion, that there is danger ahead; that the time of peace and prosperity of the people becomes their most perilous time, and has been' so in all the ages of the past. And yet with perfect confidence I look forward throughout those days of individual testing to a time to come when vindication will arise for those who are true and faithful under all circumstances and adhere to these gospel principles. It is not an idle boast. We have lived long enough to see the fruits of "Mormonism" in the lives of Latter-day Saints, and by their fruits they > shall be judged, and that is a just and righteous judgment. 

Behold how the application of the law of tithing has helped to solve a problem for the Latter-day Saints. It has brought them into the enjoyment of facilities and opportunities, not only in a religious, but in a social way. It has enabled the authorities of the Church to provide ways and means for the social welfare of people by the building of recreation halls, by the building of temples and the building .of tabernacles, by the provisions such as are not found in any other church. And this by reason of the fact that the great majority of the Latter-day Saints have observed the law of tithing. 

SOLVING THE CONFLICT B.ETWEEN CAPITAL AND LABOR 

That is only, however, an incident along the way, for all this is a training and preparation for other things that are to come. The eternal conflict that has been waged between capital and labor cannot be solved nor shall it be solved by all the legislation that men shall enact. When men become their brothers' keepers, when the love of God is in ihe hearts of men, and they are willing to pay their honest tithing they are making a step towards the establishment of an order that obtained once in the days of Enoch and shall obtain again when the Lord Jesus Christ comes to rule and reign. And there shall be no rich and no poor. The Lord's gospel plan is the true and only solution of that problem. 

GOVERNMENT'S STRENGTH LIES IN THE PEOPLE'S OBSERVANCE OF LAW 

I rejoice in every measure that is put forth to curtail the use of alcoholic beverages. I rejoice to know that at one time at least in the history of our own country we rose to the height that we were enabled to establish in the Constitution of the Cnited States a law that prohibits the use of liquor or strong drink which every intelligent man knows is positively an injury to the human body. Yet I grieve to see a spirit  in the hearts of men who ought to know better, to temporize with and alter this law. If we do recede from the high ground we took when this country made an attempt to free itself from the destructive influences of alcoholic beverages, we shall start on a downward program that is full of danger and destruction to the people of this country. 

So far as the Latter-day Saints are concerned, we rejoice in every measure that seeks to preserve us from these destructive influences, and yet I recognize that all the legislation that can be enacted will not charge the appetites of men or control their will. If it becomes necessary for us to use half the people of this country to police the other half, civilization will ,be in dire peril. The strength and power of the American government was in the willingness on the part of the great masses of the people to observe the constitutional law and honor and respect it. We have been changing year by year from that time until the present, and never before in the history of our government has there been such a police force in use in the nation, in the states, and in the counties and in the cities to attempt to maintain law and order. There must come an awakened respect for law and order or we shall reach the point where 51% of the people shall be lawless, and then our interests will be in danger, our constitution, our privileges and our rights will be in imminent jeopardy. 

CIVILIZATION RESTS UPON SELF-CONTROL OF PEOPLE 

I heard an eminent economist of our country, (I refer to Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver) deliver an address at the commencement exercises of the University of Utah a few years ago, wherein he discussed the subject of how much civilization can the world maintain. He undertook to prove, and I believe he was successful, that the present civilization can endure only because the majority of the people of this country can maintain the power of self-control; that a nation or a people who have lost the power of self-control have lost all possibility of preserving unto themselves and their children a civilization. There was published last year by Professor Wiggam, an interesting treatise upon that very subject. He draws attention to the fact that ours is not the only civilization that has reached a glorious eminence. He refers to Egypt in all its glory, to Greece, and to the civilizations that arose and flourished on this American continent, that perhaps in some -respects excelled our own civilization. And said he : 

"We need not feel that we are secure as the mountains, or that our present civilization shall stand and endure no matter what may come." 

DANGERS THAT THREATEN OUR CIVILIZATION 

He points out the dangers that threaten our civilization and asks the question whether or not we have reached the summit and shall begin to recede, and whether there is in humanity itself the power to preserve forever a civilization. He said that it is only a short step, as nations in the past have shown, back to the jungle; that while there has always been an element, a few, that have contended for the maintenance of these high standards, they have been gradually absorbed and overcome, and the will of the majority has prevailed and darkness has come over the spirits of men again. As I read riis gloomy forecast I was filled with this hope and absolute conviction, that the Lord God Almighty knew the dangers and determined to preserve a civilization that shall withstand all the troubles of the future. But that civilization cannot be maintained by the wisdom of man. God alone can do it, and the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ alone is the path and the way and the means by which that civilization may be preserved. 

KIND WORDS FOR THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

This same author that 1 am referring to calls attention, in a treatise of that subject, to the strength and power of the "Mormon" Church. It is gratifying to me to know that while we ourselves know the plans and purposes of the Lord and have faith~in those plans, that men who are looking from the outside are also noticing the fruits of "Mormonism" in the lives of the people. And so it ought to be. We should be attracting the attention of the world. 

I remember that a few years ago Dr. Carver said from this ver\ place where I now stand, that if he were going to . search the world over to study the highest state of civilization being developed he would come to Utah and find it among the "Mormons." I discovered in Boston, during my recent visit there with President Rolapp, that Dr. Carver is just as freely speaking there of his findings among the "Mormons" as he did here. For he said, on his return in 1925 from teaching summer school in the Agricultural College, the philosophy of life involved in the "Mormon" Church is the most constructive thing he has seen in American life. He sees only a church which embraces the whole faith and has a tremendous value for the adherents, so well is it organized, so much is it the center of all community pleasure, so closely does it endeavor to establish heaven upon earth. 

Dr. Wiggam, in his observations, has the following to say in Next Age of Man : 

"There can be little question that in all ages religious appeal has had great influence upon the birthrate." 

He is calling attention to the fact that nation after nation is receding in its birthrate, that decay is setting in and the end may be that nations will destroy themselves by their own suicide; and in the solution of this question'he sees a ray of hope in what he calls the "Mormoh" plan : 

"As an illustration the 'Mormon' people of Utah, under the influence of their religious belief, have kept up a higher birthrate among their intellectual and professional classes than the people of any other state of the Union. Their theology teaches that every child that is born means that this act of human beings gives another soul its opportunity to pass from a lower state of existence through the trial state of this bodily life to a higher state of spiritual evolution. Dr. Johnson, a professor in the University of Pittsburgh (I met this gentleman in the east. He was in one of our meetings in Pittsburgh) believes that the 'Mormon' religion is the most eugenical religion in the world." 

ETERNITY OF THE FAMILY RELATIONSHIP 

In this time of trouble that is threatening not only the peace of the nation but its life, in the destruction of the home, the "Mormon" example is attracting" attention, wherein we plan to be united in companionship not only until death does us part, but for eternity, which is quite in contrast to the spirit of the age that seeks for companionship marriage that may be dissolved at will, without the edict of the court. t Upon an enduring foundation we look forward to the perpetuation and the establishment of these unions throughout time and all "eternity. God never could have provided for the strength and endurance of this Church on a more solid basis than he did when he established in it the union of families for time that shalbendure throughout all the ages, and gave us the conception that the children who come to us are his sons and daughters, entitled as much as we are to the rights and privileges of earth life, and that it is one step onward towards their glorious destiny. 

There has been inculcated into our hearts, therefore, by the example of our fathers and mothers, through the observance of the first great commandment of God to multiply and replenish the earth, the true conception of one of the chief purposes of life that cannot and must not be lost sight of by the Latter-day Saints, and through adhering to it we shall survive and shall not perish. 

THE KERNELS OF LIFE IN GOSPEL TEACHINGS 

So each simple gospel principle has in it the very kernel of life. We need no new revelation. All we need to do is to get a new conception, perhaps, of those simple gospel principles contained in these doctrins taught during this conference: The observance of the Fast day, thereby taking care of the poor of the Latter-day Saints, and also providing for a spiritual growth and development on the part of the membership. The adherence to these gospel principles shall bring honesty, for the man who pays an honest tithing is inculcating deep in his heart the elements of honesty such as no other practice or teaching can do. The old "Mormon" slogan that "a 'Mormon's' word is as good as his bond" should be the watchword of all Latter-day Saints if we are to seek to distinguish ourselves and establish integrity the like of which is not known elsewhere. 

I think as I said a moment ago, the Lord has overlooked nothing in enabling us to realize these great promises. He has selected the right people. They are the house of Israel, sons and daughtrs of Joseph. 

WE ARE THE CHILDREN OF JOSEPH 

I read, a few years ago, an article by an eminent author in one of our national magazines in which he discussed the question, "Are the Jews the chosen people of God"? He granted to them a claim to all the blessings that were pronounced upon their father Judah. "But when," said he, "they assume to be the inheritors of those blessings that were pronounced upon his brother Joseph, they are usurping that which they have no right to." And he concluded his article with the statement that if somewhere in the world we could find the descendants of Joseph, the descendants of Ephraim, we would indeed find the chosen people of God. 

WE SHOULD THEREFORE RISE TO THE LORD'S EXPECTATIONS 

How we ought to rejoice in knowing that they are found and that we are «the children of Joseph. These are the chosen people (if God, and yet not in boast fulness, but as the natural inheritors of ulessings and privileges. We should arise to the Lord's expectations; and through his providing we ought to become distinguished and unlike the world, a peculiar people. The Lord brought us to the right place, in the right part of the United States, where, with all its natural privileges and advantages, there can be developed an unusual race of men. Every environment, every setting, every struggle through which this people have passed and the very nature of their employment, means that there is in these things the building of men and women who shall arise and shine. I am glad to know that we have the only plan, God's plan, that would make any people, I care not who they are, distinguished people — with inspired leaders, with a man to whom the revelations of God are given, to tell the people what to do next in the unfolding of this program. With such possibilities, nothing, overlooked on the part of the Lord, why shall we not arise and shine, that our light indeed may be a standard to the nations, that we may become the salt of the earth? The power is in this Church, to become a mighty people. 

God bless us that we shall treasure our heritage, that we shall recognize that we are to do an unusual thing. We are not .called to be imitators, we are called to be exemplars to the world, a light that shall shine until the day will come when from the east to the west, the north to the south, they will come, not to look upon our lands nor our fields nor our factories, but to learn of our ways that they may walk in our paths, and thereby find peace, preservation and salvation now and eternally. 

May God bless us to keep our .eye upon our glorious destiny and recognize that within our hands are the means of accomplishing such an end, and not be blind to our privileges. The Lord help us thus to see his wonderful providing and go forward towards that which is ours, through our faithfulness, and may God grant it, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

1 ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the Canadian Mission 

During the fifteen minutes allotted to me I am very anxious that the spiritual feast which we have thus far enjoyed shall be continued. 

I recognize the practical value of the principal theme of this conference — law enforcement. The Dominion of Canada is a country of  enforcement. They have celebrated this year the Diamond Jubilee, or the Jubilee anniversary of confederation. They revere the fathers of federation as we revere the fathers of our Constitution. They are not unmindful of the comparison between the United States and Canada in the matter of law enforcement. My defense has been that the United States is great in potentialities, in practical statesmanship, in self-government and in good common sense, and that it is just a question of a little time when the laxity of law enforcement in the States will be remedied. There have grown up too many technical refinements in the administration of the criminal law, and those refinements and technicalities will have to be swept away without impairing the valuable system of judge-made laws that exists in the United States. 

Canada can give us an example of law and order upon the Sabbath day. No newspaper is published nor even distributed on that day, that I have been able to learn of in my sojourn there. 

In speaking of the missionary work in Canada : We do not have the background that exists in many of the missions of the United States, the background of from five to eight thousand members to support the missionary work. The statistics of the Dominion give our church credit for having nearly twenty thousand members, about ten thousand of whom are located in the stakes of the Alberta Province. The other ten thousand I do not know just where fchey may be scattered. Certainly there are not more than one thousand of them in the mission over which I have the honor of presiding. We do feel the assistance of the few we have, scattered as they are among the millions of population there, in supporting the cause. We have young ladies newly converted to the Church who will, stand upon the street corners and with very fine courage give a reason for the faith and knowledge which they have. At one of our conferences we called forward two young converts, one from the Northwestern .states mission and one from Montreal. Each of them gave a telling speech describing their conversion and the great joy which had come to him as a member of the Church. 

We are building upon the work of all those who have gone before — the work there of President Grant, and Elders George Albert Smith, Orson F f Whitney, and Joseph Fielding Smith, all of whom have made tours through that mission. We are building upon the work of President , Nephi Jensen, President Joseph Quinney, Jr., and the hundreds of elders and sisters who have served there during the past decade. We are finding very many encouraging symptoms. In going through the districts of the mission last, month I discovered a marked contrast between conditions existing now and those of three months before. Instead of the. conferences assembling in a private home, as was the case in the city of London, a city of some sixty-five thousand people, we had two or three times the number of people in attendance in a public hall, and some of them had arisen as early as 5 :30 in the morning and traveled long distances to be in attendance at that conference. We have no meeting houses of our own there, but we have about reached a stage when it will be proper to have the stabilizing influences which will come to the people by owning their own meeting houses. I am sure the Presidency will be just as generous with the Canadian mission as with any of the other missions. They have indicated that. They have given token of that in spending the large sums of money necessary to build the Cardston temple. 

.We have a very fine body of elders and sisters in that mission, although few in number. They are of the same quality as described by the brethren of the other missions. It will save much time for me to simply incorporate in my remarks here the same words of just praise that have been given the missionaries in each of the other missions by their presidents during this conference. These elders and missionary sisters are of the same cloth, so to speak, that these other missionaries come from. They manifest good zeal, good spirituality in all they have encountered, and when they have made it a matter of fasting or of prayer, the end desired has been attained. That was the case in the matter of having the privilege to use a Young Men's Christian Association pool to baptize in. As they went back after their fasting and prayer, without any argument, they were accorded the privilege denied them by the same man shortly before their fasting and their prayer. 

We have experiences of interest, adventures upon every street corner where we hold meetings; and we are holding many street meetings during the summer months. The period is very short during which it is practicable to hold such meetings in that cold climate. Next month, if not this, will surely terminate the holding of street meetings for the year. 

While upon an elevator in the Queen's Hotel, going to luncheon, by invitation of a member of the Rotary Club, I was introduced to "Jim Hughes," as they called him in Rotarian parlance, but no less a person than Dr. James L. Hughes of Toronto. He said to me in a voice loud enough to be heard by all those in the elevator, knowing that I was from Salt Lake City: 

"Are you a member of the 'Mormon' Church?" 

In a tone just as emphatic I declared that I was. I did not know what was coming, but he followed his question and the answer thereto by saying : 

"Mr. Hart, dp you know that I am the first man in Canada to do justice through the press to your people?" 

He had written a splendid article for the Canadian Magazine in the April number, 1904, under the caption, "My Misconceptiqns of the 'Mormon' People," or some such heading. He had visited the tabernacle. Plis interest in the subject started from an acquaintance with one individual, Sister Susa Young Gates. He told me that after his article was published a preacher said to him, "Dr. Hughes, I am ashamed of you for writing the article you did." And he said, "I retorted to the minister, T should think you preachers would be ashamed after all the fibbing you have done and are doing against the 'Mormon' . I'll tell you what I will do. We will get on the train and go to Salt Lake City, and if you can find a single misrepresentation in that article I will pay the expenses for both of us. But if you are unable to find a single thing in which I have misrepresented the case, then you pay the expenses. Now, come on, let us get on the train.' " The preacher would not accept the challenge. 

We need such information as that and such friends to remove prejudice. It is not an unusual thing to find people who at first will rave at the mention of the "Mormon" people; they will decline to accept a tract, will refuse to hold a conversation with you, but by being a little patient with them so as to get our cause before them, they soon grow apologetic. It is a rather good sign when they are so intense in their feelings to begin with, because after we get the truth to them they are more friendly than they perhaps otherwise would be. 

The missionaries there are laboring hard. For example, one of  the elders purchased a second-hand car, and used it as a means of conveyance by day and a bedroom by night for himself and his companion. They presented the picture slides, giving archaeological and geological support to the Book of Mormon, to 2,500 people scattered through the eastern part of the Dominion. They traveled 3,725 miles and held fifty-seven meetings. 

We had a choice treat in meeting at the Memorial Cottage. We had the honor of warming our feet at the same hearth where the Prophet as a child had been warmed, whose destiny was to take part in the greatest single achievement of the nineteenth century, — the coming forth of the gospel and the restoration of the holy priesthood. The monument to Joseph Smith is N certainly a very beautiful creation. Those who had to do with it are to be congratulated. The one hundred tons of granite are certainly in very beautiful form. 

It is a matter of regret to me today that I could not attend the unveiling of the monument to our Salt Lake boys of the 145th Artillery. I stood the other evening viewing the Mormon Battalion monument, and it seemed to me it was a beautiful creation, and I was impressed much as the poet Vachel Lindsay was impressed, as recorded by his traveling companion, who gave a description of the Canadian temple by electric light and moonlight. For an artistic treat one should visit the monument not only by day but also by night. 

We were thrilled at Cumorah in celebrating the centennial of the anniversary of the delivery of the golden plates. We had the honor to there meet President Grant and several of the mission presidents. Those who sang, those who prayed, and those who spoke did so in proper appreciation of the historic significance of that occasion. The missionaries, two hundred of them, some of whom had traveled a thousand miles to be in attendance, at the invitation of President Grant, were greatly impressed. I am sure they received a spiritual elevation that will richly repay them for the journey. They made that journey, many pf them, by the "missionary express," and they were not so modest as not to remember the scriptural passage, "Ask and 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ye shall receive." They were cheerfully driven by men who acknowledged that they were not in the habit of picking up people upon the highway, but it seemed to be different to them on this occasion. The elders have preached the gospel as they traveled, and have received the appreciation of people of distinction who have driven them for hundreds of miles.   , 1 

We were thrilled. by holding the exercises in the Sacred Grove. I look forward to the time when that will be made a Mecca more than it is now. I anticipate that the desire to visit there will increase from year to year and that they will receive spiritual exhilaration, as they contemplate the glories and wonders of the great event that occurred there more than a hundred years ago. 

My time has expired. May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and help us to put into this work all it is entitled to receive, that  this glorious message may go forth to all the world, is my Prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

William Holdaway sang a sacred baritone solo : "Asleep in the deep." 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy and Supervisor of the Bureau of Information 

My brethren and sisters: The Japanese gentleman present this morning on the stand with us, was Dr. Seiska Tada of the University of Tokio, Japan. He is at the head of all the raiyways of the government of Japan and this is his first visit to America. Doctor Tada is one of the very many distinguished men who have visited the Temple Block mission this year. There has grown up at this mission a wonderful center for the entertainment of tourists who come to Salt Lake City. 

Recently we had a party of German scientists who for three days kept coming to my office to talk on the subject of religion and science. One of these distinguished men was a relative of the great German historian and philosopher, Oswald Spengler, whose hook entitled The Decline of Civilisation in the West, is one of the outstanding works of history. It is considered by some to be the most scholarly work on history written since the days of the French philosophers of the eighteenth century. 

We had the pleasure of conducting a party of French actors through the grounds one day this Summer, and when we took them to the stage of the old Salt Lake Theatre and told them the story of the building of the great theatre in the wilderness, they were overcome by its beauty and idealism. We have working at the mission fourteen brethren and sisters who willingly give much of their time in coming to the Bureau of Information to conduct tourists through the grounds and buildings. They are very faithful, and are doing a very important work. 

We receive letters from all over- the world asking about Utah and  "Mormons," and while it sometimes requires weeks to answer them, information is sent as requested, and many of our letters have been printed in leading newspapers of the world. It is necessary that we missionaries become careful and comprehensive readers, for the questions asked cover a wide field of knowledge on religion, science, and philosophy. 

During the months of June, July, and August we have averaged from eight to ten thousand people a week. The groups are cosmopolitan in nature. One day we had twenty-two states represented, and in another group there were thirteen nationalities represented. It is our object to welcome every tourist who comes here, and to make him feel that we are servants in God's house, and if there is anything we can do for him it is our desire to do it. 

During the past year we have had a missionary class consisting of the missionaries of the Temple Block. To give you an idea of the instruction the brethren and sisters receive, I quote to you one of the twenty letters that was placed in their hands to study : 

TO THE MISSIONARIES OF THE TEMPLE BLOCK MISSION 

Dear Brethren and Sisters : In conversing with a company of tourists on the Temple Block, try to understand the nature of the people with whom you speak. The spirit of crowds is often very much the same, and there are some dominant personalities who will lead the conversation. In conversing on the GOSPEL, remember that you can give your views freely if you will bring your hearers to you. There are always so many vital truths common to all people. Belief in God and the great work of Jesus Christ our Lord will find a happy response on the part of your hearers. If you speak about the beauties of the Holy Bible and the Bible as a work of history and religion, you will win the people to your side, and then is the time to explain something of the GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST. 

Le me give you an example of how I was able to interest a crowd not long ago. We were in a museum, and a woman read the words of Emerson inscribed on the wall: "MAN IS LORD OF HIS OWN ACTIONS." As she went to copy them, she asked how I interpreted their meaning. The crowd was interested,' and immediately I had the opportunity of explaining to her the vital principles of the ethics of the "Mormon" people. We have the right to chose between right and wrong, and the choosing of right becomes more powerful on our part, as we discern the spirit of the Gospel of Christ by our lives and our attitude towards the world and humanity. In fact, the thought of Eine r son opens up the whole theme of the gospel : Free Agency, Faith in God, the principles of the gospel by which we come to know the life that God would have us live. This was the way I interpreted Emerson's words, and the people listened. 

Another little folder we issued is entitled The Missionary's Responsibility. 

THE MISSIONARY'S RESPONSIBILITY 

Any faith that lasts will teach righteousness toward man as a part of duty toward God. It was so in all the past and will be so in all time. Thousands of inscriptions exhumed in these modern times teach us this truth of the past and we have Christ's teachings and those of his followers to guide the present. In this particular mission field on Temple Square, we come in close contact with people from every nation, every creed, every race, every tongue. They come in a peculiar frame of mind — they are curious, open-minded, tolerant and pleasant and without fear of the petty worries and anxieties of every-day life. They are en a vacation, free and observant; critical and appreciative. For these reasons and many others I believe this mission to be the greatest in the world. When they leave us we want them to have the wish, the desire, the determination to know something of the truth we believe to be the everlasting and true Gospel. We wish to inspire them- with our ideals, our faith, concerning what we are and what we know we ought to be. That "Power that makes for righteousness" and "A Power not ourselves" is the basis of every reasonable faith and all durable hope. We wish to impress them with a knowledge of this Power as it has been brought to us and as it has brought our lives to their present stage of righteousness "toward man"; and knowledge of what God is and what he has destined man to be. 

We always meet these tourists and talk to them with this one thought in mind : "Therefore all things whatever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them; for this is the law and the prophets." To live this law means a careful study of yourself, as well as a careful study of the attitude, the dlind, and the feeling of the traveler, the tourist, the stranger, the brother who comes to you. We meet the learned and the simple alike. The gospel to them all should be intelligible, attractive, and convincing, remembering always that no truth is really important in our lives that cannot be simply stated. St. Paul expressed a fear for the Corinthians that lest, "as the serpent beguiled Eve, their minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ." Robert Louis Stevenson said, "My duty to my neighbor is not to make him good but to make him happy if I can." Does not this state Christ's admonition in another form? This is simple and true. How do we like to be treated? Do we wish to express our views? To answer this imagination is absolutely necessary. We must for the time be the "other one." We must develop imagination or we are ignorant and dull. 

Loving God, loving one's neighbor as one's self, doing justice is what the Lord requires of us. -It comes to 'us through study, which is work; through prayer, through cultivation of imagination, and sympathy. 

We are very anxious that the spirit of reverence be increased in our hearts, for these buildings and grounds so that the tourists may know rather from a spiritual influence than by words, that we have sincere faith in Almighty God. We show the visitors this great Tabernacle and our beautiful Temple. Marvelous buildings, they are.- The Latter-day Saints were never so happily inspired as when they erected these buildings. A house of God or Temple such as this is a "part of the great picture book of humanity." As I look over this vast congregation to-day, I am reminded of the words of the priest, Abul-Fazl, which appeared on the portal of his temple in Kashmir : 

"Oh „God, in every Temple, I see people who see Thee, And in every language I hear, they praise Thee." 

We are often asked what these buildings represent, and the answer naturally brings out the resourcefulness and courage of the founders of the State of Utah. But they signify something vital and far more important than the average man appreciates. I want to say that these buildings express the conception of the all-loving Christ as the Redeemer of fallen humanity. This is the thought that inspired the building of them, and it has vitalized every bit of our creative work and ideals in our history. 

I was impressed this morning by what Doctor Tada said to me. 

He was to have left the building at 10 :30 and when the hour came and I suggested that we go, Elder George Albert Smith was speaking, and Doctor Tada turned and said, "I beg your pardon, but let us wait until the gentleman who is speaking finishes his devotions to his God; then we will go." 

The success in preaching the gospel of Christ lies in the method of approach. Impressions are lasting things, and if we can impress the people of the world with the spirit of our lives, It will go much further than words, "For he who walketh in the light has the truth, and the light shineth upon the paths of men." Much has been said at this conference concerning the ills of human society. The social order is in a furor and there are five principal ills afflicting humanity. They are the unprecedented challenge to law and authority; hatred between man and man; the abnormal aversion of work; the excessive thirst for pleasure as the aim of life; and the gross materialism of the day which denies the reality of the spirit in life. 

I wish to add a larger element to this statement. Today there is a great misunderstanding as to the meaning of religion. The difficulty with the various Christian sects is that religion does not exist for the saving of the souls but for the preservation and welfare of society. If Christ our Lord taught anything it is the fact that "Pure religion and undefiled is for the saving of the souls of all men." The trend of modern sociology has resulted in a false conception of the word "religion." 

There are three distinct things needed in the world today as forces to spiritualize humanity. First, a revival and adherence to the Ten Commaffdments given to Moses on Mount Sinai; the second is a renewal of faith in God the eternal father, and his son Jesus Christ; and the third a divine knowledge that in this day and age of the world the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ has been restored by revelation. The priesthood, sacred in its gift, divine in its influence, and spritual in its character, has been given to man directly by the power of God. These are the three great truths that must be taught to the human race. 

The gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is a champion of the truth concerning the redeeming love of God, "and is the custodian of a particular and exclusive way in which the redeeming power reaches man." To have the right kind of belief in the plan of salvation is indispensable to right relations with God. We believe in the infinite power of the human mind; we hold to the truth that man is divine, and his personal power and individuality live throughout the countless ages of eternity. 1 

I pray that we may grow in knowledge and in faith; and that the divine love of God will lead us to people with his divine message. Amen. 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I am very grateful to be present at this conference, as it has " been a year since I was present, not being able to attend the last general conference of the Church. , 

Just a year ago today (Oct. 8, 1926) I left Salt Lake City, in company with a group of missionaries, one of whom was our eldest son, who is now in Germany. At that time it was my privilege to visit the Northern States mission in company with President John H. Taylor. I enjoyed the spirit of missionary work manifested in the devotion of the young men and women who are in the field. 

I was very sympathetic in my feelings when the mission presidents were making their reports, and declaring to us the testimonies and blessings that come to the missionaries and to the presidents of missions because of their faith and humility in the mission field. It is a sacred truth that the happiest time of our lives is while in the mission field, and in the faithful performance of our duty. 

It is true, however, that the Lord blesses his servants both in the mission field and at home, for I am a witness of the fact, and I wish to take this opportunity to thank both the Lord and my brothers and sisters for their kindness, for I know that it is through the kindness of the Lord and the faith of members of the Church that I have thus far been so greatly blessed. 

I am very grateful that the Lord has extended his mercy to me and given me a testimony of his work. I am very grateful for the privilege of doing what little I can in his service, because I feel that I am one of trie weakest of the weak, and that it is an important privilege to labor in his service. I am also very grateful for the privilege of standing here, in the sight of those who are members of the Church, to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in blessing the people, for I have seen his blessings manifest as I administer in the stakes of Zion, and to individuals. I know that the Lord has blessed this Church and the people and that not only has he magnified those who are called into service and leadership, but he has blessed the people in their homes, in their flocks and in their herds. He has blessed us far beyond our gratitude and acknowledgement of his kindness. He has extended his mercy to the sick and afflicted, to those who are tried and those who have been deprived of many of their privileges. 

I desire to bring to your attention one of the items that is so interesting in the Book of Mormon. We are told in III Nephi, 17:7-25 (I will not take time to read it. I think I can tell it more briefly), that the Lord, when he visited his people on the American continent, expressed his joy in meeting them and his heart was touched in kindness towards them. He blessed them, and we know that they received his blessings because they gathered around him in the spirit of appreciation and gratitude. After he had taught them pertaining to the Lord's Supper and had given them the emblems of his body and , which we call the sacrament, they further desired his blessings, and as they gathered around him they expressed their appreciation in fondness. 

He desired to further bless them, and so he said, in words to this effect : Bring your sick and your blind, your lame and those who are afflicted; bring them hither and they, too, shall receive a blessing. And so they did. I imagine I see them now, going from home to home or from place to place, tenderly and lovingly bringing their sick and afflicted, and their blind and those who had caused them great care and anxiety, and there, in the love of the Lord he extended his blessings to them and healed and restored them. Then he further directed them to their little children, that they, too, might receive a blessing. They were brought, and the people saw the angels of the Lord ministering to their children. 

This is only one example of how the Lord extended his kindness to, the people that once lived upon this continent. He has been just as kind to us. I have seen the' sick healed. I have seen the power and kindness of the Lord made manifest to his people. I have seen his blessings fulfilled upon little children. I have seen little children offer their prayers for the restoration of the sick and afflicted, and I have seen those prayers answered immediately; so that I know that the Lord still loves us' and is still anxious to extend further mercies, if we will only hearken to the teachings and counsels that we have received in this conference, because the Lord in all his kindness, in all his anxiety to bless us, to heal our sick, to restore the blind, to comfort those who are in distress, and to bless those who are healthy and well, is bound by law. It is a wonderful thing for us to have the laws of the gospel, which are the laws of Christ, given to us in our own language and in such plainness. 

, Now, my brethren and sisters, let me plead with you as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, accounted to be the most blessed people in all the world because of the wonderful opportunities that have come to us, and because of the fact that we have the gospel, the law of Christ, for we have all the blessings and privileges that the Lord in his kindness has seen fit to grant unto us for our happiness and our progress. Therefore we should express a greater appreciation for our blessings by greater diligence in serving the Lord, and by further preparation for the blessings which are promised unto the faithful. 

I see in our midst a number of Lamanites, commonly called Indians. I am very grateful that they have faith as well as we do. They are descendants of Manasseh, and we are of Ephraim. The Lord has blessed the sons of Joseph who were sold into Egypt, and I was much interested when Brother Pratt made his report relative to the great nation of the house of Manasseh, for they truly are the descendants of Joseph, but they are the descendants through Manasseh, while .we are the descendants through Ephraim. Now, there may be others of the house of Israel among us, but the great majority of people who love and enjoy the blessings of the Lord upon both North and South America, are the people of Joseph, and they are enjoying the „ blessings which were declared upon the head of Joseph and his sons Ephraim and Manasseh. So I desire to call your attention to the kindness of the Lord in blessing this land and the people who live upon it, both in North and South America. 

I pray that the Lord will continue to bless us and further extend his kindness to us, and magnify us in the eyes of all the world, that the purposes of the Lord may be brought about through our efforts to serve him and keep his commandments. I know that it is a good thing to hold up to the world our good deeds and to strive diligently to make our deeds better, and to cause that our light should shine before the world, and to honor the Lord and to glorify him. I therefore, desire to put to the front the best we have, and acknowledge the hand of the Lord for his kindness in blessing us in our homes and in our congregations, in our fields, in our flocks, and in all that we possess. I pray for a continuation of God's blessing upon the land of Joseph and the people who possess it, upon President Grant and all the leaders of the Church, all who bear the priesthood, all who are called to lead and to direct,- that we may further honor the Lord through obeying the teachings which he has given us in such simplicity and plainness, that we may be recipients of his kindness and mercy even unto the end. 

I pray for these blessings and leave them with the Church and with this congregation in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

INTRODUCING STAKE PRESIDENTS 

With the exception oi some of the brethren who have been absent, all of the stake presidents have had the opportunity of offering a prayer in our general conference. There are still some thirty-three stake presidents who have not had the privilege, during the past five years, some of them during the past seven years, of saying anything in our general conferences. 

I would appreciate it if the stake presidents, when they cannot be at our conferences, would notify us of that fact, because it must be a little humiliating for me to call upon brethren to pray or to preach for a few moments and they not be here. There are many occasions when it is not possible for men to be at these general conferences, and I have been very glad to receive excuses from those who are not here. 

I am going to call upon some of the brethren to make five- or six-minute speeches. Of course, I do not know whether they are here -or not, but I am going to start with those who have been longest neglected. 

ELDER CLARENCE GARDNER

President of the Star Valley Stake of Zion

My brethren and sisters : While I feel my weakness and inability in addressing you this afternoon, I desire to assure you that I appreciate my standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

As I look over this congregation I feel that indeed it 'should be a great strength to the Church in going from this conference, in carrying with one the spirit that has been manifest during these meetings. I .have enjoyed to the fullest extent everything said during this .con. ference, the wonderful spirit that has been manifest by the brethren who have occupied this position. I greatly enjoyed the excellent remarks yesterday by the brethren who have been called and chosen to go out into the various parts of the world to lead the work of the Lord in proclaiming his word to the nations of the earth. My heart is filled with gratitude unto the Lord that I have had the privilege of going into the world and bearing testimony that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is indeed a prophet of the true and living God. I am grateful also that my son has just returned from a mission after having spent two years of his time in the Eastern states in rais,ing his voice in defense of the truth. I also feel grateful that I now have a daughter who is in the Northwestern states mission laboring for the advancement of truth in that part of the Lord's vineyard. I am grateful beyond words that I have been called and chosen to labor in the ministry of the Lord in one of the stakes of Zion. I desire from the bottom of my heart to fill and magnify my calling in a way that will be acceptable unto our Father in heaven, and also those who preside in this Church. 

I feel that we are indeed a blessed people. I love my adopted state, the state of Wyoming. I was born in the state of Utah and moved to Wyoming. I want to tell you we have a splendid people there. Lor a number of years in our schools, and in our different gatherings, our children would sing of Utah, "Utah, the queen of the West," but today after years in that state our children have learned to sing "Wyoming, we love thee." And we do love Wyoming. We have a splendid people, and I find in my travels throughout that state that we are becoming established in every part of it. Branches are being organized in all parts of Wyoming. Therefore, no matter where we go, whether it be Canada, on the north, or Mexico, on the south, or whether it be in these stakes and wards of Zion, we find the same testimony borne, we find the same spirit manifest in all parts of the United States. I am grateful for this, and it is a testimony unto me that we have the truth, that we hear the same teachings, no matter where we go. As we meet upon these grounds, and as we meet our brethren and sisters in this conference, whether or not we have met them before, as we take their hands we feel that same good spirit coming from them, which to me is also a testimony that we are engaged in the work of the Lord. 

May God grant unto us who preside in the stakes of Zion and those who preside in the wards, that we may enjoy the splendid spirit that has been given unto us, that has been manifest always, that we may carry that same spirit back to our stakes of Zion, and, as has been said here, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Then I know that the Lord will be with us and make us equal to the great duties and responsibilities that rest upon us. God grant these blessings unto us I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

ELDER GEORGE E. BROWNING

President of the Weber Stake of Zion

My brethren and sisters: I appreciate the honor of being asked to occupy a few moments of your valuable time this afternoon. To me the associations of the Latter-Day Saints is worth more than all else in life. Had it not been for the early elders in the Church having found my father in his native state of Tennesse, where he accepted the gospel and moved to Nauvoo, where he was a neighbor of the prophet Joseph Smith, from whence he came to Utah in the early days- had it not been for the first elders of the Church going to England, where they found my mother, who accepted the gospel and came here, walking from Omaha to this valley, pulling a handcart all the way- had it not been for their faithful lives and for these glorious events- I would not be here today. So I owe all that I have to the gospel.

I feel grateful indeed to my Heavenly Father for the testimony I have, that the Prophet Joseph Smith was a servant of God raised up in these latter days to restore the gospel. I am thankful that I have a testimony that President Heber J. Grant, together with his counselors and the quorum of the Twelve are prophets, seers, and revelators unto us, and I trust that I may ever be able to remain faithful and true to the covenants I have made. It is gratifying indeed to me to be associated with the faithful band of brethren and sisters who are striving to do the will of our heavenly Father, and for the blessings that we see following those who believe and practice the principles of the gospel.

I pray that the Lord may bless the youth of Zion: that we may all ever stand for the right, and against the wrong, and that we may ever remember that "angels above us are silent notes taking of every action. Do what is right." May we ever have the moral courage to stand up for our honest convictions, and thereby gain the respect and love of those who know us, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

ELDER LEVI S. UDALL

President of the St. John stake of Zion.

My brethren and sisters: I have waited in fear and trembling for five years for this occasion, and I hope that I can attend as many more conferences of the Church without being thus embarrassed. But I do appreciate the confidence of my presiding brethren. I appreciate the privilege of coming here and partaking of the spirit of this conference, and of mingling my testimony of the truth of this work with those who have spoken before me. 

The message that I would like to leave with you this afternoon is this: If, as brethren and sisters in the wards and stakes, you will avail yourselves of the opportunities that come to you to entertain the general authorities of the Church, and take them into your homes, I am sure you will never regret it. But on the contrary it will be the greatest influence in the lives of your children that can come to them. I speak as one who was reared in a home where the general authorities of the Church visited for thirty-five years. I believe that their association, their example and their teachings in my father's home have done as much as any other influence to inculcate a love of the gospel in the hearts of his children, and I would like at this time to thank the general authorities for their wonderful influence in my life and the lives of my children and those whom I love. 

As has been stated in this conference by some of the previous speakers, the strength of the Church lies in the individual testimony of its members. We are not depending upon the testimony of the general authorities or upon the testimony of others, but each of us can, if- he will but live for it and study, gain for himself that testimony that will give .him a knowledge that this is the work of God in which we are engaged. It seems to me that we have some of the most beautiful principles in the gospel, and that the world should see them, and some of them have seen, as was quoted from Emerson, who said : 

"The vice of our theology is seen in the claim that the Bible is a closed book, and that the age of inspiration is past." 

This great thinker recognized what was the vice in their theology. Thank God we have, in our Church, inspiration, that we have books that have come to us, such as the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, which make clear the principles taught in the Bible, and to us the Bible is not a closed book, because we have with us the living oracles of God. 

It is my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that the work we are engaged in is true. May God help us to do our duty. I desire in closing to read a verse from the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence! 

"He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen." 

ELDER GEORGE A. LITTLE 

President of the Oquirrh Stake of Zion 

My dear brethren and sisters: This is not altogether>a surprise to me. However, I was very much surprised this afternoon, because I thought the time would be occupied by the other brethren who were called to the stand. | 

I am pleased and proud of this opportunity of standing before the Saints in this general conference. It has been my privilege to be called to preside over the Oquirrh stake which lies on the west side of this valley. It consists of five wards and about five thousand members. We are situated in the section where the Utah Copper and the American Smelting and Refining companies have their works. A large number of the members of our stake consists of men and women who are working for these companies. A great many transients come into our midst. One of the bishops, a short time ago, told me that there were 128 recommends sent out of his ward this year. We are receiving new people continually and others are moving out, and it is rather difficult for us to keep our organizations in working order, as we would like to have them. However, we have a faithful people, a class of people who are anxious to serve God and keep his commandments; and even though men and women come into our community and remain there only a few months, we find them to be good, faithful Latter-day Saints, and willing to do anything that God has asked them to do, or willing to do anything they are called upon to do by those presiding over them. We appreciate this. We appreciate the spirit that exists among the Latter-day Saints in our stake. 

What a wonderful privilege it is to be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a . Church of development, it is a Church of privileges. 

When the brethren were reporting their missions today, it took me back to the time when I was called into the mission field, and I sometimes feel .that I would like to be called there again. What a wonderful thing it is to go out into the world and preach the gospel to the people, and bear testimony to them, and to know that the gospel is true when you are preaching it to the people. When I went to the doors of the people to carry my message to them, it was a reality to me. I knew as I know today that the gospel is true, and I knew that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God. I knew that God had called his servants out into the world to preach the gospel, and 1 could not understand how it was that sometimes the people could not see and understand that our missionaries were really preaching the true principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, because of the strong testimony that they bore and the earnest desire they had to carry that message to the people, and the Spirit of the Lord that accompanied th'em while they were doing so. The young men would leave their rooms with determined looks upon their faces and with an anxious desire to find someone who was seeking after truth. They would go from door to door and find some who would listen to them, but there were many who would reject them. 

1 am thankful that my father was a pioneer, and that I was born of goodly parents; that mv mother was a pioneer. I am thankful that I have been born and reared in the Church of Jesus Christ of 

Latter-day Saints, and that I was born under the covenant. I have a strong testimony that the gospel is true. I am thankful for the privilege of bearing my testimony to you this afternoon, and I pray that God may bless us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "The time is far spent, there is little remaining." _  


