Afternoon
07 10 1927


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE RELEASED AND ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

APPOINTED 

In announcing the changes that have taken place during the last six months I overlooked a most important change; namely, Brother James E. Talmage, of the Council of the Twelve, has been honorably released, with his good wife, to return home, from presiding over the European mission, and Brother John A. Widtsoe and his wife will succeed them in presiding over the mission and the Relief Society in that great mission. We will now hear from Brother John A. Widtsoe. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My brethren and sisters : President Grant has announced the call which has come to me, and I wish to say that it always has been a great privilege to me to serve in the work of the Master. I am glad to obey the request that has been made of me and shall go forth, with mine, to do the best we can in behalf of this high and holy cause. Like every other elder in Israel, called to serve, I feel humble and incapable, of my own strength, to accomplish the work that lies before me; but I have, faith, I may say absolute faith, in the inspiration that guides this Church and kingdom, and I know that, throughout the ages, the Lord has made use of the weak things of the earth to accomplish mighty purposes. With that faith I go forth gladly at the request and call, and under the authority, of those who preside in Zion, with the prayer in my heart that good may come of the action taken. 

OUR OBLIGATION TO PREACH THE GOSPEL 

I recognize, with Elder McKay, who spoke briefly oh the subject this morning, that we are under obligation to preach the gospel to all the world. Every person must hear the truth; every honest heart must be warned. It is our bounden duty, from which we may not and cannot escape, to do this work. Throughout the world there are hosts of honest hearts who love and seek the truth, but who are so hedged about by the traditions of their fathers and by the conditions of their lives, that they find it difficult to recognize the truth when it is placed before them. It is not only a privilege to attempt to break down this barrier  stands between truth and untruth, but it is also a solemn obligation and a heavy responsibility. Many years ago in the days of my early boyhood I came out of the European countries, into this blessed land, blessed above all other lands, to live here. As my memory goes back to my mother country, and later to the days I spent in the European countries in my early manhood, as a student, I feel that there are in those countries a very great number, perhaps untold hosts of men and women, children of God, honest souls, whom we may reach if the Lord will but assist us in our labors. 

GOD OVERRULES ALL THINGS FOR HIS PURPOSES 

I was impressed this morning by the remarks made by President Ivins, that throughout all the ages of history the hand of God has overruled the actions of mankind, that nothing is done except as the Lord may use it for the accomplishment of his mighty purposes. No truth has become more living in my soul throughout my life than this. I have little belief in chance, little belief that things happen just because we, often stupid people, do certain work in our blindness. The things accomplished by humanity become in the end God's accomplishments, as he makes use of them in working out his infinite purposes. So, with respect to this great missionary activity to which we have devoted so much of our strength from the beginning of this dispensation, I cannot help but believe that the mighty changes that have come in this latest day of civilization, the vast physical, economic and social changes, have all been brought about through the goodness of the Lord for the accomplishment of his latter-day work. The printing press came into existence, and by it the Word of God has been brought to all people. Then in this day, when the Lord has restored the gifts and blessings of the gospel and the organization of the Church, have come other marvelous means by which we may speak the eternal truth in our keeping to all the world. The steamship came'that we might carry the truth from continent to continent, across the great oc'eans; the railway that we might deliver the sarne everlasting truth to every part of every land; the telephone and the telegraph, and now the radio, that we might spread, the truth of the gospel over all the world. In time we shall be able to utilize all these agencies to bear our witness to the peoples of the world, that we may stand free from blame before our Maker in the last great day. 

THE SPIRIT OF GOD THE STRENGTH OF ZION 

The spirit of God is upon the face of the earth; it enters the hearts of men. That spirit tempers human acts, and impels humanity to actions of righteousness. That same spirit serves as a powerful preparatory agent for us in our gospel labors. In fact, the most important thing for every person engaged in this great latter-day work is that we do rely upon the assistance of the Spirit of God. No man can safely stand in his own strength in the holy labor assigned to us, but we must stand before our daily duty with the knowledge that the Spirit of God is within our reach to assist us, to bless us and to carry us on in our labors, OBEDIENCE TO THE GOSPEL WILL SOLVE ALL DIFFICULTIES 

We were all deeply impressed this morning by the message of President Grant and of those who elaborated the thoughts in his opening address. This is indeed a day of wonderful blessings for humanity, but correspondingly great temptations. When much light is given, the contrasting darkness is also deep; where there are our present immeasurable opportunities for service, there are also temptations to do evil such as never before has been known. This condition has existed in all ages. The battle between righteousness and wickedness has always been waged actively. It is our duty, our business as a chosen people, to teach righteousness and truth forever and forever to the world until the end shall come. When we teach righteousness, the key to our conquest of evil will be the application of the few simple principles that constitute the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The gospel is not a complicated system, but is simple and easily understood. It may be brought into the hearts of men; it may be used in their daily lives; and if we use the simple principles of the gospel in fighting wickedness and in establishing righteousness, our course will be well set and our success will be fairly promised. 

INTERNAL EVIDENCE OF THE TRUTH OF "MORMONISM" MOST CONVINCING 

During the last few weeks I have been reading, with my brethren and sisters throughout the Church, the glorious book of doctrine known as the Book of Mormon, which came into the hands of the Prophet one hundred years ago. In that book we find over and over a repetition of the methods by which wickedness may be overcome; for throughout that whole book runs the great message that, in the words of Alma, wickedness or sin is never happiness. The beginning of our teaching to those who tend to depart from righteousness is that out of unrighteousnass man may never win happiness, and happiness is the most fundamental and the choicest desire of humanity. 

In my reading of the Book of Mormon I am always reminded that the witness of the truth of this work — restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith — lies within the \vork itself. One does not have to go into external places for proof, since within the work itself, within its doctrines and organization lies the most convincing witness of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Book of Mormon itself, I have no doubt, within the next few years will be corroborated by all manner of discoveries. Men are digging in the earth; things are found that we did not dream of a few years ago. A man voiced the opinion a few days ago — a visiting Englishman — that every new discovery in American archaeology tends to confirm the truth of the Book of Mormon. We shall use such finds and discoveries for the establishment in the hearts of seekers after truth, of the correctness of the Book of Mormon. Yet, within that book itself there lies in the history it tells, in the doctrines it sets forth, and in the pictures that it paints, the most convincing evidence of its truth. I have always felt that the best ap to the gospel of Jesus Christ is through the study of the internal evidences, found within the Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon. 

ETERNAL VALUE OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

There are only two kinds of books in the world. First, the kind that lasts for a -day, published by the tens of thousands, but have only a momentary existence, then pass away. The other kind of books are few in number, written and produced under the inspiration of divine power; they live on throughout the ages. They are the books that contain principles of eternal truth"; the doctrines that live and last, that satisfy the needs of humanity irrespective of time and age. They become the permanent possession of mankind and shape the destinies of mankind. In the Book of Mormon we have just such a book, one which contains those eternal, true principles, that may be read upon all occasions, in all emergencies and in all ages. It belongs with the Bible to the class of everlasting writings. The religious classics of the world have survived the centuries, and have influenced the destinies of mankind, because they contain perhaps a grain here and a grain there of such eternal truth. The Book of Mormon does not deal with trivial things, — the battles and contests, the conquests of the enemy and the treaties made, the many difficulties of history, form merely a background against which the principles that really make the book are illustrated. The teachings of the Book of Mormon appear against a narrative of historical events, but the events are of little consequence in comparison with the lessons that are taught for man's guidance in any day. 

KEYS TO SOLVE OUR PRESENT PROBLEMS 

Keys to the solution of the difficult problems that were discussed this morning — none more difficult in the course of history — are found in the Book of Mormon in a few simple teachings that are 1 presented over and over again. First, there is constant teaching against atheism and all unbelief, and for belief in the existence of God and his son Jesus Christ, and - that a definite plan has been proposed by God our heavenly Father, for the salvation of his children. I am not so certain but that today the most dangerous enemy to truth is the feeling on the part of some men that they must dedicate their strength to destroy faith in God. Within the last two years, one of the great states of the Union has authorized by law the formation of an association for the advancement of atheism, an organization apparently supplied with ample funds, formed for the purpose of proving to the American nation that there is no God. We cannot solve our social or economic problems except upon the basis of faith in the existence of God and man's relationship to his Father in heaven. Therefore, we do not hesitate, as a people, to teach all the world faith in God, which by this time should be so much a part of man as the blood and bone and marrow of his physical organism. Out of the pages of Nephite days comes also the lesson that men dwindle in unbelief and become wicked and practice evil if they allow themselves to become unequal in their social and economic 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

relationships. This is a land of liberty, yet we are beginning, though we are founded upon the doctrine of equality, to have classes of the wealthy, the learned, the powerful, and of those who have neither power nor wealth nor station. This Church teaches the equality of humanity, that that Lord, loves all his children equally, if they but do his will; that he reaches out for us all, and that the glorious destiny of a place near him is for all if we only make use of that which he has offered us. In this marvelous book there is a third warning, already discussed here. When men begin to defy the laws of the land and the laws of God — usually two aspects of the same inclination — when lawlessness grows and increases, then men and women begin to depart from the truth. Some will call themselves better than others in their own estimation; their faith in God diminishes; soon they are overwhelmed by the difficulties that of necessity come to the disobedient,. and ultimately they will receive the terrible punishment quoted this morning by Brother Roberts from the Book of Mormon. 

TESTIMONY 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. It is dear to me. It has helped me in times of joy and in times of sorrow. It has been like a great beacon light to guide me in all the affairs of my life, not merely in the Church, but in those beyond the Church, in matters of State and of private concern. I have found it possible to use the simple principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ for my upbuilding and strengthening, for bringing me into closer communion with the great unseen universe which, after all, is the great concern of everlasting life. I am grateful for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am always thankful that missionaries were sent into my native land; grateful that my mother, throbbing with faith, had courage to receive the gospel and go into the waters of baptism, to leave her home and friends and relatives, and all her loved ones. I am grateful for the thousands of Latter-day Saints who have done likewise, who, either in person or by their children, make up this vast congregation. We are children of faithful and courageous parents, who have opened the door to us, and made clear to us the joy oif accepting and living the eternal truth of God. This Church is the bearer of truth. God bless us, and make us steadfast in the truth. May we walk always according to our best light before our Father in heaven, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

In calling upon the Presidents of our United States missions, we would be very pleased to have them speak briefly and give us a little account of the condition of their missions. Inasmuch as we have over two thousand of our people in the mission field I am sure the Saints would be deeply interested in knowing the condition of the missions. We will ask Brother Rey L. Pratt to be the first mission president to speak; 

ELDER REY L. PRATT " 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to he in attendance at this conference, and to report the condition of the mission over which I have "been called to preside. In the first place,' I am happy to say to the fathers and mothers of the missionaries in the Mexican mission that they are all enjoying at the present time good health; they are in splendid spirits. They manifest a determination to fill their mission in honor and to reach with their testimonies and teachings as many of our Father's children as lie in their power. 

You, my brethren and sisters, undoubtedly are acquainted with the fact that due to the present religious controversy in Mexico, and existing laws, it is impossible for our ministers or missionaries who are of foreign birth, that is, not Mexican citizens, to labor and officiate within the Republic of Mexico. Consequently we have been obliged to withdraw from that land all of our active missionaries from Zion. We are happy, however, in the fact that our local priesthood in some twenty odd branches in the Republic of Mexico are doing all that is possible to maintain the organizations of the branches, and to continue the holding of meetings and the administration of the gospel among that people. Notwithstanding the adverse circumstances existing in that country at this time, and the fact that so many missionaries, about 60 per cent of the force that we ordinarily have, have been withdrawn, the people are doing remarkably well. They are faithful in attendance at meetings, and in payment of tithing. We are in constant communication with them by letter, and their leaders manifest to us not only a belief in the principles of the gospel, but a knowledge that these principles are true. They pray for the return of the missionaries to that land, and a continuation of the preaching of the gospel among their people. ' 

It may be a revelation to some of you to know that there are great communities of Lamanite people of Mexican nationality, residing in the large cities of the south and southwestern parts of our country. In the city of Los Angeles alone it is estimated that there are between fifty and seventy-five thousand Mexican people living in sections of the city pretty much by themselves. In that city we have a remarkable work started and are making great progress. Your boys and ,girls who are down there in that mission are happy to he engaged in that work and find no difficulty in confining their labors to a people who speak a foreign language. They have acquired the language with remarkable success, and success is attending their labors. The same might be said in relation to other cities along the border. We have missionaries - in Mesa, Arizona, in Ray and other places around the great mining parts of Arizona. We have missionaries in Tucson; we have missionaries in Bisbee, and Douglas, also in Albuquerque and southern Colorado. They are doing a splendid work in El Paso, Texas. We have missionaries in Del Rio, San Antonio, Houston, Corpus Christi, Eagle Pass, Laredo, and Brownsville, all in Texas. At a recent conference held in the southeastern part of our mission at Laredo, at which Elder * Joseph Fielding Smith, of the Council of Twelve, was present, we were able to preach to a congregation of some two hundred and twenty people at some of our sessions. I remember to have gone to the same city only a few years ago, at which time I surveyed the situation, and there was not so much as one who had any sympathy for us within the confines of that city or surrounding country. I am proud to be identified with the missionary work there. I am proud of the young men and the young women who comprise our missionary force. I love the work of the Lord. I bear you my testimony that the gospel is true. 

And, my brethren and sisters, as I stand before you this afternoon, I make a plea for tolerance for the Lamanite people; they are our Father's covenant children. I have learned it more intimately than I ever knew it before, in the last twenty-one years of consecutive missionary service among them. I was acquainted with them years before that, and, notwithstanding all that is said to the contrary in the press and "by people who might think very lightly before they speak, I have never been injured at their hands, nor have any of your boys or girls been injured at their hands. And although it may seem paradoxical to send a lady missionary among people who are so maligned, and expect her to get away unhurt, the chivalry of the Indians, spoken of by President Ivins this morning, is a safeguard even to your daughters, and you need not fear for them even among the people of Mexico or the Lamanite people. There are underlying reasons why they fight, and I want to tell you that if I were suffering as they have suffered for four hundred years, I would be ashamed if I did not fight as they fight. There is wrong, of course, in the country, and it would take a long time to explain it to the satisfaction of the people as I understand it. I pray God that he will right the wrongs of that oppressed people, and that freedom and liberty and right and justice may come to them. I bespeak for them your sympathy and your love. Brethren and sisters, in the name of consistency, let us give them credit for being what they are, because through their fathers we truly have this great volume of scripture, this New Witness for God, the Book of Mormon, and it is replete with promises to them of a redemption, and an uplift from the conditions under which they labor. I lament, perhaps as much as anyone, the existing conditions in the Republic of Mexico, and all I can do is to' pray that right will triumph. I firmly believe that it will, and I wish that we could extend to them sympathy and the right kind of help which is not always condemnation. 

May the Lord help us to see the right and to do it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER CHAS. A. CALLIS 

President of the {southern States Mission 

Brethren and sisters: When Elder David O. McKay was speaking this morning of the two thousand young Lamanites and their splen mothers, I was led to reflect that in the Southern States mission there are young men and women who have these same qualities, and their fathers and mothers have the same devotion, and give the same counsel as did those noble Lamanite mothers. Today our elders go forth to encounter dangers that are more fatal, in a way, than the sword. These mothers in Zion are giving their children wonderful and soulsaving counsel that enables them to battle, with faith and in the might of God, the evils in the world. 

One day during the summer, while attending a conference in the most southerly part of the»mission, I offered the elders a week's rest because of the intense heat. I was a little surprised at the unwelcome spirit in which my offer was received. The district president spoke up and said : "Brother Callis, we would rather keep on working. We have the spirit of our work, and are afraid that we would lose it if we took a vacation." That is the spirit of the missionaries in the South. Deeply imbedded in their hearts is the glorious truth contained in the Book of Mormon, that when ye are in the service of your fellowmen, ye are in the service of your God. 

Through the kindness of the First Presidency an extensive building program is being carried on. We are going to build a new chapel for the Catawba Indians. Never among any people have I witnessed more faith than among these people. The president of the branch certainly does not believe in race suicide, because he is the father of twenty-one children. We have built a neat little chapel for the Choctaw Indians, and these people are receiving the gospel with joy. What a wonderful change is coming over the spirit of the people! I suppose you will be inclined to wonder at the statement that fully 10 per cent of the missionaries in the South — and this is a conservative estimate — are the descendants of men and women who obeyed the gospel in the Southern states and migrated to the West. This is one proof of the vitality of "Mormonism." 

Only a few weeks ago we held a conference up in the mountains of East Tennessee. There were twenty-three members of the Church, including the elders, and from eight hundred to a thousand people, non-members, in attendance at our conference. There was not a note of discord — peace, good will, tolerance, prevailed. For this change I praise the Lord. I do not forget the labors of the elders in the early history of that mission, who suffered much tribulation to establish the foundation upon which we are now building. 

Consider the sterling qualities of these young men. It has been my sad duty to go to more than one of them and say: "My brother, I have received the sad news that your mother, or your father, is dead." These young men have wept, they have sorrowed, but the noble resolution in them to continue in their mission was unshaken, and in the strength of God they have gone ahead with their missionary labors. 1 Fathers and mothers have said: "Our crops are a partial failure, but we are willing to continue to sacrifice to keep ontr sons in the mission field." Where would you go to find nobler faith than this? And this faith comes from a belief in the Book of Mormon and the other standard Church works, and in the restored gospel. Surely such faith as that cannot be justly characterized as a base faith. I want to say to you parents that God will bless you for the sacrifice you are making to keep your sons and your daughters in the mission field. It is sacred in his sight, and you will share in the joy and the glory that comes to your sons and daughters through bringing souls unto God. I love the missionaries. It is an inspiration to be with them. I love their parents, the faith, and the Church which is the mother of men, for producing these fine characters and instilling in their hearts that unwavering faith that sends them into the mission field in the spirit of sacrifice and service, to proclaim the everlasting gospel to the world. 

I bear you my testimony that this gospel is the power of God unto salvation, that this Church is built upon the foundation of apostles and prophets; that it is being led today by divine revelation, and that these- young men and young women in the mission field enjoy the spirit of inspiration to help them in the districts where they labor, and God is with them. This is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I take great pleasure, my brethren and sisters, in reporting to you the condition of the Central States, as far as our missionary work is concerned. I think no father or mother need have any fear concerning his or her sons or daughters who are engaged in this labor, for I doubt if there is any institution of learning in the country that will broaden and develop a young man or young woman more, or give them an experience that will compare with that obtained in the mission field. 

Our missionaries are active; young men and young women, going out with scarcely any experience, get ''right into the work with as much faith as you could expect them to have. My testimony to you is that the work of the Lord is growing in the hearts of the children of men, that the youth of Zion are not weakening by any means, but that they are growing stronger. We have some missionaries in the field without money and some with money. They are splendid young people and are not afraid of work. They go from early in the morning until late at night. : We do not have to urge them, but sometimes have to call a halt, especially among women missionaries who are so interested in their labors that they often work harder than their strength allows. But after all, they stand the test and seem to hold up their part of the work as favorably as the elders do, and frequently can go where an elder cannot go. They have many conversations among their own sex. 

Latter-day Saints are found in every nook and corner, almost, of the Central States mission — from Brownsville, Texas, to, the northern part of Missouri, and from Louisiana almost to El Paso, Texas — six . Little organizations are found almost in every county, and in many of the great cities. We ask the elders to hold meetings once a day if they possibly can, and that no night shall pass without their being in a cottage meeting, if possible, or in a street meeting, or in some of the halls or churches of that mission. Let me say again that nothing finer than the spirit of those young people can be found anywhere in the world. They are faithful and true to their calling every day. They are not concerned with temporal matters, consequently they grow rich spiritually, and as a result of their time in the field, they become well acquainted with the gospel. I take great pleasure in saying to you, my brethren and sisters, that there has not come to me in my life any other joy or pleasure that has compared with this missionary labor. ' , 

I know that the Latter-day Saints at home are doing a great work. Our work could not be done without the parents who sustain us in the mission field; unless we are all united there cannot be success. I say to the missionaries frequently: Brethren and sisters, you. ought to do well, every father and mother, ^brother and sister and little child is praying for you daily, that you may be successful in the mission field, that the Lord will preserve you and that you may be able to reach the hearts of the children of men. 

We do not have enoughj missionaries. There are thousands of men and women who have not heard the gospel, and who will never : hear it unless we are able to reach them in some other way than by the present method. I do not know how it can be done unless through the radio, but there are hundreds and thousands of young men and young women growing to manhood and womanhood in the Central states, who have never seen a "Mormon" missionary. A way to reach them the Lord undoubtedly will arrange; I know that he is at the helm. I am as sure as that I stand before you today that our Father who appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the state of New York, in that Sacred Grove, and introduced his Son Jesus Christ, has never been very far away from the Church, and that Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God, who appeared to the Prophet Joseph, has honored this Church and organized the destinies of it, and speaks through its leaders. I am just as sure of that as I am that I live. I want to go on record before the world in my testimony that the Lord lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that he is with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that his work is growing in "the earth and will continue to grow until the time comes for him to call a halt and say enough. No one knows when that time will be, excepting him who governs and rules and guides the destinies of the children of men according to their works. We have friends as well as enemies, but the Church does have many friends in the mission field among those who are not members of it. 

We have had the opportunity this year of building three churches. President Grant was in pur mission a short time ago and dedicated three buildings in the state of Missouri. We are celebrating at Independence, Missouri, this week, the centennial of that city. It has been one hundred years since Independence was made a village. This Church is taking its part in the pageant, in the parade, in the contributions, in the printing and everything that is being done. We have been accorded all that is due us, and I take great pleasure in' saying to you that the Church has many friends in that section of the country, and the Spirit of the Lord is moving upon the hearts of the children of men, and his work will be accomplished in his own due time. 

I pray the Lord to bless us that we may honor his name continually. I pray for those who are not of us, that they may listen to the elders whoi happen to come to their doors, and be led to glorify the Lord's name through baptism by his servants, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

President of the Northern States Mission 

As I came onto the grounds to attend the meeting this afternoon, I met about a half dozen missionaries who had just returned from the Northern States mission. I observed them as they stood on the sidewalk, and thought, How splendidly these young fellows have developed in the mission field. They are a clean-looking set of fellows. They have done a remarkable work out in the world. Most of them have been district presidents; and, because of the summer work, they remained in the mission field longer than the usual time in order that they might take their missionaries out into the country and show them the advantages of traveling without purse or scrip, and placing their full reliance in God the eternal Father. I am grateful for the mission, because it results in wonderful progress with the missionaries; and while some of our boys and girls may come into the field in the spirit of adventure, may think that it is the usual thing for boys and girls to do, I am quite certain and can bear testimony that they are not very long in the mission field before they realize the necessity of getting close to God the eternal Father, and of giving service in the great cause to which they have been called. Our missionaries are faithful, and they are doing a good \vork in traveling among the people. 

We have just finished our country campaign, and the missionaries have returned to their districts for the winter with the testimony that God has been with them and has blessed them wherever they have been. I sent a questionnaire to the missionaries to be answered and returned by them. One of the questions was : "How many times did you have to sleep out because of not receiving entertainment from the people?" It is remarkable how few times the missionaries have had to sleep out during' the country campaign. Their testimony has been that God has been good to them, and they came back with joy and happiness in their hearts because of God's mercy to them. 

The missionaries, on their return home, make the statement that the time spent on a mission was the best time of their lives, and often the younger people who had not had a similar experience might question the statement. But if they should have the same experience I am quite certain they would come back with the same testimony, that missionary life has been the best time of their lives. They do not mean good times, like we might have at parties; they do not mean the good times that they might have at school; they do not, mean that it has been a happier time than the very happy life that they have had in the home, which is the most sacred place the boy and girl can be; but when they say that it has been the happiest time of their lives they mean that they have been closer to God the eternal Father than they have ever been before. It is because of service, it is because of doing things for God and his Son Jesus Christ that there comes into their souls that humility, that testimony, and that joy that is superior to all other joys that can come into one's life. 

We are very grateful to have in the Northern states mission such a splendid group of students as are attending the various universities located in Chicago and the surrounding cities. They are keeping their faith. We are proud of them because they can still find time— the majority of them — to come to Church and partake of the sacrament and attend the Sabbath school, that they may have their spirits renewed for the studies of the week. They are a wonderful help to the Church wherever they are, because of the strength of their testimony and their desire to be of service in the mission field while they are attending school. Our boys and girls who are in the Universities have things brought to their attention that might make them wonder at times, or might make them thing deeper and cause them to search deeper into the religion of God the eternal Father, and "Mormonism" as you search into it, gives an answer to most of the problems that come to the student or to the missionary. When they encounter a problem that cannot yet be solved to their satisfaction, they hold on to the faith of their fathers and their mothers, and are willing to serve God and wait until the time comes when the question can be answered by study and by the revelations of God. 1 

We are happy because of the Saints of the Northern states mission, because of their faithfulness and devotion to God's work. They are willing to go out on the street corner and give service and proclaim the gospel. I am sure God will bless them because of their devotion and desire to be of service in his great work in the mission field. 

May God bless this great work, and strengthen the missionaries as they go out into the field. May he bring them home, as these young fellows to whom I have referred have been brought home, clean and fine, and above all, with a testimony of the truthfulness of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, is my prayer, in his name. Amen. 



36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

President of the Western States Mission 

My brethren and sisters : It is a privilege to be present on this occasion and make a report of the work in the Western states mission. Conditions in all of the missions of the United States are quite similar, and all that has been said by the mission presidents who have spoken is equally true of the missionaries laboring in our mission. No finer group of young men and young woman can be found anywhere in the world. They are men and women of integrity and faith; loyal and true to the covenants that they have made with God, undaunted and unafraid they carry the gospel message to the people, manifesting in their lives the faith which has come to them through their obedience to the gospel and the call made of them to proclaim the message of salvation to the people of the world. The burden of their message is that God has spoken again to the world through a modern prophet. They have testified that God lives, that Jesus Christ is in reality the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world. They have borne witness to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the re-etsablishment of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the nineteenth century. We affirm that Joseph Smith came in the hour of the world's greatest need and was the instrument in the hands of God of restoring to the world the authority of the holy Priesthood which gave to men the right to act in the name of God and reveals every principle and ordinance necessary to the complete salvation of the human soul. 

We have laid down the gauntlet and declared that God is no respector of persons, that all men who repent of their sins and yield obedience to the ordinance of baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God or man. Hundreds have accepted the challenge and bear witness that they know the gospel, as we teach it, is true and the very power of God unto salvation, that doubt has been removed from their souls and a peace and joy they have never known before have come into their lives I am happy to report that all of the missionaries without exception are rendering meritorious service. 

The attitude of the people in the Western states mission towards our work is very much changed since first I went into that district to labor as a missionary — we are received in many places with open arms where a few years ago we could not get a hearing. Elders have been accorded the privileges of preaching in many churches and invitations have been extended to present our -message before some of the/ theological schools of our district. The press has been very friendly and accorded us much space in advertising our work. Many of the missionaries have traveled in the country districts without purse or scrip and have reported some wonderful and unusual experiences. I would relate just one circumstance: two of the elders laboring in the Denver district reported that while traveling without purse or scrip about one hundred miles east of the city, they sought entertainment for the night at quite a late . They were invited into a home. The man and his wife were the only members of the family and they had but one bed. These good people insisted that the elders should sleep in the bed while they slept upon the floor. The man who had thus entertained them was a protestant minister. He showed a real Christian spirit. Such entertainment is not usually accorded our missionaries. I am very grateful for the measure of success that is attending our efforts. The missionaries are imbued with the spirit of their work. They love it, and their greatest desire is that the people of the world might be impressed by their message. 

It is true that some of our missionaries are illy prepared when they come into ithe missions, but it requires only a, short time until they are able to present the gospel message to all with whom they come in contact. 

I was impressed with the counsel given by the President this morning advising the (Saints to search the scriptures, to read the Bible, The Book of Mormon, and become familiar with the revelations given to the Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith. If this is done in the homes, our missionaries will be better prepared to give a reason for 'the "hope that is within them when they arrive in the mission. 

We are making some progress in providing comfortable places for our members in which to worship. At the present time we are building two meetinghouses and one recreation hall. We have also purchased one chapel this year. 

I feel that I need not say more. I am happy to be engaged in this work. I know that it is of God. I bear testimony to its truth, and the influence that it is having upon the lives of men and women in the world is for good. God grant unto us the spirit of this work, that we may go forward in the performance of every duty that he requires at our hands, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 

President of the Northcentral States Mission 

My brethren and sisters : I prize highly my standing among thi9 people. I would rather have my standing in this Church than all the gold of Ophir. I would rather be where I am now, laboring in the ministry of our Lord, than in any other place that I kniow of. To labor with these young men and young women, to meet them in their weakness, when they arrive in the field, and then to watch them grow and increase in their power, is an inspiration that you cannot get anywhere else in the world. They undergo a wonderful transformation and a steady, constant growth. Some of the young men and young women who come into the field do not have a testimony of the gospel, but within a few short months they stand before the congregations of the world and bear witness, out of the abundance of their hearts, that they know the gospel of Jesus Christ is trn§. Not so long ago at the close of one of our conferences, a young lady missionary only nineteen years of age who had just arrived in the field came back into the building as I left it. I found her weeping, and asked her what was the matter. She said : "Brother Allred, I do not believe that I can do this work. I just feel that I cannot do it." After talking with her a few moments, I laid my hands upon her head and blessed her and promised her that if she would put her attention to the work and trust in God, that God's pohver would come into her soul until her heart would be overflowing with a testimony of the work of God. Three weeks later I happened to be in that same district again, and I met this same girl standing on a street corner, bearing witness to the people that she knew the gospel as restored is true. In talking with her, she said : "Brother Allred, I have had more glory in the last three weeks than I have had before in all my life put together." What is the change which gives this joy? Where is the strength of this Church? Is it with these brethren on the stand? no. I will tell you, the strength of this Church lies in the testimony that God implants in the hearts of its members, and once that testimony is implanted in the heart of a boy or girl he or she will go through fire for the religion that they are preaching in the world. 

Not long ago we sent two young elders, at the beginning of this summer's work, into a country district. One of them was from San Francisco and the other from Alberta, Canada. One was nineteen years old and the other twenty. They began their work in a certain county, and five preachers in that county, when they saw the activities of these elders, decided that they ought to hold some anti-"Mormon" meetings. So they called these meetings together, and five of them sat on the stand. They sent to Chicago for an anti-"Mormon" lecturer who had labored in Utah, and who knew all about the "Mormons." He came, and they held, a meeting. They actually asked the sheriff of the county to come and sit close to the front where he could take care of these two "Mormon" boys, lest they do someone bodily harm. The preachers held three anti-"Mormon" meetings, and the boys followed after them. One man told me afterwards that the dignity of these young men, the spirit that accompanied their talks, the power that was behind them, convinced him that they were not what these preachers said they were. And afterwards that man and all his family joined the Church. When these two elders were asked to take this country trip they did not want to go, they said that they had made a lot of friends where they were, and they thought they ought to follow up what they had been doing. They said to the district President: "You are taking us away and putting two elders in our places, and we do not want to go. We would rather stay here." As they talked this matter over in their meeting, the president of the district arose and said: "I prophesy, in the name of the Lord, that if you will take this trip, as you have been called to do, you shall have more friends where you go than you have ever had here. You shall heal the sick in every direction in which you travel, and the very elements shall be :  to you." These two boys went out and came back and testified that the Lord had healed the sick wherever they had gone, that the very elements had been subject to them, that they had commanded the elements to be still when they interfered with their meetings, and the elements had been stilled. I tell you people, there is a power in this Church which the world must yet recognize. I am wondering what the answer of the world would be if we were to' ask them, today, Whence comes this power? How can we get these young men and young women to go out into the world and devote their attention to this work, and how is it that they make such growth? 

Not long ago we received a wire from Port William, Ontario, Canada. A family living there said that they had lost three of their children by drowning in the river, and for us to come at once. The preachers of the town said : "These 'Mormon' elders will never travel four hundred miles to attend a funeral service. You might just as well let us hold it." The Saints replied : "The elders will come if there is a possibility of their doing so." When we got to the place we found that they had arranged for the funeral service to be held in a little chapel. Twenty minutes before the time for the service to commence, we went to the chapel and found it crowded, and hundreds of people were there who could not obtain entrance. I. said to Elder Jones, the presiding elder, "We will have to find a different place in which to meet." We went down the street a block where a funeral service was being held in a church, and we requested of the preacher the privilege of holding our services in his church. "Well," he said, "I will see the elders." He conferred with the elders and came back in a few minutes and said that he felt he could not allow us to meet in his building. We went back. Just across the road from the undertaker's parlor was the city hall, and in this hall was a large auditorium. We asked the mayor over the phone if we could not hold our service there. He said: "We have refused, four times in succession, to allow your elders the use of that hall." We said : "We know you have, but don't you think that under the conditions you ought to open the hall and let us hold a funeral service there?" Then he said: "I think possibly we could." 

"How many people will your hall hold ?" 

"Six hundred." 

We carried the caskets across the road into this hall and in ten minutes every seat was taken. As we had five preachers, the mayor, and the Salvation army captain, sitting on the stand with us, my soul went out in prayer to God that he would magnify us that we might be able to make these people, who were in mourning, wipe away their tears and look up and not down, forward and not back, and that we might also be able to let the people of that city who had been so prejudiced that they had never heard the voice of a "Mormon" elder, know what the doctrines and teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ and our conceptions of life and the world to come, really are. When it was all over we found that we had made, not one friend, not one family of friends, but that we had made scores of friends. One man said to his wife when he went home : "You are all the time asking me to go to church and hear the preacher. If you will get a preacher in our church like those elders I will go every Sunday." Another man said : " I do not know what it is in this 'Mormon' Church, but it is remarkable that these elders can come up here and make these people wipe away their tears and influence them in such a way that they can go to the cemetery and lay away three of their children at the same time and not weep. Our preachers cannot do it, but these elders of the 'Mormon' Church have done it." 

I want to say to you today that the gospel of Jesus Christ will meet every human need, and it will meet it fully and completely, for this is God's work, it is not the work of man. I bear witness to this fact today, with all the earnestness of my soul, and I testify 'that he will carry it through successfully to the end. 

We are grateful for those very splendid young men and young women who come to our mission who will face any kind of cold weather — and we have a lot of it up there — to preach the gospel. They are going into the homes of the people. The doors are being opened in such numerous instances that we are not able to take care of them all. We need more elders, "an'd we need them to come out into the field like those who are there. 

Let me say to you in closing, you fathers and mothers who have girls in the mission field: Do not fear for them while they are there. Let your fears begin when they return home to the body of the Church and throw off the harness of responsibility. Those boys and girls, while they are engaged in the ministry, are growing every hour, and the longer they stay the faster they grow. 

May God bless this work at home and abroad, that men and women, holding responsibility in it, may be endowed with the spirit of their office and calling, that we may work day and night for the furtherance of the purposes of God, and that his purposes might be accomplished and his will prevail on earth as it docs in heaven, 1 humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER HENRY H. ROLAPP 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters: As I stood before this conference six months ago, after having been called to preside over the Eastern states mission, I had very little conception of the influence which that mission would have upon my life. In the East we have some thirty-four million people to approach, or seventy or eighty times as many as there are in this state. We have only a comparatively few missionaries to do the work. I went through that mission with Brother Ballard, of the Twelve. He was there with me for twenty-three days. He spoke every day. He made thirty-six stalks in the twenty-three days that he was with us, and the wonderful results that came from those meet, each of which was attended by a great many investigators, are simply marvelous. He was with us in June, and possibly a few days in July. During the months of July ana August ninety-nine new converts were baptized into the Church of Christ. We have not been able to keep it up in September. I have just received a telegram to the effect that we had only twenty-one baptisms during September, sixteen of whom were converts. 

I feel thankful to the Lord that we had a member of the Twelve with us in that great mission. I am also certain that we do not understand the Eastern states. I know that I did not. I had been in New York not less than twice every year for twenty or twenty-five years, but I did not understand it. There is more distinct evidence of prejudice against the Latter-day Saints in the Eastern states than anywhere else that I can conceive oi'. We cannot get at them, comparatively speaking. It is difficult in a city of eight or nine millions of people to reach a great many, but we go from door to door and we are reaching some of them. If some of the authorities could stay in the larger cities and communities in the East, from Vermont and New Hampshire down to West Virginia — all of the states lying along the Atlantic coast belonging to the Eastern states mission — if they could stay there a little more and not just go there on a short trip, but do as Brother Ballard did (some of the other apostles no doubt have done the same), and realize the possibilities of that mission, I believe that a whole lot of good could be done. 

So far as our missionaries are concerned, I must confess that I did not believe it possible that young men and women whom I knew who went into the Eastern states or any other mission, with the limited knowledge and experience they possessed, could obtain the strength of testimony that they do. But I say to you that 95 per cent of the missionaries who are in the Eastern states sincerely believe all that they tell about the Book of Mormon and about the "Mormon" religion. They have become thoroughly aroused to the fact that they are engaged in the service of God. So far as I know, not a single one of our missionaries is sick. They are all anxious to work, and it is their greatest desire to stay fully two years in the mission. A lady missionary whom I released a little before her time was up, telegraphed me the other day that she would like to find out what was the matter, she- wanted to stay her full time. I wired back to her and explained why she should be released. But that is the spirit, and that is the good feeling that there is in the Eastern states mission. 

I am very much more gratified today about being called as a missionary in the Church of Christ than I was six months ago. I was rather fearful that the many other things I had done in my lifetime were so different from going into the missionary field, that my attention would be distracted from the work that ought to be clone; but the Lord has been with me and I feel that there is not any other thing that interests me in the least so long as I am in New York and doing this work. I have traveled all over the mission now. I have been over two-thirds of the mission the second time and expect to spend all of my time in getting around among the Saints. Let me say to you here that 1 am not trying to preach the gospel to the Saints. The missionaries, your boys and girls, are doing that. I cannot preach very much. I say a few words at the end of the meeting, but after such meetings I sit down with the missionary elders and sisters, and we hold a two or three hours' meeting. We do not get up on our feet and talk to one another, but we sit around the table and discuss the situation. I think we have all come to the conclusion that we are all serving the same Master, that we have but one thing to do and that is to see that more people get a knowledge of the truth. I have taken the elders away from the Saints, very largely. I think that they are needed to preach the gospel to those who have not heard it. I have said to the local priesthood in the branches, you take care of the Saints and let the elders preach the gospel. We have had remarkable success in a majority of the branches. I hope to have more success. I hope that we may have a still better year this year than last. Last year was the banner year of the mission. There were two hundred and nineteen converts last year. In the first nine months we baptized one hundred and eighty-three new converts, and we will do better than last year before this year is ended. We are paying comparatively more tithing in the East than you are at home. We are doing wonderful things with the people that are living there. So, no doubt, are all other missionaries. 

I feel grateful for the privilege of laboring jn the mission. Let me just ask you one thing. There are hundreds of you who have relatives and friends in the East or in other missions. Why don't you write to the elder who presides in the mission where your friend lives, and say to him: "I have a friend, Mr. John A. Jones, living in such a street and such a town ?" and we will ascertain the rest. We will approach them right. We will not try to convert them, we will just go and call on them and try to continue calling on them until we get them interested in the gospel. But we would like to have you help us to the extent of giving us the addresses. Merely John A. Jones, New York, doesn't mean a thing. We have tried it, and can't do) a thing with them. But give us John A. Jones, 212 Olive street, New York, and they will be visited. We need you, we are relying upon you. The more than eighty missionaries who are laboring in the Eastern states are the ones who are telling them about the gospel of Christ, as you are living it, and we hope that there may be some success come from their efforts. 

I testify to you, as I have done to the people in the East, that the gospel of Christ has been restored. That was an old story with me. I am more than ever confirmed in it, ahd I proclaim it to the people with whom I come in contact. God bless the Saints at home. It is gratifying to have an opportunity to stand before them occasionally and tell them what we are doing, because that is really what is interesting. 

God bless you all is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER WM. R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I am extremely happy, my brethren and sisters and friends, to report the condition of the Northwestern states mission. When I report the condition of the mission and my feelings, I want to associate with myself my good companion and wife, who is a big factor in what little degree of success we have attained this year. We are immensely happy in our labors, and we have been working together, trying with the help of the Lord to further his great work in. the earth. We have a great field in which to labor, covering a tremendous area of country, but our population is nowhere as numerous as President Henry Hi Rolapp reports in the Eastern states. 

In the past ten months I have traveled over twenty-five thousand miles visiting the Saints and friends of the Northwestern states mission, and I am very happy to report a wonderful spirit of cordiality is now extended to us ' in that section, by the press. The freedom of the press and the way in which the newspapers voluntarily write articles about the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is indeed gratifying to us, and at no time do we ask for favors 1 but that those favor's are granted. 

We have seven thousand members of the Church residing in that mission. We have thirty-seven branches, fifty-three Sunday schools, seventy Primaries, twenty-four Relief Society organizations, and seventy-four missionaries now laboring in the field. We could use manytimes seventy- four missionaries had we them to use. At the present time in our Primary work we have recently organized, in the city of Seattle, a Primary in the Orphans' Home. This is a sectarian orphanage. In this Primary organization we have one hundred thirty-five children. We met with the Board of Governors and the matron of that institution and laid our plans before them and asked for the privilege of organizing a Primary, giving them to understand that we are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They asked us to come and hold a class. The class was held. The children were divided into their groups, just as you would organize them here at home, and at the close, in the presence of the governing body of that institution, they came and said : "Can you not occupy at least one hour each day with such work as this ?" We have three other Orphans' Homes in Seattle that are open to us, but we have only four little missionary girls to take care of that work, and with our numerous other duties we are handicapped. We are not even attempting to organize primaries in those homes until the time comes when we can get reinforcements. We are happy to tell you that the Presidency have listened to our plea and will send to us eight or ten young women in the immediate future who will constitute the reinforcements necessary, and then we will proceed at once to organize other Primaries. -W e have four young ladies laboring in Tacoma. They have seven primaries there to take care of, or a Primary every day of the week. So I could go on indefinitely, telling you oi this work. 1 We have today in this audience, I am quite sure, one of our young missionaries who has just been released atter serving twenty-eight months in the mission field. Last spring he and his companion were laboring in Olympia, Washington, on the Pacific coast. I said : "Elder, I want you and your companion to go over into Montana. You take the highway and travel without purse or scrip. I don't want you to ask for a ride during your entire journey. Travel as if you had a destination in view and you will have plenty of opportunities to ride." The first day they rode over a hundred miles in an automobile, and at the close of the day, as they were leaving him, the gentleman with whom they were riding put his hand into his pocket and gave them four dollars and forty-three cents, and said : "Boys, I don't want you to go hungry." The next day another gentleman picked them up, gave them a ride of a hundred and seventy-five miles. His father-in-law, who happened to be in the car with them, a little man, was very quiet and had nothing to say all day, but had listened to the conversation. Towards evening, he said : "Boys, I remember many years ago meeting two 'Mormon' missionaries, away back in my old home town, the city of Carthage, Illinois. I do not remember what those men preached about, but I do remember the words of one of the songs they sang." And, by the way, we sang that hymn for our opening song this afternoon. He said : "I cannot remember all the words, but part of the words of that hymn were these: 'Do what is right, let the consequence follow.' " The Elders opened their grips and took therefrom a little pamphlet hymnbook and sang the hymn, "Do what is right." The old gentleman sat there with his eyes bedimmed with tears, and from then on he was talkative in the extreme. 

We have a young lady sitting in the congregation this afternoon who, a few months ago, held a street meeting on the streets of Tacoma, Washington, in company with her companion and the elders. At the close of the meeting, just as they dismissed, a gentleman spoke up and said, "May I say a word?" The privilege was granted him. He said: "Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that the city of Tacoma, Washingtion, is honored in the presence of these young men and women representing the 'Mormon' Church. I only wish that we had more such young men and young women as they are." He was one of the representative business men of Tacoma, Washington. 

And so I could go on. Our Saints are working unitedly together. We are enjoying the work. We took a caravan to the Canadian temple this summer. One hundred and ninety-three people from our mission made the trip to Cardston, traveling in automobiles the entire distance, some of them going sixteen hundred miles. The experiences of that caravan, the spiritual uplift, development and growth as a result of that trip, time will never last long enough to efface. I bear you that witness, my brethren and sisters. The treatment that we were accorded in the Canadian temple was simply wonderful. 

Just one word further. I have a clipping from one of the leadingnewspapers of the Northwest, which I would like to read to show you the spirit of the press. In speaking of the Book of Mormon and  auspicious 22nd day of September, the writer said this. It is an editorial, by the way : 

"While Messrs. Dempsey and Tunney are pummeling each other for a million dollars or so at Chicago Thursday night, a scene quite different will be unfolded through Utah on that occasion. 

"On the 22nd day of September, 1927, it will be one hundred years since the Angel Moroni delivered to the prophet, Joseph Smith, the gold plates which had been deposited for centuries in the Hill Cumorah, near Palmyra, New York, from which plates the Book of Mormon was translated by the gift and power of God. I i . i 

"Believe it or not, as you choose. The undoubted fact remains that the 'Mormon' people have contributed vastly to the upbuilding of the west. Literally, they made the deseret 'blossom like a rose.' In these days of quarreling religious sects it is worth while to point to the thrift, industry, discipline and co-operation of the 'Mormons' to show what may be accomplished by a church organization in the practical development of a commonwealth. 

" 'All for one and one for all,' to employ the slogan of The Three Guardsmen. has ever been their watchword. 

"The other night as the train moved by the well-kept homes and ripe gardens in the outskirts of Salt Lake City, the Pullman porter who lives in Chicago, remarked : 'They still think a heap of Brigham Young in this town.' 

"And well they may. Whatever may be said of the teachings of 'Mormonism,' Brigham Young was one of the ablest and most remarkable administrators and leaders of men and women ever developed in our American civilization." 

In closing allow me to repeat the words of one of the poets : 

"We are building every day, 

In a good or evil way; 

And the building, as it grows, i Shall our inmost selves disclose, 

And, in every arch and line, All our faults and failings find. 

"We may build a palace grand, Or a wreck upon the sand. Do you ask what building this. That can show both pain and bliss, That can be both dark and fair? Lo, its names is Character. 

"Build it well what'er you do, Build it straight and strong and true. Build it clean, and high, and broad. Build it for the eyes of God." 

So I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation sang, "God moves in a mysterious way." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Hyrum G. Smith, presiding patriarch of the Church. 


