Morning
05 04 1935

When the time for commencing the Conference arrived the large auditorium and galleries of the great Tabernacle were filled, nearly every seat being occupied, with people from the various stakes and missions of the Church. 

The first session began promptly at 10 o'clock a. m., at which time President Heber J. Grant announced that the Relief Society SingingMothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, would furnish the music for this meeting, and would join with the congregation in singing, as an opening number, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

After the singing of this hymn, the invocation was offered by Elder Clifford E. Young, President of the Alpine Stake. 

The hymn, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way," was sung by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Harold H. Bennett, soloist. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Read the financial and statistical report of the Church, as follows : 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The expenditures by the Church for year 1934: Stake and Ward Purposes: 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for the construction of ward and stake  $ 197,903.90 

For ward maintenance expenses 634,317.73 

For stake maintenance expenses 201,426.30 

$1,033,647.93 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church school 

system $ 459,580.65 

Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of 

temples $ 151,539.91 

Charities : 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable 

purposes, including hospital treatment $ 158,149.86 

Missionary Wprk : 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions $ 593,459.62 

Total [ $2,396,377.97 

Which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-inTrust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and mission activities. Other Charities: 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities and assistance rendered by the Relief Society in the sum of $360,116.40, which amount, added to the $158,149.86 paid from the tithes, makes the total charity assistance  by the Church $ 518,266.26 

Expended for the Maintenance of Missionaries : 

There has been collected by the various wards of the Church and paid to missionaries to assist in their 

maintenance .$ 59,892.65 

Average cost per missionary in the missions during the year 1934, $28.85 per month, or a total of $364.20 per year per missionary. There was an average of 1,052 missionaries in the various missions during 1934, making a total average expense 

for the year, ($364.20 x 1,052) $ 364,202.40 

Estimated average earnings per missionary $900.00 per year x 1,052, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might have earned if at home of $ 946,800.00 

making a total estimated contribution of missionaries and their families to the Church for the preaching of the Gospel $1,370,895.05 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE YEAR 1934 

There were on December 31, 1934: 110 Stakes of Zion; 954 Wards; 81 Independent Branches; 33 Dependent Branches, or a total of 1,068 wards and branches in the stakes of Zion; also, 31 missions (including  European Mission), 871 mission branches, and 202' districts. 

Church M ember sJup : 

Stakes 579,118 

Missions '. 151,620 

Total , 730,738 

Church Growth : 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church 

in the stakes and misisons 2D, 103 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 14,753 Converts baptized in the stakes and missions 7,407 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 

31,1934 1 > 249 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 

31, 1934 52 

Number of local missionaries 82 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions 1,383 

Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 1,633 

Total Missionaries 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Mis 

sionary Home 

Persons recommended to the temples from the stakes 

Social Statistics: 

Birth rate, 27.7 per thousand. Marriage rate, 17.3 per thousand. Death rate, 7.1 per thousand. Families owning their own homes, 61.2 per cent. 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS SINCE LAST OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

Auxiliary Association Changes : 

Released — General Superintendency of Sunday Schools: 

President David O. McKay; Stephen L. Richards; George D. Pyper. Appointed — 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent, Milton Bennion, First Assistant General Superintendent, George R. Hill, Second Assistant General Superintendent. Released — General Superintendency of Y. M. M. I. A. 

George Albert Smith; Richard R. Lyman; Melvin J. Ballard. Appointed —  

Albert E. Bowen, General Superintendent, George Q. Morris, First Assistant General Superintendent, Frank L. West, Second Assistant General Superintendent. New Mission Presidents: 

Reinhold Stoof released as President of the South American Mission. The Mission was divided and W. Ernest Young was appointed President of the Argentine Mission and Rulon S. Howells, President of the Brazil Mission. 

Joseph J. Cannon succeeded James H. Douglas as President of the British Mission. 

Nicholas G. Smith succeeded Alonzo A. Hinckley as President of the California Mission. 

Abel S. Rich succeeded John V. Bluth as President of the Canadian Mission. 

3,016 

720 79,089 

M. Charles Woods appointed President of the New Zealand Mission to succeed Alvin Thomas Maughan who was Acting- President. 

LeGrand P. Backman succeeded Don Mack Dalton as President of the South African Mission. . 

Philemon M. Kelly succeeded Francis Salzner as President of the Swiss and German Mission. 

James M. Peterson succeeded Charles E. Rowan, Jr. as President of the Texas Mission. New Temple Presidents: 

Charles R. Jones succeeded David K. Udall as President of the Arizona Temple. 

William A. Noble appointed President of the Logan Temple to succeed Joseph R. Shepherd, deceased. 

New Stakes Organized: 

Gridley and Sacramento Stakes, from the California Mission. 

Also San Bernardino Stake from the same mission. 

New York Stake from the Eastern States Mission. 

San Francisco Stake was divided into the Oakland and San Francisco Stakes. New Stake Presidents: 

Archie R. Boyack succeeded Edward W. Croft as President of the Big Horn Stake. 

Scott B. Brown succeeded Heber Q. Hale as President of the Boise Stake. 

John C. Todd appointed President of the Gridley Stake. 

Fred G. Taylor appointed President of the New York Stake. 

Mark W. Cram appointed President of the Sacramento Stake. 

Stephen H. Winter appointed President of the San Francisco Stake. President W. Aird Macdonald retained as President of the Oakland Stake. 

Albert Lyndon Larsen appointed President of the San Bernardino Stake. 

James Brown, Jr. succeeded William R. Smith as President of the Woodruff Stake. 

New Wards Organized : 

Alameda Ward, Oakland Stake, was formerly an independent branch of the San Francisco Stake. 

Safford Ward, St. Joseph Stake, was part of the Layton Ward of that stake. 

Arlington Ward, Hollywood Stake, formerly part of the Wilshire Ward. 

Burlingame Ward, San Francisco Stake, formerly an independent branch of that stake. 

Palo Alto and San Jose Wards, San Francisco Stake, formerly branches of the California Mission. 

Heber and Linden Wards, Snowflake Stake, formerly dependent branches of that stake. Hanksville Ward, Wayne Stake, formerly a dependent branch. 

Corning, Gridley, Liberty, Nevada City, Oroville and Yuba City Wards in Gridley Stake, taken from the California Mission. 

Brooklyn, East Orange, Manhattan and Queens Wards, New York Stake, were formerly branches in the EastenTStates Mission. 

Homestead, Roseville, Sacramento, Stockton and Sutter Wards in the Sacramento Stake, formerly branches of the California Mission. 

Baldwin Park, Ontario, Riverside and San Bernardino Wards, San Bernardino Stake, formerly branches of the California Mission. New Independent Branches : 

Leadore Branch, Lost River Stake. 

Belfry Branch, Big Horn Stake. 

San Fernando Branch, Hollywood Stake. 

Bay Ridge and Westchester Branches, New York Stake. 

Tracy Branch, Sacramento Stake. 

Echo Branch, Summit Stake. Wards and Branches Disorganised : 

Victor Ward, Emery Stake, joined to Elmo Ward. 

Echo Ward, Summit Stake, organized into an independent branch. 

Mt. Sherman Branch, Idaho Stake, joined to Soda Springs Ward. 

Darlington Ward, Lost River Stake, joined to Leslie Ward. Those Who Have Died: 

_ Julia A. Child, Second Counselor in General Presidency of the Relief Society. 

Joseph R. Shepherd, Logan Temple President. 

Joseph A. Larson, Hamilton Ward Bishop. 

Fred G. Gardiner, Panguitch South Ward Bishop. Second Counselor to General President of Relief Society: 

Appointed — Kate M. Barker. 

"O Ye Mountains High," was sung by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, soloist. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is a real pleasure to have the opportunity again of assembling with the Saints m general conference. All of us undoubtedly rejoice in the remarkable growth of the Church. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

I recall that we did not have thirty stakes when, fifty-two years ago, I was made a member of the Council of the Twelve. I recall that when visiting Rexburg, then a branch of a ward in Cache Valley, we had but 1300 people north of Cache Valley; we now have, I am sure, more than 100,000 in that section, counting those that are in Canada. 

Just before becoming one of the Apostles I traveled from Tooele to Salt Lake City, then through Salt Lake, Davis, Weber and Box Elder  to Brigham City, and two days and a fraction west, sleeping on the ground two nights, to visit a branch of the Grantsville ward of the Tooele stake of Zion. We now have half a dozen stakes west of Brigham City. 

GRATEFUL FOR CHANGE IN SENTIMENT 

I rejoice in the organization of new stakes in California, and of one in New York. When I think of the opposition toward the Church in early days by the people of New York; of the opposition toward our people in Ohio, and in Far West; of their expulsion from Missouri under an exterminating order of the governor of the state; when I think that Joseph Smith and others of his companions were condemned to be shot by order of a court martial, I am grateful for a change in sentiment toward our people. 

When I think of Nauvoo, the largest city in Illinois at that time, with 20,000 inhabitants, that the people had to leave that city, and that after Brigham Young and the able-bodied men had left the remnant were driven out by a mob, I am grateful for the change that has taken place. No tongue can tell and no pen can paint the hardships that our people endured in Missouri and Illinois. 

During the three long years that I presided over the European and British missions I was unable to get a single, solitary article into any newspaper in any part of the British Isles, refuting some of the vilest and most wicked slanders that were circulated about the Latter-day Saints. Today throughout the entire British Isles reporters attend our meetings and make honorable and straightforward reports regarding them. 

At the time of the organization of a stake in New York the leading newspapers of that great city gave us splendid notices, and there were no unfavorable comments. When I think of these things and of the wonderful growth of the Church, from about 200,000 when I was made an apostle to more than 700,000 today, my heart is filled with gratitude. When I realize the good will that was extended to me upon the occasion when I spoke, in 1920, before the Knife and Fork club at Kansas City, at which time I was given the privilege of talking an hour, while the other two men on the program — one of them the president, I think, of a university near Chicago — were each given but half an hour, and I was advertised as the principal speaker, this having taken place ten miles from where our people were located at the time they were driven out by the exterminating order of the governor of the state, my heart is full of gratitude and thanksgiving. I believe that today the name "Mormon", if a man is living in accordance with the teachings of the Gospel of Christ, is a certificate of good-will and character, as far as those are concerned who know the Latter-day Saints. 

THE GIFT OF FAITH 

I am grateful that from the time I was a child until the present I have been blessed with the gift of faith, which is a gift from God. I recall many things as a young man I did not understand, and could not comprehend, yet which I believed and believed firmly. One of the things which I believed, but which seemed to be an impossibility, was the statement that every ear should hear and every eye should see. / rejoice that only last Saturday evening — or I should say Sunday morning at 12:30—7 had the privilege of broadcasting over Station KSL a message from the Latter-day Saints to the people of the world, and that later in the day a cablegram was received all the way from Tokio, Japan: 

"Snowing, thousands enjoying program." 

I have been requested by several people to furnish them with a copy of that speech, and I have decided to read it here today in order to get it into our record: 

I am delighted to have this opportunity to send my message of love and blessing to the Latter-day Saints throughout the world, and to all others who may be listening in. 

If time permitted I am sure my listeners would be interested in 'hearing all of the Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ which I represent tonight, and our "Declaration of Belief regarding Governments and Laws in general." 

The fifth Article reads: 

We believe that a man must be called of God by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. 

CLAIM OF AUTHORITY 

We claim that authority and declare to all the world that John the Baptist, who held the keys of authority to baptize, restored the Aaronic priesthood, and bestozved it upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery; also that Peter, James and John, Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, restored the higher or Melchisedek priesthood, by ordaining these same men to the Apostleship. 

The eleventh Article of Faith reads: 

We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allozv all men the same privilege, let them worship how where, or wlxat they may. 

The thirteenth Article reads in part: 

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men . If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. 

REGARDING GOVERNMENTS 

Quoting from "A Declaration of Belief:" 

We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that hehelds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administer -nig them, for the good and safety of society. 

We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such) laws are framed  held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. . . . 

We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inhernt and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such lazvs as in their own judgments are best calculated' to* secure the public interest; ai the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience. . . . 

We do not beleive it just to mingle religious influence^ with civil government, zvhereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied. 

OUR MESSAGE TO THE WORLD 

What the world needs today more than anything else is an implicit faith in God, our Father, and in Jesus Christ, his Son, as the Redeemer of the world. The message of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the world is that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Son, and that they appeared to the boy Joseph Smith, and promised him that he should be an instrument in the hands of the Lord in restoring the true Gospel to the world. I quote from a Vision given to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon: 

And this is the Gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us — 

That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; 

That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him. 

Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him. 

And again from the same Vision : 

And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; 

And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before his throng, worshiping God, and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. 

And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is, the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! 

For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the "Voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

That by him, and through him, and of him, the zvorlds are and ivere created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God. 

WIDE MINISTRY 

It has been my great privilege to bear this testimony in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Germany, France, Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Canada, Mexico, in the Hawaiian Islands and in far-off Japan, and to lift up my voice declaring that our Heavenly Father and his beloved Son have again spoken from the heavens, that the Gospel of our Redeemer has been restored to the earth, and to bear witness that I know that God lives, that I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God and the Redeemer of mankind, and that I know that Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of the Lord in restoring the everlasting Gospel. 

My appeal to all members of the Church who possess this same testimony is so to live that other men seeing their good deeds shall be inspired to investigate the Gospel of our Redeemer. 

Words fail me in expressing my heartfelt gratitude to God for the radio, which gives me this opportunity of bearing my testimony to all the people of the tvorld of the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I pray the Lord to bless all mankind in these troublous times, that wisdom may be given to men in every land so to live that peace may come to the peoples of the zvorld. 

(End of radio address to world.) 

GRATEFUL FOR FAITH 

I am utterly at a loss to express my gratitude for the faith that I had as a child that the day would come when every ear should hear. I am grateful also for the faith that I had at that same time that every eye should see. Some years ago it was my privilege while in New York, and while in a large building twenty or .thirty stories high, to talk to my daughter and my granddaughter by television, they being three or four miles away at the time, and I saw them perfectly. 

READS ARTICLES OF FAITH 

I am grateful indeed for every blessing that has come to me because of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation, and inasmuch as what, I am saying is being broadcast I am going to read all of the Articles of our Faith, although I suppose that every soul within the sound of my voice in this building and all Latter-day Saints throughout the world are familiar with these Articles, and nearly all our children can repeat them. I remember learning them as a little child in the Sunday school, but as there may be many people in different parts of the world who are hearing what is said here today, as I said in my message to the world, I would like to repeat all of the articles. Time would not permit my doing so then as I only had ten minutes, and kept within the limit given to me. 

We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in his son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. 

When we say that we believe in God we mean that we believe in him as an individuality, as actually the Father of Jesus Christ— not a congeries of laws floating through the universe without form and void, but we believe him to be the Father of Jesus Christ. He is the God whom we as Latter-day Saints worship; and we believe Jesus Christ to be, not only one of the great moral teachers, the greatest the world has ever known, but the Son of God, the Redeemer of mankind, that he came to earth with a divinely appointed mission, to die on the cross, in order that you and I and all eventually may have part in the resurrection. We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. 

In other words, "as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive." 

We believe that, through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

NEED OF OBEDIENCE 

We believe emphatically in what it says, "by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel." We have no faith in death-bed repentance. We have no faith that by making a confession just before death we can be saved. 

We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are : First, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, repentance; third, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

We invite men to read a book entitled "Articles of Faith" which contains the scriptural references to sustain our position. 

We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. 

As I have already stated in my address to the world, we claim that authority. 

We believe in the same organization that existed in the primitive Church, namely, apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, etc. 

INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONIES 

There would be no need of believing in these various officers unless they have the inspiration of the living God and magnify the offices they hold. Unless Joseph Smith was in fact and in very deed a prophet of the living God, the whole structure called Mormonism falls. But we know, it is not a matter of belief. Latter-day Saints have individually almost without exception been given testimonies of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Hundreds and thousands, yes, hundreds of thousands of people who have never gathered to Zion, who have never lived in a stake of Zion, from the midnight sun country of Scandinavia down to South Africa, have been blessed with individual testimonies in answer to earnest prayer, that God lives and that Jesus Christ is in very deed his Son, also that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. 

The statement made by the Angel Moroni before the Church was born, that Joseph Smith's name should be had for good and evil all over the world, has been fulfilled, notwithstanding the fact that the statement at the time was ridiculed and Joseph Smith branded as an ignoramus. 

PATRIARCHAL BLESSINGS 

Unless the evangelist or patriarch is able, under the inspiration of God, to give blessings which are fulfilled, then there is nothing gained by believing in evangelists. As a little child I received a patriarchal blessing in which I was promised practically the very things that have happened to me all my life. When I was a young man presiding over the Tooele stake of Zion, the patriarch of that stake blessed my little baby, who was then six months old, and promised her that she should live to become a mother; that she should live to become one of the leaders of her sisters. Subsequently when she was in a dying condition from diphtheria, a spiritualistic medium decreed her death. Thank God for the priesthood that is upon the earth and the authority of that priesthood. George Q. Cannon and Hiram B. Clawson being in Washington at the time, I sent for them to come and administer to my little girl, who, as I recall it, was then between twelve and thirteen years of age, and they promised her that she should live and become a mother; and George Q. Cannon said something I had never heard before, neither have I heard it since. 

He said : 

The adversary, the destroyer, has decreed your death, and made public announcement of it, but by the authority of the priesthood of the living God that we hold we rebuke that decree and promise you life. 

THE ADVERSARY'S DECREE REBUKED 

I thought time and time again of that remarkable statement. The day that I was to leave Washington, the lady who kept the boarding house where we were staying was away and her husband was in charge. 

He said : 

Mr. Grant, I cannot resist the temptation to tell you that when your children became sick my wife visited her medium — she believes in spiritualistic mediums — and her medium told, her that she saw in her home two little girls; that the older one was taken sick nigh unto death; that the next little girl was taken sick and was nigh unto death. She finally saw the older girl recover, then she saw the little girl die, and she saw her body taken to a railroad station; she saw it taken on a train through many large cities, and stop in a large city, and change cars. She saw it cross a large river [you all know that one has to cross the Mississippi river to come here] she saw it pass through some more cities and cross another large river, and then travel through a sparsely settled country. 

(Forty years ago the country west of the Missouri was rather sparsely settled). 

She then saw the train climbing mountains, mountains, mountains, going west all the time. She then saw it go south for a short distance [from Ogden to Salt Lake of course.] She then saw it stop in a valley almost completely surrounded by mountains, and then the body was taken to the hill side and deposited in the grave. 

Thank God for the power of the priesthood that rebuked the decree of the adversary, which decree had been made public. 

BLESSINGS FULFILLED 

As I stated before, the patriarch in Tooele blessed this girl when a babe six months of age and said that she would live and become a mother. 

He afterwards said that he would like to give me a blessing, and in that blessing he promised me that I should be chosen as one of the leaders of this people and become a leader of great magnitude, and not until after I became the President of the Church did I ever mention what he said to me, and the impression that came to me at the time. 

He said : "Brother Grant, I saw something that I dare not put in your blessing." 

And that still small voice that I have heard so many times in my life, making no noise, no sound, said to me, "and you shall live to presjide over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

I was ashamed of myself that I should imagine such a thing. I never breathed it, I never mentioned it to a soul until after, in the providences of the Lord, that position came to me. 

We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, etc. 

THE GIFT OF TONGUES 

There is no need of believing in these things unless we have them. I was a child playing on the floor in a Relief Society meeting (my mother was president of the Thirteenth ward Relief Society for thirty long years and only resigned because of her hearing having failed) when Eliza R. Snow blessed by the gift of tongues each of the presidents that happened to be in that meeting, and Zina D. Young gave the interpretation. After doing this she turned to the child (myself) playing upon the floor, and gave me a blessing, and Zina D. Young gave the interpretation. 

My mother often said to me. "Heber, behave yourself and you will some day be an Apostle." 

I laughed and told her I had no ambitions along that line. I said : "Get it out of your head. Every mother thinks that her son will be the President of the United States, or something wonderful. I do not want any Church position, I want to be a business man." 

"Never mind," she said, "if you behave yourself you will be an Apostle." 

When I was made an Apostle she asked me if I remembered that meeting. I told her I did. 

"Do you remember anything that Sister Snow said ?" I said : "No, I did not understand her." 

"Of course you did not, because she was speaking in an unknown tongue. Did you understand anything that Aunt Zina said ?" 

"Only one thing, mother, I remember that as she was talking she lifted her hand and said that I would grow to be a big man, and since I have grown tall, I have often thought of that remark of hers." 

She said: "She did not say anything of the kind. She said you should grow to be a great big man in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and become an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ." 

She then said : "Do you remember being in a gathering in Brother Heber C. Kimball's home where there were a great many people, and after the dinner Brother Kimball picked you up and put you on the table and talked to you ?" 

"Yes." 

"Do you remember anything he said ?" 

"Not a word. All I remember is I thought he had the blackest eyes I ever looked at, and I was frightened." 

"Well, he prophesied that you should become one of the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, and live to be a greater man in the Church than your own father; and that is the reason that I have told you that if you would behave yourself you would some day be an Apostle. I realized that if you did not behave yourself you never would attain to that position, no matter what you had been promised." What she said conforms to a revelation of the Lord which says : 

There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. 

I could go on relating evidences of the gift of tongues. 

OTHER ARTICLES 

We believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. 

A great banker in New York said to me after reading Colonel R. M. Bryce Thomas' pamphlet, "My Reasons for Leaving the Church of England and joining the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints" : "Mr. Grant, I am an agnostic, but a student of the Bible, if I believed the Bible to be the word of God, I do not see how I could be an honest man if after reading this pamphlet I did not join your Church, because the scriptural evidences in support of your position cannot be controverted." 

We believe all that God has revealed, all that he dees now reveal, and we believe that he will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God. 

We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten tribes; that Zion will be built upon this (the American) continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth, and that the earth will be renewed, and receive its paradisiacal glory. 

We claim the privilege of worshiping almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law. 

god's PLAN 

May the Lord help us to sustain the law, and may we obey the law of God and leave alone those things that the Lord has told us are not good for us. I beg of all of you, young and old, to read the Word of Wisdom, and after reading it to get down on your knees and pray to God to help you to observe it. 

The nation is in an awful condition today financially. God gave us a revelation for the temporal salvation of the people, and if millions and billions of dollars of money were not expended for the things which God says are not good for man, peace, prosperity, health, vigor of body and of mind would be enjoyed by all the people of these United States. The Word of Wisdom is God's plan for the salvation of the people temporally, and he lias said so. He has said that it is his will, and if we lived up to the will of God, peace, prosperity and happiness would come to this nation and to the whole world, — if there were no tea, coffee, tobacco, or liquor used in the world. 

Those who are not keeping the Word of Wisdom will say that they get sick and tired of hearing such talks. They will get it from me as long as I have breath. 

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul : We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. 

May God bless us one and all, as I said in my address to the world, who have a knowledge of the divinity of this work, to live it, that our lives may teach it, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and Savior, Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Tzvelve Apostles 

As I listened to the inspirational address delivered by President Heber J. Grant, and the excellent music that thrilled our hearts, the thought came to me that we are not far from heaven. I am wondering whether the late President Charles W. Penrose was listening when that fine old hymn which he composed, "O Ye Mountains High," was sung this morning. I believe that the leaders of the Church who have passed on, are not far from us. A poet said : 

'Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore, And coming events cast their shadows before. 

MOVING TOWARD A GLORIOUS IDEAL 

The times are out of joint. The forces of evil are stirring up agencies, which if left to go unchecked, will destroy civilization and the hope's of humanity. I believe that despite all the troubles that are in the earth the world is moving toward a glorious ideal, for we believe "that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory." God is displaying "his rainbow fair against the swarthy clouds." 

The glorious second coming of Jesus Christ has been foretold since Adam went out of the Garden of Eden. This bright luminary is eternally shining in the heavens; it is sustaining world-weary hearts. By the vision of faith true followers of the Redeemer behold God watching over his own. "Behind a frowning providence He hides a smiling face." 

Colonel Lawrence of Arabian fame tells of an Arab sheik, who after hearing the western scholar recount the wonders revealed by the telescope, said : "You foreigners see millions of stars and nothing beyond. We Arabs see only a few stars — and God." Better a little learning with God than much learning without him. To be learned is good, the Book of Mormon admonishes us, if we obey the counsels of God. 

The second advent of the Savior is part of the plan of salvation by which men may become the sons of God. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established and dedicated by the power of God for the sublime mission of preaching the everlasting Gospel to prepare the world for the glorious second coming of the Son of God in judgment. 

god's purposes will be accomplished 

Conditions in the world today resemble a huge seething caldron. The perplexities and distress of nations are causing men's , hearts to fail them for fear. What is going to be done? Are God's purposes going to fall to the ground unfulfilled? No! I believe with all my heart that there is much work to be done in the world before the coming of the Lord. Using the marvelous discoveries of science, such as the radio and improved and faster means of travel, the Lord will grant to all his children the opportunity of hearing the Gospel for he wills that none of his children shall perish in ignorance of the plan of life and salvation. And he. will give the world a season of peace and rest in order that the Gospel shall be universally proclaimed. 

The world is an armed camp. It seems to be the time when kings desire to go forth to war. Their words, as the Bible says "are as smooth as butter" but deep down in their hearts there is war. Only the grace of God can save the world from a cataclysm that threatens to destroy civilization and bring despair to humanity. God grant that the statesmen in the nations who are pleading and working for peace shall have the power of God to be with them so that by their labors distress, agitation, disrespect for law and desire for war shall fade out of the minds of men. 

IN THE PROMOTION OF PEACE 

An able editorial in our morning paper yesterday set forth that the cost of crime in its social aspects and in its disregard for aw is a more tremendous problem than this depression and the high taxation under which the people are groaning. The Latter-day Saints should always be first and foremost in promoting peace not only in the hearts of their neighbors but also in their own hearts. The peace and good will we have for all men will go out  our communities and be a mighty factor in inclining warlike men to the paths of peace. 

EVENTS PRECEDING CHRIST'S SECOND ADVENT 

Two great and awful events are foreshadowed in St. Matthew, Chapter 24, and also in the 21st Chapter of St. Luke, namely the destruction of Jerusalem and the end of the world, which is the destruction of the wicked. Jesus wept over the people who perished in the flood, as he wept over Jerusalem, for he loves mercy more than judgment. The events which preceded the destruction of Jerusalem came with terrible suddenness. 

The prophecies in the chapters cited came by the will of God. The Savior said to the people of his day: "Ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?" There are many who say that the Lord delays his coming. A certain writer, in a skeptical spirit, said that the Apostle Paul was "obsessed" with the idea of the imminence of .Christ's second coming, because Paul said to the Saints of his day : "Let your moderation," that is meekness and a forgiving spirit, "be known before all men : the Lord is at hand." The skeptic ridicules this prophetical declaration and derisively says that nearly two thousand years have elapsed and the Lord is not yet at hand. But this fateful prophecy was fulfilled to the very letter, for ten years later the Lord was at hand to execute judgment on the Jewish nation. The sufferings of the Jews as detailed by Josephus, an eye witness, are certainly without parallel in human history. One million Jews perished in the siege of Jerusalem; uncounted multitudes were destroyed in other cities. It was a day of the Lord to that unfortunate people. The Jewish nation was destroyed. 

A DAY OF THE LORD 

A day of the. Lord is a period fixed by him to execute judgment upon the nations of the earth. There have been many such days. Such days are a foretaste of the coming great and dreadful day of the Lord. Before the destruction of Babylon, Isaiah thus prophesied to the people of that wicked city : "Howl ye : for the day of the Lord is at hand." Babylon's pride was humbled in utter desolation. It was a day of the Lord unto that corrupt city : his judgments were executed upon her. When the Savior was crucified the Western Hemisphere was visited by terrible tempests, thunder, earthquakes, whirlwinds and fire, resulting in a great and terrible destruction. This awful disaster killed many people. The survivors in one place cried : "Oh, that we had repented before this great and terrible day." It was a day of the Lord unto the Nephite people. 

I believe that the Civil War was a day of the Lord; so also was the World War and the epidemic of influenza. This worldwide depression is a day of the Lord, but no one of these days is that great and dreadful day of the Lord which is to come at the end of the world. , WAR A PENALTY FOR CRIMES 

A regiment of Northern soldiers stormed a Confederate fort. The young Federal commander fell mortally wounded outside the breast works. He was carried to a Southern hospital. His dying wish was that his sword be girded on his body and that his coffin be covered with his country's flag. He asked the fair Southern nurse to sing a verse of the Star Spangled Banner. Southern chivalry and Southern beauty gratified the requests of the Union officer. Then the dying soldier said: "War seems an awful thing. I suppose it isn't half so much a crime as it is a penalty for the crimes that bring it on." 

Why will not the people of the world engage in national and international repentance and humiliation? God is not responsible for our calamities. He has pointed out the means of escape. If we will turn our faces towards him and repent this depression will vanish like magic. Let the spirit of the Prince of Peace be firmly fixed in the councils of the nations and observed; then all talk about war will cease, and nations shall no longer learn war for their "swords shall be beaten into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks." 

WHEN THE GREAT DAY OF THE LORD COMES 

 Now brethren and sisters, the great day of the Lord is coming. It is going to be a terrible day. The wicked are going to be destroyed, and when I say the wicked I do not mean everybody outside the Mormon Church. There will be countless millions of people not of this Church spared because they are not ripe in iniquity and to them we will preach the everlasting Gospel and bring them unto Christ. When Jesus Christ comes there is going to be a glorious resurrection of the dead. The Millennium will be inaugurated and men in every land and every clime shall live in peace. 

THE MONSTER WE CREATE 

We ourselves are the creators, in a large measure, of our troubles. Once, so the old story goes, a medical student determined to build a monster out of the cemetery and dissecting rooms. He did so, and the thing assumed life. This horrible monster killed the student's bride and strangled his best friend. Is there a lesson in this for us? This disrespect for law, this encouraging the liquor traffic, this disregard for the Sabbath Day, indifference to business obligations, neglect of duty to God and country (we believe that no man can be a true Latter-day Saint unless he is a loyal citizen of the splendid republic in which we live and of which we are proud)— this monster which I fear we are building out of these grievous ills, will if not eliminated, strangle the youth of the land and destroy the flower of our manhood. May God help us all to work to sustain law and order and to protect our young men and young women. 

You fathers and mothers are not living for yourselves anylonger; you are living for your children. Then express in good deeds, in the making of good laws your desire to have your children protected by every safeguard, and ere long the Millennium, whose sun is already brightening the hills of coming time, will dawn upon us and peace and joy shall be in every heart, and the Redeemer shall reign from the rivers to the ends of the earth. War shall be abolished. God hasten that day, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

On one accasion the Master, speaking, as you will find it recorded in Matthew 7th Chapter, 21st verse, said "Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." 

LEARNING OF GOD'S WILL ESSENTIAL 

I regard it as the responsibility of every man and woman who has the holy privilege of dwelling upon this earth, provided by someone who gives us our life, our being and existence in this world, to learn the purposes of the Almighty in placing us here, to learn the will of God, and to do it. Apparently it is difficult, however, for men in this age to interpret the will of God. In past times it has been clearly understood; however, now there is misunderstanding and that will has been confused. No one will dispute the right of the Creator to determine the terms under which men have their right of living in this world and also in a world that is to come. Under our law we grant to any person who holds property the right to set up in a will the terms under which children or heirs may inherit. No matter how much we may disagree with the conditions we cannot inherit unless we subscribe to the terms of the will. So, no matter how much we ourselves may disagree with the will of the Almighty he has the right to set up the terms, and he that attempts in any other way to inherit shall be regarded as a thief and a robber. 

As I have said, the difficulty is that men do not understand the will. It is confused by the multitudes who seek to interpret it, one saying^ lo, this is the way, and another some other way; and so hundreds of institutions claiming to represent the Lord and interpret his will confuse the minds of men. I regard every word that Jesus Christ gave men as essential for their proper understanding of the will and purposes of the Lord. I believe that Jesus Christ preached at least a thousand sermons. He was constantly at work and that would have been no more than an average of a sermon a day. I cannot think of a single utterance that fell from his lips that is not important to the understanding of men in this day, as well as in the day when it was given. Unfortunately we do not have all these precious words. They were not recorded until years after they were uttered. These gospels were compiled many years afterward, and only out of the dim memory of 30 or 40, and in some instances 60 years, was the story that Christ gave men recorded. If we eliminate the duplication of that story, all that Jesus gave us, so far as it is recorded, could be confined to seventeen pages of the New Testament. This could be read in an hour and fi f teen minutes. 

And then there are the addresses of the apostles who made clear many questions concerning which men's minds are now confused and we have only fragments of these addresses. . 

AUTHORITY TO INTERPRET DIVINE WILL PROVIDED 

It was the design and the purpose of the Almighty to leave someone on the earth to interpret his will and to execute it. If you discover that the will of your father or your grandfather names you as an heir, you must secure your interest and enter into it in the proper way. You cannot subscribe to the terms of the will in the presence of your friends and then possess the property. You must go before a competent judge, one with the authority to represent the dead owner or maker of the will, and in his presence conform to the terms of the will, and he gives you the right and title in behalf of the original owner who has passed away. 

Just as this is true in the affairs of men it is also true in the things of God. There must be someone who can properly interpret and legally execute the will of God. It was clear in the minds of the Apostles that they were vested with the right and authority to represent the Master. And these twelve men whom he called and selected also had authority to execute his will. For this reason Paul said in Ephesians, Chapter 4, Verses 11 to 13 : 

And he gave some, apostles, and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ : Till we all come in the unity of the faith. 

Here was authority appointed to interpret the will, so that one should not say "I am of Paul," and another "I am of Apollos." Is Christ divided? No! He himself said once to those who followed him that if they were not one they were not his; and he earnestly prayed that they might be one. 

But we know that these apostles were taken by death, and we also know that they left no successors. I know that here is a controversial point. 

AUTHORITY NOT BESTOWED UPON SUCCESSORS 

I desire to repeat what I said in this pulpit August 12, 1928, and for twenty-five years have been proclaiming. (Brother B. H. Roberts used effectively a similar argument in 1931 in his radio address.) The men of that generation knew more, far more, about what Christ intended and what the apostles actually did than we know from the witness and testi of the Twelve themselves. I propose to show that the authority vested in the Twelve, with three of them at their head — Peter, James and John — was not bestowed upon successors. First of all, if Peter did go to Rome and establish a branch of the Church and appointed the first Bishop as his (Peter's) successor in the apostleship he would have told his associates of the Twelve about it. There is no record that he made any such reference. He did come back and tell them those very remarkable circumstances under which the Gospel went to the Gentiles and every other circumstance of importance, but of this more important matter — far more important for his associates in the Twelve to know about, that he had appointed a successor to himself to whom they must look — he made no such explanation and reference. So I reach the conclusion that the Twelve did not know or recognize these Bishops of Rome as Peter's successors. Neither did the people of the Church, because following the death of Peter the Church looked to the surviving apostles, and the last of these was John the Beloved, and though he was banished on the Isle of Patmos they still looked to him. They sought him and rescued him and brought him back, and he went from church to church and they heard his word as the very word of God. They did not recognize the Bishops of Rome as Peter's successors, but this John, the surviving apostle. 

JOHN RECOGNIZED AS THE LEADER 

The Lord himself did not recognize these Bishops of Rome as Peter's successors, but he did recognize his surviving apostle John who, as one of the Presidency, held the keys of the kingdom with his associates Peter and James; for upon the Isle of Patmos the revelations of the Lord were given to this apostle setting forth the will of God to the churches of Asia, and showing what should come to pass in the last days. 

Now do not understand that I do not regard these Bishops of Rome as good men in the Church of Christ. The first Bishop of Rome, a local officer, was Saint Linus who presided from the year 67 to the year 79 after Christ. He was succeeded by St. Cletus. He presided from 79 to 91 over that local branch of the Church. He was succeeded by Saint Clement, the first, who presided from the year 91 to the year 100 after Christ. They were faithful, good men in the Church of Christ, local officers but not Peter's successors or presiding officers over the Church. And this John outlived all three of these Bishops of Rome and was still upon the earth when they were dead and gone. The Church and God recognized him as the leader, the last of all the apostles, and no one sets up a claim, so far as I know, of authority coming to them from this John. It is necessary to dispose of him in order to bring these Bishops into a place of presiding authority. 

RESTORATION OF AUTHORITY ESSENTIAL 

This leads me to say therefore that it was essential, since those who had the authority to interpret the will of God and to execute it had passed away, to reestablish it upon the earth. It has been the proclamation of this Church now for more than one hundred years that the holy apostleship that was once given by the Master to the disciples of old has been restored. We proclaim that in this generation Peter, James and John did come to the earth and lay their hands upon the heads of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and bestowed upon them the holy apostleship with all of its rights and authority; and that every man who has been ordained an apostle in this Church, each and all of them, has received his authority in an unbroken chain back to those who held the keys from the Master himself; and further that one hundred years ago last month the Council of Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ was once again established in the earth. From that day until this they have been officiating with the right and the authority to interpret the will of God. These volumes that I hold in my hand, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, contain those precious things which Jesus once gave to men that were not recorded and have been given again. He has made clear his will by these revelations. 

I do not stand with my associates to claim that we are perfect men at all, but I know these men from President Grant down to the last of those who hold the holy apostleship, and I know they are men who have the love of God in their hearts. We may have our imperfections, but I know that the inspiration of the Almighty vindicates our claim. Those former apostles of Christ, most of them from the humble walks of life, were lifted up by the power of their holy calling to become giants in the earth and their words of wisdom are quoted and shall be until the ends of time. 

DELIVERANCE FROM PRESENT ILLS THROUGH OBEDIENCE 

So, my brethren and sisters, the men who have led this Church claiming the right of the apostleship have shown a wisdom and power beyond the ordinary man. If this generation had listened to them we would have been in an age of peace, happiness, and brotherhood long before this time. I want to say to you Latter-day Saints, so near as we are to men bearing this holy authority, many of us have eyes and see not, and ears and hear not. I call upon you to listen to these men whom God has appointed to interpret his will and to execute it. There is no peace or safety for the Church except in following their leadership. God has vindicated them in the past, he is vindicating them today, and thus we are custodians of the sacred will of God and have the right and authority to speak in his name. We have no motive in our hearts except the love of men. In our hearts is the same love that was in the heart of him who loved men so much that he died for them. We have in our souls a desire to bless and not to curse; and especially you Latter-day Saints, whether you be rich or poor, I want you to know that in the hearts of these men there is no spirit to disregard the humblest of your wants or needs, and that if you will listen to their counsel in this conference as they shall be prompted and inspired to call your attention to matters of vital import, the needs of the hour, and follow that counsel, I promise you in the name of the Lord deliverance from your own difficulties and peace and safety and ultimately salvation in the kingdom of God. May he grant it to us through obedience to his divine authority reestablished in the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

May the Lord grant me his spirit while I stand before you. 

I recall a very important passage in that matchless sermon, the greatest of all sermons — the sermon delivered by the Saviour of the world upon the Mount. This particular passage seems to me to be all inclusive. Said he — "Be ye therefore perfect even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." It seems to me that this comprises the entire sermon, but what a wonderful undertaking it is to become perfect even as our Father which is in heaven is perfect. That is the true goal towards which every true follower of Christ should strive. 

The difficulty in attaining his perfection is great, and sometimes people stand appalled at the very thought of it. Did the Lord really mean that we should become perfect? Do not accuse our Saviour of being guilty of folly or of teaching that which he did not expect to be followed. 

There are two things that are positively essential to the attainment of that goal for, without them, it would be impossible. The Lord knowing this endowed us with those two things that we might become perfect. What are they? They are: First, "The Free Agency of Man" and second, "The Knowledge of Good and Evil." They are fundamental with us. The Lord inspired the writer of the Declaration of Independence to put them into that wonderful document, wherein it declares that "all men are created equal and have been endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." These are the things that are essential to the attainment of perfection. 

Let no one think that they constitute perfection, nor that the freedom of will — the power to think, to determine and to do the thing one wills is perfect salvation. It is not. Nevertheless these two things are positively essential to the attainment both of perfection and salvation itself; but whether we shall reach that goal or not depends entirely on the use we make of them. If, in the exercise of our free agency, we choose the good and reject the evil, we are surely preparing ourselves for salvation; but if on the contrary we choose the evil and reject the good, we are just as surely on our way to damnation. 

These two things are God-given attributes. We inherited them from our divine parents. They are not the gift of any government — they are our inalienable rights with which we have been endowed by our Creator and we may not rightfully be deprived of them by any human power. 

Our first venture in the application of these attributes occurred in the Garden of Eden. The Lord planted a garden in the east of Eden with wonderful trees, among which were the "Tree of Life" and the "Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil," and we read : 

And the Lord GJod took the man, and put him into the Garden of Eden to_ dress it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man saying: "Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat; But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." (Gen. 2:15, 16, 17.) 

Partaking of the fruit of the "Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil" was forbidden; not because this knowledge was undesirable, for, on the contrary, it was very much to be desired for without it man could not become perfect; but because the Lord intended that man should exercise his own free agency with which he had been endowed thus causing him to assume the full responsibility for his own acts be they good or evil; and knowing the dangers that await all those who have thus been endowed, and the disaster that comes to those who fail, the Lord forbade him and gave him full warning that the failure of his venture, should it so be, might not be attributed to divine intervention. No! Adam and his posterity must now assume full responsibility. 

The sin of Adam consisted in yielding to the temptation of the devil and breaking God's commandment; therefore he and his posterity must suffer the penalty, which was death. "For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." (Romans 6 :23. ) 

What was the forbidden fruit? I do not think it was an apple, a pear or a peach, or anything else of that nature. The result of partaking of the fruit is set forth in Genesis 2 :22 : "And the Lord said: Behold the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil." And now lest he should put forth his hand and partake also of the tree of life and live forever in his sin he drove the man out of the Garden and placed Cherubim and a flaming sword to guard the way to the tree of life — another marvelous tree the fruit of which is eternal life which God in his unbounded love bestows upon those who love him and keep his commandments. 

Two wonderful trees bearing wonderful fruit — both are good and are designed for the perfecting of God's children. To me they appear as figures of speech. 

First: The tree of knowledge of good and evil, the fruit of which is implied in the name of the tree— the "knowledge of good and evil." This is a figure denoting the spirit of Christ or the light of Christ. 

In proof of this I quote the following scripture : 

In him was life; and the life was 'the light of man. 

And the light shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehended it 

not. 25' 

That was the true light which enlighteneth every man that cOmeth into the world. (John 1 :4, 5, and 9.) 

Again : — 

And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. (John 3:19.) 

And again : 

For behold the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good from evil. (Book of Mormon, Moroni 7:16.) 

Second: The tree of life, the fruit of which is also implied in the name of the tree 'Eternal Life.' God's greatest gift to man, but not while under the bondage of sin, for Cherubim and a flaming sword still keep the way to the tree of life. And what is this tree that bears such precious fruit? 

This figure denotes the "Love of God." 

"For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." (John 3:16.) 

Again in the Book of Mormon — -1st Nephi 11 : 25 — it is given definitely that the tree of life is the "Love of God." 

The fruit of the tree of life is sweet beyond all comparison. The fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil is bitter because God gave unto man that he should act for himself and choose between good and evil. This is the "bitter cup" of an earth life experience. We are told in II Nephi 2:15-23 that there needs must be opposition and that there could have been no progress had not Adam transgressed by partaking of the forbidden fruit. Let me read these enlightening paragraphs in full : 

"And to bring about his eternal purposes in the end of man after he had created our firs-t parents, and the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and in fine, all things which are created, it must needs be that there was an opposition; even ithe forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree of life; the one being sweet and the other bitter. * * * 

And now, behold if Adam had not transgressed, he would not have fallen; but he would have remained in the Garden of Eden. And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end. 

And they would have had no children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for thep knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin." (II Nephi 2; 15; 22; 23.) 

And furthermore the divine purpose would have been defeated for there would have been no posterity. Read also Paragraph 25 : 

Adam fell ithat men might be; and men are, that they might have 

joy. 

But what could the knowledge of good and evil avail us if we were not free to choose and how could we choose without that knowledge? There is no virtue in doing good under compulsion; and likewise there is no vice in doing evil under compulsion, and without knowledge of good and evil there could be no sin; for where there is no law, there can be no condemnation. Now, these two things must work together for the perfecting of mankind. 

In all this that I have said, and more particularly in what I have read from the revealed word of God, the divine purpose with regard to mankind is made as plain as day; namely that we might become "perfect even as our Father which is in heaven is perfect." But what a tremendous undertaking and what a perilous venture for mankind! To have a knowledge of good and evil and be endowed with freedom to act according to our own free will. 

I have read of the perils of the sea and have greatly admired those dauntless voyagers and early explorers who sailed out into the great unknown- — the boundless and uncharted ocean. These brave and courageous men were the heroes of my boyhood days. How they battled the winds and the waves and the mountains of ice, to say nothing of the mutiny of their ofttimes rebellous crews who being less courageous sought safety in return to their native shores. 

But these dangers and perils are as nothing when compared with those encountered by man when he launched his barque or set his sail for his voyage upon life's sea. 

"Paddling your own canoe" is a noble undertaking. Having our free agency and a knowledge of good and evil might be a simple affair if there were no opposing winds; but the devil came also with all his temptations, allurements and deceptive lies to entice men to sin and lead them away from God, for as already stated, there must needs be opposition and hence our problem is to exercise our free agency in choosing between good and evil which we are able to do by reason of the knowledge we have; but "A little knowledge is a dangerous thing" said the poet — "Drink deep or taste not the Pierian spring." 

In order to get a clear understanding of the dangers and perils of our earth life experience, let us consider for a few moments the havoc and disaster wrought upon mankind as a result of the conflict between the forces of good and evil. Think of the murder of Abel by his brother Cain and the curse of the Almighty that fell upon the latter and his posterity as a result; think of the wickedness of the world in the days of Noah: 

And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. 

And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth . . . (Gen. 6:5, 6.) 

So great was the wickedness that God destroyed the whole race excepting only Noah and his family by sending the greatest deluge the world has ever known. 

Consider Sodom and Gomorrah and the slaughter of the innocents in the days of Herod, and the massacres of Genghis Khan and of the Hugenots, on the eve of St. Bartholomew. Consider the "great world war" and the millions of lives that were sacrificed. 

Then think of all the murders, the adulteries and robberies — of the kidnapings and burglaries, and the evils of avarice and greed and all the whole category of crimes with which the world has been afflicted and all because men, in the exercise of their free agency under the temptations and deceptions of the devil, have chosen the evil rather than the good; have loved darkness rather than light. No wonder then that God who foresaw the whole drama of human life warned Adam of its dangers and perils, and of its trials and tribulations and finally of death, for said he : "In the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." 

Thus wickedness grows rampant in the world until the earth is ripe for the hour of God's judgment when "all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth." 

This is indeed a gloomy picture of the great conflict which is still raging in the world, and one might well be struck with terror if there were not a brighter side. One might well complain against the Lord who made him, for driving him out of his presence into a wicked world to shift for himself against an evil foe, even the arch-enemy of God, the adversary of our souls, unless at the same time he fortified him for the conflict and offered him the necessary protection. 

Let no one think that God has failed in this. No indeed! He has provided for our full safety and a successful voyage across the perilous sea of life. He gave us holy commandments and warned of dangers ahead. He was on our right hand and on our left. He pointed out the right way and he warned against the wrong way; but he used no compulsion; he let us choose for ourselves because his plan is to prove us and see "if we will do all things whatsoever the Lord our God shall command us." But what is most important of all, he gave us a Pilot who knew the reefs, the rocks and the shoals of the sea, who commanded the waves and the winds and they obeyed. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." (John 3:16.) All things, whatsoever the Lord, our God shall command, are embodied in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Therefore the path of safety is : Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, repent and be baptized everyone of you for the remission of your sins, and get the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands by servants of God who have been commissioned of Jesus Christ to perform these sacred ordinances. 

To believe in him is choosing the good — to repent is rejecting the evil, therefore; "Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you." (Jas. 4:7-8.) 

This is the proper use of these two divine attributes, the "Free Agency of Man" and the "Knowledge of Good and Evil," with which God has endowed us and which are positively essential to the attainment of our goal, — perfection. This is also the way to secure the remission of our sins and the gift of the Holy Ghost which is the spirit of truth that leadesh unto all truth, and if we get it and keep it by right living, it will surely lead us to the "Tree of Life" which is the "Love of God" the fruit of which tree is sweet beyond all comparison. "The Tree of Life" is also known as the "Well of living water springing up into everlasting life." (John 4:14.) 

Attaining to these heights means perfection. 

"Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." 

May the Lord safely pilot us into that haven of safety even the "Love of God" where perfection reigns supreme. — Amen. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers sang an anthem, "The Lord's Prayer," after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles S. Clark, President of the Cassia Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

FIRST DAY 


