Afternoon
06 04 1935


The fourth session of the Conference was held Saturday afternoon, April 6, at 2 o'clock. 

The Manti Choir furnished the music for this meeting. 

The hymn, "Zion Prospers, All is Well," was sung by the choir. 

Elder Joseph T. Finlinson, President of the Deseret Stake, ottered 

the invocation. . , 

"Let the Mountains Shout for Joy," an anthem, was sung by ttie 

choir. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

Of the Council of the Tzvelve Apostles 

This is an inspiring sight indeed. My soul has been stirred through the various sessions of this conference, it seems to me, to deeper depths than it has ever been sounded before. It has all been o-lorious. I plead now for the endowment of the Holy Ghost, to permit me to do and say that which would be proper and fitting upon this occasion. 

It has been my privilege, recently, to visit more than 1 have ever clone heretofore, the stakes of Zion. I have been deeply impressed in my visits with the people, and I have thought if I might have the liberty of the Spirit for a few moments this afternoon, that I may speak upon a very common theme, but pertaining to that which I think is perhaps one of the most potent powers in the world, that of the holy priesthood. 

THE ARMY OF THE LORD 

A few weeks back I was permitted to attend a stake conference. I was delighted with the numbers that came out to the various meetings on the Sabbath clay. But they held a priesthood meeting in that stake Monday evening. As I went back to attend that priesthood meeting, and looked into the faces of 778 men, I was thrilled; and as they stood and, under the direction of the capable leader, sang a hymn, it seemed to me that it virtually opened the gates of heaven that the Lord might pour out a blessing upon them. Seven hundred seventy-eight men, on a week-day evening, men who are busy making their honest living, but there assembled to better qualify themselves to offer a consecrated service to the Lord! I thought as I looked at them, this is a sort of a vision of the strength and power and virility of this Church; one stake out of the hundred and eleven, and there assembled this fine group of men. 

I thought: What is the army of the Lord? I looked at a segment of it. If 'I multiply it by one hundred and eleven I will get some glimpse of this mighty army— 90,000 men bearing the holy Melchizedek priesthood; 90,000 young men bearing the Aaromc priesthood. What a power! This is a Church of priesthood, 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and priesthood is a potent power, an ever-growing- ever-increasing- power,-not a wasting, not a wicked, not a destroying P ?r C ^ i a Sa T mg ' conserva tive, righteous power— yes, the power of God delegated to man, delegated to man in his weakness. Yes bu not in his wickedness. ' 

THE SOURCE OF THEIR STRENGTH 

These are men possessed of faith in God our Father and in Tesus Uinst, our Lord. These are men who put on the full armor of righteousness and have forsaken Satan, the arch enemy of God and a 1 hat he stands for. These are men who were cleansed by baptism by immersion, men who have received the Holy Ghost by ie C on of hands of those in authority; men unto whom the Lord has 

demS ion of Z^U^^ the salvation of men and the redemption of the world; men who have taken upon themselves and adopted every principle and order and practice of righteousness and *ZZSS££ PneSth00d * Wi "^ to g speak S a nd S act in 

greafSSSSffifSf ^ ° f d ° eS n0t COnsist entirel y of the ?trenV^ , named ' nor of m ^ activity; but their 

stak ^pSidTcv^nf^-^ 1 ^ P ° f " the member * ^ the 

^XSj^S^I? their f C0Un fj several quorums' of ers and the deacon T^thTj P" e sts with the bishops, the teachprs^nizSTs^ Wdenocs and with their supervisK sssri iVsT^ L Pre f dent °i s 

appointed as president nf tl, n t 6 , L ° rd Says of hlm tha t * s ding high priest ov er 1! W^ §h P n ^ th °° d °« the Church, or preat the heTd P tl e Ch „ eh Th 'T^ ^ o£ the Ch «reh, to stand 

Moses; behold, ere irvvhdo m /JJ tl0n , SayS ' to be Iike u » t0 ing all the gifts of fiTK i! I' * reveIator - a translator, havChurrh- "L . %  n ' ch he best « upon the head of the i_.nurcn, or as it says in another revelitinn  «TT„ t u- Z, 

dent of the Church, I have given the key' of X- V A ^ K^t 

always belong to the presidency of the Qiu^ch "° Wh ' Ch 

chJSrrai^r th r stands , at the head ° f the 

never has but „„„„„„? and the only man-because the Lord Power and ?SX. rftt^d t .° nCe '- Wh0 h °' dS the Sea1 ^ 

We know to whom to look, to him whom the Lord has appointed, and while he has given him two choice men to be his counselors, he says of the three, that they are appointed and ordained of God to stand in their position, and they are to be sustained by the faith and confidence and prayers of the Saints, and that these three constitute a quorum of presidency, and unto that presidency the Lord reveals the oracles -of the Church for the whole church. 

EVERY MAN KNOWS HIS CALLING 

While the revelation is definite in outlining the responsibility, duty and authority of this presidency, the Lord, in his mercy, has made the duties and responsibilities and authority of every other man that holds the priesthood, just as clearly defined as for the presidency of the Church. Every man in this Church knows his calling, knows his place, knows his authority. There is no schism, no division, no misunderstanding, because the Lord, after he has outlined all of their duties, sends them forth to labor with this admonition : 

Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. 

So this hundred and eighty thousand can be added to and multiplied, and with the Lord's way never develop any friction, any misunderstanding. The opportunities in this Church are boundless. This, to my mind, is the marvelous work and wonder that the Lord said should come forth, a provision whereby every man, true, honest; and of good report, may receive by divine interposition of hands the holy priesthood; every boy over twelve years of age called to labor, given a ministry, given authority to speak and act in the name of the Lord. Nothing else like it anywhere in the world! 

THE MAGNITUDE OF THIS WORK 

We are a people of priesthood in very deed. Some complain who are not of us, for we are a people that enjoy the same distinction as the ancient Saints that Peter spoke of, only perhaps we enjoy it to a greater degree. He said of the people : 

But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. 

No wonder that the Lord, when he had an organization and had followed it along, line upon line, revelation upon revelation, until Joseph the Prophet was authorized to lay the foundation of the Church — no wonder that he should say : 

Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say : Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. . . . 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants. 

ONLY ON PRINCIPLES OF RIGHTEOUSNESS 

No power can stop that. The way is perfect. The way of the Lord fails not. There are some imperfections, yes, in us, but the Lord has indicated that we should overcome our imperfections; and it has been preached in this conference how we should overcome our imperfections, and that the Lord expects it of us. 

President Clawson said it is a long way to perfection, a long" struggle, but he said we must be on the way. We must be struggling to that end, laying off every weakness, developing every inherent power, being added upon by the Holy Ghost, making our lives such that we have a right to officiate in the name of the Lord. That is the secret of our power. We cannot function, we cannot move the powers of heaven, we cannot bring to pass much righteousness, or any righteousness, T may say, only on principles of genuine righteousness that are in us, that we live, that we act, that we are what the Lord would have us to be. He has never lowered the standard. The standard that he gave through the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Prophet's father has never been varied or let down. The Lord said to him, when he made his inquiry in faith, believing: 

Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and* strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. 

Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work; 

For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

Remember, faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

What a preparation! What an army we have! What a light to the world, if Ave just followed and kept that high standard in our minds! There would be no boy that would drift. There would be no father nor mother but what would point their son toward the day when he should feel moving within him a spirit akin to the; spirit which moved in the Master when he was but twelve years of age. 

THE BOY OF TWELVE 

I have cherished the belief that it was not just a "happened so" that the Lord said that a clean, wholesome boy of twelve years of age should be permitted to receive the priesthood. I believe that it is  to him at that period of his life to feel that he would like to be up and about his Father's business. 

I think, bishops — and I speak with some degree of understanding-, because I have labored in such a council — I think, presidents of stakes, I think, fathers, and 'I think, mothers, there is no higher ideal that could be pointed to a son than : "Watch the day, make your preparation, be ready to speak, have a spirit like a Samuel, and when the Lord calls, say: 'Lord, speak; thy servant heareth.' " 

I know that the Lord wants us to have our boys, at twelve, in groups of twelve, presided over by sweet, clean, wholesome boys of their age. I know that he wants to have our boys, in groups of twenty-four, under presidencies of their own group, watching over the Church, to see that there is no iniquity, evil-speaking, or backbiting in the Church. 

THE LORD S WAY 

It seems so fitting to me to think that the Lord has made provision that the young man eighteen and nineteen years of age shall sit at the feet of the bishop and be instructed, with him as president; that he shall be taught, and that he shall go into the house of the Saints; that he shall preach, teach, exhort, and expound the scripture; that ninety-six men, older, maturer, receiving the holy Melchizedek priesthood, shall stand next to the presidency of the stake and be the standing ministry of the stake; and the seventy, by their divine appointment, shall lift up their voices in every land and clime, call men unto repentance and teach them the Gospel, and induct them into the fold of Christ. So beautiful, so perfect, so complete, is the Lord's way! 

HE WHO KEEPS HIS ARMOR BRIGHT 

Would there be any soul that wouldn't be inspired to keep his armor bright and to be available, and to offer his first devotion unto God? Blessed is the man that finds himself in accord with this. Blessed is the man that takes upon him the whole armor of Christ. Blessed is the man who stands, as the Lord says he should, and sustains the presidency of this Church with his confidence, with his faith, with his prayers, with his works. Happy indeed is he who shall walk in the light, and his feet shall follow safe paths, and his children and his children's children after him shall rise up and call him blessed. 

AN AWFUL CONDITION 

But oh, for those who turn their back upon the Lord — I think I might be permitted to read a few words concerning them. To me these are doleful words : 

Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against mine anointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I commanded them. But those who cry transgression do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves. 

And those who swear falsely against my servants, that they might bring them into bondage and death — 

Wo unto them; because they have offended my little ones they shall be severed from the ordinances of mine house. 

Their basket shall not be full, their houses and their barns shall perish, and they themselves shall 'be despised by those that flattered them. 

They shall not have right to the priesthood, nor their posterity after them, from generation to generation. 

What a condition! How do men ever reach that condition? The Lord says "Because they will not hear the voice of the Lord, nor ^/ the servants of the Lord, nor hearken to the words of the apostles and prophets, but every man walketh in his own light, according to his own way." 

God help us to be free from such a fate as that, and lead us to stand valiantly for the truth forever, and reveal to us, through his Holy Spirit, through the unspeakable gift of the Holy Ghost, his mind and will. God help us to be so pure, so virtuous and true, that the doctrines of the priesthood shall distill upon our souls as the dews froim heaven, now, henceforth and forever, I pray for you, for me, and for our children and our children's children forever, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

Soon after I entered upon my ministry as one of the Presiding Bishopric, I was requested to tear down a monument erected by the first pioneers. It did not appear to many of us, at that time, that that work being destroyed was a monument. Many of you, no doubt, remember the rock wall that surrounded part of the block east of us. I played around it as a boy and grew up under its shadows; but the full significance of it did not come to me until the task of tearing it down was assigned to me. 

As I witnessed the heavy sledge hammers break out the stones from the mortar, and saw the rock wall crumble, there came to me a picture of conditions that caused it to be erected. I saw groups of men unemployed other than the employment provided to keep them active and to help them feel they were doing their part to build a city. In this day we would call it work relief. I saw in my mind men gathering stones from the face of the earth, some burning rock for lime, others hauling sand, mixing mortar, and laying the rock and mortar into the wall. 

I pleaded with Bishop Nibley to let me move one of the buttresses, to stand it as a pillar for future generations to look upon. His answer was : "We have the temple wall, and I hope the time will never come when we tear that down. This wall has served its purpose." 

For the last two years it has been my duty to help pass upon the expenditure of government funds, and I could not help but think, while 

Brother Smoot was talking, of some of the accomplishments — if they can be called accomplishments — of some of the sons of those sturdy pioneers, who have been employed on relief work. 

I have made a few notes from which I shall call attention to a few things which have happened during the last year. 

In the State of Utah 26,000 families have been on relief, numbering 112,000 people, almost the population of Salt Lake City; 22 percent of the families of the State. They received $27 per family per month approximately; $10,000,000 of government money during the last twelve months, and about $2,000,000 from the sales tax of the State of Utah. 

Idaho has 17,000 families on relief, numbering 62,000 individuals, 14 per cent of her population, and they have received $24 per family per month, or nearly $2,000,000 for the third quarter. I haven't the record for the year. 

Arizona had 26,000 families on relief, numbering approximately 103,000 individuals, 24 per cent of the population, and they have received $20 per month per family, nearly $8,000,000 a year. 

The State of Utah furnished 8 percent; the State of Idaho 1/10 of 1 per cent; the State of Arizona 13.7 per cent. 

The counties in the State of Utah, 7 percent; the' counties of Idaho 7Yl percent, and the counties of Arizona nothing. 

Besides this we have had surplus commodities which were distributed, beef /pork, butter, lard, rice, beans, cereals, cotton in all forms, ready for clothing, for ticking; and mattresses have been made and distributed to the poor. 

One hundred twenty-six thousand of our cattle in the State of Utah have been slaughtered, and approximately 35,000 of them were destroyed as being unfit for food. The balance were canned and distributed for food as fresh meat. 

A week ago I asked one of the engineers inspecting the work we have been doing on this work relief what the actual value of the work accomplished was. I suggested it would possibly reach about 40 percent. His answer was : "I think 25 percent, and certainly not more than 30 percent, is a fair actual value." 

Then I looked back upon that wall which years ago I helped tear down. That wall, when built, had in it the souls of men who were living, not for today but tomorrow, and for generations yet to come. And when I have seen, during the past year, requests come in for two thousand, three thousand, four thousand dollars to pay men to go out on the ditch banks and clean weeds that our pride should naturally suggest we do without being employed to do it; and requests for funds to pay men to tear down trees that our fathers had planted and nourished, I have wondered sometimes if there are not some among us who have forgotten the spirit of our fathers, for I find few places where trees have, as yet, replaced those that have been torn down. 

When I think of these things, I recall the statement made in the Book of Mormon, recorded in Ether, 9th chapter, 26th verse : 

And the people had spread again over all the face of the land, and there began again to be an exceeding great wickedness upon the face of the land. . . . And there came prophets in the land again, crying repentance unto them — that they must prepare the way of the Lord, or there should come a curse upon the face of the land; yea, even there should be a great famine, in which they should be destroyed if they did not repent. 

But the people believed not the words of the prophets, but they cast them out; . . . 

Now, when the people saw that they must perish, they began to repent of their iniquities, and cry unto the Lord. 

And it came to pass that when they had humbled themselves sufficiently before the Lord he did send rain upon the face of the earth; and the people began to revive again, and there began to be fruit in the north countries, and in all the countries round about. And the Lord did show forth his power unto them in preserving them from famine. 

As I stand here and look through the windows of this building-, I see a monument. We know it as the seagull monument. Oh, how many times have I heard my father tell that story. I would like to repeat it, but time will not permit. He was a part of it as a boy in his tenth year, and I have never known him to speak of it without wiping the tears from his eyes as he mentioned that great miracle which prepared the way for increased faith and renewed determination. 

When I think of the troubles, the hardships, the trials endured by those who made it possible for us to live in this land, I wonder if we, their children and grandchildren, are growing up to believe, as they believed, that God will hear and answer prayers; that he will grant unto us every choice blessing; that to receive these blessings it is absolutely necessary that we live close to him and are obedient to his commandments, for his blessings will not come to those who turn from him and make light of his work. 

Encouragement comes to me in the fact that I can visit with you, my brethren, who have learned that the factor of safety in this Church is activity in the Church. The man upon whom the priesthood has been conferred who fails to magnify his priesthood is in danger of losing it and its blessings. He has not learned to know, or forgets, the spirit that comes with active work under the influence of the Spirit of God and he drifts under evil influences; and because we permit him to drift, and to fall away, and make light of the power which has been promised to him, and which perhaps he has exercised, we must pay also for neglecting our responsibility. 

 1 }\ m u j f Seems at times that we are deprived of blessings which rightfully belong to us, because we have failed in our duty to keep constantly in touch with those of our brethren upon whom the priesthood has been conferred, and who, because of evil influences, are being drawn away. b 

During this depression we made a survey and found that those who Have been tithepayers were not suffering as those who were not titheP u yerS " 1 ion SUtVey ° f three stakes ' with a total of twenty-one wards, showed 332 men over the age of 65— and the average age was 75 plus. But we found of that number only 26 were dependent. The balance were independent; as compared with the insurance table, from which we learn that of 100 men who start life at the age of 25, 1 is very wealthy, 

4 are independent, 3 are spending all they have, 36 have died, 54 are dependent at the age of 65. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that the greatest insurance that can come to man or woman in this earth is that assurance which God gives, the promise that to those who are faithful and keep his commandments shall come eternal life and happiness. 

God help us to understand his purposes. May we look back upon the work of our ancestors and remember that the actuating influence was faith. May we recall the blessings that came to them, and which have been passed on to us. Let us develop in our own soul a spirit of pride, that it may not be said of us that we must turn to charity, forgetting God and his promises. May we keep the commandments of God and magnify his work and humble ourselves before the Lord. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that he will look upon us in mercy, help us to understand his purposes fully and to labor in faith and diligence to accomplish them, that we may enjoy the blessings he has promised, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"O Divine Redeemer," was sung by the Manti Choir, Clara Johnson, soloist. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Tzuelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that the influence which has made this conference beautifully spiritual may guide me while I stand before you. I always feel that it is a great privilege to bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and I feel so today, although I confess that to stand before this great audience is to be, filled with human fear. 

THE THINGS THAT PERTAIN TO GOD 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, our Redeemer, and that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has been restored in these days, for our good and salvation, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I rejoice in this knowledge and in this testimony. Into this knowledge I can tie all the. affairs of my life. It gives life and joy to all the things that pertain to my life. 

I know that it is good to deal with the things of God. In this perplexing and perplexed world, in this world of depression of which we have heard much during this conference, there is no place in which we can find such comfort and peace, joy and forgetfulness, as in the things that pertain to God and his dealings with his children. To read the scriptures when one is depressed, to attend meetings, to go to the temple, is to bring peace and comfort into one's heart. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that when we so do, we are able to see more clearly the solutions of the affairs of life, and understand better how to meet the issues of this or any other day that may come into our lives. I know that God is guiding this Church. His will is overshadowing his Church. There is no chance in the progress of this great institution. As this Church goes about doing its duty, no mistakes are made that do not vanish in the great forward movement occasioned by the Spirit of God. 

NOTABLE EVENTS IN CHURCH HISTORY 

I have been thinking a great deal lately about the notable events that occurred one hundred years ago. I have had occasion to read the splendid issue of the Improvement Era dedicated to the memory of the organization of the first Council of the Twelve and the first Council of the Seventy in this dispensation. I trust that every Latter-day Saint home will secure a copy of this very notable publication of the Church, and secure them before the edition is exhausted. The Deseret News, likewise, has featured these events for the last several weeks. I have enjoyed reflecting upon the matters that these publications have set forth before us. 

May I say, in passing, that I hope all Latter-day Saints have' access to our own great newspaper, the Deseret News. I read it daily, and I am very glad — and it is indeed the truth as I understand it, — to say to you that no finer newspaper reaches my table, nor do I find a finer one as I travel about throughout the world. If we want our papers and magazines to be worthy of this great Church, we must sustain them loyally, not only with our good will but with our purses as well. 

A MOST REMARKABLE REVELATION 

One hundred years ago this spring great things happened in this Church; the greatest as an evidence of God's guiding hand over his Church, occurred on March 28th, 1835, just a few days more than one hundred years ago. On that day the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints received a revelation which is one of the most remarkable documents in the possession of man. It stands absolutely unique; there is none like it. There is no time here to discuss the details of this revelation; but it sets forth, in plainness and simplicity, the organization of the quorums of the priesthood; the mutual relations of the quorums to one another; the judicial system of the Church is foreshadowed and outlined; and there is a wonderful picture of the early history of the priesthood. I doubt whether any other such document, of the same small extent, the same few number of words, lies at the foundation of any other great human institution. 

This revelation, now known as Section 107, together with two or three other revelations, forms, as it were, the constitution of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, upon which we are building today, and upon which we will build until the Lord comes. It is so comprehensive in its brevity, so magnificent in its simplicity, that we have found no occasion, up to the present, to wish that it might have been more complete. 

BUILDING THE CHURCH OF CHRIST 

The thing that impresses me about this revelation is the manner of its coming. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was but a lad, he had the great privilege of seeing and conversing with the Father and the Son. Later, Moroni came to visit him. This visit was followed by a number of revelations; the plates were obtained; the Book of Mormon was translated. Then, suddenly as it seems to us, reading the history of the Church, on April 6th, 1830, all that which the Prophet had obtained was assembled, organized, crystallized in the revelation known as Section twenty in the book of Doctrine and Covenants; and the Church of Jesus Christ was organized and reestablished upon the earth. 

After the organization of the Church a series of great revelations came to the Prophet, until the great day of which I am speaking, March 28th, 1835. As I read human history I know of no other period of five years,save the years of the Savior's ministry, that is so rich in the presentation of new, eternal truth, as these first five years in the history of the restored Church of Christ. Elders were provided for in 1830. High priests were ordained in 1831. A year or two later the first presidency was organized. In the spring of 1835 apostles and seventies were called. Then all at once, as it were, God summed up all that he had given the Prophet and the people, and gave a simple revelation, Section 107 in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, to serve as another foundation stone for the building of the Church of Christ. 

That is God's way; that is the natural way. We men and women, when we build nations often attempt to write their constitutions in full at the beginning. The natural way is God's way, to receive here a little and^ there a little, until the time of ripening comes and completion is attained. 

BUILDING FOR ETERNAL LIFE 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, if we do not need that lesson today. W e worry a great deal about the days that come and go, about the depression, (and we have need to worry about it) and about many other things that give us concern. Yet I feel, frequently, that if we would go about doing our duties properly and fully, that somehow out of the small as _ well as the great experiences of our lives would crystallize the great thing for us, the thing that we most need. I cannot understand eternal life any other way. I do my duty, little by little, day by day, year by year, and then the Lord takes the deeds of my life, and as we use bridks in the building of a house, he builds for me eternal life. We may have forgotten that, at times, in our eagerness to accomplish. 

THE MANNER OF ITS COMING 

. While I was thinking about this revelation, I became, interested in the manner of its coming. I find in the History of the Church, that the first Twelve who had been selected in February scarcely knew what to do. It was a new calling to them. Finally they assembled and decided that they would leave their homes and set about to preach the Gospel, in accordance with instructions given through the Prophet Joseph Smith. On March 28th, 1835, as they were about to leave on their missions, they sent to the Prophet Joseph Smith a letter, the major part of which reads as follows ( It is signed by the Council of the Twelve, by, their clerks Orson Hyde and William E. M'Lellin) : 

We feel to ask of him whom we have acknowledged to be our Prophet and Seer that he inquire of God for us, and obtain a revelation, (if consistent) that we may look upon it when we are separated, that our hearts may be comforted. Our worthiness has not inspired us to make this request, but our unworthiness. We have unitedly asked God our Heavenly Father to grant unto us, through his Seer, a revelation of his mind and will concerning our duty the coming season, even a great revelation, that will enlarge our hearts, comfort us in adversity, and brighten our hopes amidst the powers of darkness. 

TWO IMPORTANT LESSONS 

I read in this request two great lessons : First, if we want something for this Church and Kingdom, or if we want something for our individual lives, we must have a great, earnest, overpowering desire for that thing. We must reach out for it, with full faith in our Heavenly Father 'that the gift may be given us. Then it would seem as if the Lord himself cannot resist our petition. If our desire is strong enough, if our whole will is tempered and attuned to that which we desire, if our lives make us worthy of the desired gift, the Lord, by his own words, is bound to give us that which we desire, in his own time and in his own manner. These twelve men, chosen witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ, prayed upon their knees that a revelation might be given to comfort them. They put themselves into this desire with all their strength and they obtained answer in this great revelation, on the very same day, from the mouth of tbe Prophet Joseph Smith. 

There is yet another lesson, which I think we need. In their request the brethren of the first Council of the Twelve said, "We feel to ask of him whom we have acknowledged to be our Prophet and Seer :" I wonder also if all of us do acknowledge our Prophet and Seer as these men acknow edged him. They declared for the generations to come that he was their prophet and seer, that he had the power to guide them and the Uiurch. 1 hey placed themselves, as it were, at his disposal, because of the inspiration that was his as the President of the Church. Perhaps we fail to receive some revelations in our day which are waiting for us because we do not recognize our prophet and seer with the same deep faith with which these first apostles approached the prophet of their day as they pleaded with him and with the Lord for a great revelation to guide and comfort them. b 

MISSIONARY WORK ESTABLISHED 

,1 7? ^T^i th ° Ught Hngers in m y mind - It was in this notable evelation that the missionary work of the Church was formally brganW hv,wA rSt w 6 111 ? is dis P ensa *ion. Missionary work had been done b) tins Church from the very beginning of its existence; and perhaps  before the Church was organized. But, when Section 107 was given, missionary work was formally established; the appointment and definition of the twelve apostles were clearly made; the labors and functions of the Seventies were equally clearly set out; and missionary work went forward, from that time on, as never before. 

VALUE OF MISSIONARY WORK 

The demand that the Church organize for missionary work involves the indispensable principle of sacrifice, which already has been touched upon here in this conference. There is no progress, no attainment worth while, no effort acceptable to our Heavenly Father, except upon the principle of the giving of one's self, in cooperation with the Lord, for thegreat earth purposes of the Almighty. What great results have come out of missionary work! There is probably not a person in a thousand in this great audience who cannot trace his pedigree in the Church back to the conversion of some ancestor, or of himself, by a missionary in the field. We are all products of our missionary work. 

The value of missionary work is not alone in the spread of the knowledge of the Gospel, and in the converts made. The effects upon those engaged in it are equally striking. The Council of the Twelve, during the last twelve months, have been engaged in a survey of the present condition of all living, returned missionaries in the Church. You stake presidents and bishops will remember the blanks sent out to you. This work is not quite complete yet. When finished it will undoubtedly be published for your information. I have selected from the record some few figures that seem eloquent of what missionary work does for the individual. 

THE EFFECT UPON THE MISSIONARY 

We have now in the office the records of 15,742' returned living missionaries, men and women. Of these, the stake presidents and bishops certify that 96 per cent exert a good influence among their fellows : 84 per cent are tithe-payers; 86 per cent keep the Word of Wisdom : 73 per cent — and remember that many of these returned missionaries are elderly people, unable to hold office — are holding office in the Church today. What is almost the most remarkable, in this day of depression, 92 per cent of all the living returned missionaries, are employed. The 8 per cent who are not employed, include the housewives and the older people who are unable to work. My estimate is that not more than 4 per cent of our returned missionaries are unemployed. 

I think these figures speak for themselves as to the good effects of missionary labor upon the missionary himself. True, the missionaries are a selected group. They are chosen because they are worthy; but even so, these figures are really eloquent in showing that missionary sacrifice and service strengthen the man and fit him better for work with the Church and for work among his fellow men. Indeed, would a man be successful in life, he would find missionary service of great help to him. 

I am grateful to the Lord for the great revelation of March 28th, ' 1835. May we all learn to know it, learn to understand it, live in accordance with it, and in all things be worthy of the great things that the Lord has given us, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

_ I humbly pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will direct me in the things that I have to say to you this afternoon. 

I am very fortunate in having the association and the friendship of the young men and women of the Church who have accepted a call to go out and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I say I am fortunate, because they represent a very splendid type of young people. They have good health. They are well educated for their age. They have good morals. They have an honest desire in their hearts to go out and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ in plainness and simplicity, and give of their time and their service in the interest of this great work. 

It is true that there are some exceptions, and those exceptions ought - to be as few as possible, because of the missionary himself, because of the Church, because of investigators and those who are friendly toward us. 

The missionary needs good health, because this type of life is a strenuous life, and those who are engaged in it ought to go out in as good physical condition as it is possible. They owe it to their mission, they owe it to their companion, they owe it to those who are furnishing the means, to be so equipped physically that they will be able to do the work assigned to them. 

As I say, the work is strenuous, and the mission field is not a place for invalids or those who have chronic ailments. There is a place for such people at home, where they may serve with greater satisfaction to themselves and more helpfulness to the Church, It is also our duty to keep our missionaries in good health when they are in the mission field, and to return them home, as far as it is possible, in good health and strength. 

It is true that our Heavenly Father blesses us and guides us and protects us, but it always seems to me that our Heavenly Father can be relied upon to protect and help us more if we do our part in protecting ourselves. When missionaries are careless and do not give proper care to their bodies, I am sure that they cannot be protected in the same way or to the degree that missionaries can who are careful and live according to the commandments of the Lord. 

Their education, I say, is good. It is on the average. They are young people, and as far as their youth will permit they have gone through the schools. We sometimes find criticism about our young peop e and the education that they have, but as long as we send young people of eighteen, nineteen or twenty years of age we cannot expect them to go out with college degrees. If we want the other type— and I think we do— we will have to send missionaries who are older to add to the splendid type of young people whom we now have. 

fhey have good morals, an essential thing in preaching the Gospel  Jesus Christ. Men and women cannot go out unless they have observed the standards of the Lord, and have kept themselves in a condition that the Lord can let his Holy Spirit dwell with them. Occasionally we do have men coming into our Missionary Home who are using tobacco and liquor, and if we know that they are using it when they come into the Missionary Home I am sure that the bishop or the parents or the president of the stake cannot use the excuse that they did not know that the young man was not keeping the Word of Wisdom. 

It seems to me that after one hundred years as a Church we ought to be able to maintain that standard with our people who preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Those who are willing to try and make amends, if it is necessary, and show forth a desire to live right, have a greater chance of making good and having God's blessing and protection than those who will not try to observe the usual standards that we have in the Church. 

Of course, it is essential that our missionaries shall be clean. No man and no woman will ever receive a testimony, or will ever succeed, who cannot observe the law of cleanliness in their lives. If there should be some who have unfortunately broken this commandment they must truly repent. God cannot bless them if they show no signs of repentance, nor a desire to do the things he wants them to do. 

We desire them to equip themselves spiritually, because without the Spirit of the Lord and a knowledge of the Gospel they hamper themselves and they hamper the work. The reason that missionaries receive a testimony so rapidly in the missionary field is because they devote their time, their energy, their thoughts and their prayers to finding out about God and his work, and doing the things that God wants them to do. And when they do that they receive, almost instantly, a testimony of the divinity of this great work. 

This is a time when it takes considerable sacrifice on the part of parents and of the missionaries to go out and preach, but they are making good at it, and they have faith in God, the Eternal Father. A young man in the ITome just a short time ago said to me: "Brother Taylor, I would like to say to you in all sincerity that I am grateful to my Heavenly Father, and I ain grateful to my parents, for the opportunity I have had of preaching the Gospel;" and you could see that he sincerely meant it, that he had made good, and was glad for his missionary experience. 

I said to him : "Your father and mother were just here. They will soon be back again." 

He replied : "Then I think I will go downstairs and wait for them. I haven't seen them for two years." 

He went clown to his room, and it wasn't long before the father and mother came and went down to their boy, and they were united again. I was glad I wasn't there. I am sure it was too sacred a thing for any one else to be present except the boy and the father and mother. 

A father said to me : "I am bringing my daughter to the Home. I have $125.00, maybe $150.00. I hope that will keep her until fall. That is all I have. Maybe by then I will be able to earn some more. I have 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

faith in God." And then he said this thing: "I would like to send my sister's son on a mission. He lost his mother when he was a child. He is a good boy and is twenty years of age. I hope that in just a little while I will not only have enough money to keep my girl, but I will have enough money to send my sister's boy out into the missionary field, because I want him to have the things that his mother would have given to him had she been alive." 

A boy, on the day that he was to leave for the train, kept coming to the desk and asking, "Have you had any word here for me?" 

I said: "No, we haven't had any word." 

He said: "I am expecting my father. I haven't seen him for a long while. I have been working here in the city, and he lives a longdistance from here. When I wrote and told him that I was going on a mission he said he would come to see me, and he hasn't come." It got later and later in the day, so he said : "I think I will go clown and get my valises and go to the train. It is time to leave." 

When he was downstairs, over the telephone came a long-distance call. I called him, and the father spoke to him about his mission. When he hung up the phone he repeated his father's words to me : "I am sorry that I cannot come. I haven't the money. I need it for you. Goodbye, boy, God bless you." 

He went downstairs, got his grips and went to the station. When he left he said : "My! It was good to hear the voice of my father." 

Such are the men and women, such are the boys and girls that are going out to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. May the Lord bless them and keep them, bring them back safely to us, and bless us men and women at home, that we will do our part and fulfil our calling. May God be pleased with us because of our love for him, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I am grateful beyond my power to say for the privilege that I have m lifting my voice in the defense of truth in the Northwestern States Mission. 

We have sixty-one missionaries in our mission. They desire that I express to their parents and those who are supporting them, their gratitude for the sacrifices that are being made to keep them in the ministry of the Lord, this in order that they can represent the Church to the best of their abi hty, and unfold the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the people who are living in that land. 

They are doing well. They are responding most nobly to the responsibilities that are resting upon them. They are growing in the work, ihey are growing m testimony and in a knowledge of the Gospel as it; has been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph bmith. Ihey are well, happy, and strong. It is a joy and satisfaction to labor with them, to feel of their spirit and attitude toward this great and noble work. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 87 

Those who have preceded me in presiding over the Northwestern States Mission have done outstanding work. I refer particularly to the work that has heen done by Apostle Melvin J. Ballard. The people of that land refer to him in terms of affection; as also to those who succeeded him in the presidency, Bishop Iverson, President B. S. Young and my immediate predecessor, William R. Sloan. These men are beloved by the people of that country and they have done a noble and outstanding service for the Church. 

I am happy to say that the people of the Northwest, as a rule, are generous in their feelings, and respond to the Gospel message when it is presented to them. As a result, many are coming into the Church. The newspapers also are generous. They solicit news items from day to day and give space in their papers that does credit to our Church. I am grateful to report these items for I feel that God's work is increasing and growing stronger and stronger; also that the testimony of these young men and women is being felt and understood by many people who are receptive to the truth. 

One of the happiest and most important things of life is to tell and live the truth. Never have I appreciated so much the significance of this thought as I do at the present time. I believe that one of the finest things that you and I can have is a testimony concerning the divinity of this work, and living the truth brings into life this testimony. I do not mean a testimony that comes to one upon the impulse of the moment, but I mean a living and vital testimony that gives us a feeling and the assurance that God lives and that he answers prayers. I also think that the greatest thought that one can have is a thought of God. It develops within us a spiritual power that brings us in close touch with the /Unseen. It provides creative character which, of course, comes from the deep fountains of spiritual life, and we find our deepest service in ministering to the spiritual sources of life. 

To me one of the finest heritages that has come to us is that quality of faith and testimony exercised by our pioneer fathers and mothers. I firmly believe had it not been for this abiding testimony, they never would have reached their destination, built their homes and established this western civilization. Many of them, as we know, were driven out into the cold, bleak wintry storms and 'vast wilderness with a hope and a belief and a testimony that God would protect and lead them on. They read the right, thought the right, and lived the right. They knew and felt this great work. They consciously and unconsciously reflected the very highest in spiritual life, and knew the power in the statement, "By their fruits ye shall know them." 

I wonder sometimes if we are maintaining the reputation that these pioneers established. I remember going into the great Bank of Montreal in the city of Montreal, Canada, with a check to be cashed. The usher of the bank, seeing me in the lobby, came to me. I handed him the check with the request that it be cashed. He looked at it and saw the name, "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," printed upon the face of that check. He motioned to the paying teller of the bank to come into the lobby and said to him, "Give Mr. Quinney the amount of money that this check calls for because it is all right." It carried the name of the Church and the reputation of the Church was known and felt by this gentleman. There was no question in the mind of this man as to the validity of the reputation of the Church or concerning my representation of the Church in that country. As a consequence of this fact, I was given the money I needed. 

"By their fruits ye shall know them" and the fruits of this great Church are known everywhere and are becoming better known. Prejudices of the people are lifting. We are able to approach many in this day that I am sure a few years ago we would have been unable to interest in our work. So I really feel that it is an honor to be called into the ministry and unfold to the best of my ability the saving graces of this Church. 

Our pioneers built well. There is no question in my mind as to whom they worshiped. I feel that their conception of God was definite and fixed in their souls. It is said "that poets worship beauty, scientists worship truth, every man of honor worships right. That is, the good, true, and beautiful stand above us calling out our adoration, and all the best in us springs from our worshipful response to their appeal. But the impulse to adore is never fulfilled until we gather up all life into spiritual unity and bow down in awe and joy before God. That is adoration glorified, worship crowned and consummated. And the only God man can adore with awe and joy is personal. No impersonal thing is worshipful, however great a thing may be it still lies beneath our soul. No abstract idea is worshipful, we are still greater than any idea that we can hold. Only God, thought of in personal terms but known to be greater than any terms which human life can use, is adorable. Men have believed in him because worship is man's holiest impulse." So the impulse to worship the true and the living God permitted these worthy pioneers to come into this land where they could give vent to their feelings and glorify God. As a result, and as above stated, they have left for us, it seems to me, our finest heritage, that of a testimony of the divinity and truth of this work. 

I want to leave with you my humble testimony, that I, too, know that God lives, that he answers prayers, that he used Joseph Smith as an instrumentality through which to restore the saving graces of his Gospel. I pray God to bless us with an increased and abiding testimony, with a full appreciation that we are engaged in his work, that it is fine, that it is good, that it is satisfying, and that it is true, and may we be thankful that we are privileged to bear this message of testimony from time to time to the convincing of many souls to a knowledge of God and his truth, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Manti Choir sang the anthem, "Inflammatus," solo by Mildred Jensen. 

Elder Thomas W. Richards, President of the Malad Stake, offered the closing prayer. 


