Morning
07 04 1935

The public were invited to witness the nation-wide broadcast of the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, which preceded the fifth session of the General Conference, beginning at 9:30 and continuing until 10:15. The doors of the Tabernacle were closed at 9:20 and remained closed until the completion of this 45 minute broadcast. 

When the time arrived for commencing this program the Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were crowded, every available space being occupied. Amplifying equipment having been installed on the Tabernacle grounds and in the large Assembly Hall on the Temple Block, thousands of people assembled on the grounds and in the Assembly Hall, where they listened to the musical program and the proceedings of the Conference as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The following program of choral and organ music was broadcast by radio throughout the United States and Canada, over the Columbia Broadcasting System, originating over Station KSL : 

"The Heavens Resound" (Beethoven) — Choir. 

"The Lost Chord" (Sullivan) — Organ. 

"For the Strength of the Hills" (Stephens)— Choir. 

"Toccata in F" (Widor) — Organ. 

"Easter Music" (Stephens) — Choir and Mrs. Edith G. Young. 

"Unfold Ye Portals" (Gounod)— Choir. 

"Swing Low, Sweet Chariot" — Organ. 

"The Morning Breaks" (Careless) — Choir. 

"Meditation" (Grieg) — Organ. 

"Rise Up, Arise" (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

The Tabernacle Choir was conducted by Professor Anthony C. Lund. Organ accompaniments and organ solo presentations were played by Frank Asper. 

Following this broadcast, Elder Wilford W. Warnick, President of the Timpanogos Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, in common with you I have enjoyed the quiet, the peace, and the hope of this conference. It is my earnest prayer — which I hope shall be fortified by yours — that I may say nothing today which will mar that spirit, but on the contrary will help to build it up. 

TRIBUTE AND COUNSEL TO CHOIR 

I should like again to pay tribute to the beautiful music which we have had during this conference — the Singing Mothers, the Manti Choir, the Hawaiian Chorus, and now this morning our wonderful Tabernacle Choir. I can assure you that perhaps nothing we have ever done in the Church has been more effective in bringing before the people of the world a message of peace, of good will, of faith, and of hope, than the work of this choir. They, combined with the organ, speak with a spiritual authority which is felt by all of those who listen; and I am sure you pray with me that their work may be continued, that their ardor may be increased, but above and beyond all that individually and collectively their spirituality shall be built up. Because I wish to tell them — and to tell you — that their message will travel to the ends of the earth, as the Lord designs it, only if they shall live in accordance with the laws and the principles of the Gospel. It need not be thought by any of them that he is but one of a number, and therefore his life does not count; they live under as strict a law as the old laws of Moses, where the ills of one were visited upon the whole body. 

So, to each and every one of them I lend not only encouragement, but I give to them a word of advice and caution : They must live in accordance with the principles of the Gospel if they are to perform the mission to which they are called. 

SUSTAINING GOVERNMENTS AND LAWS A FUNDAMENTAL PRECEPT 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to speak upon a matter than which nothing is. nearer to my heart in this world. I want to speak of it in soberness, in sincerity, and with all the earnestness I can command. The matter about which I wish to speak is the Constitution of the United States, and the Government provided for and set up under it. 

The Twelfth Article of Faith reads : 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, bonoring, and sustaining the law. 

That is one of the fundamental precepts of our faith. 

GOVERNMENTS INSTITUTED OF GOD 

At a general assembly held in Kirtland on August 17, 1835, the Saints adopted a series of statements regarding human government. They are wise and as far-reaching as the Articles of Faith themselves, and I wish to read some of the paragraphs therefrom. They were given after the mobbings, the plunderings, the assassinations of and part of our experiences in Missouri. They were uttered by a people, who, judged by human standards, had every reason to feel that their government had failed, and that they might not hopefully and successfully look thereto for their protection. The first paragraph of that Declaration (Section 134) reads as follows: 

We believe,, bat governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man. . . . 

ACCOUNTABLE TO THE LORD 

Thus is'cleclared in this first clause the origin of human government. The paragraph continues : and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them. . . . 

Therefore, every man who takes on a responsibility by virtue of assuming office in worldly government, is responsible to the Lord" himself for the way in which he carries it out. I am sure there is here something to give pause to every Latter-day Saint who seeks the franchise of his fellow citizens in order that he may rule over them. This paragraph continues : 

both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

So that, whether a man takes office* in the legislature, or in the executive branch of government, or in the judicial branch, he becomes, by virtue of that assumption of office, responsible to the Lord himself under the decrees of this Church. 

Paragraph No. 2. reads: 

We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual. ... 

And I ask you to note the declaration which now follows these words, a declaration, I repeat, made after the mobbings and plunderings of Missouri, when apparently government had failed. A declaration made after the people had tried the United Order and had not been able to live up to it, made after they had been rocked and torn by' hardships and persecutions, against which they should have been protected. The ] laragraph continues : 

will secure to each individual, the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. 

These are the great basic elements of free, ordered society and government. 

TWO DECLARATIONS OF EQUAL WISDOM 

May I place here alongside this Declaration of our own people, that well-known and inspired utterance of those who framed the Declaration of Independence: 

We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these arc life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. 

These two great declarations, the one of the Church and the other of the fathers of our country, stand side by side, equal in their wisdom and in their present timeliness. Each was born of oppression and persecution. 

FREEDOM OF WORSHIP 

The 4th paragraph of that Declaration adopted at Kirtland reads as follows : 

We believe that religion is instituted of God; and that men .re amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others. That, my brethren and sisters, is fundamental with us. We arc universal in our tolerance and in our respect for the opinions of others. We feel we may rightfully ask for the same consideration for ourselves. This also was announced in our Articles of Faith, the eleventh article reading : 

We claim the privilege of. worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. 

The final clauses of the fourth paragraph of the Declaration read: 

But we do not believe that human law has the right to interfere in prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion : that the civil magistrates should restrain crime but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul. 

I will ask you to carry those last clauses in your mind until I reach a later portion of what I hope to say. 

WORLD-WIDE CHURCH 

The 5th paragraph of this great Declaration reads as follows : We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments. . . . 

In that Declaration the Church visualized not alone an existence here in the United States of America, but it visualized an existence in all parts of the world, as the Church has grown to be and to exist, and it laid down the rule of conduct by which all Latter-day Saints should be guided, no matter where they live or to what flag they owe allegiance. Thus the Church visualized its great destiny— a world-wide Church among all nations. 

PERSONAL AND PROPERTY RIGHTS PROTECTED 

This paragraph continues: 

And that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience. 

I ask you to hold in mind that sentiment and that principle also. I shall read only one more of the twelve paragraphs of the Declaration; I now read the 11th paragraph: 

We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is> inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe (hat all men are justified in defending themselves, their friends, and property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief n frorded. 

The foregoing were the declarations of this people on the principles underlying human government; this people still adheres to these principles. 

LOYALTY TO RULE OF LAW 

I pass now to the divine word regarding our own government. 

While the Saints were still undergoing suffering in Missouri, and after they had suffered much from the mobs who were driving them from their homes, and mis-treating and mal-treating them, the Lord gave a revelation to the Church, in the course of which he said (I am reading from Section 101 of the Doctrine and Covenants) : 

And again I say unto you, those who have been scattered by their enemies it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress, and redemption' by the hands of those who are placed as rulers and are in authority over you— 

Notwithstanding all their sufferings, the Lord directs that they shall still have a loyalty to the rule of law. The revelation continues : 

According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all ilesh, according to just and holy principles; 

That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him . . . 

DIVINE WORD REGARDING HUMAN GOVERNMENT 

The Lord is here declaring the scope and fundamental principle of the Constitution of the United States : 

That every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. Therefore it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose. 

To me, my brethren and sisters, that statement of the Lord, "I have established the Constitution of this land," puts the Constitution of the United States in the position in which it would be if it were written in this book of Doctrine and Covenants itself. This makes the Constitution the word of the Lord to us. That it was given, not by oral utterance, but by the operation of his mind and spirit upon the minds of men, inspiring them to the working out of this great document of human government, does not alter its authority. 

RELIGION AND THE CONSTITUTION 

The first Congress of the United States, when it began to consider the operations of the government under the Constitution, became impressed that there was not in that document, as originally drawn, any so-called Bill of Rights; there were in the document no provisions which should keep the people free, which should protect them in their daily lives, nor guarantee to them the great liberties which the Declaration of Independence declared were the heritage of men. Accordingly this Congress proposed to the original states the first ten amendments to the Constitution, and it is significant, I am sure, of the influence which the Lord was at that time bringing to bear upon the minds of men, that the very first clause of the very first amendment declared : 

.. . Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. Thus the very first thing which our fathers sought to secure for themselves and for their posterity was freedom to worship as they wished. I do not need to call to your minds the trials and persecution which this people have suffered in the past, in order to bring home to you the conviction that nothing else in the great document, the Constitution, is so important to this people as is this guarantee of religious freedom, because underneath and behind all that lies in our lives, all that we do in our lives, is our religion, our worship, our belief and faith in God. We need the Constitution and its guarantees of liberty and freedom more than any other people in the world, for, few and weak as we are, we stand naked and helpless except when clothed with its benign provisions. 

ENDEAVORING TO ESTABLISH MODERN PAGANISM 

So well known is this, so thoroughly is it understood that the dictators of the world are now seeking to take hold of the religion of the people over whom they rule. They are doing away, or trying to, with the churches of Christianity. They are trying to establish, even in great and progressive nations, a modern paganism. That can never be done under the Constitution of the United States, and that is why its protection and preservation come to us as one of the most vital duties we can have in life. 

FUNDAMENTALS OF CONSTITUTION GOD-GIVEN 

One of the most important things that we can do for the Church is to stand behind the Constitution of the United States. That does not mean, and no reasoning person would suppose that it meant, that that Constitution may not from time to time be changed as the needs of the people would seem to require. But it does mean that that Constitution should be changed only under the urge of great necessity, and then only in accordance with its great underlying concepts. It does mean that the great fundamental elements of the Constitution are God-given, for he said so. It does mean to me as an individual that the Constitution of the United States and my adherence to it and support of it is a part of my religion. 

I have about the Constitution that same sort of conviction that I have about the other doctrines that we are taught, for I believe its precepts are among the doctrines of the Church, and I believe that the Lord will change and modify from time to time those details of its provisions which are ancilliary to its great principles; he will cause us — those who live under it — to modify it in accordance with our needs; but the fundamental principles of it we may not sacrifice. 

ELEMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF CONSTITUTION 

We may not abrogate the great principles that the majority must rule; that we shall live under a written Constitution; that we shall be governed by people chosen by the free, untrammeled, and uncompelled will of the people; that there shall be an absolute guarantee of our per liberties, as also of our rights to property, and to the protection therefor; that there shall continue freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of religion; that the punishment of common crime and misdemeanors shall remain the function of state, county and municipal government; that there shall be three great and wholly independent branches of government— the executive, the legislative, and the judicial; that the determination of the constitutionality of legislative acts shall continue in the judiciary; that no power shall exist in one branch of government to delegate its power and authority to another; that the rights and power of the executive branch of the government shall continue to be merely that of executing the law; that the federal government shall continue to guarantee to every state a republican form of government. If time permitted I could mention other principles of like importance to these. 

NO DICTATORSHIP IN AMERICA 

A proper understanding of the Constitution of the United States makes clear that, under it, there is no room in America for a dictatorship. There are those in subordinate positions in government, there are those among us, citizens of this country, who are looking forward to some sort of overturning which would make opportunity for the establishment of some other sort of government than that provided by our Constitution. It is my faith and belief that these overtures, these revolutionists, are but few, but they are attacking the citadel of our liberties, they are attacking the guarantee of the freedom of our worship, and the Latter-day Saints can not be numbered among them. 

IN NEED OF CONVICTIONS 

Convictions are the great need of the people of the world today. Men need to be convinced of something. They need religious convictions, and it is not, in the first instance so important what those convictions may be, looking to the peace and ordered condition of the world. 1 he people of the world need convictions regarding righteousness in civic and political life; they need convictions on the eternal verities of right and wrong. Great masses of people everywhere in the world are wandering aimlessly in their religious, in their intellectual, in their social, and in their civic lives, without any guiding principles; "every wind of doctrine" strains the moorings that have held them for generations. 

This must be changed. 

OUR OPPORTUNITY AND MISSION 

This great audience is a demonstration that among the Latter-day Saints there still remain convictions in all of the fields of human endeavor and activity which I have named. It is our opportunity to make of these convictions our glory. It is our opportunity and our duty to make of these the leaven that "leaveneth the whole lump." In so far as we fail to do this, we shall fail in the mission which the Lord gave to us, and shall not reach the destiny which he has set for us. 

My brethren and sisters, this nation of ours has a record of achievement behind it that we may not lightly cast aside, for it is builded upon the experiences of men during the ages that are past. Consider our growth and our development, consider what we are, consider how we have come to be what we are, contemplate this government of ours, this heritage which our fathers bought with their lives and bequeathed to us, and then do not lightly thrust aside the great fundamentals of our national life for something yet untried. 

May the Lord be with us at all times, under all circumstances; may he bring into our lives a burning desire to uphold the Constitution, a living faith in its inspired origin, that we may always be found among those who shall support it to the last breath. May God give us this I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

We know that there is a God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them; 

And that he created man, male and female, after his own image and in his own likeness, created he them; 

And gave unto them commandments that they should love and serve him the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being whom they should worship. 

But by the transgression of these holy laws man became sensual and devilish and became fallen man— (Doc. and Cov. 20:17-20.) 

MEANING OF CIVILIZATION 

A few weeks past a distinguished author and lecturer spoke in this city, before a certain group, on the question whether or not our civilization is to endure. This is a question today troubling 'the wise men in the nations. Perhaps I do not know just what this term means. I know what the dictionary says; that civilization is a state of social and religious culture characterized by relative progress in the arts, science and statecraft, and also in spiritual advancement. 

There can be no true, perfect civilization where there is not faithful obedience to the commandments of God. When the dictionary says that civilization is relative progress, it may mean— I do not know— that there has been a gradual progression in matters of civilization from the beginning of time until now. If that is the meaning, then I cannot accept it as an historical truth. 

I sincerely believe, and for that reason I have read these words from the revelation given at the organization of the Church, that in the beginning God established a perfect civilization, for he gave to man his laws and called upon him to obey his commandments. But as we know and as the Lord declares in what I have read, man transgressed these divine laws, refused to hearken unto these commandments, departed from the ways of the Lord, and became sensual, devilish and fallen man. That is  condition in which this world finds itself today, and the condition in which it has found itself since the fall of man. 

Civilizations, so-called, have risen and have fallen again, and strange to say, without exception it has been at the time of their greatest culture, their greatest progress in arts, in science and statecraft, when the crumbling began. We have before us the history of Egypt, of Assyria, Babylon, Greece, Rome, and other nations of the past, the glory of which has departed, each in turn. We cannot say that their civilization was not great, as civilization is usually measured by fallen man, for these nations have left their stamp upon the modern world, and especially so> is this true of the great nation of Greece, when it comes to the arts and some of the sciences, and yet the glory and the grandeur of that nation, like others, through the transgression of 'divine laws, have passed away. 

FUNDAMENTAL THINGS ENDURING 

Now, I would not for a moment have it understood that anything that I have in mind to say will be in conflict with anything that we have heard at this conference. I have no such intention, no such thought, nor do I believe that to be the case, for I believe that the fundamental things in our government, in the Constitution of the United States, are here to endure. Moreover, I believe that it is the business and responsibility of Latter-day Saints to uphold and sustain these sacred principles which bear the stamp of approval of God himself, and we should be loyal unto them. I am, however, going to say this, boldly— The present world civilization shall not endure, for God has said it: It is bound to pass away. May I also say I care not how soon that comes. 

THE DECREE OF THE LORD CONCERNING THE WICKED 

When I say this, do not misunderstand me. I do not say nor believe that things which are good will pass away, but because man has become sensual, devilish and fallen man, and because he will not hearken to the voice of inspiration and revelation from God, and walk in righteousness, keeping his commandments, the decree has gone forth that all man-made covenants, obligations and governments shall be changed and come to an end. Of course, I can only treat this theme briefly, but I desire to read to you a few of the words the Lord has given for our guidance in the dispensation in which we live. Let me read, beginning in the revelation where Elder Wilford W. Richards left off yesterday : 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they" shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I, the Lord, have commanded them. . . . 

Wherefore, fear and tremble O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled. 

And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

Yea,, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure — Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear : 

Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; 

And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth. 

And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people. 

I was asked, not long ago, if I could tell when the Lord would come. I answered "Yes," and I answer "Yes" now. I know when he will come. He will come tomorrow. We have his word for it. Let me read it : 

Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming. 

Now, there is a discourse sufficient on tithing. 

For after today cometh the burning— this is speaking after the manner of the Lord— for verily 1 say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of Hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon. 

THE GREAT DAY OF THE LORD NIGH 

So the Lord is coming, I say, tomorrow. Then let us be prepared. Elder Orson F. Whitney used to write about the "Saturday Evening of Time." We are living in the "Saturday Evening of Time." This is the sixth day now drawing to its close. When the Lord says it is today until his coming, that, I think, is what he has in mind, for he shall come in the morning of the Sabbath, or seventh day of the earth's temporal existence, to inaugurate the millennial reign and to take his rightful place as King of kings and Lord of lords, to rule and reign upon the earth, as it is his right. 

Satan has usurped power and authority from the beginning, and men have followed him, as the Lord declares in that which I have read to you; ibut his day is drawing to its close, and the day, as we frequently sing, is dawning for Israel, for Zion, for the universal establishment of truth! when the earth shall be cleansed of all impurity, all wickedness, for when Christ comes that which is wicked cannot remain. 

Again I read : 

Hearken ye, for, behold, the great day of the Lord is nigh at hand. 

For the day cometh that the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven- the heavens shall shake and the earth shall tremble, and the trump of God shall sound both long and loud, and shall say to the sleeping nations : Ye saints arise and live  ye sinners stay and sleep until I shall call again. 

Wherefore gird up your loins lest ye be found among the wicked. 

Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to*repent, both old  young, both bond and free, saying : Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord; 

For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, and ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying — Repent and prepare for the great day of the Lord? 

Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words— Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come? 

And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying : Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you. 

ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gather eth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not! 

How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory and honor and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an everlasting salvation, but ye would not! 

Behold, the day has come, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation is 

full. 

Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God. 

In that great revelation on war, (section 87) the Lord has told us that beginning with the rebellion of South Carolina great destructions would come, and they would continue to be poured out upon the earth until the time should come when the decrees of God would be fully consummated, finished, and he would make an end of all nations. I look for that to be fulfilled and Christ will come to reign; his kingdom will be established on earth as in heaven, as he has taught us to pray: "Our Father who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name: Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." I pray for that time to come. 

1 plead with the Latter-day Saints to stand firm and faithful in the discharge of every duty, keeping the commandments of the Lord, honoring the priesthood, that we may stand when the Lord comes, — whether we be living or dead, it matters not, — to be partakers of this glory. Remember, when this time comes this earth is to be cleansed of its unrighteousness, and the wicked shall be as stubble and shall pass away. 

. TRUE CIVILIZATION 

Just one more thought : Do you think that if we were truly civilized, which means to be governed and guided as the Lord would have us guided, by his commandments, and as he has called upon us to conduct ourselves, do you think it would be possible or necessary for the legislature of this State to meet for sixty days and more, wrangling and contending over methods how and by whom liquor should be dispensed within the State ? I want to tell you there would be no need for such legislation, GENERAL CONFERENCE  need for such laws, for every man would love to obey the law of God; would keep his commandments, and we would not need to place upon the statutes measures of this kind endeavoring to control and direct us because we haven't sense enough to act wisely and justly through our agency in and of ourselves. 

May the Lord bless and guide us in truth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation sang the hymn "Praise to the Man Who Communed With Jehovah." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

To look at this vast congregation, and realize the purpose of heart that has brought them together from various parts of the Church and of the world, is an inspiration that fills my soul. It is one of the thrills of this great conference. To sit here and listen to the beautiful musical program that has been rendered, broadcast to the world by this great Tabernacle Choir, and to consider how that man, through the blessing of God, has been able to devise the means to make this possible, is another great thrill, and leads me in my feelings to exclaim, with the poet : 

For all thy mercies, O my God, 

My rising soul surveys; Transported with the muse I'm lost 

In wonderment, love and praise. 

REJOICES IN BLESSINGS OF THE CONFERENCE 

In the things which I have heard, and felt, with you, inspired of the Lord through his Holy Spirit, in the various sessions of this conference, I have had a great thrill. To listen to the beautiful music — for that which we have had during this conference has been exceptionally good and inspiring— and to hear the fervent prayers that have been offered, the sincere testimonies that have been borne, and the excellent advice and counsel that have been given — all has a tendency to make my soul rejoice. 

Not the least of the thrills that have come to me is the fact that our faithful Hawaiian brethren and sisters, ten in number, have come all the way from Hawaii to join with us in worshiping the Lord. in this conference, and to hear them sing in their native tongue and to feel the spirit of it. God bless these people, that their stay with us may be pleasant and that they may have a safe return home. They are of Israel. 

UNDER THE CURSE 

I have thought how that the results of the curse, through the fall of our first parents, rest upon mankind. These, our brethren and sisters 101  Hawaii, and the people whom they represent, are under the same curse. My heart goes out in love to that people. Their blood is as red and pure as ours. Their hearts are tender. They are an affectionate people. They are a music-loving people. They have hearts prepared to receive the truth of the everlasting Gospel. We do not have all of the best of everything. They are deserving of all that the Lord has given them. 

I love that people. I believe that all that is needed is for me to become better acquainted with them, to labor with them, in order to love them as they were loved by President George Q. Cannon and by President Joseph F. Smith. We all know how they loved the Hawaiian people. They served them faithfully, in the early life of this Church, as missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and their names will never be forgotten by that people. 

HAS LOVE FOR THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I love the Latter-day Saints. Is that going too far? Am I sure of what I say when I say I love them. I love them because they love what I love. I heard that quoted by Sister Kate C. Jensen this morning. It is beautiful. It expresses my thought. I love the Latter-day Saints because they subscribe to the same principles that I have subscribed to and are trying to live up to those principles. We have the evidence of it in your attendance here today, in the various sessions of this conference. We have the evidence of it in the statistics which were read to us in the opening session by President David O. McKay, showing the accomplishments of this work, of the Lord's people. That means you, brethren and sisters of the Church — evidences of your faithfulness, your love of the truth, and your integrity to the faith. 

HAVE NOT FORGOTTEN GOD 

The tithes and offerings, as I remember, more than $3,000,000.00 in one year, and that in times of great financial depression, — contributed by a people who are not rich, who are not wealthy! God has chosen the weak things and the poor of the earth, and has prepared their hearts to receive the Gospel, and of such are the Latter-day Saints; Hut with their mite and meager earnings they have not forgotten their God. They have remembered him with their tithes and with their offerings, and those tithes and offerings have been wisely, judiciously and righteously expended, for the advancement of the Lord's work here upon the earth. 

EXPRESSES LOVE FOR MANKIND 

I love mankind. Oh, I wish I could fulfil the law in that respect. I love them because of what they have done for you and for me, for us, all those who have gone before. I love my parents. They gave me life. I appreciate my existence. I love my grandparents, for they gave my parents life and existence, and made it possible for me to live and enjoy 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the blessings I enjoy today. And just as well I love all my forebears; no matter how far back they may be traced they belong to me and I to them. I love them. As I become more acquainted with them, by genealogical research and by doing for them the necessary work for their salvation, in the temple of the Lord, I love them more. 

I love mankind because they have given to me all the comforts that I have in my home, the modern means of transportation which I enjoy, in common with the people of this world, on the water, on the land, in the air; the modern means of heating and of lighting which we have in our' homes, even the water system, the knowledge to be able to take from these great natural streams of water, rivers, and make them to serve our purpose in power— yes, all the conveniences that we have. 

Who gave us these things but our forebears, and not those alone but those who are living contemporary with us; many of them are among the great inventors of these things that afford us such comfort in life. Are we indebted to them ? I think we are. Then should we not love them? Should we not have a desire to do something for them in return, and if so, what can we do? 

MUST HEAR THE GOSPEL 

For the most part, men and women of this world are in abject poverty pertaining to a knowledge of the things of the kingdom of God. They know not God, the Eternal Father, as we know him to be, an immortal, glorified and exalted Being, of all power and love to perfection; and his Son Jesus Christ. They are in the dark pertaining to these things, and they must be brought to the light in order that God's purposes may be fulfilled in their salvation, for men and women must hear the Gospel and receive it and live by it, if they will be exalted in the kingdom of God. 

It is to be taught to those who have gone beyond. It is their right. Justice demands and the scriptures teach that men cannot be judged by a law that has not been given to them. What can we do for those of the .world who are in need but to give unto them that which we have in such great abundance, that in the giving of it we do not impoverish ourselves but rather enrich our own souls, and it makes, too, for our own salvation. 

That is what the preaching of this Gospel in the nations of the world means to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. They are in need of it all this wide world. We have the truths of the everlasting Gospel. It is our responsibility to bring it to the attention of mankind in the most kind, impressive and forceful way that we may be able to do, under the impress of the Spirit of the Lord, which it will be our right and privilege to have and enjoy when engaged in this sacred ministry. 

IN BEHALF OF THE DEAD 

Now those who have gone beyond, is, there anything that we can do to pay the debt of gratitude we owe to them? Just as- we do for our 103  dead, learn of them by genealogical research, build our temples, go into the temples and there receive for them, vicariously, the saving ordinances of the Gospel. Will it reach all those to whom we are indebted?! Yes, if all of us look well to our kindred dead. It is a great responsibility. It is a commandment. The Lord told his servant Abraham that this world was created that we, his children, might come upon it, that we might be proven to see whether we will do all things whatsoever the Lord our God hath commanded us. That means, of course, whether we will keep all of the commandments of the Lord, not a few. 

LOVE OF GOD AND FELLOW MEN 

You know what the Ten Commandments are, that, the Lord wrote with his finger upon tables of stone, handed down to us. They are recorded in the twentieth chapter of Exodus of the Bible. They are binding upon us, as they were upon the children of Israel; and other laws such as the law of the tithes. 

But to one who asked of the Savior, "Which is the greater law?" his answer was : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first great commandment. And the second is like unto it; Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 

It doesn't seem to me that it ought to be necessary, brethren and sisters, for us who are so well taught in the Gospel to receive a commandment of this kind. Our knowledge of our indebtedness to God ought to lead us to serve him and keep all his commandments, though we had not been commanded. And our indebtedness to our fellow men, and the knowledge that they are our brothers, sons and daughters of God as we are, born of him in the spirit, in whom we should have common interest — this knowledge ought to lead us to do all that lies in our power, manifesting love of God and love of our fellow men. 

I want to say here that every man and woman that is engaged in the ministry of the Lord in this Church, at home or abroad, and faithfully engaged, is manifesting his or her love for him, his or her love for fellow men, and is helping to bring about the salvation of souls, which means the glory of our Father in heaven, and it will make for the individual's salvation, if only we can continue thus faithfully to the end. God grant that we may, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

As is usually the case at our General Conferences we shall not have time to hear from all who we would like to have address us. We desire to hear five or six minute speeches from some of our mission presidents who have not spoken in a General Conference since they returned from their missions. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission I wish, my brethren and sisters, that I could express in words the joy and happiness I have had in this conference, in listening to the inspirational addresses that have, been given, and the wonderful melody, music and song, that have been rendered'. I rejoice that we have means by which these things can be transmitted to such distances, that not only the thousands that are gathered in this building, but^ hundreds of thousands in this nation are able to hear these proceedings. 

I visualized a scene this very morning, while the program was going on. Four hundred miles north of Portland, Maine, in the depths of the Maine woods, on the headwaters of the "Rhine" of America, the majestic St. Johns River, and near the southern boundary of Quebec, at a lone Forest Ranger Station, a forest ranger was listening to this particular musical program. If that broadcast carries also the services of this conference, he is "listening in" to the instructions that are given here. He contacted our Elders same two years ago, but because of the distance and the shortage of missionaries, we have not been able to make contact again. He believes the Gospel but has not accepted it; he rejoices in the beauties of that which he gets from these broadcasts. 

I am grateful for the privilege of laboring in the Canadian Mission during the years that we have been there, for the knowledge and understanding that have come to us, for the testimony that God has given us, the testimony that has been strengthened while we have been there. Sister Bluth and I have been nearer unto the Lord than at any other period in our lives. We have taken joy in our labors, loved by the people there; and we love them, because we see alike in the things that pertain to eternal life. 

We have been advised that about June of this year we will be released from our missionary labors. We thank the brethren and praise God our Heavenly Father for the opportunity given us, for the joy that is m our hearts, for the little heaven that we have enjoyed while we have been away, for the knowledge and understanding that nave come to us. s 

I desire to bear my testimony to you that I know that God lives; I know that this is his work; that he is at the helm; that we need fear nothing, under those conditions, except our own failure to live up to what we have received. The keynote of this conference 

W 5 ? 6 G .f Pe1 ' a ? d ES an undercurrent of all our preaching in the four years that we have been there, there has been the same theme. 

Brethren and sisters, if you wish to realize all the joy and power of the Gospel of salvation m your lives, live all of its teachings or it will be worthless unto you. 105 

May God bless us and help us to serve him, to be true unto the covenants we have made with him, to live the principles of the Gospel, and realize in our lives the glories and the beauties that are foretold in the scriptures. May we have faith, understanding and joy while we live here, and everlasting joy in the life to come, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

Eo nn er President of the East Central States Mission 

This is rather unexpected to me, to be called upon to speak to you this morning. However, I rejoice in an opportunity to raise my voice in defense of this great latter-day work. For 1 a little over five and a half years I had the pleasure and the honor of laboring in the East Central States Mission, and I rejoiced in the wonderful growth of the work in that part of the Lord's vineyard and in the change of sentiment, through the press and through coming in contact with those with whom we had the opportunity of conversing- or corresponding. It gave me a great deal of pleasure to see the change in attitude toward our people. 

When I returned from attending conference last April there was a letter awaiting me, extending an invitation to attend a convention of the Associated Council of Churches of America, at Louisville. The letter was signed by the president of the association, and also by the president of the Ministerial Association of the City of Louisville, both joining in a large convention of ministers from all parts of the United States and Canada. 

I took the opportunity of attending that convention and mingling with those good men, ministers who had gathered from all parts of the land, and I want to say that they treated me with the utmost courtesy. In our private conversations, whenever they learned that I was a Latter-day Saint and from Utah, they had questions to ask in regard to our people, and they made many complimentary remarks in regard to what they had already known and learned of the Latter-day Saints. So the teachings of the Latter-day Saints are reaching to all parts of the land today, and we count those men as our friends. I was indeed happy to have the privilege and the opportunity of meeting and conversing with them. 

This morning I was talking with President S. O. Bennion ) who has charge of the Deseret News. I desired to have him send me three copies of the articles that have been published, or rather, the radio talks given by Brother Morris in regard to the restoration of the Gospel, because there are three different individuals in the East to whom I desire to send those copies, as they have asked questions along that particular line. 

Not only these three, but there are many others whose curiosity GENERAL CONFERENCE  aroused, and they desire to know more of the teachings of the Latter-day Saints. 

So, my brethren and sisters, it is your duty and my duty, wherever the opportunity presents itself, to get this message to the people of the world, because they are hungering and thirsting after truth. They have been in darkness for many, many years, but the light is just coming to them. 

I say again I rejoice in the opportunity that I have of raising my voice and assisting, in a weak way, in still furthering this cause, although I am not actively engaged in the ministry at this particular time. I am thankful to President Grant and his counselors and the members of the Council of the Twelve, for the opportunity that I have had of laboring in the ministry, and for the support that they gave me while actively engaged. I pray that the Lord will bless them with every needful blessing, that they may have the strength and the power to carry on this work and magnify their callings in a way that will be pleasing to our Heavenly Father. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, in all of your righteous undertakings here upon the earth. I rejoice in the testimony that I have of the divinity of this work, the experience that has come to me in my life, that has borne testimony to me that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Savior and the Redeemer of the world, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument, in the hands of the Almighty, in establishing his work upon the earth for the last time. It will never more be thrown down, nor will it be given to another people. You and I may fall by the wayside, but God will raise up those who will carry on this work, until finally his purposes will be consummated in all the earth. 

May his blessings rest upon all of you, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GUST AVE W. FORSBERG 

Former President of the Szvedish Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am very much surprised and overwhelmed at being called to speak on this occasion. It is eight months since I returned from the Swedish Mission. President Grant called for me at the last conference, which was held in October, but I was not able to attend at that time. 

I am thankful for this privilege to bear my testimony concerning the truthfulness of this work. I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, that I had the privilege and the honor of going into the mission field again, and especially for my association with the young men that it was my privilege to work with in the mission field. 

There was progress being made in Sweden when we left there eight months ago, and I am sure that the work is going forward under 107  direction of Brother Hugo D. E. Peterson, who is now presiding over the Swedish Mission. 

When President John A. Widtsoe visited us in Sweden in September, 1933, we were given a lot of publicity by the daily papers. They said many good things about the Latter-day Saints, and a great change in attitude was noticeable, as compared with thirty years earlier when I labored there as a missionary. 

Then again, when President Joseph F. Merrill visited us in May, 1934, the press was just as liberal in making comments on our meetings and saying good things about us. So the attitude in Sweden has changed a great deal in regard to the Mormons. 

When John H. Taylor was speaking last night in the priesthood meeting, relating some of the sacrifices that are made by those who fulfil missions, 1 was reminded of a lady missionary who is now in Sweden, fulfilling her third mission. When not engaged in missionary work abroad she has been doing temple work at home. We learned that she had spent upwards of $1,000.00 in gathering her genealogy, and all her money has been earned through housework. This is a testimony to me that there are people even today who are willing to make sacrifices in order to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is an example to many of us, my brethren and sisters, that should encourage us to make sacrifices in order to preach the Gospel, which has come to us and which has been such a blessing in our lives. 

I am thankful that my father listened to the testimony of the Elders who came to his home and brought this message to him. All that I am and all that I have I owe to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

The work in Sweden is progressing fairly well. We are making no phenomenal progress, but gradual and slow, and each year adds new members to the Church. The work of the auxiliary organizations has been stressed in the mission, in line with instruction from the president of the European mission, and we find that through the work of the auxiliary organizations the work of the Church as a whole is progressing and making headway. 

I am thankful for the testimony of the Gospel which I have gained through my experience in the Church, and I pray that I may ever be faithful, that we may all work willingly to advance God's purposes. I bear you my testimony that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the men who stand at the head of the Church today are servants of God. May we as workers in the Church uphold and sustain them, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JAMES M. KIRKHAM 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I pray that the Lord will bless me while I stand before you. r am very pleased today to represent the five states from which GENERAL CONFERENCE  of your parents, grandparents, and great grandparents came — Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia, and Virginia. 

It is just one hundred years ago since Wilford Woodruff went into Memphis, Tennessee, and then up into Kentucky, preaching the Gospel. Two — three — generations have grown up since that time. We are preaching today to a new generation. Some of the parents of the boys and girls that we have in the Mission were preaching there twenty or thirty years ago. 

I would like to add my testimony in regard to the Tabernacle Choir. As your sons and daughters go to the door of many a home, entrance is given to them by the people because of their acquaintance with the broadcasts from this wonderful building. These broadcasts are doing a great work. 

I would like to emphasize to you the pleasure and the satisfaction that come to these young men and women in the mission field, and I would like to stress to you the pleasure that I know comes to the homes also of these good young men and women. If I had the time I could tell you many a testimony of the great and wonderful work that is being accomplished at this end of the mission in the way of converting, if you please, members of the family to greater activity, and some even to membership in the Church; also the blessings that are coming to these good homes which provide the means for these young people. 

I recall that only a short time ago two young men within two weeks came to me, both with a similar story, a sort of coincidence, and told me their fathers had lost their jobs and perhaps they would have to return home. 

I said: "Have faith. This is the Lord's work." 

Both of these young men, within less than thirty days, came back to me and said their parents had other jobs at increased salaries. I know that the Lord is blessing us. 

Another man, only yesterday, told me that he had paid off more debts since his son had been on a mission than he had done for years. The Lord blesses those who have faith in him and send their boys and girls into the world. I pray that he will stimulate greater action and greater faith in this missionary work. We are trying to preach the Gospel," and to preach love, for the greatest commandment is to love the Lord and our fellow men. We are also trying to preach to those good people and teach them the Gospel, that through, obedience to the Gospel they can obtain the blessings they desire, and in no other way. 

The Savior says, "If ye love me ye will keep my commandments. And so I think this might apply here at home. The greater love we show, the nearer will we live to our Heavenly father. 

. 1 have a testimony of the divinity of this work. I have "been active m this Church for many years, but at no other time in my 109  have I had such great satisfaction and pleasure as I am having today, and I believe that one of the reasons for it is that I am putting more into it. If you will give the Gospel away, so to speak, to your friends and your neighbors you will be blessed. 

I shall never forget the words of President Grant; I don't know whether he remembers them. As I bade him good-bye at our last conference he said to me, "President Kirkham, go down there and put the people to work." He referred to the members of the Church. I can tell him that we have followed his advice and benefits are accruing in a number of our branches. It is really an inspiration because of the satisfaction that is coming to them. They are working, they are holding meetings with their neighbors and their friends; not only are the missionaries preaching the Gospel, but we are trying to get the members to preach the Gospel by their lives, by their actions, and by their words, so that they can face their Redeemer and their Judge, and not feel guilty because of not having done their part. 

May the Lord bless us in the missionary work, in warning the world of the coming judgments upon those who do not serve him. Oh, my brethren and sisters, pray for us in this great work, that we may do our duty well, and that we shall be successful in performing the part that we have been called upon to perform, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang the anthem "Inflammatus," Laurinda P. Brewerton, soloist. 

Elder Alfred L. Hanks, President of the* Tooele Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

THIRD DAY 


